 Communication, channelled
Communisis plc
Annual Report and 
 Financial Statements 
2012 Contents
Highlights     3
Communication, channelled  4
Business Review   
Chairman's Statement 7
Chief Executive's Review 8
Finance Review  14
Risks and Uncertainties 19
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 22
Governance
Board of Directors and Executive Board  34
Directors' Report  37
Corporate Governance Report 44
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  50
Directors' Remuneration Report 52
Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Income Statement 64
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 65
Consolidated Balance Sheet 66
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 67
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 68
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 69
Report of the Auditor on the Consolidated Financial Statements  115
Company Financial Statements
Company Balance Sheet 116
Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders’ Funds 117
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 118
Report of the Auditor on the Company Financial Statements  136
Shareholder Information   137 3
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Highlights
Financial highlights
 Proﬁt from operations (before exceptional items) up  
23% to £11.6m (2011 £9.4m)
 Proﬁt from operations (before exceptional items and the 
amortisation of acquired intangibles) up 24% to £12.3m  
(2011 £9.9m)
 Operating margin (excluding pass through) increased  
to 6.5% (2011 5.5%)
 Proﬁt after tax 27% higher at £5.2m (2011 £4.1m) and 
reﬂected in basic earnings per share of 3.75p (2011 2.96p)
 Adjusted earnings per share (fully diluted and excluding  
after tax effects of exceptional items and the amortisation  
of acquired intangibles) 19% ahead at 5.38p (2011 4.52p)
 Final dividend of 1.1p per share. Full year dividend up by  
10% to 1.65p per share (2011 1.50p) 
 Overseas revenues increased to 7% of total revenue  
(2011 4%)
 Free cash ﬂow improved to £6.6m (2011 £2.9m)
 Year-end net debt reduced to £20m (2011 £24.7m)
 £20m raised as growth capital early in 2013 for investment  
in new contracts, restructuring costs, small acquisitions  
and working capital
 Asset-backed, prepaid contribution reduces the pension 
deﬁcit by £9.8m, limiting additional cash contributions  
to £1.15m p.a. until at least the beginning of 2015
Operational highlights
Growth and Diversiﬁcation 
 Signiﬁcant new multi-year contractual relationships with 
Nationwide Building Society, British Telecommunications plc, 
Yorkshire Building Society and Thames Water Utilities Limited 
and an extended transactional contract with a ﬁnancial  
services client
 Three niche acquisitions in strategic growth areas expanding 
capabilities in on-line communication, social media and 
specialist content management
 Diversiﬁed sources of revenues with a greater proportion 
coming from non-ﬁnancial services sectors and overseas 
territories
 Market trends that are favourable to the Group’s  
differentiated proposition
Operational Excellence 
 Continued commitment to market-leading technology  
driving efficiency and product innovation
 Progressive development of technology platforms for  
client-facing and back-office functions
 Ongoing restructuring and site consolidation, aligning 
the cost base with the demands of a fast-changing market
 Growing presence of on-site teams as an important element 
of the client service model
Commenting on the results Communisis Chief Executive, Andy Blundell said:
“In 2012 Communisis has successfully grown the business and substantially 
improved operating proﬁtability for the third consecutive year .
We are established as the trusted partner of many leading, consumer-facing 
brands in delivering their personalised customer communications. 
The continuing market trends coupled with our recent equity raise of  
£20m mean that the Group is well-positioned for another year of growth.” 4 4
Our industry is changing. Marketing is now  
multi-channel by deﬁnition. So are we.
A unique business model. Our vision is to be the 
only customer communication partner our clients 
ever need. 
A complete proposition. We have the versatility 
to deliver integrated marketing solutions of any 
shape and scope, from start to ﬁnish. 
We bring brands closer to their customers. 
We add value to marketing activity at every stage 
of the communication cycle.
Post, email, web, SMS, social media and more. 
We achieve a single, coherent customer dialogue 
across any number of channels.
We put our clients ﬁrst. We start by identifying 
each client’s objective and then develop the 
optimal way of achieving it.
It’s a precise science. Our solutions are data 
intelligent. From targeting to measurement,  
we use facts to deliver results.
We have invested in our vision. We have some of 
the most advanced printing technology in Europe, 
which gives us unrivalled creative opportunities.
We have the know-how. Communisis is home 
to more than 1,400 people who specialise in 
everything from graphic design to logistics.
We have the scale. Our network stretches 
throughout the UK, with a growing international 
footprint. 
The big brands choose us. We are partner to some 
of the best-known brands in the world. 
We call it communication, channelled. 
Full-cycle, all-channel transactional and 
marketing communications with one true  
focus – the end customer .
Design
Planning and strategic insight
Content creation
Data intelligence
Management information
Produce
Print manufacture
Direct marketing
Transactional 
Security print
Payroll
Deploy
Distribution and logistics
Process re-engineering
Skills insourcing
Supply chain optimisation
Asset management
client brand assets under management capacity to despatch payslips per day sources of data pulled in by Yomego
Communication, 
channelled
65 million 500,000 10 million 5
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Print capacity of cheques per day Laser capacity A4 documents per day
435,000 miles of paper bought annually, enough to go around the world 17 times
1
m
17
m
4.6
m
 Personalised impressions printed per day
For one of our clients, Kieon built a total of 17 brand websites translated into 20 different languages in the space of just six months
1 17 20 6 6
This represented an operating margin of 6.5% on sales 
(excluding pass through) compared to 5.5% in 2011
Proﬁt from operations (before exceptional items) grew to 
£11.6m from £9.4m, a 23% increase on 2011
Proﬁt after tax increased by 27% from £4.1m to £5.2m Basic earnings per share increased by 27% from 2.96p to 3.75p   
Proﬁt after tax Basic earnings per share
Proﬁt from operations (before exceptional items) Operating margin on sales (excluding pass through)
Adjusted earnings per share Total dividend
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 19% from 4.68p  
to 5.56p
Total dividend for the year is 1.65p per share, an increase of  
10% over 2011
2011 2011
2012
+23%
2012
6.5%
2012
+27%
2012
+19%
2012
+10%
2012
+27%
2011 2011
2011 2011 7
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Chairman’s Statement
Results
Communisis has grown the business in 2012 and substantially 
improved proﬁt from operations and operating margin before 
exceptional items for the third consecutive year . 
The Group has secured a number of new and signiﬁcant  
multi-year contractual relationships in recent months that will 
help to underpin results for 2013 and beyond. Its commitment 
to market-leading technology is driving efficiencies and 
product innovation and the beneﬁts to clients have been 
inﬂuential in a number of these contract wins. Importantly 
they provide further evidence that Communisis is the trusted 
partner of many leading, consumer-facing brands in delivering 
their personalised customer communications. 
Proﬁt from operations before exceptional items grew to 
£11.6m, a 23% increase on 2011. This represented an operating 
margin of 6.5% on sales (excluding pass through) compared 
to 5.5% in 2011. The exceptional items, which were lower in 
2012 at £2.8m (2011 £4.3m), related principally to a further 
restructuring programme and to non-recurring costs associated 
with acquisition activities. Proﬁt after tax increased by 27% 
from £4.1m to £5.2m and basic earnings per share by the same 
percentage from 2.96p to 3.75p. Adjusted earnings per share, 
which exclude the after-tax effect of exceptional items and the 
amortisation of acquired intangibles, increased by 19% from 
4.68p to 5.56p.
The proposed ﬁnal dividend of 1.1p per share brings the total 
dividend for the year to 1.65p per share, an increase of 10%  
over 2011, reﬂecting both the strong operating performance in 
2012 and the Board’s conﬁdence in the future of the business.  
The dividend will be payable on 20 May 2013 to shareholders  
on the register at 19 April 2013.
Growth capital 
The Group raised growth capital for the ﬁrst time in early  
2013 with gross proceeds of £20m. The net proceeds (after 
transaction costs) will be used for investment in new contracts, 
for restructuring costs and for small acquisitions and working 
capital. They will strengthen the Balance Sheet and fund 
the next phase of proﬁtable growth. The share issue was 
substantially oversubscribed with strong demand from both 
existing shareholders and new investors demonstrating their 
conﬁdence in the Group’s strategy and growth opportunities.
Board changes 
Jane Griffiths joined the Board as a non-executive director  
on 17 May 2012. Jane is Marketing Director EMEA for Citibank NA 
having previously worked as a senior advertising and marketing 
executive for a number of major global agencies.
John Wells will be moving to a part-time role from 9 May 2013 
and has decided to step down from the Board after the 2013 
Annual General Meeting. John will therefore not be seeking  
re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2013.   
The Board would like to thank John for his signiﬁcant 
contribution to the Group in various management roles  
within companies that originally comprised the Group  
since 1972 and to the Board since 2009 and welcome  
his ongoing involvement.
Outlook
Notwithstanding the current macro-economic environment 
in the UK, Communisis has started 2013 with a number of 
important contract wins. The new contracts will contribute 
from the ﬁrst half and highlight the attractiveness of the 
Group’s competitive proposition, especially in transactional 
communications and increasingly in overseas markets. With 
much of what we do being of operational necessity for our 
clients and with a stronger balance sheet and the resources  
to develop the business further , the Board is conﬁdent that  
the Group can deliver another year of growth.
Peter Hickson
Chairman
7 March 2013 8
Chief Executive’s Review
Summary
2012 has been another successful year during which we have 
developed the identity of the business, clarifying its purpose 
and activities for clients, employees, investors and other 
stakeholders, and continued to deliver against our  
strategic initiatives.
During the year we have:
 grown the business organically with a 10% increase  
in revenues to £230m;
 expanded the portfolio of services through three  
niche acquisitions;
 diversiﬁed the sources of revenues with a greater 
proportion coming from  non-ﬁnancial services sectors  
and overseas territories;
 won a number of prestigious contracts from a strong 
pipeline of opportunities, providing further evidence  
that Communisis is becoming the trusted partner of 
leading consumer-facing brands in delivering their 
customer communications;
 remained committed to market-leading technology, 
driving efficiency and product innovation;
 substantially improved proﬁt from operations and 
operating margin before exceptional items for the  
third consecutive year in a difficult and very competitive 
macro-economic environment;
 actively managed the pension deﬁcit with an innovative 
arrangement that limits the Group’s annual cash payments 
to the Pension Scheme to £1.15m p.a. until at least the 
beginning of 2015; and
 secured the ﬁnancial resources required for the next phase 
of proﬁtable growth through an equity raise of £20m in 
early 2013. The net proceeds will be used for investment in 
new contracts, restructuring costs, small acquisitions and 
working capital.
 
What we do
Communisis is a leading UK marketing services provider 
that specialises in helping clients communicate with their 
customers more effectively and more proﬁtably in  
fast-changing markets. 
Services are focused on the integrated design, production  
and deployment of personalised customer communications. 
These communications are typically of a marketing, regulatory 
or transactional nature and can be distributed either on paper 
or in digital formats, through e-mail, text message, mobile 
content or social media.
The Group offers a broad range of services that can be delivered 
either separately or in combination to make its clients’ 
communications more targeted and efficient.
Our services include:
 the overall development of integrated off-line and on-line 
marketing strategies;
 the acquisition, analysis and management of lifestyle 
and credit data to generate target lists of prospects for 
marketing campaigns;
 the design, creation and management of customer content 
that is used to produce the documents that convey the 
marketing messages;
 the application of software tools to manage 
communication campaigns on behalf of clients and to 
source materials;
 the production and deployment of highly personalised 
marketing, regulatory and transactional documents; and
 the management of responses to marketing messages  
and the measurement of their effectiveness.
Communisis has a reputation for production excellence and 
innovation and is trusted by many leading consumer-facing 
brands to deliver their personalised customer communications 
accurately, securely, reliably and at scale. Many of these 
services are business critical and of operational necessity for 
clients. Competitive differentiation is built on the breadth of 
the Group’s portfolio of customer communication services, 
which is matched by few competitors, its market-leading 
technology, the scale of its operations and the depth of its 
embedded expertise and innovative capabilities. 9
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
We partner with market leading e-mail 
platforms and can broadcast up to  
20,000 e-mails per second
We bought 900 million envelopes on 
behalf of 114 clients in 2012
In 2012 we sent over 25 million e-mails 
on behalf of 13 customers
We produce 1 billion of the 8 billion packs that enter the Down Stream Access network per annum
1,000,000,000
20,000
We work with all of the top 10 Building Societies in Britain
900
m
25
m 10
Chief Executive's Review continued
Aspiration
The Group’s aspiration is to be the UK market leader in 
providing personalised customer communication services.
The key ﬁnancial targets for the medium term are to deliver 
a double-digit margin on sales (excluding pass through) 
and to derive 20% of revenues from overseas sources whilst 
continuing to grow UK sales.
Strategic initiatives
The Group’s aspiration will be pursued through a number of 
strategic initiatives including:
 growing sales both organically and through niche 
acquisitions;
 extending activities to broaden and deepen the  
service offering;
 further diversifying the client portfolio beyond the 
ﬁnancial services sector;
 following international clients into overseas markets;
 investing in specialist, market-leading technologies; and
 continuing to optimise the direct cost and overhead base. 
Market trends  
The Group operates in an overall market that is attractive and 
fast-moving. There are growing trends toward the outsourcing 
of outbound customer communication services, precision 
marketing through personalised communications and more 
consistent messaging in global campaigns. Companies are 
also increasingly looking to use single suppliers that provide 
a range of services, and there is a client-led diversiﬁcation of 
creative services away from marketing agencies. There is also 
a progressive migration from print to digital formats for many 
types of customer communication, an increasing use of data 
analytics and a growing client need to demonstrate improved 
returns on transactional processing and marketing spend.
Communisis is well-positioned to capitalise on these trends as 
evidenced by the recent contract wins.
Growth 
2012 revenues increased by 10% to £229.8m (2011 £208.3m) 
with most of the overall growth coming from managed service 
contracts in overseas markets. The services comprise the 
deployment of people and technology, alongside client teams 
in the overseas territories, for the purpose of managing local 
supply chains rather than the export of product from the UK. 
As a result of this strong overseas demand, which is set to 
continue and expand, overseas revenues grew to 7% of total 
turnover in 2012 (2011 4%).
Communisis has continued to develop its on-site operations 
across Western Europe and has grown signiﬁcantly, increasing 
from 21 Communisis specialists in 7 countries in 2012 to a 
projected 40 or more specialists in 15 countries by the end 
of 2013. The teams manage the production, sourcing and 
deployment of exhibition services, point of sale materials, 
artwork services and premium gifts across a number of 
household, fashion and premium brands. 
There has also been an underlying change in the mix of 
revenues with the value of new business more than offsetting 
a reduction in demand for more mature services; a trend that 
is expected to continue.
New contracts  
Organic growth has been maintained with two signiﬁcant new 
contract awards from British Telecommunications plc (“BT”) 
and Nationwide Building Society (“Nationwide”) being recently 
announced. Both will be operational in the ﬁrst half of 2013.
The ﬁve year BT contract is for the production of all billing and 
associated customer communications using high-speed colour 
digital technology at our transactional centre of excellence in 
Liverpool to make the billing formats clearer , more personal 
and more dynamic. This is in addition to the BT shareholder 
communications that Communisis has produced for  
many years.
The Nationwide contract is for a nine-year term and covers the 
development and production of its customer communications, 
including transactional, marketing and regulatory mailings. 
The new contract signiﬁcantly extends the Group’s existing 
relationship to include all of the transactional documentation 
that is currently produced in-house by Nationwide. Over a 
number of years Communisis has expanded the range and 
volume of services provided as part of its strategic account 
programme. The Group will continue to produce direct mail, 
regulatory communications and security products, source 
point of sale and marketing collateral through its managed 
supply chain and deploy its workﬂow, document asset 
management and document composition technology to help 
Nationwide transform the clarity and effectiveness of its 
customer communications. 11
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Activity on other client accounts has also expanded. Amongst 
the many interesting projects, Communisis has been at the 
heart of the high proﬁle launch of the new EE brand, which 
offers the UK’s only 4G mobile and ﬁbre optic broadband 
service. This has been through the successful execution of 
a managed service contract for the sourcing and delivery of 
the associated marketing collateral to EE’s 700 retail outlets 
throughout the UK and for all of its direct mail requirements 
and internal communications.
More recently, a further series of important contract wins and 
extensions from a strong pipeline of opportunities has been 
announced, all of which will help to underpin the results for 
2013 and beyond.
Yorkshire Building Society (“YBS”) has awarded Communisis 
a three year contract, beginning in March 2013, which is an 
extension of a long-standing relationship and signiﬁcantly 
expands the service offering beyond the existing provision 
of security products. Communisis will also be producing all 
direct mail for YBS, managing the deployment of all its point 
of sale branch material through the Group’s distribution 
centre in Newcastle and providing access to the Mantl 
marketing technology platform for campaign and digital asset 
management purposes. This contract strengthens Communisis’ 
presence in the mutual sector where it now works for all of the 
top ten building societies in Britain.
Thames Water Utilities Limited (“Thames”) has recently 
awarded the production and deployment of all revenue 
generating communications to Communisis under a three 
year contract. Thames has designed a clearer bill which from 
February 2013 is being produced on the HP T400 high-speed 
colour digital platform at the Group’s Liverpool facility.
The contract with a ﬁnancial services client for the production 
of transactional documents which started in 2006 has been 
extended by two years until January 2018. All of this production 
will now migrate to the HP T400 high-speed colour digital 
platform providing this client with a more cost effective  
white-paper solution and access to the broader beneﬁts of 
variable content and product innovation.
2012 has seen further diversiﬁcation in the sources of revenue. 
Approximately 46% (2011 51%) of revenues were derived from 
the ﬁnancial services sector whilst other sectors, notably 
utilities, telecoms, retail, consumer goods, charities and 
government, accounted for the remaining 54% (2011 49%). 
The ﬁnancial services sector provides a substantial proportion 
of the demand for the Group’s transactional and security 
products and is therefore likely to continue as a signiﬁcant 
source of revenues for the foreseeable future. These products 
are ones of operational necessity for clients so that demand for 
them is less susceptible to changes in the broader economy. 
Demand for marketing communications can be more variable. 
Competitive pressures in the insurance sector , particularly 
from comparison websites, during the year resulted in 
reduced demand for the Group’s data and direct mail services. 
This was countered, to some extent, by growing demand 
for data insight services in other sectors and for specialist 
manufacturing project work. Communisis is winning more 
AGM communications; the Electoral Reform Services Limited 
commissioned the Group to produce the ballot papers for the 
Greater London Authority Assembly and Mayoral elections 
and a project has been successfully executed for the Standards 
Testing Agency (“STA”). Such activity exempliﬁes the power of 
combining data analytics with the personalisation capabilities 
of high-speed colour digital output.
Acquisitions 
Three, carefully chosen, niche acquisitions in strategic growth 
areas were completed during the year to expand the Group’s 
growing capabilities in on-line communication, social media 
and specialist content management.
Kieon builds websites and mobile and other digital 
applications. Its sales office is now based in the Group’s London 
Headquarters and the operational base is in Bangalore, where 
over 50 software developers are employed.
Yomego is a UK-based specialist social media agency that 
advises on the role of social media and measures its impact 
as an integral part of broader on-line and off-line marketing 
campaigns. 
The Garden Marketing extends the Group’s creative services 
offer , adding further strategic planning expertise, conceptual 
creative services, copywriting and artworking resources as well 
as specialist knowledge of ﬁnancial services regulations to the 
Group’s strong and growing marketing services proposition.
These acquisitions did not have a material effect on the 2012 
results but the Group is starting to unlock the sales synergies 
by introducing these businesses to its larger clients as part of 
an integrated service offering.  12
Chief Executive's Review continued
Operational excellence 
Communisis has been at the forefront of high-speed colour 
digital technology deployment in the UK for some time. Two 
HP T300 lines were installed in the Leeds facility during 2010 
and 2011. They sit at the heart of the Group’s new offering into 
the direct mail market and played a key role in the successful 
delivery of the STA project. 
Two HP T400 lines were commissioned during the year in the 
Group’s transactional centre of excellence in Liverpool which 
delivered an extremely high average of 99.8% compliance 
with client deﬁned service levels during the year . This facility is 
expected to change the UK market for statements and billing 
signiﬁcantly and all major clients are expected to transition to 
these platforms during 2013, whilst also attracting new clients 
directly onto the technology. The beneﬁts of wholly variable 
content, in colour and at high deﬁnition, have been inﬂuential 
in a number of the recent contract wins. 
The plan to consolidate all client-facing software onto one 
platform, called “Mantl” is advancing and similarly all  
back-office functions will be consolidated onto one platform 
called “Skyline”. The beneﬁts of this to the Group’s clients 
include improved transparency on workﬂow and cost-reduction 
opportunities. 
On-site teams are a valuable part of Communisis’ client 
service and business development model. The Group now has 
115 employees operating with 12 clients across 19 locations 
whereas in March 2012 there were 94 employees operating with 
11 clients across 16 client sites. 
The number of Communisis locations increased following the 
addition of the offices of Kieon (Bangalore), Yomego (Glasgow) 
and The Garden Marketing (London) but subsequently reduced 
as the London operations of Kieon and The Garden Marketing 
moved to the Group’s expanding base in the City. 
In line with the strategic initiative of optimising the direct cost 
and overhead base, the Group announced in November 2012 
the closure of its cheque personalisation facility in Lisburn, 
Northern Ireland, and the consolidation of production at 
certain other facilities. A further restructuring of the direct 
mail operations in Leeds was also announced at the same 
time in order to reduce costs following pricing pressures in 
the market and falling demand in some areas, particularly in 
the insurance sector . Both programmes are expected to be 
completed during the ﬁrst quarter of 2013.
Corporate costs reduced during the year by 8% to £3.5m  
(2011 £3.8m) as the beneﬁts of earlier restructuring  
initiatives ﬂowed through.
Results  
The combined effect of these activities is that the Group has 
grown the business and substantially improved proﬁt from 
operations and operating margin before exceptional items for 
the third consecutive year in a difficult and very competitive 
macro-economic environment.
On increased turnover of £229.8m (2011 £208.3m), proﬁt from 
operations before exceptional items grew by 23% to £11.6m 
(2011 £9.4m) whilst the operating margin on sales (excluding 
pass through) improved to 6.5% (2011 5.5%) and toward our 
target of a double-digit margin in the medium term.
Resources 
The Group raised growth capital for the ﬁrst time in early 
2013 with gross proceeds of £20m. The net proceeds (after 
transaction costs) will be used for investment in new contracts, 
for restructuring costs and for small acquisitions and working 
capital. The share issue was substantially oversubscribed with 
strong demand from both existing shareholders and new 
investors demonstrating their conﬁdence in the Group’ s strategy 
and growth opportunities. Completion of the fundraising was 
approved by shareholders at the General Meeting held on  
5 March 2013.
The Group’ s unsecured bank facilities were extended by £5m 
early in 2012 to £50m whilst its exposure to the pension deﬁcit 
was actively managed through an innovative asset-backed 
arrangement that limits the Group’ s annual cash commitment 
to the Pension Scheme (other than for administrative expenses) 
to an affordable £1.15m p.a. until at least the beginning of 2015.
Tight cash management has resulted in increased free cash 
ﬂow in each of the last three years and in excess of the annual 
dividend payments to shareholders. This will continue to be an 
area of focus and a target for ongoing improvement despite the 
need for additional, growth-related working capital.
Two signiﬁcant legacy issues, being the pension deﬁcit and the 
structural debt in the Group, have therefore been addressed, the 
Balance Sheet has been strengthened and the resources needed 
to fund the next growth phase have been secured.  
Andy Blundell
Chief Executive
7 March 2013 13
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Built 21 different models in 12 months to ensure data collected is proﬁtable  
to the client, this generated £23 million value of sales for the client in 2012
Communisis On-site Teams
115 Communisis employees
12 clients
6 countries
Germany France Italy Republic of Ireland Spain UK
19 locations
12
21 £23
m
Capacity to web print 4 billion A4 pages annually
4,000,000,000 14
Proﬁtability
The table below is an extract from the segmental Income Statement.
      2012  2011
          £m £m
Turnover
IDC       30.1   25.0
SPS       148.7  144.8
Pass Through      51.0  38.5
      229.8   208.3
Proﬁt from operations before exceptional items
IDC 3.8 3.2
SPS       11.3  10.0
Corporate Costs       (3.5)  (3.8)
      11.6   9.4
Analysed as:
Proﬁt from operations before exceptional items and the amortisation of acquired intangibles  12.3 9.9
Amortisation of acquired intangibles      (0.7) (0.5)
Proﬁt from operations before exceptional items     11.6 9.4
Operating margin (excluding pass through)
IDC       12.6%  12.8%
SPS       7.6% 6.9%
      6.5%  5.5%
Exceptional items
Exceptional restructuring costs       (1.7)  (3.7)
Other exceptionals       (1.1)  (0.6)
      (2.8) (4.3)
Proﬁt from operations after exceptional items      8.8 5.1
Net ﬁnance costs       (2.0)  (0.9)
Proﬁt before tax       6.8  4.2
Tax       (1.6)  (0.1)
Proﬁt after tax       5.2 4.1
Earnings per share
Basic (p)       3.75  2.96
Adjusted (p)       5.56  4.68
Adjusted fully diluted (p)       5.38  4.52
Proﬁt from operations before exceptional items increased 
by 23% to £11.6m (2011 £9.4m) on turnover that was 10% 
ahead at £229.8m (2011 £208.3m). Operating margin on sales 
(excluding pass through), which is a key ﬁnancial metric, 
showed an improvement, for the third consecutive year ,  
from 5.5% in 2011 to 6.5% and further progress towards 
our double-digit target in the medium term.
2012
 £m
30.1
148.7
51.0
229.8
3.8
11.3
(3.5)
11.6
12.3
(0.7)
11.6
12.6%
7.6%
6.5%
(1.7)
(1.1)
(2.8)
8.8
(2.0)
6.8
(1.6)
5.2
3.75
5.56
5.38
Finance Review
Progress towards double-digit returns
Operating proﬁt before exceptional items Operating margin  on sales 
(excluding pass through)
2009 2010 2011 2012
0
8
2
10
4
12
6
14
0.0
4.0
1.0
5.0
2.0
6.0
3.0
7.0
7.2
4.3%
4.7%
5.5%
6.5%
7.9
9.4
11.6
£m
% 15
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
The overall increase in turnover is principally accounted 
for by the growth in pass through sales and the associated 
management fees. The management fees and the related 
margin are reported within the IDC segment. Under these 
arrangements the Group receives a fee for managing clients’ 
marketing spend through a third-party supply chain. The 
purchased materials are billed to the clients at cost, so that 
they carry no added value and are therefore reported as pass 
through. Most of the growth in revenues in 2012 has emanated 
from the management of supply chains in overseas markets 
and has resulted in 7% of 2012 revenues arising outside the UK 
(2011 4%).
2012 has seen further diversiﬁcation in the sources of revenue. 
Approximately 46% (2011 51%) of revenues were derived from 
the ﬁnancial services sector whilst other sectors, notably 
utilities, telecoms, retail, consumer goods, charities and 
government, accounted for the remaining 54% (2011 49%). 
The ﬁnancial services sector provides a substantial proportion 
of the demand for the Group’s transactional and security 
products and is therefore likely to continue as a signiﬁcant 
source of revenues for the foreseeable future. These products 
are ones of operational necessity for clients so that demand for 
them is less susceptible to changes in the broader economy. 
Financial services Other sectors
%
Sources of revenue
70
50
60
40
30
20
10
0
2009 2010 2011 2012
International revenue
The three small acquisitions completed during the year , each 
of which added speciﬁc and complementary competencies to 
our marketing services proposition, did not make a material 
contribution to the overall results.
The continuing improvement in both proﬁt from operations 
before exceptional items and operating margin is attributable 
to the combined effect of better capacity utilisation, the 
beneﬁt of cost reduction programmes, synergies from 
acquisitions and the focus on growing volumes of higher 
margin services in both the IDC and SPS segments.
The exceptional items in 2012 include £1.7m relating 
principally to the restructuring announced in November , £0.7m 
in respect of non-recurring professional fees for acquisition 
related activities and £0.3m non-cash write off of a customer 
relationship asset. The restructuring charge covered the 
closure of the cheque personalisation facility in Lisburn, 
Northern Ireland, with consolidation of production in certain 
other facilities and the further restructuring of the direct mail 
operations in Leeds. Both programmes are expected to be 
completed in the ﬁrst quarter of 2013 when the cash costs will 
be incurred.
The increase in net ﬁnance costs of £1.1m between 2011 and 
2012 results from a reduced credit of £0.1m (2011 £0.9m),  
being the difference between the expected return and the 
expected interest cost on the Pension Scheme assets and 
liabilities respectively, and from the additional borrowing  
costs associated with greater utilisation of debt facilities 
during the year .
The effective 2012 tax charge of 23.6% is broadly in line with 
the standard rate for the year . The 2011 tax charge was largely 
eliminated by the release of provisions following favourable 
settlement of group relief claims and other prior year items.
The resulting proﬁt after tax and basic earnings per share have 
increased by 27% to £5.2m (2011 £4.1m) and to 3.75p  
(2011 2.96p) respectively. Adjusted earnings per share, which 
exclude the after-tax effect of exceptional items and the 
amortisation of acquired intangibles, has increased by 19%  
to 5.56p (2011 4.68p). This percentage improvement is lower 
than that of the operating proﬁt before exceptional items 
because the after-tax ﬁnance costs in 2012 are relatively  
higher than those in 2011.
An interim dividend of 0.55p per share was paid in October and 
a ﬁnal dividend of 1.1p per share has been proposed, bringing 
the full year dividend to 1.65p per share, an increase of 10%. 16
Finance Review continued
Cash Flow and Net Debt
The table below summarises the cash ﬂows for the year and the closing net debt position. 
      2012  2011
      £m £m
Proﬁt from operations before exceptional items     11.6 9.4
Depreciation and other non-cash items      7.5 6.8
Increase in working capital      (0.1) (0.5)
Exceptional items      (3.6) (3.9)
Pension scheme contributions      (0.9) (3.0)
Interest and tax      (2.5) (1.0)
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities 12.0 7.8
Net capital expenditure      (5.4) (4.1)
Debt arrangement fees      – (0.8)
Free cash ﬂow      6.6 2.9
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking      (1.3) (7.7)
Business disposals      0.5 –
Dividends paid      (2.1) (1.9)
Other      0.5 (0.2)
Decrease / (increase) in bank debt      4.2 (6.9)
Opening bank debt      (22.7) (15.8)
Closing bank debt      (18.5) (22.7)
Bank debt      (18.5) (22.7)
Unamortised borrowing costs      0.4 0.6
Net bank debt      (18.1) (22.1)
Finance lease creditor      (1.9) (2.6)
Net debt      (20.0) (24.7)
Operating cash ﬂow improved during 2012 with a net cash 
inﬂow of £12m (2011 £7 .8m) after exceptional items of  
£3.6m (2011 £3.9m).
Bank debt reﬂects bank loans of £40m net of cash deposits 
of £21.5m. Year-end net debt reduced to £20m in 2012 from 
£24.7m in 2011. Within the overall amount, net bank debt was 
£4m lower and ﬁnance lease creditors decreased by £0.7m 
as the capital value was repaid. Intra-period ﬂuctuations in 
working capital increase the level of indebtedness during the 
year with the average bank debt during 2012 being £38.5m 
compared to total facilities of £50m.
2012
£m
11.6
7.5
(0.1)
(3.6)
(0.9)
(2.5)
12.0
(5.4)
–
6.6
(1.3)
0.5
(2.1)
0.5
4.2
(22.7)
(18.5)
(18.5)
0.4
(18.1)
(1.9)
(20.0)
Year-end bank debt Average intra 
period bank debt
Total facilities
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2009 2010 2011 2012
£m
Bank debt and facilities utilisation 17
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Bank borrowing costs have been higher in 2012 than in 2011 and 
exceptional tax recoveries in 2011 reduced the cash outﬂows in 
that year .
Capital expenditure in both 2011 and 2012 continued at levels 
below depreciation as the major deployments of digital colour 
platforms in each year were provided under operating leases 
with the associated costs being charged as an operating 
expense rather than as depreciation.
Free cash ﬂow is deﬁned as the net increase in bank debt 
adjusted to exclude cash ﬂows in respect of acquisitions, 
disposals, dividends paid to shareholders and other cash 
movements in relation to equity. This is an important measure 
of the effectiveness of the Group’s cash management process 
and the improvement over the last two years has continued 
through 2012. In each of these years free cash ﬂow has 
exceeded dividend payments to shareholders so that any 
overall increase in borrowings has reﬂected the debt funding  
of acquisitions.
Free cash ﬂow
8.0
6.0
4.0
2.0
0.0
(2.0)
(4.0)
2009 2010 2011 2012
Free cash ﬂow
£m
The ﬁnal instalment of the consideration arising from the 
disposal of the Bath business forms operation in 2008 was 
received in 2012 (£0.5m). The consideration for the three 
acquisitions completed during 2012 (excluding the payments 
for acquired cash) amounted to £1.3m. The acquisition 
consideration in 2011 comprised the ﬁnal earn-out payment 
for Absolute Intuistic Limited (£5.5m) and the purchase cost  
of Orchestra Bristol Limited (£2.2m).
The reductions in net debt and the minimal working capital 
outﬂow of £0.1m for the year as a whole, despite the growth in 
revenues, reﬂect the continuing focus on tight working capital 
management. 
Nevertheless there has been a trend toward the deferral of 
payments, especially over reporting period ends, by certain 
leading-brand clients with the result that overdue debt levels 
have slightly worsened in 2012 to 7 .3% (2011 4.1%). This trend 
does not indicate any emerging credit risk as tight credit 
control is maintained and the Group continues to experience 
minimal bad debt. However strong creditor management has 
more than offset the effects of this increase in overdue debt 
with the result that trading working capital (being inventories 
plus trade receivables minus trade payables) has improved to 
minus £7 .1m (2011 minus £3.8m).
Overdue Debt Trading Working Capital
8.0
7.0
6.0
5.0
4.0
3.0
2.0
1.0
0.0
0.0
(1.0)
(2.0)
(3.0)
(4.0)
(5.0)
(6.0)
(7.0)
(8.0)
Overdue Debt %
Trading Working Capital £m
2009 2010 2011 2012
Trading working capital and overdue debt
The £3.6m cash cost of exceptional items has been a 
substantial outﬂow during the year . Of this amount, £3.1m 
related to the exceptional costs accrued or provided in 2011 
or prior and £0.5m to the exceptional costs charged in 2012. 
The remainder of the costs comprising the exceptional charge 
in 2012 of £1.9m will be a cash cost in 2013.
Following the triennial valuation of the Pension Scheme 
in 2011, the Group and the Trustees agreed to maintain the 
additional annual contributions that are required to eliminate 
the actuarially assessed funding deﬁcit at £3m, subject to 
review by the Pensions Regulator . Early in 2012, the Group 
and the Trustees also agreed to an arrangement involving the 
securitisation of a rental stream on one of the Group’s freehold 
properties, amounting to £1.15m p.a. for 15 years. The £9.8m 
present value of the rental stream was treated as an additional 
pension contribution in 2012 and a prepayment of the 
contributions due for the three years 2012 to 2014. Accordingly 
in 2012 and for each of the following two years the only cash 
payments to the Pension Scheme (other than for ongoing 
administrative expenses) comprise the proportionate amount 
of the annual rental of £1.15m p.a. 18
Finance Review continued
Change in accounting policy 
Changes in guidance on the basis of the calculation and 
presentation of pension charges under International 
Accounting Standard 19 will lead to a change of accounting 
policy in 2013 with a consequent restatement of the 2012 
Financial Statements on a consistent basis for comparative 
purposes. The changes will have no impact on the Group’s 
cash payments to the Pension Scheme.
Nigel Howes
Finance Director
7 March 2013
Balance Sheet
Share issue 
The Group raised £20m (approximately £18.9m after expenses) 
through the issue of new ordinary shares in March 2013, as 
described in Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The net proceeds will be used for investment in new contracts, 
for restructuring costs and for small acquisitions and working 
capital. They will strengthen the Balance Sheet and support 
the next phase of proﬁtable growth.
Bank facilities 
The Group’s revolving credit facility of £40m was extended to 
£45m in February 2012 and is committed until August 2014. 
The Group also has a £5m overdraft facility that is renewable 
annually. The bank facilities were temporarily increased after 
the year end to facilitate the share issue as described in Note 30 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 
The Group and the Pension Scheme Trustees agreed to an 
arrangement involving the securitisation of a rental stream  
on one of the Group’s freehold properties in early 2012 as 
referred to on page 17 . The effect of this arrangement was to 
reduce both the funding deﬁcit and the Group’ s cash payments 
to the Pension Scheme substantially. The Group continues to 
manage its obligations to the Pension Scheme actively and 
responsibly. The overall objective is to ensure that any future 
cash contributions are affordable over the medium term 
without constraining the implementation of the Group’s 
development strategies. 19
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Risks and Uncertainties
Risks and impact Mitigating actions and management
A deterioration in the economic environment  
may decrease proﬁtability
The Group is a provider of marketing services to businesses, 
which in turn supply goods and services to consumers. There 
is a risk that macro-economic issues may detrimentally 
affect consumer expenditure, which could impact the 
trading performance of the Group’s clients and reduce their 
discretionary market spend with Communisis. This could 
potentially result in lower sales and proﬁtability for  
the Group. 
 Market trends are monitored and factored into the 
Group’s business planning, budgeting and management 
processes.
 Volume erosion protection is included in contract terms 
where possible.
The Group must be able to respond to  
technological change
Clients’ progressive adoption of digital formats and 
channels may impact market demand for the Group’s 
products and services. The Group is committed to 
developing or procuring new types of technology either 
organically or through acquisition, in order to be able to 
provide the latest services to clients and therefore maintain 
its competitive position.
There is a risk that the systems and equipment utilised by 
the Group could be superseded earlier than anticipated by 
management and, therefore, impact market demand for 
the Group’s products and services. Further investment could 
then be required by the Group to develop or acquire the 
latest technology in order to maintain its position in  
the market. 
 Continued investment in advanced technology and 
new services maintains and enhances the Group’s 
competitive position.
 Due diligence together with the monitoring of 
development projects and integration plans ensures 
that new products and services, whether organically 
developed or procured through acquisition, are  
cost-effectively introduced and successfully 
implemented.
The Group’s risk management process is continuous and developing and is well embedded within the business. This process 
manages risks and opportunities and is integral to the delivery of the Group's strategic objectives.
During the year the risk management process was reviewed and updated. The individual business units continuously review risks 
surrounding past, present and future activities, reporting these in their risk registers which are now submitted monthly for review 
by the risk governance team. An overall Group risk register and risk map reﬂecting the top 30 risks of the Group is prepared for review 
by the senior management teams and the Board on a monthly basis. The detailed risk register is reviewed on a six-monthly basis.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group together with the mitigating actions are set out below: 20
Risks and impact Mitigating actions and management
Existing client concentration may mean that the  
loss of a major client could materially decrease sales
A substantial percentage of the Group’s revenues are 
derived from a relatively small number of clients and 
therefore the loss of one or more of these clients could have 
a material impact on the Group’s sales. This could result in 
a material decrease in proﬁtability whilst new contracts are 
sought and excess capacity reduced.
In the year ended 31 December 2012 the top ﬁve clients of 
the Group accounted for approximately 52 per cent of sales.
 to preserve customer relationships, monitor compliance 
with service level agreements and expand the services 
offered to key clients.
 services in a broad range of market sectors and into 
international markets.

sectors, reducing the reliance on the ﬁnancial services 
sector .
Due to high operational gearing, a reduction in  
revenues could signiﬁcantly impact proﬁtability
The risks are that the Group will not:
 adapt sufficiently quickly to any technological change 
or downturn in demand, with a consequent loss of 
competitiveness and proﬁtability;
 have adequate resources to invest in new technology  
and services;
 retain its major client portfolio, without replacement,  
or recover debts; and
 diversify sufficiently into other market sectors.
 with projected demand to avoid margin erosion.

degree of headroom over projected funding requirements.
 the amount of overdue debt. Credit insurance is obtained 
against larger non-ﬁnancial services sector debts.
 managed to ensure that banking covenants are not 
breached.
Framework contracts with complex arrangements  
may result in litigation or losses through higher  
than anticipated costs
A substantial proportion of the Group’s activities are 
conducted within the terms of multi-year framework 
contracts with clients, often for a range of different 
services. The contract terms usually contain complex 
commercial, legal and ﬁnancial arrangements.
The risk is that over the life of the contract the practical 
working relationships may differ from those anticipated 
at the outset, giving rise to the potential for dispute, 
commercial damage and ﬁnancial loss.
 The Group’s contract risk management programme 
delivers a structured process that can be consistently 
applied to bids, tenders and contracts and assists 
with the management and control of contractual risk 
through the entire contract life cycle.
 Compliance with contract terms, particularly service 
level agreements, is monitored and, where required, 
reported to clients on a regular basis.
 Periodic commercial review of contract terms is 
conducted to highlight any emerging anomalies between 
the original intent and the current working practices.
Risks and Uncertainties continued 21
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Risks and impact Mitigating actions and management
Operations rely on uninterrupted IT systems  
and the safeguarding of client data
The Group’s operations depend upon the uninterrupted 
operation of its complex computer networks and systems, 
as well as its ability to access the networks of other parties.
The Group also processes conﬁdential and personal data on 
behalf of clients as part of its core services.
The risks are that:
 a failure to maintain a secure and fully functional  
IT infrastructure could result in an inability to meet 
contractual service obligations; and
 the conﬁdentiality, integrity and availability of 
information processed by the Group could be 
compromised by human error, systems failure, 
equipment malfunction or deliberate unauthorised 
action, any of which could result in reputational  
damage and ﬁnancial loss.
 Business continuity plans are in place.
 Established information and security standards are 
subject to regular third-party audits.
 Continued investment in IT infrastructure, security 
and monitoring, guards against the inappropriate 
use of client data and maintains and enhances the 
effectiveness of controls.
A change in pension scheme assumptions  
could increase the pension deﬁcit
Communisis has continuing obligations under a deﬁned 
beneﬁt pension scheme that is now closed to new 
entrants. The IAS 19 pension deﬁcit was £21.7 million as 
at 31 December 2012. The risk is that any changes in life 
expectancy, or other assumptions, such as interest rates, 
equity returns or discount rates could require substantial 
future cash contributions to eliminate any resulting increase 
in the pension scheme deﬁcit and therefore decrease the 
Group’s ability to expand the business through continued 
investment or to pay dividends to shareholders. 
 The Group works closely with the Pension Scheme 
Trustees to adopt programmes that optimise returns 
on Pension Scheme assets, reduce the ultimate pension 
liabilities and minimise the level of additional cash 
contributions required to eliminate any deﬁcit.
Potential lease liabilities from past disposals  
could result in high cash costs to the Group
The Group has contingent liabilities arising from lease 
commitment guarantees on past corporate disposals.  
The principal risk is that current leasehold occupants will 
become insolvent in the current economic climate and that 
guarantees will be called, resulting in a material cash cost to 
the Group.
 The ﬁnancial status of the leasehold occupants is 
monitored on a regular basis.
 Action will be taken to minimise the cost to the Group 
when default is anticipated.
 Break clauses are reviewed and exercised where possible. 22
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report
Communisis is keen to promote the success of the Group for 
the beneﬁt of everyone including employees, shareholders, 
customers, suppliers and others associated with the 
organisation. We pride ourselves in operating honestly, 
responsibly and ethically, both in the workplace and in the 
wider community. This means that Communisis is a safe, 
pleasant, positive and successful place to work; and that makes 
sound commercial sense. We also recognise that managing and 
balancing environmental, social and economic issues is critical 
in ensuring the long-term success of the Group. Our model is 
based on the idea that corporate success and social welfare 
are interdependent. A business needs a healthy and educated 
workforce, sustainable resources and adept governance to 
compete effectively.
In the fast-paced and dynamic environment in which 
Communisis operates, we work to, and where appropriate 
obtain certiﬁcation to, a number of standards. We have a set 
of clearly deﬁned best practice frameworks, management 
systems and requirements across the Group.
Only by balancing a sustainable method of working with 
the needs of employees and the economic management of 
resources can we effectively meet our client’s requirements for 
a reliable long-term business partner .
We adhere to best practice in the standards we require from 
our systems, employee engagement, commercial activity and 
resource usage. Where appropriate our standards comply with 
the appropriate level of certiﬁcation for those activities. The 
standards we operate to include the following:
 BS 25999-1:2006 – Business Continuity Management (in the 
process of migrating to ISO/IEC 22301:2012 with planned 
completion in 2014);
 C&CCC Certiﬁcates – Cheque and MICR printing (Std 55);
 C2E – Committed to Equality; 
 CIPS – Excellence in Strategic Procurement Capability Gold 
Standard (achieved in 2011); 
 DMA Certiﬁcate – Direct Mail Association;
 FSC - STD-40-004 - V2.1 EN – Chain of Custody Certiﬁcation - 
COC-001202;
 ISO/IEC 9001:2008 Certiﬁcate – Quality;
 ISO/IEC 14001:2004 Certiﬁcate – Environmental;
 ISO/IEC 27001:2005 Certiﬁcate – Information Security;
 OHSAS 18001:2007 Certiﬁcate – Health and Safety;
 PEFC – ST - 2002 - 2010 CoC Standard - CoC-0079. 
We have also achieved some notable recognition for the work 
that we do. Our 2012 highlights demonstrate some of our 
successes. They include:
 Silver Award by Business in the Community for carbon 
strategy improvement within Yorkshire and Humberside;  
 British Print Industry Federation (“BPIF”) industry 
excellence awards for Training and Development at the 
Leeds operation;
 Communisis was named as ‘Industrial Digital Printer of the 
Year’ at the PrintWeek Awards at Grosvenor House on  
22nd October 2012;
 Yomego and its client Morrison Bowmore Distillers jointly 
took home the ‘Best use of YouTube’ award at the UK Social 
Media Communications Awards on 18 October 2012;
 Joanne Cowl, Communisis’ Group Financial Controller, was 
named as the overall Yorkshire Rising Star of the Year 2012 
at the Yorkshire Rising Star Awards. 
Supporting our people 
Communisis has a professional Human Resources team. 
Members of the team are based at the larger Communisis 
sites and work in close co-operation to ensure uniform high 
standards apply in respect of the recruitment, retention and 
development of a motivated workforce. We aim to provide our 
staff with rewarding careers that allow them to develop their 
skills and feel involved in contributing to business success as 
well as enjoying a good standard of pay and beneﬁts.
We recognise that we need to provide multi-layered 
communication, particularly by providing face-to-face 
interaction between leadership, middle management and 
employees at all levels of the business.
Communisis supports its employees in many ways;  
the following are some examples:
 we offer childcare vouchers for children up to age 16 
to assist with child care costs; an employee assistance 
programme which provides information, support and 
advice on a wide range of personal issues; and a discounted 
corporate healthcare plan; 
 as part of our commitment constantly to improve our 
Employee Beneﬁts Scheme, we have recently introduced 
some great savings and discounts on entertainment, 
travel, leisure, food, shopping and more. We also take part 
in the cycle to work scheme; 23
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
 our Pension Plan carries the Pension Quality Mark.  
Achieving this accreditation and maintaining the standard 
annually, is an endorsement of the importance we place on 
pension provision for our employees; 
 we are accredited for our commitment to Equality (“C2E”) 
in all our major sites and offices;
 our Group-wide Recognition Scheme continues to attract 
many nominations. Employees are rewarded for their 
outstanding contributions as voted for by their colleagues;
 a vast array of training is undertaken throughout the Group, 
ranging from sponsorship for professional qualiﬁcations to 
technical skills training. Activities include:
 –  all customer-facing staff have received customer service 
training in support of our annual scheme to seek feedback 
from clients and implement improvements to our 
operations;
 –  55 employees have been awarded NVQs in areas such as 
management, team leading and business;
 –  a further 74 employees are currently working their way 
towards NVQs in manufacturing excellence, leadership  
and management;
 –  our talent programme is working with employees to 
support them through Masters qualiﬁcations, professional 
training courses, coaching and mentoring to ensure that 
they are ready and able to take on the wider and broader 
positions they aspire to; 
 –  at Liverpool, one employee was successfully awarded a 
NEBOSH Diploma in Occupational Health & Safety, and 
another completed the Unite health & safety training 
modules to underpin their roles as safety representatives; 
 –   all manufacturing sites are working to encourage a greater 
degree of employee engagement and are proactively 
looking to increase the number of safety representatives 
at each site, to strengthen safety management 
integration and improve two-way communication with  
the workforce.
 our Information and Consultation Forum meets on a 
regular basis to provide an opportunity for employees from 
across the business to put questions to directors regarding 
Communisis’ performance.
Health and Safety matters 
Communisis “Safety Matters” programme provides a basis for 
sustainable improvement and sharing of best practice across 
the manufacturing, warehousing and office-based working 
environments. Communisis’ Health and Safety (“H&S”) policy 
is to aspire to zero accidents, incidents and instances of 
occupational ill-health.
In 2012 the Company commenced an H&S step-change 
initiative, with a vision to establish H&S excellence as a core 
value across the business. 
Communisis’ senior management is committed to  
supporting a comprehensive programme of objectives  
focused on improving overall health, safety and environmental 
(“HSE”) performance, together with reinforcement of our 
safety management systems and training the workforce 
proactively to identify and resolve workplace hazards.  
Through consultation and working together we will continue  
to deliver solutions to control, mitigate and eliminate risk.
Our mission is to use proactive leadership, employee 
engagement and clear accountability for HSE at all levels to 
create a safe working environment for all. We aim to ensure 
that Communisis has a positive safety culture, that is reinforced 
by our employee beliefs, attitudes and values, led by visible 
leadership with a focus on employee health and wellbeing.
As part of certiﬁcation and compliance with OHSAS 18001:2007 , 
Communisis has a structured approach to the monitoring  
and evaluation of H&S requirements, which is supported by  
a formal continuous audit and improvement programme.
In 2012, Communisis was not subject to any improvement 
notices, prohibitions or prosecutions resulting from any 
breaches of H&S or environmental regulations.
Some of the key activities carried out in 2012 are  
highlighted below:
 noise risk assessments were conducted and action plans  
were implemented to reduce exposure. The occupational 
health surveillance included audiometric testing of 
employees to ensure the measures to control and  
manage risk were in place and effective;
 Communisis is committed to increasing employee  
H&S training, raising behavioural safety awareness, 
developing operator skills, and integrating our contractors 
and temporary workforce into these programmes  
where applicable;
 in 2012, we installed two new state of the art T400  
high-speed colour digital platforms at our Liverpool site  
and completed a comprehensive recruitment, induction 
and skills training programme for operators and support 
personnel; and
 HSE operational teams are continuing to align safe working 
practices, common procedures and sharing of lessons  
learned from incident investigations.  24
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report continued
Number of accidents and RIDDORs 2008 – 2012
200
150
100
50
0
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
143
102
90 90
87
Accidents
The total number of reported accidents increased from 87 to 
90 and is broken down as follows:
Minor ﬁrst aid 77
Major ﬁrst aid 0
Lost time accidents 7
RIDDORs 6
Total 90
15
10
5
0
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
9
88 8
6
RIDDORs
The number of RIDDOR incidents for 2012 was 6 which is a 25% 
improvement on 2011. In April 2012 the Reporting of Injuries, 
Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 changed 
the reporting requirement for RIDDORs from more than three 
to more than seven days. The business continued to measure 
RIDDOR accidents as any lost time comprising more than three 
days to ensure consistency during the year , but will only be 
referring to more than seven day incidents from 2013.
The accident incidence rate is the total number of lost-time 
accidents and RIDDORs per thousand employees. Our 
calculations include temporary staff and are based on  
the average number of employees.
The accident incidence rate for 2012 was 8.59 compared 
to 9.88 in 2011.
In 2013 we will continue to: 
 improve the health and wellbeing of the workforce;
 establish effective monitoring and communication  
of HSE performance;
 demonstrate leadership and commitment;
 improve risk management; and
 monitor the effectiveness of corrective actions. 25
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Charitable and political donations
Communisis focuses on enhancing the skills of local people 
and supporting community-based development. During 
2012 employees at the Liverpool site raised £1,100 for their 
chosen charity, MOWLL, and this was matched with a Company 
contribution. Communisis also made a number of small 
donations at a local level to support activities important to 
the local communities, and support is also given to employees 
to take part in fundraising events.
Centrally, Communisis provided consultancy, design, direct mail 
and analysis services to help support The Prince’s Trust to the 
value of £58,000. 
No political expenditure was incurred during the year , nor were 
any contributions made for political purposes. 
Environment matters
The “Environment Matters” programme recognises the real 
and potential impact that the Company’s activities have on the 
local, regional and global environment and the need to keep 
these activities under constant control and review. Communisis 
is committed to improving its environmental performance 
continuously. Environmental protection is given equal 
importance to other key business objectives. The Board reviews 
the Group’s environmental performance twice a year . 
In 2012 we engaged a specialist sustainability consultancy to 
deliver a full GAP analysis and this will assist the business in 
setting its new objectives for 2014.  
Activities during 2012
Communisis retained its certiﬁcations to ISO/IEC 14001:2004 
for its manufacturing and logistics locations. We have also 
retained our multi-site certiﬁcation to the Forest Stewardship 
Council (“FSC”) and the Programme for the Endorsement of 
Forest Certiﬁcation (“PEFC”) Chain of Custody certiﬁcation. 
Chain of Custody certiﬁcation conﬁrms that Communisis only 
uses paper originating from controlled forests and identiﬁes 
each link in the production chain, from sourcing of timber to 
paper manufacture and printing. 
One hundred percent of our UK approved print and envelope 
suppliers have ISO/IEC 14001:2004 certiﬁcation and continue 
to be monitored and audited by our Communisis sourcing 
team. Our expansion into Europe has led to some challenges 
towards our approach as regional environmental requirements 
vary between each Member State of the European Union. 
However , European print companies are processed through 
our pre-qualiﬁcation questionnaire (“PQQ”) process to ensure 
consistency in our selection criteria. One hundred percent of our 
paper was supplied by paper mills with FSC/PEFC certiﬁcation.
Supporting our communities
Communisis is working closely with The Prince’s Trust and 
committing its skills and resources to help change young and 
disadvantaged people’s lives in Britain. In 2012 Communisis 
earned Silver Patronage status with The Prince’s Trust. 
Communisis operates in an ethical, responsible and honest 
way both within the workplace and as part of the wider 
community. Our aim is to be a business that provides both 
a stimulating career and a safe working environment. We 
believe this environment is likely to deliver positive returns 
to shareholders and be a force for good in the communities in 
which we operate. 
Our activities in 2012 included:
 our Citizenship Committee in Liverpool provides time and 
funding support to needy and worthwhile causes in the 
local area. We are currently working with MOWLL (Moving 
on with Life and Learning), a small charity which helps 
adults with learning disabilities to lead independent lives;
 we are members of and chair the Estuary Commerce Park 
Forum which is a network group bringing local businesses 
together including local schools, to share common issues 
and gain synergy from multiple business and community 
outlets; 
 we are part of the Leeds Ahead programme which supports 
community-focused projects aimed at unlocking the 
potential of all who live and work in Leeds. Communisis  
is currently supporting a local school to encourage  
14-16 year olds to work towards their GCSEs by supporting 
careers events and hosting workplace visits to bring 
subjects such as maths, art and technology to life; and
 we have maintained our relationship with the YOUth Inspire 
programme which is aimed at getting work-ready young 
people onto the employment ladder by offering them an  
eight week work experience placement. 26
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report continued
The environmental projects and improvements that have taken 
place in 2012 are highlighted below:
 each year Barclays organise an environmental road 
show, inviting suppliers to take part and showcase their 
environmental objectives. This year the road show was in 
support of Earth Hour, a day when hundreds of millions of 
people around the world switch off their lights for one hour 
to take a stand against climate change. The Communisis 
team who work on-site with Barclays have continued to 
support these annual road shows by hosting a stand at the 
event and talking to Barclays delegates about how they can 
reduce the environmental impact of their marketing and 
communications activity through the use of data services 
and smarter logistics planning;
 the Leeds operation has increased its capabilities for 
measurement of environmental factors by working with 
the BPIF on a programme called Vision in Print which is 
aimed at waste reduction via 5S and lean manufacturing 
projects. The resulting improvements can be seen in the 
2012 ﬁgures for waste;
 a number of our customers are taking advantage of our 
T300 and T400 high-speed colour digital platforms which 
eliminate their need to have base stock printed separately 
and in advance. This reduces the environmental impact 
caused by additional printing and logistics;
 the Company signed up to the government-backed Cycle to 
Work scheme again this year. It encourages employees to 
travel to work by bike. As well as helping the environment,  
it also improves the health of those taking part; and
 the Group maintained the Silver Award by Business in  
the Community for its ongoing improvement to its  
carbon strategy.
Adjustments to our Baseline Data 
The following amendments have been made to our baseline 
data for 2012:
 in line with the Deputy Prime Minister’s announcement 
that a new regulation will require all UK businesses listed 
on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange to report 
their levels of greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions using 
the DEFRA 1, 2 and 3 scoping guidelines for GHG’s in their 
annual reports after April 2013. Communisis has already 
prepared for this and has updated its reporting to reﬂect 
this forthcoming change. 
The changes are described in more detail below:
 relevant conversion factors have been amended in line 
with DEFRA Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2012 
(DEFRA 2012 Guidelines / DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors 
for Company Reporting and the Carbon Trust Conversion 
Factors 2012); 
 as noted in the 2011 Annual Report, the Company extended 
its carbon footprint reporting to include some Scope 3 
as well as Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. During 2012, the 
Company has extended its Scope 3 GHG emissions also to 
include water, water treatment, air and rail travel and these 
are now included in the reports;
 Scope 1 reporting has been expanded to include GHG 
emissions from our process dryers and our direct business 
mileage (company and grey ﬂeet cars). Historically the 
business measured all gas used in its operation as Scope 
2.  However, since the installation of process sub-metering 
during 2011 we have been able to break down the Scope 1 – 
direct, and Scope 2 – indirect, GHG emissions generated.    
Greenhouse gas reporting and reduction 
In previous reports Communisis has always referred to its GHG 
emissions in Carbon Tonnes (“Ct”). 
Carbon tonnes are generally reported in the industry as 
CO
2
e Tonnes and we will therefore use this terminology 
going forward.
CO
2
e means carbon dioxide equivalent. When we talk about 
reducing our carbon footprint, we really mean reducing our 
GHG emissions generally.
Carbon footprint reporting  
All carbon calculations reported have taken into consideration 
the adjustment to baseline data noted above. In 2010 we 
committed to reduce our absolute carbon footprint by  
3% year-on-year totalling a 9% reduction by 2013 on our 
2010 baseline. Our progress so far is set out overleaf.
As noted above, we measure our carbon footprint in carbon 
tonnes of GHG emitted (TCO
2
e). The sum of our carbon 
footprint is the combined total of carbon emitted based on 
our Scope 1, 2 and 3 data capture. 27
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Comparison of like-for-like emission scopes 
As noted above, during 2012 we began to record additional 
emission scopes. The graph and the table opposite include 
all the emissions we have recorded. However , due to the fact 
that 2012 includes additional types of emissions, these ﬁgures 
do not enable an accurate comparison to be drawn against 
previous years. If we compare the types of emissions measured 
in 2010 against the same type of emissions in 2012, we can 
report a decrease of 456 TCO
2
e representing a 4.06% reduction 
compared to 2010.
In the 2010 baseline year the only measurement was of Scope 2 
emissions which included our direct gas usage for our drying 
systems. However , since then we have been able to segregate 
our direct gas emissions and populated this measurement into 
Scope 1 together with the carbon impact from the business 
miles produced from our company cars and grey ﬂeet. We 
have also broadened the measurement to include Scope 3 
emissions. The impact of this is that, although the overall 
trend for the last 5 years has been a reduction of Scope 2 
emissions, we are reporting an overall increase across all types 
of emissions in 2012 due to the measurement of additional 
types of emissions which were not measured in 2010.
Carbon Intensity
Carbon intensity is measured in tonnes and represents the 
amount of CO
2
e emitted per tonne of paper processed.
Carbon intensity per tonne of paper processed
Tonnes 201020112012
% change  
from 2010  
baseline
Leeds 0.35 0.34 0.43 22.86
Manchester 0.28 0.28 0.22 (21.43)
Crewe 0.30 0.34 0.37 23.33
Lisburn 0.30 0.30 0.34 13.33
Liverpool 0.64 0.64 0.74 15.63
TOTAL 1.87 1.90 2.10 12.30
Average 0.37 0.38 0.42 13.51
Total carbon footprint 
The graph below compares the emissions that we have been 
recording and reporting since we set the baseline in 2010 as 
adjusted in line with the baseline data. The ﬁgures for 2012 
also include the new emission scopes that we are now able 
to record, and so are therefore not directly comparable.
2010 2011 2012
2010  Baseline 2013 Target line
12,000
14,000
10,000
Actual TCO
2
e
13,473
12,364
13,485
Carbon footprint
As part of our continuous improvement programme, 
Communisis continues to enhance its carbon data capture 
ability. In 2010 we revised our baseline ﬁgure to reﬂect our 
future carbon reduction commitment and reported all CO
2
 
under Scope 2. Since then we have enhanced our ability to 
extract direct emissions from gas used in our operational 
process and have reported this under Scope 1. We have also 
managed to review the 2011 data and extracted the Scope 1 
gas usage from the reported Scope 2 ﬁgure. 2011 was further 
enhanced with the additional 32 tonnes of CO
2
e produced from 
water supply and treatment. 
During 2012 we also began to record direct and indirect 
business mileage and this has been reported under Scope 1 
and 3 respectively.
Carbon footprint (TCO
2
e)
2010 2011 2012
Scope 1 * 553 1,005
Scope 2 13,438 11,779 12,255
Scope 3 35 32 225
Total gross carbon 13,473 12,364 13,485
Carbon offsets 0 0 0
Green tariff 0 0 0
Total annual net emission 13,473 12,364 13,485
Tonnage differential to baseline N/A (1,109) 12
% change from 2010 baseline N/A (8.23)% 0.09%
*  In 2010 our reporting did not differentiate between Scope 1 and 2 emissions.  
The total emissions recorded therefore are noted as Scope 2 in the table. 28
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report continued
It remains a challenge to reduce our carbon intensity. Our 
carbon intensity has risen in all operational sites except for 
one. As certain market sector volumes decline our operating 
ﬁxed energy usage does not mirror this trend and this has a 
disproportionate effect on our carbon intensity. The following 
factors have also inﬂuenced the ﬁgures in 2012:
 Leeds has experienced a 15% reduction in the amount of 
paper processed which has increased the overall carbon 
intensity;  
 Manchester has seen a 31% increase in paper throughput 
with a corresponding increase in electricity consumption  
of only 0.25%. This has led to a decrease in carbon intensity 
at the site of 21.43% in 2012;  
 Crewe experienced a 8.45% reduction in production 
in 2012 compared to 2011 with a decrease in electricity 
consumption of 4.65%. This has led to an increase in carbon 
intensity. The consolidation of the Lisburn operation into 
Crewe in 2013 is expected to decrease the carbon intensity 
at the site in the next 12 months; and 
 Liverpool has seen an increase in pack volumes of   
15.27%. An increase in pack volumes may decrease the 
carbon intensity in respect of ﬁxed energy such as heating 
and lighting. However, it increases the carbon intensity 
in respect of variable energy for example in relation 
to additional equipment usage. In addition, as clients 
transfer to the T400 high-speed colour digital platforms, 
the total carbon intensity required to produce the product 
decreases. However, the Liverpool site contributes more 
to the product life cycle and therefore the proportion 
of carbon intensity produced by Liverpool per product 
increases.
Overall Communisis has experienced an average 13.51% 
increase in carbon intensity comparative against a paper 
processed tonnage reduction of 12.72%. 
Water consumption  
In 2010 we set an objective to cut our water consumption by 
10% of the 2010 baseline by 2013. We achieved a reduction in 
water consumption of 10.2% in 2011. This year we have made a 
further substantial reduction of 9.37% compared to 2011 which 
equates to an overall reduction of 18.61% against the 2010 
baseline. This has mainly been due to the performance at our 
two largest operations, Leeds and Liverpool.   
100,000
105,000
95,000
90,000
85,000
80,000
2010 2011 2012
103,215
92,690
84,009
Cubic metres of 
water consumed
2010  Baseline 2013 Target line
Water consumption
Cubic metres 2010 2011 2012
% change from  
2010 baseline
103,215 92,690 84,009 (18.61)%
Waste
Non-recycled waste
In 2010 we agreed to begin reporting non-recycled waste as a 
percentage of all waste produced. We set a target to reduce 
this by 10% of the 2010 baseline by 2013.
During the year we reduced the proportion of non-recycled  
to total waste by 33.08% compared to the 2010 baseline  
(2011 18.61% reduction).  
Through our education and segregation programmes we 
continue to reduce the amount of non-recycled waste sent to 
landﬁll and we continue to explore new waste disposal routes. 
Continued progress leaves limited scope for further reductions. 
Any further improvements will require speciﬁc focus on key 
areas and greater engagement from our staff.  
One new area of focus is in relation to the treatment of  
non-recycled waste. Communisis is currently working with our 
waste contractors to see if there are any opportunities to send 
non-recycled waste to a waste-to-energy plant. Further details 
will be available in 2013. 29
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Tonnes 201020112012
% change  
fr om  
baseline 
2010
Recycled waste 10,191 10,261 9,485
Non-recycled waste 137 112 85
Total waste 10,328 10,373 9,570
% of non-recycled 
waste to total waste
1.33 1.08 0.89 (33.08)
1.0%
1.5%
0.5%
0%
2013  Target line
1.33%
1.08%
0.89%
2010 Baseline
Non-recycled waste as a percentage of total waste
Non-recycled waste as a 
percentage of total waste
2010 2011 2012
Percentage of operational waste recycled
2010 2011 2012
98%
99%
100%
97%
98.67%
98.92%
99.11%
Percentage of operational waste recycled
Reduce paper wastage 
In 2010 we set a target to reduce the percentage of paper 
wastage at our production sites by 5% of the 2010 baseline by 
2013. Paper wastage is currently calculated based on the total 
weight of the products we produce compared to the total paper 
waste which is recycled. 
As reported in the 2011 report, the products produced at 
our Leeds operation are complex and varied in nature and 
our systems are not currently able to measure the average 
weight of these products for the purposes of this paper 
waste calculation. Communisis continues to evaluate waste 
throughout the business units and the on-site team is working 
to enhance their reporting in this area.  
All sites involved in the production of paper-based products 
other than Leeds are included in the measurement data. In 
our baseline year of 2010, the percentage of paper wastage at 
these sites was 16.58%. In 2012 the operational paper waste 
was 15.91%, a 4.04% reduction against our 2010 baseline 
ﬁgure.  This ﬁgure includes 216.42 tonnes of paper products 
destroyed at the Liverpool facility on behalf of our clients as 
this type of paper waste was included in the base measurement 
methodology used in 2010.  
As noted in last year’s report, our Liverpool site did not 
historically record customer paper waste from products 
such as obsolete leaﬂets or envelopes separately from paper 
waste generated by Communisis. In 2012 Liverpool recorded 
customer paper waste as an exception to the processed 
waste. Although we are now able to record customer waste at 
Liverpool separately, the ﬁgures noted above include customer 
paper waste at Liverpool to enable accurate comparisons to be 
drawn against the 2010 and 2011 data. 
Increasing our use of sustainable resources 
In 2010 we committed to increase the percentage of electricity 
from renewable sources. In 2012 we bought 9,213,193.3kWh 
(8,264,296.9 kWh in 2011) of our electricity from renewable 
sources. This represented 44.5% of our total electricity needs 
(2011 41%). Further progress is planned for 2013. 30
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report continued
Objective Status
Tools
Develop our online environmental Management  
Information tool
Introduce a product speciﬁc CO
2
 calculator for the  
printed products we produce at our sites
Completed
 
Completed
Management systems
Work to maintain and improve our certiﬁcations to  
ISO 14001:2004 and both FSC and PEFC Chain of  
Custody standards
Certiﬁcations have been retained for all relevant sites
GHG reporting and reductions
Extend our carbon footprint reporting to include  
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. (All business, company  
cars and travel)
 
 
 
Reduce our absolute carbon footprint by 3% year-on-year 
totalling 9% reduction by 2013 on our 2010 baseline
Reduce the carbon intensity at our production sites by  
3% per year . A total reduction of 9% on our 2010 baseline  
by 2013
GHG carbon scoping has been reviewed to enable the 
business to understand the direct and indirect emissions 
it produces. We are now able to record some of our Scope 3 
emissions and will continue to broaden our data capture 
to identify more precisely our environmental impact in 
different areas
In 2012 we achieved a 4.06% reduction against the  
like-for-like 2010 baseline measurement
Carbon intensity remains a challenge. As certain market 
sector volumes decline our operating ﬁxed energy usage 
does not mirror this trend and this has a disproportionate 
effect on our carbon intensity. Continued progress is 
required. Site consolidation is expected to help us  
towards achieving this target
Water
Cut our water consumption by 10% of the 2010 baseline  
by 2013
The 2013 target was achieved in 2011 with a 10.2% reduction 
from the 2010 baseline. In 2012 we have continued to make 
reductions and have achieved a further 9.37% reduction 
compared to 2011, representing a reduction total of 18.61% 
against the 2010 baseline 
Waste
Report our non-recycled waste as a percentage of the 
overall waste produced and reduce this by 10% of the 2010 
baseline by 2013
Reduce the paper wastage at our production sites by 5% of 
2010 baseline by 2013
Operational waste and the associated percentage of general 
waste have been captured since 2008. The percentage 
reduction since the 2010 baseline is 33.08%
In 2010 the paper wastage at our production sites (excluding 
Leeds) was 16.58%. This has decreased to 15.91% in 2012 
which represents a 4.04% reduction from the 2010 baseline
Status report for the 2011 – 2013 Group targets     31
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Objective Status
Increasing our use of sustainable resources
Increase the percentage of electricity from renewable 
sources
Use only paper that is FSC or PEFC compliant
Produce or supply recyclable products
In 2012 44.5% of our total electricity needs were from 
renewable sources (2011 41%; 2010 39%)
In 2012 all of our paper tonnage continued to come from 
mills with FSC or PEFC certiﬁcation. This means that 
Communisis only uses paper originating from controlled 
forests and identiﬁes each link in the production chain, from 
sourcing of timber to paper manufacture and printing
In 2012 100% of our core printed products were recyclable.  
All our products are capable of being recycled unless there is 
requirement from our client to have a non-recyclable product
Challenge our suppliers
Implement a product speciﬁc CO
2
 calculator for the printed 
products produced by our suppliers
Amend our PQQ to include requirements to report  
non-recycled waste production and water consumption
Give further sustainability training to our supply chain 
managers
Report the percentage of vegetable oil-based inks used in 
our suppliers’ print processes
Reduce the CO
2
 associated with our company car ﬂeet by 
10% from 2010 baseline by 2013
A CO
2
 calculator has been developed in association with 
the BPIF. This calculator can be used by clients who have 
complex print outsourcing requirements and who need to 
monitor the product lifecycle carbon impact
As part of continued supplier evaluation programme we 
have enhanced our PQQ to request information in relation 
to the suppliers carbon impact, waste management and 
waste reduction programmes. We also request details of 
their improvements over the last 12 months in relation 
to recyclable products and details relating to any natural 
resource reduction commitment
Training has been given to provide our supply chain 
managers with the ability to recognise environmental best 
practice when visiting existing and potential suppliers
Our print suppliers have to submit the amount of vegetable 
oil-based inks used as a percentage of their total ink usage
Our baseline ﬁgure for vehicles acquired in 2010 had an 
average of 147 .74 C0
2
g/km. In 2012 there was a reduction 
in this ﬁgure to 129.76 CO
2
g/km. This represents a 12.17% 
reduction compared to 2010. Communisis is committed to 
reducing the ﬂeets average CO
2
g/km, however the Company’s 
ability to make further reductions is dependent on the lease 
renewal dates of the current ﬂeet  32
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report continued
Supporting our customers
Communisis operates an ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management 
System model and has achieved certiﬁcation to this standard 
for its manufacturing, print sourcing and logistics sites 
excluding its new site at Brunswick, Newcastle. The Company 
aims to include this site within its accreditation during 2013.  
The Group has a “Quality Matters” programme to drive a  
“right ﬁrst time” attitude within the workforce and promote a 
culture of collective responsibility for the quality of products 
and services.
We aim to make Communisis a centre of excellence and 
aim to be the supplier of choice for the marketing services 
industry. We aim to deliver products and services that exceed 
expectations in terms of customer satisfaction and provide a 
best-in-class service through our quality, delivery and service. 
We want to deliver products and services in a timely, cost 
effective manner , continuously satisfying all legal, contractual 
and regulatory requirements.
On an annual basis Communisis seeks feedback from clients.  
As a result of this process in 2012, we decided to continue 
to focus on customer service, quality, implementation and 
innovation. Senior management and local site teams are 
charged with implementing and maintaining these objectives 
which are then converted into individual targets for employees 
and business areas.
Supporting our suppliers
Communisis’ social and environmental impacts extend beyond 
the Group’s own direct operations to the goods and services it 
procures from its supply chain. The Communisis Sourcing team 
operates across the Group, embedding ethical and responsible 
procurement practices within the supply chain whilst driving 
up environmental standards to create a fully sustainable, 
responsible and accountable supply base. Communisis 
Sourcing continues to encourage its suppliers to follow a 
greener path by planning, producing and delivering  
business-critical marketing communications in a more 
sustainable and environmentally-friendly way enabling 
Communisis to deliver signiﬁcant value to its clients.
In 2011 Communisis was awarded the highly exclusive and 
prestigious Gold Certiﬁcation from the Chartered Institute 
of Purchasing & Supply (“CIPS”). The certiﬁcation recognises 
strategic expertise in purchasing and supply management. 
It also acknowledges our proven ability as an established 
purchase and supply business function which delivers 
competitive advantage, for Communisis and our clients. 33
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Status report for the 2011 – 2013 Group targets
100% of our core printed products were recyclable
44.5% of our total electricity needs from renewable sources
18.61% water consumption reduction against the 2010 baseline
4.06% carbon footprint reduction achieved against the like-for-like 2010 baseline measurement
33.08% reduction of non-recycled waste to total waste produced compared to the 2010 baseline 
100% paper tonnage from FSC or PEFC certiﬁ ed mills 
In 2012 34
Board of Directors 
and Executive Board 35
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
35 36
Board of Directors 
and Executive Board continued
Committees
Membership at 7 March 2013
Audit Committee
 Peter Hickson (Chairman)
 Michael Firth
 Jane Griffiths
Nomination Committee
 Peter Hickson (Chairman)
 Michael Firth
 Jane Griffiths
Remuneration Committee
 Michael Firth (Chairman)
 Jane Griffiths
 Peter Hickson
Administration and Finance Committee
 Any two directors (one of whom must be the Chairman,  
the Chief Executive or the Finance Director)
Executive Board
The Executive Board is the main operating board of 
Communisis plc and comprises the following key people from 
across the Group:
Andy Blundell Chief Executive
Nigel Howes Finance Director
Dave Rushton Group Managing Director
John Wells Group Commercial Director
Tony Commons Group Human Resources Director
Tanya Cooper Group Marketing Director 37
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors' 
Report
Communisis plc (the “Company”) is a company incorporated 
in the UK and is listed on the London Stock Exchange. The 
address of the Company’s registered office is: Wakeﬁeld Road, 
Leeds LS10 1DU. The Company’s registered number is 02916113.
The directors present their Annual Report, Financial 
Statements and independent auditor's report for the year 
ended 31 December 2012.
Principal activities
The Company is a leading UK marketing services provider 
that specialises in helping clients communicate with their 
customers more effectively and more proﬁtably in fast-changing 
markets. Services are mainly focused on the integrated 
design, production and deployment of personalised customer 
communications. These communications are typically of a 
marketing, regulatory or transactional nature and can be 
distributed either on paper or in digital formats, through 
email, text message, mobile content or social media.
The Group’s main offices and production facilities are located  
in the United Kingdom.
Results and dividends
The results for the year are shown on page 64. An interim 
dividend of 0.55p per ordinary share was paid on 5 October 2012. 
The directors now propose a ﬁnal dividend of 1.1p per ordinary 
share to be paid on 20 May 2013 to shareholders on the register 
at close of business on 19 April 2013. This makes total dividends 
for the year of 1.65p per share (2011 1.5p).
Business review and management report
This Report together with pages 7 to 33 (which include a review 
of the business and its performance, a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties and details of expected future 
developments in the Group) constitute both the business review 
required by Section 417 Companies Act 2006 and the management 
report required by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.
The Group’s Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) are set out in  
the table on page 38 and are described below.
Financial KPIs
Proﬁt measures
Proﬁt after taxation is calculated after all exceptional items 
and taxation.
Proﬁt from operations before exceptional items and 
amortisation of acquired intangibles is calculated by excluding 
the amortisation of acquired intangibles and material and 
infrequently occurring gains and losses.
Proﬁt from operations before exceptional items is calculated 
by excluding material and infrequently occurring gains  
and losses.
Adjusted dividend cover is the ratio of interim dividends paid 
and ﬁnal dividends proposed to proﬁt before exceptional items 
and the amortisation of acquired intangibles after tax on a 
fully diluted basis.
Operating margin on sales is proﬁt from operations before 
exceptional items, as a percentage of total revenue excluding 
pass through revenue.
Cash ﬂow and bank debt measures
Bank debt is calculated as total loans and borrowings, 
including overdrafts, net of cash and cash equivalents.  
For the purposes of capital management, the Group considers 
undiscounted interest-bearing loans and borrowings as the 
appropriate measure for the purposes of determining bank 
debt. This excludes amounts owed under hire purchase 
contracts, disclosed in Note 25 to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements.
Debt outside credit terms is gross overdue trade debt, as a 
percentage of total trade debtors.
Other ﬁnancial measures
Pension deﬁcit is the year end accounting deﬁcit measured in 
accordance with IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts.
Sales from ﬁnancial services and other sectors are measured as 
a percentage of total revenue.
Non-ﬁnancial KPIs
Environmental measures
Carbon footprint is the total Greenhouse Gas emissions, in 
tonnes and is represented by CO
2
e.
Health and safety measures
Accident incidence rate is the total number of lost-time accidents 
and RIDDORs reported in the year per 1,000 employees and 
temporary staff.
Performance against other health, safety and environmental 
objectives is described in the Corporate Social Responsibility 
(“CSR”) Report on pages 22 to 33. 38
Directors' 
Report continued
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
Jane Griffiths will offer herself for election at the Annual 
General Meeting on 9 May 2013. All other directors will offer 
themselves for re-election at that meeting in line with best 
market practice and corporate governance, with the exception 
of John Wells who, as announced on 7 March 2013, will retire 
from the Board with effect from the close of the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2013.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 to 49 
is incorporated in this Report to provide the corporate 
governance statement required by Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 7 .2.1.
Group structure
The Group’s head office is in London. The Group’s main 
offices and production facilities are located in the United 
Kingdom. The Group currently has operating locations in Bath, 
Crewe, Leeds, Liverpool, London, Manchester , Newcastle, 
Nottingham, Glasgow and Bangalore, India, following the 
acquisition of Kieon.
Further to the acquisitions announced in May 2012, the UK 
activities of the Group are now directed under four operating 
companies, Communisis UK Limited, Communisis Data 
Intelligence Limited, Kieon Limited and Yomego Limited. 
The Company also acquired a 49% stake in The Garden 
Marketing Limited in June 2012 with an option to acquire the 
remaining 51%.
The Group has two divisions: Intelligence Driven 
Communications (“IDC”) and Specialist Production and 
Sourcing (“SPS”).
IDC covers 
 Data and Analysis Services
 Creative Services
 Campaign Management Services
 Postal Sortation Services
 Software Production Services 
SPS covers
 Print Sourcing
 Direct Mail
 Transactional Services
 Cheques
Key performance indicators
 2012 2011
Financial
Proﬁt after taxation (£million) 5.2 4.1
Proﬁt from operations before  
exceptional items and amortisation 
of acquired intangibles (£million) 12.3 9.9
Proﬁt from operations before  
exceptional items (£million) 11.6 9.4
Adjusted dividend cover  3.3 3.0
Bank debt (£million) 18.5 22.7
Debt outside credit terms (%) 7.3 4.1
Operating margin on sales 
(excluding pass through) (%) 6.5 5.5
Pension Deﬁcit (£million) 21.7 14.2
Sales to Financial Services 
customers (%) 46 51
Non-ﬁnancial
Carbon footprint (TCO
2
e) 13,485 12,364*
Accident incidence rate  
(per 1,000 employees) 8.59 9.88
* Baseline data has been re-calculated as explained in the CSR Report on page 26.
Directors and governance
The names and biographical details of the directors who held 
office at the date of this report are set out on pages 34 to 35.
The directors who served during the year are shown below:
Peter Hickson Chairman
Andy Blundell Chief Executive
Nigel Howes Finance Director 
Michael Firth Non-Executive Director
Jane Griffiths Non-Executive Director  
 (appointed 17 May 2012)
Roger Jennings Non-Executive Director  
 (resigned 2 May 2012)
Dave Rushton Group Managing Director
John Wells Group Commercial Director
Additional information relating to directors’ remuneration, 
service contracts and interests in the share capital of the 
Company is set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 52 to 63 and is incorporated in this Report.
2012
5.2
12.3
11.6
3.3
18.5
7.3
6.5
21.7
46
13,485
8.59 39
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Research and development 
Expenditure on research and development in the year was 
£391,000 (2011 £372,000).
Communisis has recently entered into a number of commercial 
partnerships which will strengthen its service offering 
including a relationship with Equifax Limited for the provision 
of credit data, and with Sorriso Technologies Limited, a leading 
technology provider , for e-billing and e-statements.
Currently, new product development activity is focused on  
two main areas:
 Mantl is a single marketing technology platform that 
brings together the Company’s previous and new 
on-line applications under one brand name and will 
provide increased functionality and capability across 
these applications. The applications which will be 
incorporated into Mantl include print sourcing, digital 
asset management, multi-resource marketing and point 
of sale campaign planning, e-Commerce and document 
personalisation. The ﬁrst release of Mantl included an 
updated IQ (print sourcing) application with added features 
for direct mail pricing. The next release is due in the 
second quarter of 2013 and will incorporate the campaign 
management application; and
 Trigger Comms or EDOD (‘Event Driven on Demand’) is a new 
service which provides clients with a web-based document 
template which can be linked to a client’s data and enables 
documents to be deployed via email, SMS and traditional 
direct mail. A key feature in the next development phase 
includes print consolidation which enables clients to 
maximise mail sort discounts. A “web-to-mail” function 
is also planned for the next phase. This will allow clients 
with call centres to deﬁne document templates to 
ensure consistency in customer communications and to 
consolidate and sort all mail from the call centre thereby 
enabling the client to beneﬁt from business process 
improvements. The prototype was released in June 2012 
and the next release is expected to be ready by the second 
quarter of 2013.
Property, plant and equipment 
Details of the movements in property, plant and equipment are 
given in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The 
directors believe that the market value of the Group’s land and 
buildings is in excess of the book value, although the difference 
is not signiﬁcant.  
Share capital 
Details of the changes in issued share capital of the Company 
during the year are set out in Note 19 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
Share issue   
On 14 February 2013 the Board announced the details of a 
Firm Placing, Placing and Open Offer to raise £20 million 
(approximately £18.9 million net of expenses) through the 
issue of 50,000,000 new ordinary shares at an issue price of 
40 pence per new ordinary share (representing a discount of 
12.33 per cent. to the closing price of 45.625 pence per ordinary 
share on 13 February 2013). 
The Firm Placing consisted of 37 ,500,000 new ordinary shares 
being placed with certain new and existing institutional 
investors and the Placing and Open Offer consisted of 
12,500,000 new ordinary shares.
The Firm Placing, Placing and Open Offer was subject to 
Shareholder approval, which was given at the General Meeting 
on 5 March 2013. 
Financial risk management   
Disclosures required under paragraph 6 in Schedule 7 of the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008 have been provided in Note 26 of 
the Financial Statements. 40
Directors' 
Report continued
Purchase of own shares 
The Directors’ authority to make purchases of the  
Company’s shares on its behalf is given by resolution of  
the shareholders and renewed annually at the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting.
No share buy-backs were undertaken by the Company during 
2011 or 2012. However , in May 2011 the Communisis plc 
Employee Beneﬁt Trust acquired 606,510 shares (0.32% of 
issued share capital at 6 March 2013) for a total consideration 
of £197 ,000. In addition, on 6 March 2013, the Employee 
Beneﬁt Trust took advantage of its entitlement under the 
Open Offer and acquired 50,845 shares (0.03% of issued share 
capital at 6 March 2013) at an issue price of 40p each, for a total 
consideration of £20,338.
Share option schemes  
Further options were granted during the year under the Group’ s 
share option schemes. Details of the options outstanding at 
year end are given in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
Corporate social responsibility
The Report on pages 22 to 33 sets out the Group’s corporate 
social responsibility approach and includes the requisite 
disclosure on political donations together with details of the 
charitable organisations that the Group has supported during 
the year .
Employees 
Throughout 2012 the Group has demonstrated its ongoing 
commitment to equality and diversity and has retained 
accreditation to the Commitment to Equality standard. In 
recognition of the positive changes throughout the business 
which promote and support equal opportunities, the 
accreditation has been extended to a group-wide certiﬁcate 
(now including offices as well as operational sites), with gold 
status being awarded to the Liverpool site.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for 
employment from disabled persons where the candidate’s 
particular aptitudes and abilities are consistent with 
adequately meeting the requirements of the job. Opportunities 
are available to disabled employees for training, career 
development and promotion. Where existing employees 
become disabled, it is the Group’s policy to provide continuing 
employment wherever practicable in the same or an alternative 
position and to provide appropriate training to achieve this aim.
Embracing equality and diversity is embedded in both 
Company policy and practices. The annual accreditation 
process ensures that we focus on, and continually improve,  
our equality and diversity culture.
In 2012 the Company was awarded the BPIF Excellence 
Award for Training and Development at the Leeds facility. 
This is in recognition of our development of employees and 
their achievement in gaining nationally accredited training 
qualiﬁcations.
The Group keeps all employees informed about matters 
affecting them, through consultation and information on 
the general ﬁnancial and economic factors affecting the 
Group’s performance. We use several types of employee 
communications such as weekly and monthly brieﬁngs, 
employee newsletters, staff notice boards, intranet and 
regular e-mails to all employees. Any employees without 
access to the internet or e-mail are provided with copies of 
these communications.
The Communisis Information and Consultation Forum has 
been in place for the last ﬁve years. Business units elect 
forum members, who attend update meetings with the Chief 
Executive, Andy Blundell, and the Group Managing Director , 
Dave Rushton. 41
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Major interests in shares 
The Company had been notiﬁed under Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 5 (“DTR5”) of the following major holdings 
of voting rights associated with its shares as at the year end 
and changes made as of 6 March 2013:
  Voting rights  Voting rights as
Shareholder  as at 31.12.2012 % at 6 March 2013 %*
Henderson Global Investors   40,285,747 28.57  40,285,747 21.09
Seren Capital Management   14,715,000 10.44  14,715,000 7.70
Standard Life Investments Limited (Vidacos Nominees)  7,811,743 5.54  7,811,743 4.09
Artemis Investment Management LLP   6,488,605 4.60  6,488,605 3.40
Botting Family Investment Funds   6,218,849 4.41  6,218,849 3.26
UBS Investment  plc   N/A N/A  4,355,458 3.28
*the percentage voting rights held have been adjusted to take into account the new issued share capital of 191,047 ,775 on 6 March 2013 following the equity raise. Since the 
allotment of shares at 8 a.m. on 6 March 2013 the Company had not received any updated DTR 5 notiﬁcations from shareholders in respect of any changes to the number  
of voting rights held by close  of business on 6 March 2013.
Supplier payment policy 
The Group’s policy is to agree terms of payment for every new 
supplier . The payment terms are speciﬁed on our standard 
documentation to ensure our suppliers are aware of them. 
The Group does not follow any speciﬁed code or recognised 
standard in respect of payment of suppliers.
The number of days’ purchases in creditors at the year end  
was 79 days (2011 77 days).
Treasury policy 
The Group takes a centralised approach to the management 
of debt, liquid resources and interest rate risk. We ﬁnance 
our activities with a combination of bank loans, ﬁnance and 
operating leases, cash and short-term deposits. Overdraft 
facilities are used to satisfy short-term cash ﬂow requirements. 
The Group’s facilities are all on variable interest terms and 
therefore the Group is exposed to interest rate movements 
although, as explained in Note 23 and detailed in Note 27 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, interest rate swaps are in 
place in respect of part of the Group’s indebtedness. 
Qualifying third party indemnity provision 
Article 172 of the Company’s Articles of Association provides 
that, subject to the provisions of the enactments concerning 
companies (which limit the scope of indemnities in favour of 
directors), every director , officer and the auditor of the Company 
is to be indemniﬁed out of the assets of the Company against 
all costs, charges, expenses, losses and liabilities which he may 
sustain or incur in or about the execution of his office or in relation 
thereto. This is a qualifying third party indemnity provision within 
the meaning of Section 234 Companies Act 2006.
The Company also takes out insurance covering claims against 
the directors or officers of the Company and any subsidiary. 
This insurance provides coverage in respect of some of the 
Company’s liabilities under Article 172. 42
Directors' 
Report continued
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position, are 
set out in the Business Review on pages 7 to 33. The ﬁnancial 
position of the Group, its cash ﬂows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Review pages 
14 to 18. Notes 23, 26 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements include:
 the Group’s ﬁnancial risk management objectives;
 policies and processes for managing capital;
 details of its ﬁnancial instruments and hedging 
activities; and
 details of exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements 
through its bank facilities, which are due for renewal by   
24 August 2014. Current economic conditions create 
uncertainty, particularly over the level of demand for the 
Group’s products and services in the foreseeable future.
The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of 
reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show 
that we should be able to operate within the level of  
available facilities.
The Board has carried out an assessment in accordance with the 
FRC’s “Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors 
of UK Companies 2009” and, based on the assumptions noted 
above, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. They therefore continue 
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing 
 the annual ﬁnancial statements.
Annual General Meeting
Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 May 2013 
is contained in a separate document sent to shareholders with 
this Report and is available on the Company’s website.
Disclosure of information to the auditor 
In accordance with Section 418(2) of the Companies Act 2006, 
the directors conﬁrm that, so far as each is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware.
Each director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as 
a director to make himself aware of, and to establish that the 
auditor is aware of, any relevant audit information.
Additional information for shareholders 
The following is additional information required for 
shareholders as a result of the implementation of the 
Takeovers Directive into UK law.
At 31 December 2012, the Company’s issued share capital 
comprised:
   % of total
   issued
   share
 Number £000 capital
Ordinary shares  
of 25p each 141,004,215 35,251 100
Each share carries one vote with the result that the total voting 
rights at the same date were 141,004,215.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions in the transfer of 
shares or voting rights.
The Company’s issued share capital as at 6 March 2013 was 
191,047 ,775.
Ordinary shares
Every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy 
at a general meeting of the Company will be entitled to vote 
and shall have one vote on a show of hands. On a poll, every 
member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote 
shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting speciﬁes deadlines 
for exercising voting rights either in person or by proxy in 
relation to resolutions to be passed at that meeting. All proxy 
votes are counted and the numbers for , against or withheld in 
relation to each resolution are available at the Annual General 
Meeting and published on the Company’s website after  
the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares  
in the Company other than:
 the registration of share transfers may be suspended at 
such times and for such periods (not exceeding 30 days  
in any year) as the directors may determine;
 certain restrictions may, from time to time, be imposed by 
laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws and 
market requirements relating to close periods); and
 the restrictions imposed by the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority, whereby certain employees of 
the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in 
the Company’s securities. 43
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by 
a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
The Articles have recently been reviewed and, at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, shareholders will be 
invited to pass a special resolution adopting new Articles which 
will allow the Company to apply the Company’s seal on share 
certiﬁcates by mechanical, electronic, laser or by other means 
approved by the Board. The notice convening the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting explains where a copy of the proposed 
revised Articles may be seen and sets out the revised wording.
Directors are re-appointed by ordinary resolution at a general 
meeting of the shareholders. The Articles provide that the 
Board can appoint a director but anyone so appointed must be 
elected by an ordinary resolution at the next Annual General 
Meeting. At each Annual General Meeting, one-third of the 
directors previously elected at an Annual General Meeting 
must retire by rotation. Each retiring director who wishes to 
continue to serve must be re-elected at the meeting. In line 
with best practice, the Board is to conduct annual re-elections 
at the 2013 Annual General Meeting and on an ongoing basis, 
as noted in the 2011 Report.
Directors' authorities
The directors are authorised under the terms of Section 551 
of the Companies Act 2006 to issue ordinary shares up to a 
maximum aggregate nominal value of £11,554,295 and under 
the terms of Section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 authorised 
to issue ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue 
up to a maximum aggregate nominal value of £23,108,590 
(such amount to be reduced by any allotments made under 
the ﬁrst part of this paragraph). Pursuant to Section 570 of 
the Companies Act 2006, the directors are also authorised to 
allot shares for cash, without ﬁrst offering them to existing 
shareholders, up to a limit of 5% of the Company’s issued 
ordinary share capital. This authority also gives the directors  
the power to allot shares for cash in connection with a  
rights issue.
Both these authorities will expire at the Annual General 
Meeting on 9 May 2013, and the directors will seek to have 
them renewed at that meeting.
Signiﬁcant interests
Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company as at 
6 March 2013 and 31 December 2012 are shown in the table on 
page 62. Signiﬁcant interests in voting rights notiﬁed under 
DTR5 are shown on page 41.
Contracts with shareholders
There are no contracts of signiﬁcance, or any other contracts 
between the Company and a controlling shareholder within the 
meaning of Listing Rule 9.8.4R.
Essential arrangements
There are no arrangements or contracts that are essential to 
the business of the Group.
Signiﬁcant share schemes
The Communisis Employee Beneﬁt Trust holds 0.33% as at 
6 March 2013 (2011 0.64%) of the issued share capital of the 
Company in trust for the beneﬁt of employees of the Group 
and their dependants. The voting rights of these shares are 
exercised by the Trustees.
Change of control
The Company is party to a number of contracts that could 
be terminated by the other party in the event of a change of 
control of the Company. The Company is also party to a number 
of banking agreements that, upon a change of control of 
the Company, are terminable by the banks upon provision of 
written notice.
There are no agreements between the Company and its 
directors or employees providing for additional compensation 
for loss of office or employment (whether through resignation, 
redundancy or otherwise) where such loss of office or 
employment occurs because of a takeover bid.
Auditor
The directors will place a resolution before the Annual General 
Meeting to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor for the 
ensuing year .
Approved by the Board on 7 March 2013 and signed on its  
behalf by
Sarah Caddy
Secretary 44
Corporate  
Governance Report
Communisis is committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance for which the Board is accountable.  
This Report, with the Directors’ Remuneration Report, 
describes how the Board applies the principles of the  
UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council, which is publicly available at  
www.frc.org.uk/corporate/ukcgcode.cfm
UK Corporate Governance Code 
compliance
During the year under review, the Company has complied with 
the main provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the “Code”) with the following exceptions:
 there was only one independent non-executive director 
on the Board from the period between the resignation of 
Roger Jennings on 2 May 2012 until the appointment of 
Jane Griffiths on 17 May 2012. No Board meetings were held 
during this period; and
 on the resignation of Roger Jennings on 2 May 2012, Peter 
Hickson took up the responsibilities of Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. This is on a temporary basis until the 
Company is in a position to appoint a new independent  
non-executive director which is in progress.
Business model and strategy
Details of the business model and strategy are set out in the 
Chief Executive’s Review and the Finance Review.
Board structure
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four executive 
directors and two independent non-executive directors.
During the year , the following changes were made:
 Roger Jennings resigned from the Board as Non-Executive 
Director on 2 May 2012. As noted above Peter Hickson took 
on the additional responsibilities of Chairman of the Audit 
Committee on a temporary basis;
 Jane Griffiths was appointed as Non-Executive Director  
on 17 May 2012.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman and Chief Executive which is set out in writing 
and approved by the Board. The Chairman has primary 
responsibility for leading the Board and ensuring its 
effectiveness in all aspects of its role. The Chief Executive is 
responsible for operations and the development of strategic 
plans and initiatives for consideration by the Board.
Michael Firth is, and was throughout the year , the Senior 
Independent Director to whom concerns can be conveyed by 
shareholders if they have issues which have not been resolved 
through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or 
Finance Director .
Biographical details of the Board as at 31 December 2012 can  
be found on pages 34 to 35. The Chairman does not have any 
other signiﬁcant commitments other than those detailed in  
his biography. 
Conﬂicts of interests
Under the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 each 
Director must seek authorisation before taking up any position 
that conﬂicts, or may possibly conﬂict, with the interests of the 
Company. All existing external appointments for each director 
have been authorised by the Board and a register is kept and 
reviewed on an annual basis. All directors are aware of the need 
to consult the Company Secretary about any further possible 
conﬂict that may arise, so that prior consideration can be given 
by the Board to whether or not such conﬂict will be approved.
Board proceedings
The Board schedules nine or ten meetings each year , and also 
meets at other times as appropriate. The table below shows 
the attendances of each director at meetings of the Board 
and its standing committees during the year . Details of which 
directors sit on which committees are set out on page 36.
Attendance by directors at meetings of the Board and Committees  
in 2012
     Administration
 Board  Audit  Remuneration  Nomination  and Finance
 (12 meetings)  (4 meetings)  (6 meetings)  (3 meetings)  (8 meetings)
Peter Hickson 
1
  11  3  6  3  –
Andy Blundell  11  –  –  –  5
Nigel Howes  12  –  –  –  6
Michael Firth  11  4  6  3  –
Jane Griffiths
2
  6  3  3  1  –
Roger Jennings
3
  5  1  3  2  –
Dave Rushton  11  –  –  –  –
John Wells  12  –  –  –  5
1  Peter Hickson became Chairman of the Audit Committee on a temporary basis from 
2 May 2013 as noted above.
2 Jane Griffiths was appointed to the Board on 17 May 2012.
3 Roger Jennings resigned from the Board on 2 May 2012. 45
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
The powers of the Board are set out in a formal schedule 
of matters reserved for Board approval which is reviewed 
annually. Matters reserved for the Board include:
 st r a t e gy ;
 budget approval and monitoring of performance;
 acquisitions and disposals;
 approval of the annual report, interim, preliminary and 
interim management statements;
 approving signiﬁcant contracts; and
 approving group policies.
The Company ensures that the Board is supplied with 
appropriate and timely information to enable it to discharge 
its duties. Directors may seek independent professional advice 
when necessary. All directors have access to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary.
During the year under review the Chairman held meetings 
with the non-executive directors to discuss a range of issues 
including strategy, ﬁnancial performance, progress towards 
targets, management performance and management 
succession. 
Re-election
In line with the Code, all directors seek re-election every three 
years and any director appointed during the year also seeks 
election at the next Annual General Meeting. 
Jane Griffiths will therefore stand for election and, in line with 
best practice, the remaining members of the Board will be 
submitting themselves for re-election at this year’s Annual 
General Meeting, save that, as announced on 7 March 2013, 
John Wells will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 
2013 Annual General Meeting and will not therefore stand  
for re-election. 
The Board is satisﬁed that all the directors continue to 
demonstrate the level of skills and commitment to be fully 
effective in their respective roles as members of the Board.
Non-executive director independence
Michael Firth has now been appointed to the Board for over 
nine years. However , the Board is satisﬁed that he remains 
independent, as Michael has not served more than ﬁve 
concurrent years with any of the executive directors. Jane 
Griffiths was appointed on 17 May 2012 and is an independent 
non-executive director .
As noted above, the Company’s search for an additional 
independent non-executive director is in progress. 
Induction and development
A formal and comprehensive induction process is in place 
for new directors, which includes an information pack and 
personalised induction programme. This programme is tailored 
to the needs of each director and agreed with him or her so that 
he or she can gain a better understanding of the Company.
Jane Griffiths, on her appointment, underwent a formal and 
comprehensive induction including meetings with the 
Executive Board and senior management teams, as well as site 
tours and meetings with senior management at the Company’s 
main operating sites.
In order to ensure that directors continue to further their 
understanding of the issues facing the Company, the  
non-executive directors make at least two site visits per year . 
During the year presentations are also made to the Board on 
key topics. This gives the directors the opportunity to meet  
the management teams across the business and improve  
their knowledge and understanding of the different areas  
of the business. 
Board evaluation
A board performance evaluation was undertaken in 2012. The 
evaluation process was based on a series of questions devised 
for the purpose and circulated to the directors. The process 
reviewed issues such as: the assessment and monitoring of the 
Company’s strategy; the mix of knowledge and skills on the 
Board; succession; and performance of the Board Committees. 
The results were collated by the Company Secretary and 
considered by the Chairman or , in the case of the Chairman, 
by the Senior Independent Director . The Senior Independent 
Director , after consultation with the other directors, also 
conducted an appraisal interview with the Chairman. The 
performance of the Board as a whole and of each of its principal 
Committees was considered. The results of the evaluation will 
form the basis of Board objectives for 2013. 
The Board’s objectives for 2013 are to devote more time 
to strategic issues and to the discussion of trends and 
developments in the various markets in which the 
Company operates.   46
Corporate  
Governance Report continued
Board committees
The Board has four Committees: Audit, Remuneration, 
Nomination and Administration & Finance, all of which have 
terms of reference which deal speciﬁcally with their authorities 
and duties. The terms of reference may be viewed on the 
Company’s website, www.communisis.com
Only the Committee chairmen and Commitee members 
are entitled to be present at the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committee meetings but others may attend 
by invitation.
Audit Committee
During the year , the Audit Committee comprised:
 Roger Jennings (Chairman until his resignation from the 
Board on 2 May 2012); 
 Peter Hickson (member of the Committee and temporary 
Chairman from 2 May 2012);
 Michael Firth; and
 Jane Griffiths (appointed 17 May 2012).
Peter Hickson and Michael Firth bring recent and relevant 
ﬁnancial expertise to the Committee. Appointments to the 
Committee are made by the Board, which considers that the 
membership of the Audit Committee as a whole has the recent 
and relevant ﬁnancial experience required to fulﬁll its duties.
The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to 
undertake its duties. It has access to the Company Secretary, 
who acts as secretary to the Committee, and all other 
employees. The Committee may take independent legal or 
professional advice when it believes it is necessary.
The Committee meets as required but not less than three 
times a year . The Committee also meets in the absence of 
management for discussions with the external auditor and 
in the absence of the external auditor when undertaking its 
annual appraisal of the performance of the auditor .
The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are  
to monitor:
 the ﬁnancial reporting process;
 the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control, internal 
audit function, and risk management systems;
 the statutory audit of the Annual Report and Consolidated 
Financial Statements; and
 the independence and effectiveness of the external 
auditor, particularly with regard to the scope and 
expenditure on non-audit work.
The Committee will recommend to the Board any action 
required if a material cause for concern, or scope for 
improvement is discovered.
The main activities of the Committee in 2012 were: 
 assessing the implications of the signiﬁcant ﬁnancial 
reporting issues related to the preparation of the Group’s 
Financial Statements;
 assessing the effectiveness of the systems established  
to identify, assess, manage and monitor ﬁnancial and  
non-ﬁnancial risks;
 monitoring the integrity of the Group’s internal  
ﬁnancial controls;
 monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and effectiveness 
of the internal audit function;
 monitoring the Group’s implementation of any new 
accounting policies;
 reviewing with the external auditor the ﬁndings of its work 
and the effectiveness of the external audit process; and
 reviewing the independence and objectivity of the  
external auditor. 
The Committee has established a policy determining the  
non-audit services that the external auditor can provide 
and the procedures required for pre-approval of any such 
engagement. This policy provides for the auditor to be 
engaged only for work that is not prohibited by professional 
or other regulatory requirements and speciﬁes services that 
may not be provided. It also details a cost threshold above 
which engagement will be carefully considered. This allows 
the Committee to satisfy itself that auditor objectivity and 
independence are safeguarded. The split between audit 
and non-audit fees for the year to 31 December 2012 and 
information on the nature of the non-audit fees incurred 
appear in Note 5.5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Non-audit fees were paid in respect of taxation advice 
(£20,000), acquisition related services (£61,000) and services 
relating to the recent equity raise (£69,000). In respect of 
acquisition related services and services relating to the recent 
equity raise, the statutory auditor can most cost effectively 
provide the public reporting services required in respect of 
these transactions and, in relation to other services, given 
the auditor’s background knowledge of the Group, the auditor 
was best placed to provide this advice. Total fees paid to the 
auditor , which were pre-approved by the Committee, were 
£150,000 and therefore these matters are not considered to 
affect the independence or objectivity of the auditor . 
The external auditor’s appointment is subject to regular review 
and the lead audit partner is rotated at least once every ﬁve 
years. There was a change in lead audit partner during the year . 47
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Nomination Committee
The composition of the Nomination Committee during the  
year was:
 Peter Hickson (Chairman);
 Michael Firth;
 Jane Griffiths (appointed 17 May 2012); and
 Roger Jennings (until his resignation on 2 May 2012).
Committee appointments are made by the Board.
The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to 
undertake its duties. It has access to the Company Secretary, 
who acts as secretary to the Committee, and all other 
employees. The Committee may take independent legal or 
professional advice when it believes it necessary.
The Committee meets as required.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are to:
 review the composition of the Board and make 
recommendations to the Board of any changes needed;
 consider, at the request of the Board or the Chairman,  
the making of any appointment or re-appointment,  
to the Board;
 evaluate the skills, knowledge and experience of the  
Board and, taking these into account, prepare a description 
of the role and capabilities required for a particular 
appointment; and
 identify and nominate, for Board approval, candidates  
to ﬁll any Board vacancies.
As part of its role is to review the composition of the Board,  
the Nomination Committee recommended the appointment of 
a new non-executive director during the year . The Nomination 
Committee evaluated the balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the Board before preparing 
a detailed candidate speciﬁcation, which deﬁned the criteria 
for the new appointee. The speciﬁcation was agreed with the 
Chief Executive. In accordance with the requirements of the 
speciﬁcation, an independent external search agency was 
engaged to assist with the search for suitable candidates.  
A short-list of potential candidates was produced and 
interviewed by the Chief Executive and Senior Independent 
Director . The ﬁnal candidates were then interviewed by the 
Chairman and the Chief Executive. Following those interviews, 
the ﬁnal candidate was selected and then met by the remainder 
of the executive directors. Jane Griffiths was selected as Non-
Executive Director for her extensive knowledge and experience 
in the marketing arena.
Following the appointment of Jane Griffiths, the Nomination 
Committee discussed the requirement for an additional non-
executive director as part of the Board’s succession planning. 
A detailed candidate speciﬁcation was prepared and agreed 
with the Chief Executive which deﬁned the criteria for the new 
non-executive director . In accordance with the requirements 
of that speciﬁcation, an independent external search agency 
has been sought and retained to assist with the search for 
suitable candidates.
The Nomination Committee recognises the beneﬁts to the 
Group of diversity in the workforce and in the composition 
of the Board itself. While the Company will continue to make 
all appointments based on the best candidate for the role, 
diversity is a consideration.
Remuneration Committee
Details of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 53.
Administration and Finance Committee   
The Committee comprises any two directors, one of whom 
must be the Chairman, the Chief Executive or the Finance 
Director . It may appoint its own Chairman and it meets  
when necessary.
It is empowered by the Board to:
 administer the Company’s share schemes in accordance 
with the Board’s policy (and any speciﬁc decisions of the 
Remuneration Committee that concern participation by 
directors and/or senior employees);
 borrow money (by entering into new or replacement 
facilities) needed by the business, enter into ﬁnance leases 
and operate existing banking facilities (within the limit 
set by the Group’s borrowing facilities immediately before 
taking action and subject to a transaction limit of  
£10 million); and
 enter into guarantees or indemnities where they are a 
necessary incidental of the exercise of the powers above. 48
 
Corporate  
Governance Report continued
Internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of 
internal control in the Group and reviewing its effectiveness.
This system, designed to safeguard shareholders’ investment 
and the Company’s assets, provides reasonable, but not 
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has an internal audit function which is 
independent in action and reporting, and has a direct line 
of communication to the Audit Committee Chairman. The 
principal role in fulﬁlling the internal audit function is 
to review the adequacy and effectiveness of the controls 
operating within the business by undertaking an agreed 
schedule of independent audits each year . The nature and 
scope of this annual audit programme is agreed in advance 
by the Audit Committee each year and may be revised from 
time to time according to changing business circumstances 
and requirements. The ﬁndings of these audits are reported 
in accordance with the internal audit terms of reference and 
any necessary corrective actions are agreed and monitored. 
Summaries of these reports are presented to, and discussed 
with, the Audit Committee along with details of progress 
against action plans as appropriate.
An ongoing process to identify, evaluate and manage the 
signiﬁcant risks faced by the business is embedded in the 
Group. This process was reviewed and further enhanced  
during the year with the introduction of monthly reporting  
of the Group’s top 30 risks to the senior management teams 
and the Board. These procedures, which reﬂect the guidance 
of the Turnbull Committee, have been in place throughout 
2012 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and 
Financial Statements. The main risks affecting the Group are 
set out on pages 19 to 21.
The key features of the internal control and risk management 
systems include:
 management structure which has clearly deﬁned levels of 
responsibility, limits of authority and reporting procedures;
 regular meetings of the Group’s Executive Board to discuss 
performance and plans;
 Code of Business Ethics sets out the standards of business 
conduct;
 group-wide information security, health and safety, 
environmental and quality management systems which are 
subject to regular external accreditation;
 senior managers review and challenge the business unit 
risk registers on a monthly basis and produce a Group risk 
register and risk map for review by the senior management 
teams and the Board; and
 annual risk-based audit plan approved by the Audit 
Committee.
The Group has in place internal control and risk management 
systems speciﬁc to the ﬁnancial reporting and consolidation 
process to ensure that adequate accounting records are 
maintained and transactions are fairly and accurately recorded. 
These include:
 formal written ﬁnancial policies and procedures contained 
in the Group Accounting Manual;
 monthly certiﬁcation by divisional ﬁnance directors on the 
compliance with appropriate policies and the accuracy of 
the ﬁnancial information;
 detailed review of monthly management accounts, 
interim and year-end accounts by the Executive Board  
and the Board; and
 self-assessment questionnaire enabling ﬁnancial controls 
across the Group to be measured and evaluated.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee regularly reviews 
the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control and 
risk management. The review covers all material controls, in 
particular the ﬁnancial, operational and compliance controls 
in place across the Group. The results are reported to, and 
considered by, the Board. Further details on this process are 
set out in the Audit Committee section on page 46. 49
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Relations with shareholders
The Board is aware of the importance of maintaining a dialogue 
with shareholders so that the Board keeps abreast of, and 
understands, shareholders’ views and opinions.
It achieves this in a variety of ways:
 the Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly meet 
institutional shareholders;
 where requested, the Chairman and/or the Senior 
Independent Director meet institutional investors to 
discuss governance issues;
 there is communication with major shareholders on speciﬁc 
matters such as performance, strategy and governance;
 there are presentations with analysts and investors after 
the announcement of results;
 at the Annual General Meeting, shareholders have the 
opportunity to raise questions with the Board during the 
meeting; and
 directors also make themselves available before and 
after the Annual General Meeting to talk informally to 
shareholders, should they wish to do so.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director held an investor day 
in October where senior members of management provided 
investors with a greater insight into the Company’s activities.
Information in relation to those who have a signiﬁcant direct 
or indirect holding in the Company are set out in the Directors’ 
Report on page 41.
Structure of Company's capital
Details of the structure of the Company’s capital are set out in 
the Directors’ Report on pages 37 to 43.
Approved by the Board on 7 March 2013 and signed on its  
behalf by
Sarah Caddy
Secretary 50
Consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
prepared under IFRS
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance 
with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as 
adopted by the European Union.
Company law requires the directors to prepare ﬁnancial 
statements for each ﬁnancial year . Under that law, the 
directors must not approve the ﬁnancial statements for the 
Group unless they are satisﬁed that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the proﬁt or 
loss of the Group for that period. Under IFRS, the directors are 
required to prepare ﬁnancial statements that present fairly the 
ﬁnancial position of the Group and the ﬁnancial performance 
and cash ﬂows of the Group for that period. In preparing these 
ﬁnancial statements, the directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and apply them 
consistently;
 present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;
 make judgments and estimates that are reasonable;
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
speciﬁc requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the Group’s ﬁnancial position and 
ﬁnancial performance;
 state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the ﬁnancial 
statements; and
 prepare the ﬁnancial statements on a going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will 
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records, which show and explain the Group’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the ﬁnancial 
position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the 
ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the Directors’ 
Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Corporate 
Governance Report in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 
and applicable regulations, including the requirements of the 
Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules. 
Parent company ﬁnancial statements 
prepared under UK GAAP
The directors are responsible for preparing the parent company 
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United 
Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare ﬁnancial 
statements for each ﬁnancial year . Under that law, the 
directors have elected to prepare the ﬁnancial statements 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (“UK GAAP”). Under company law, the 
directors must not approve the ﬁnancial statements unless 
they are satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Company and of the proﬁt and loss of the 
Company for that period.
In preparing these ﬁnancial statements, the directors are 
required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
 make judgments and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;
 state whether applicable accounting standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the ﬁnancial statements; and
 prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the ﬁnancial position of the Company and enable 
them to ensure that the ﬁnancial statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
Statement of  
Directors' Responsibilities 51
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Directors' responsibility statements 
pursuant to DTR4
Each of us, for himself and on behalf of each other director who 
held office on 31 December 2012, conﬁrms that, to the best of 
his or her knowledge:
 the Consolidated Financial Statements, prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and IFRS as 
adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation as a 
whole; and
 the Business Review (comprising pages 7 to 33) and  the 
Directors' Report (on pages 37 to 43) includes fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Company and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
By order of the Board. 
Andy Blundell
Chief Executive
7 March 2013
Nigel Howes
Finance Director
7 March 2013 52
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to welcome you to our 2012 Remuneration Report. The following reﬂects considerable 
work by a number of the Communisis team, all of whom I wish to thank.
2012 was a year of continuing and successful development at Communisis and the Remuneration 
Committee has worked to ensure that the Company’s remuneration policy remains appropriately 
aligned with the Company’s strategy.  
The key initiatives that the Remuneration Committee undertook in 2012 were as follows:
 Engagement – we held constructive meetings with some of our largest institutional 
shareholders to discuss our developing remuneration policy.
 Review of executive salaries –executive salaries were reviewed and the increased 
responsibilities taken on by our Board following recent Board changes, as well as the continuing 
strong contribution of our executive directors, were acknowledged.   
 Annual bonus metrics – non-ﬁnancial performance metrics were introduced for a proportion 
of Nigel Howes’ 2012 annual bonus to reﬂect particular strategic business development 
objectives, and acquisition and ﬁnancing related actions that Nigel was tasked to undertake 
in 2012. 
 Long-t erm inc entiv es – the LTIP awards that were made to the current executive team when 
they came into post will come to the end of their performance period in March 2013. In 2012, 
following consultation with some of our largest shareholders, we have developed new 
performance metrics for a new tranche of LTIP awards that are proposed to be made in 2013. 
These metrics will focus our executives both on further delivering shareholder returns and 
attaining increased proﬁtability for our business over the medium to long term. More details 
regarding the proposed 2013 LTIP awards are set out on page 58.
Finally, you will see in the presentation of this year’s report that we have voluntarily adopted a 
number of the key new reporting formats that will become mandatory in 2013 under proposals put 
forward by the Department of Business, Innovation & Skills. We hope that the additional information 
that we have provided (including a “single ﬁgure” for all directors’ emoluments, charts showing 
potential pay in different performance scenarios and the presentation of a summary of our 
remuneration policy within a table format) is useful for our shareholders. We remain committed to 
providing information on directors’ pay in a clear and readable way.
I hope that you will agree with our approach to the various challenges that have faced us during the 
year and I am conﬁdent that we have taken the right steps to secure and reward the management 
team in a way that will allow the business to move to the next stage of its development.
Yours sincerely
Michael Firth
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Directors'  
Remuneration Report 53
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
This Report, prepared by the Remuneration Committee 
(“Committee”) on behalf of the Board, provides information 
on directors’ remuneration.
Remuneration Committee 
During 2012, the Committee comprised:
 Michael Firth (Chairman);
 Peter Hickson;
 Roger Jennings (resigned 2 May 2012); and
 Jane Griffiths (appointed 17 May 2012).
The Committee met on 6 occasions and attendances are  
given in the table on page 44.
The Chief Executive is invited to attend meetings of 
the Committee, except when his own remuneration is 
being discussed.
Advisers
FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP , signatories to the 
Remuneration Consultants Group’s Code of Conduct, were 
appointed by the Committee and provide advice on matters 
relating to remuneration, including best practice. They provide 
no other services to the Company.  
At the Committee’s request, administrative advice and support 
was provided by the Company Secretary, the Company’s  
HR Director and the Company’s Tax Manager .
Pinsent Masons LLP (the Company’s legal advisers) also 
provided advice to the Committee in the year . Pinsent Masons 
LLP additionally provided advice to the Company in relation to 
corporate and commercial legal matters.
Principal responsibilities
The Committee has formal terms of reference which can be 
viewed on the Company’s website, www.communisis.com
The Committee’s principal responsibilities are:
 recommending to the Board the remuneration strategy 
and framework for the executive directors and senior 
managers;
 determining, within that framework, the individual 
remuneration arrangements for the executive directors 
and senior managers; and
 overseeing any major changes in employee beneﬁt 
structures throughout the Group and reviewing 
remuneration trends across the Group.
Remuneration policy
The policy of the Board is to:
 attract, develop, motivate and retain talented people  
at all levels across the Group;
 give employees the periodic opportunity to own 
Communisis shares through the Communisis Sharesave 
Scheme; and
 provide consistency in, and alignment with, the Company’s 
approach to performance-based pay and our overall 
executive compensation strategy. 54
Directors'  
Remuneration Report continued
Remuneration Policy: Elements of remuneration  
Remuneration for executive directors from the beginning of the ﬁnancial year beginning 1 January 2013 consists of the elements 
set out in the table below. The table also summarises the position of the Chairman’ s and non-executive directors’ fees:
Element and  
purpose
Policy and 
opportunity
Operation and 
performance 
measures
Implementation  
of policy in year
Basic salary
 This is the core element 
of pay that reﬂects 
the individual's role 
and position within 
the Group and reﬂects 
their capability and 
contribution.
 Basic salaries are 
reviewed periodically 
against companies 
of similar size and 
complexity.
 Basic salary is paid 
monthly in cash.
 Basic salaries are 
reviewed annually with 
any changes taking effect 
from 1 July.
 The review undertaken 
in 2012 saw the following 
salaries set:
 –   Andy Blundell £315,000  
(2011 £300,000);
 –   Nigel Howes £240,000  
(2011 £209,100);
–   Dave Rushton £240,000  
(2011 £210,000); and
 –   John Wells £195,000  
(2011 £191,500).
 Salary increases for the 
executive directors 
made in 2012 reﬂect 
the ongoing strength 
of their contribution.  
Additionally, the Group 
Finance Director and 
the Group Managing 
Director have seen their 
responsibilities increased.  
The Group Managing 
Director has successfully 
taken responsibility for 
operation of the IDC 
division since the Board 
changes which were 
made in November 2011 in 
addition to his continuing 
responsibility for the 
Group’s SPS division.   
The Group Finance 
Director is a senior and 
experienced ﬁnance 
professional and has 
undertaken additional 
strategic responsibilities 
for growth in our IDC 
business through 
targeted acquisitions. 55
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Element and  
purpose
Policy and 
opportunity
Operation and 
performance 
measures
Implementation  
of policy in year
Pension and other 
beneﬁts
 To aid retention and 
remain competitive 
within the marketplace.
 Provide a competitive 
employer sponsored 
pension plan. 
 Life assurance cover can 
be provided either as a 
facet of membership of 
the Communisis Pension 
Plan or through the Group 
life assurance policy.
 Other beneﬁts comprise 
PHI, private medical 
cover, car or car allowance 
provision and fuel card.
 All executive directors are 
eligible to participate in 
the deﬁned contribution 
section of the 
Communisis Pension Plan.
 Those that do not 
participate in the 
Communisis Pension Plan 
receive payments in lieu 
of pension contributions 
or contributions to 
private pensions 
arrangements.
 No changes were made 
to these elements of 
remuneration within the 
year. Details are more 
fully set out at page 57 .
Annual Performance 
Bonus
 To motivate employees 
and incentivise delivery 
of annual performance 
targets.
 The maximum bonus 
level potential under 
the annual performance 
bonus scheme is 100%  
of basic salary.
 Bonus levels and the 
appropriateness of 
measures are reviewed 
annually to ensure they 
continue to support  
our strategy.
 Performance for 2013 will 
be measured against an 
appropriate EBIT target 
and strategic business 
development targets for 
all executive directors.  
 The Committee will 
consider overall ﬁnancial 
performance before any 
element of bonus is paid.
 The bonus out-turn for 
the 2012 ﬁnancial year 
in respect of the Chief 
Executive, Finance 
Director, Group Managing 
Director, and Group 
Commercial Director 
was £45,000, £106,000, 
£31,000, and £29,000 
(being 15.00%, 50.69%, 
14.76% and 15.14% of the 
maximum respectively 
based on salaries at  
31 January 2012). 
 In 2012, all directors had 
EBIT targets for their 
annual bonus, and 
additionally the Finance 
Director had strategic 
business development 
targets. These business 
development targets 
were achieved in full. 56
Directors'  
Remuneration Report continued
Element and  
purpose
Policy and 
opportunity
Operation and 
performance 
measures
Implementation  
of policy in year
Long-Term Incentives
 The Company operates 
the Communisis Long  
Term Incentive Plan 2007 
(“LTIP”) to motivate and 
incentivise delivery of 
sustained performance 
over the long term. 
 No new LTIPs have been 
awarded since 2010 (2011 
for Nigel Howes).
 The maximum annual 
face value of LTIP awards 
is 150% of basic salary.
 The LTIP awards made 
in 2010 and 2011 to 
executive directors were 
designed (within the 
parameters of the LTIP) 
to promote a turnaround 
in Company performance 
by a relatively new 
management team. In 
particular, the absolute 
share price growth 
targets chosen were 
designed to provide 
a clear and direct link 
between executives’ and 
investors’ interests.
 The main details of the 
performance targets for 
these awards are set out 
beneath this section.
 In the year, the 
Committee has 
developed proposals  
for a new tranche of  
LTIP awards to be  
made in 2013.
 Details of the new 
proposals are set out 
more fully at page 58. 
Performance targets
 the performance measurement period for the 2010 awards was three years from the date of an award. The attainment of a 
share price threshold in that period produced vesting of a proportion of the award shares in accordance with the table below;
 to achieve a share price threshold, the Company’s three-monthly average share price must reach the speciﬁed threshold. 
This three-monthly average test was applied to ensure that only sustained recovery was rewarded;
 there is no release of vested shares for at least a further 2 years after the initial vesting threshold was attained; and
 as an underpin, no shares vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisﬁed as to the Company’s underlying ﬁnancial 
performance in ﬁnancial years 2010, 2011 and 2012.
Share price thresholds* % of Award vesting
30p 10%
50p 30%
70p 60%
90p 100%
The performance period and share price thresholds for Nigel Howes’ 2011 awards were adjusted so that the performance period was 
aligned to that of the other directors and no vesting results from share price attainment before Nigel Howes joined the Board as an 
executive director and accordingly the following adjusted targets apply to these awards:
*  Attainment between the speciﬁed thresholds  
can deliver vesting on a straight-line basis
*  Attainment between the speciﬁed thresholds  
can deliver vesting on a straight-line basis
Share price thresholds* % of Award vesting
32.7142p nil vesting
50p 129,448 shares
70p 354,445 shares
90p 654,442 shares 57
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Element and  
purpose
Policy and 
opportunity
Operation and 
performance 
measures
Implementation of 
policy in year
Chairman and  
non-executive  
director fees
 The fees paid to the 
Chairman and the fees of 
the other non-executive 
directors aim to be 
competitive with other 
fully listed companies 
of equivalent size and 
complexity. 
 Non-e x e c u t i v e dir e c t or s 
will not normally 
participate in share 
incentive arrangements.
 Fees are paid monthly  
in cash.
 The Chairman receives 
a fee of £90,000 per 
annum. The Chairman 
and his spouse also 
receive medical insurance 
beneﬁts.
 The basic fee payable 
to each non-executive 
director (other than 
the Chairman of the 
Board) is £45,000 per 
annum, with a further 
£5,000 payable to the 
Chairman of each of the 
Audit and Remuneration 
Committees, as well as a 
further £5,000 payable to 
the Senior Independent 
Director.
 Following Jane Griffiths’ 
appointment to the 
Board, non-executive 
director fees were 
reviewed and the basic 
fee was increased to 
£45,000 (2011 £35,000). 
Pension entitlements summary table 
Director 
Membership of Communisis 
Pension Plan and 
percentage Company 
contribution
Salary supplement in 
lieu of additional pension 
contributions into 
Communisis Pension Plan
Company contribution  
for directors not in 
Communisis Pension Plan
Normal 
retirement 
age
Andy Blundell Yes 6% of basic pay £12,500 N/A 65
Nigel Howes No N/A £20,000 N/A
Dave Rushton Yes 9% of  basic pay
1
Nil N/A 65
John Wells No N/A 15% of basic pay N/A
Notes 
1. Dave Rushton receives a higher contribution level because of previous membership of the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme. 58
Share schemes 
The Company has three operative share schemes.
The Sharesave Scheme 
This is an all-employee scheme approved by HMRC and follows 
the usual form for such schemes. The Committee agreed that 
a Sharesave award be made in 2012 and invitations were made 
to all employees. The scheme and details of the 2012 grant are 
described in Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
John Wells and Dave Rushton both took up the opportunity to 
participate in the 2012 grant.
The Executive Share Option Scheme 2010 
This scheme is open, at the Board’s discretion, to executive 
directors and senior managers. All awards are made subject to 
performance conditions. The Committee’s intention is to use 
the HMRC-approved part of this new scheme only in ﬂexible 
combination with the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”). 
Having determined the appropriate size of any LTIP award, the 
Committee may choose the appropriate combination of awards 
under the two schemes, allowing it to deliver the desired 
beneﬁts to individuals in the most tax efficient manner within 
HMRC’s £30,000 individual limit for approved share options.  
No awards were made under this scheme in 2012.
The Communisis Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 
(“LTIP”)
Since its inception, the LTIP has been the main share incentive 
plan for executive directors and key employees.
No new LTIP awards were made to executive directors in 2012.
The terms of the most recent LTIP awards to executive directors 
that were made in March 2010 (with an award on consistent 
terms also being made to Nigel Howes in 2011 when he joined 
the Board as an executive director) are summarised on page 56.
LTIP Awards in Financial Year 2013
The performance period for the LTIP awards granted in 2010 
and 2011 to the current executive team will end in March 2013.  
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee believes that it 
is an appropriate time to grant new awards to the executive 
directors and selected senior executives.
The proposed awards will have performance conditions 
as follows:
 60% of awards will be subject to a share price growth 
performance condition; and
 40% of awards will be subject to a Return on Sales (“ROS”) 
performance condition.
An additional underpin condition will apply such that no 
LTIP shares will vest unless the Remuneration Committee is 
satisﬁed as to the Company’s underlying ﬁnancial performance 
over the three year LTIP vesting period.
These measures were chosen after careful consideration by 
the Remuneration Committee and taking account of the views 
that our largest institutional shareholders expressed on this 
matter . The share price target continues to provide a direct 
and transparent alignment between shareholders’ interests 
and our executives’ incentive pay. The focus on ROS aligns our 
incentive pay directly with one of our key ﬁnancial targets.
Share price growth performance condition
This performance condition will be measured over a three year 
period, commencing with the date of award, and vesting will 
be based on average share price in the ﬁnal three months of 
the three year measurement period. Vesting will be in line with  
the following table:  
Average share price % of Award subject
at end of three year period to share price 
 condition vesting
Start to Earn (“STE”), 
being 10p above threshold price 25%
Between STE and 90p Straight-line vesting
90p 100%
The threshold price will be determined prior to the award date 
using the three months average share price.
ROS performance condition 
For this condition, ROS will be measured on the same basis  
as for the Company’s KPIs, over a performance period of  
three ﬁnancial years, commencing with FY2013 and vesting 
will be based on the ROS in FY 2015.
ROS in FY 2015 % of Award subject  
 to ROS condition vesting
7.5% 25%
Between 7.5% and 10%  Straight-line vesting
10% 100%
Directors'  
Remuneration Report continued 59
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Provision of shares for share plans – dilution
The current estimated dilution from subsisting awards, 
including executive and all-employee share awards, and 
assuming, which is most unlikely, that all subsisting options 
vest in full, is approximately 4.33% of the shares in issue at the 
date of this report. All equity-based plans are assumed to be 
funded through the issue of new shares. However , the Company 
has an Employee Beneﬁt Trust which as at 6 March 2013 holds 
624,575 shares which may be used to satisfy options granted 
under the Executive Share Option Scheme and the Long Term 
Incentive Plan. Awards are managed to conﬁne commitments 
within an overall dilution limit for all employee share plans of 
no more than 10% of share capital in any ten-year period and 
a limit of 5% of share capital in any ten-year period for the 
Company’s discretionary share plans.
Share option adjustment
The Committee agreed to adjust the Sharesave options in line 
with the HMRC approved formula following the recent equity 
raise. The Committee is required to seek formal approval from 
HMRC before any adjustments are made. Such approval has 
now been received and the Sharesave options will therefore  
be adjusted in line with the HMRC approved formula.
The Committee may also decide to adjust the LTIP options.  
Any adjustments made will be reported in next year’s report.
Indicative total remuneration levels
The chart below aims to show how the remuneration policy 
set out above for executive directors is applied by way of 
hypothetical performance scenarios.
 Minimum – No bonus and no vesting under the LTIP .
 On-target – Target bonus of 50% of maximum and LTIP 
vesting of 45% of maximum.
 Maximum – Maximum bonus and maximum vesting under 
the LTIP .
In calculating the potential values of LTIP vestings in the 
on-target and maximum scenarios, we have applied the 
share prices required under the LTIP performance conditions 
to produce the appropriate vesting levels (60p and 90p 
respectively).
Communisis total remuneration opportunity
LTIP
Bonus
Pension
Beneﬁts
Salary
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
Minimum
On-target
Maximum
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
0
£'000
Andy Blundell Nigel Howes Dave Rushton
315.0
31.0
31.0
31.0
31.0
315.0
135.0
157.5
31.0
31.0
450.0
315.0
315.0
25.0
240.0
20.0 20.0
25.0
120.0
72.6
240.0
25.0
240.0
294.5
240.0
26.0
240.0
26.0
120.0
67.5
240.0
26.0
240.0
225.0
240.0
20.0 20.0 20.0 20.0 60
Directors'  
Remuneration Report continued
Service agreements
The Committee’s policy is that each executive director’s 
service agreement should be of indeﬁnite duration, subject to 
termination at normal retirement age, and should otherwise 
be terminable by the Company on no more than 12 months’ 
notice and by the director on six months’ notice. The service 
agreements of all executive directors comply with that 
policy. None of the service agreements include provision for 
compensation payments on early termination. Whether any 
such compensation would be payable and the amount of any 
compensation would be determined according to the law of 
contract as it applies to the particular circumstances of an 
individual case.
The date of each executive director’s contract is:
 Contract date
Andy Blundell 2 November 2009
Nigel Howes 13 September 2010
Dave Rushton 9 May 2011
John Wells 1 September 1987
Termination policy summary
It is appropriate for the Remuneration Committee to consider 
treatments on a termination having regard to all of the 
relevant facts and circumstances available at that time. This 
policy applies both to any negotiations linked to notice periods 
on a termination and any treatments that the Remuneration 
Committee may choose to apply under the discretions 
available to it under the terms of the Annual Bonus and LTIP 
plans. The potential treatments on termination under these 
plans are summarised below.
Incentives If a leaver is deemed 
to be a ‘good leaver’; 
i.e. leaving through 
voluntary redundancy, 
serious ill health or 
death or otherwise at 
the discretion of the 
Committee.
If a leaver is deemed to be 
a ‘bad leaver’; i.e. leaving 
for disciplinary reasons or 
to join a competitor
Other leaver events;  
e.g. change in control
Annual Performance Bonus Pro-rated bonus No awards made Pro-rated bonus
Long Term Incentive Plan 
(“LTIP”)
Will receive a pro-rated 
award subject to the 
application of the 
performance conditions at 
the date of cessation.
All awards will normally 
lapse. Committee 
discretion to increase 
vesting up to the level of 
a pro-rated award subject 
to the application of the 
performance conditions at 
the date of cessation.
Will receive a pro-rated 
award subject to the 
application of the 
performance conditions 
at the date of cessation. 
Committee discretion to 
increase vesting up to the 
maximum award. 61
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
External appointments 
None of the executive directors, with the exception of Nigel 
Howes, is a director of any company apart from subsidiaries 
of Communisis. Nigel Howes’ external appointments are 
outlined on page 35. During 2012 he was not remunerated for 
his role as Non-Executive Chairman of Acceleris Marketing 
Communications Limited.
Non-executive directors 
The fees payable to the non-executive directors are determined 
by the Board, based on salary information available in the 
market. Details of non-executive directors’ fees are described 
in the Policy table on page 57 .
Term of office 
Each non-executive director is engaged for initial and 
subsequent periods of three years each up to a total of nine years 
and annually from then on. These can be terminated by either 
party on: six months’ notice, in the case of the Chairman; three 
months’ notice, in the case of Jane Griffiths; and at any time at 
the discretion of either party in the case of Michael Firth.
Other than Peter Hickson, the non-executive directors cannot 
participate in the Company’s share option schemes, are not 
entitled to any pension beneﬁt and are not entitled to any 
payment in compensation for early termination of their 
appointment.
The date of original appointment of each non-executive 
director and the effective date of their latest letter of 
appointment is: 
 Date of original Latest
 appointment appointment date
Peter Hickson 10 December 2007 10 December 2010
Michael Firth 2 December 2002 2 May 2012
Jane Griffiths 17 May 2012 17 May 2012
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Communisis plc FTSE All-Share
Total Shareholder Return
120
100
80
40
60
20
00
Rebased to 100. Source Factset
Comparative Total Shareholder Return
The graph below shows Communisis’ Total Shareholder Return performance compared with the FTSE All Share Index over the past 
ﬁve years. The graph provides a basis for comparison with a relevant equity index, of which Communisis is a constituent, and the 
directors believe that no other published index provides a better comparison. 62
Directors'  
Remuneration Report continued
The remaining information in this Report is subject to audit.
Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2012 
       Contribution LTIP T otal 2012 T otal 2011
  Cash in lieu     to and on 'single on 'single 
 Salary/ of pension  Other Total Total Communisis Sharesave ﬁgure ﬁgure 
 fees contribution Bonus beneﬁts 2012
1
 2011
1
 Pension Plan 
3,4
 basis'
2
 basis'
2
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive directors
Andy Blundell 308 13 45 31 397 374 18 28 443 439
Nigel Howes 232 20 106  25  383 289 – 14 397 289
Dave Rushton 225 – 31  26 282 262 20 16 318 303
John Wells
5
 193 29 29  26 277 388 – 16 293 412
Alistair Blaxill
6
  – – –  – – 458 – – – N/A
Peter King
7
 – – –  – – 38 – – – N/A
Non-executive  
directors
Peter Hickson 90 – –  1 91 84 – – 91 84
Michael Firth 52 – –  – 52 45 – – 52 45
Roger Jennings
8
  14 – –  – 14 40 – – 14 40
Jane Griffiths
9
  28 – –  – 28 – – – 28 –
Totals 1,142 62 211 109 1,524 1,978 38 74 1,636 1,612
Notes 
1.   The 2011 and 2012 totals are prepared in accordance with currently applicable UK 
company laws (Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008, Sch8).
2.    Total ﬁgure expressed as prepared on a single ﬁgure basis applies the 
methodologies in the proposed new BIS regulations. Total ﬁgure for 2011 has 
been prepared on a consistent basis. 
3.   LTIP values reﬂect vesting of awards due to the attainment of share price 
threshold targets in 2012. The additionally vested shares are valued on a mark-to-
market basis using average share prices over three months before the year end.
4.   Sharesave values apply to Dave Rushton and John Wells only, with the awards 
made on 1 October 2012 valued on a mark-to-market basis as above and included 
in the LTIP ﬁgure.
5.   John Wells is also in receipt of an annual pension of £73,305 which was accrued 
through membership of the Company's deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme which is 
not included in the ﬁgures above.  
6.  Alistair Blaxill resigned from the Board on 22 November 2011.
7 .  Peter King resigned from the Board on 4 March 2011.
8.  Roger Jennings resigned from the Board on 2 May 2012.
9.  Jane Griffiths joined the Board on 17 May 2012.
 
Directors' interests
The interests (all being beneﬁcial) of the directors in the Company’s securities are set out below:
 At 6 March 2013 At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011
 following the equity raise 
 Ordinary Share Ordinary Share Ordinary Share
 Shares Options Shares Options Shares Options
Peter Hickson 1,360,778 – 1,250,000 – 1,000,000 250,000
Andy Blundell 76,203 1,500,000 70,000 1,500,000 55,000 1,500,000
Nigel Howes – 654,442 – 654,442 – 654,442
Michael Firth* 233,674 – 215,954 – 215,954 –
Jane Griffiths – – – – – –
Roger Jennings** N/A – 60,000 – 60,000 –
Dave Rushton 7,129 778,125 6,549 778,125 – 750,000
John Wells 231,371 778,125 212,536 778,125 141,236 786,300
*  16,000 of these shares are held by Mr Firth’s wife         
**  as at the date of resignation.
Notes
1.  The directors and their families had no interest in the shares of any other 
company within the Group. 63
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Share options
The number of, and prices at which, options under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 and Sharesave Scheme have been granted to 
directors are set out below.
Except for Sharesave options, all options are subject to the performance conditions described on page 56. The options granted to 
the Chairman are also detailed below.
 Options    Options
 held at    held at  Earliest Latest
 1 Jan Options Options Options 31 Dec Option exercise exercise
 2012 lapsed granted exercised 2012 price (p) date date
Long Term Incentive Plan
Andy Blundell 1,500,000 – – – 1,500,000 Nil 24.03.2013 24.03.2017
Nigel Howes 654,442 – – – 654,442 Nil 27.04.2014 27.04.2017
Dave Rushton 750,000 – – – 750,000 Nil 24.03.2013 24.03.2017
John Wells 750,000 – – – 750,000 Nil 24.03.2013 24.03.2017
Chairman’s options
Peter Hickson 250,000 – – 250,000 – Nil 20.12.2010 20.12.2012
Sharesave Scheme
Dave Rushton – – 28,125 – 28,125 32 01.12.2015 01.06.2016
John Wells 36,300 – – 36,300 – 25 01.12.2012 01.06.2013
 – – 28,125 – 28,125 32 01.12.2015 01.06.2016
Notes 
1.  Peter Hickson was made a conditional award over 250,000 shares in the Company 
as part of his recruitment arrangements and dependent on him acquiring, at his 
own expense, and retaining 250,000 shares in the Company. Mr Hickson exercised 
this award on 2 August 2012 and retained all of the shares, paying the related tax 
from personal resources. The market price of the shares as at the date of exercise 
was 29.38p, resulting in a gain of £73,450.
2.  John Wells exercised his SAYE options on 10 December 2012 and retained all 
36,300 shares. The market price of the shares as at the date of exercise was 
36.25p, resulting in a gain of £4,084.
3.  No other options were exercised by directors during the year and consequently 
the amount of gains made on exercise was £nil (2011 £nil).
4.  The range of market price of shares in Communisis plc during the year ended  
31 December 2012 was 25.5p to 41p. The closing price on 31 December 2012  
was 39.25p.
5. None of the directors paid for the award of options.
Of the above information on pages 52 to 63 the following have been audited: directors’ remuneration, directors’ pension 
entitlements and share options.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 7 March 2013 and signed on its behalf by order of the Board.
Sarah Caddy
Secretary  64
for the year ended 31 December 2012
 2012 2011
  Before   Before 
  amortisation Amortisation  amortisation Amortisation 
  of acquired of acquired  of acquired of acquired 
  intangibles intangibles  intangibles intangibles 
  and and  and and 
  exceptional exceptional  exceptional exceptional 
  items items Total items items Total
 Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue 4 229,774 – 229,774 208,276 – 208,276
Changes in inventories of ﬁnished 
goods and work in progress  (410) – (410) (116) – (116)
Raw materials and consumables 
used  (125,263) – (125,263) (113,577) – (113,577)
Employee beneﬁts expense 5.3 (57,874) (1,191) (59,065) (53,552) (2,107) (55,659)
Other operating expenses  (27,214) (1,221) (28,435) (24,701) (2,226) (26,927)
Depreciation and amortisation 
expense  (6,682) (1,105) (7,787) (6,408) (516) (6,924)
Proﬁt from operations  12,331 (3,517) 8,814 9,922 (4,849) 5,073
Finance revenue 4 278 – 278 1,192 – 1,192
Finance costs 5.1 (2,315) – (2,315) (2,105) – (2,105)
Proﬁt before taxation  10,294 (3,517) 6,777 9,009 (4,849) 4,160
Income tax expense 6 (2,604) 1,007 (1,597) (2,565) 2,476 (89)
Proﬁt for the year attributable 
to equity holders of the parent  7,690 (2,510) 5,180 6,444 (2,373) 4,071
Earnings per share  8      
On proﬁt for the year attributable 
to equity holders and from 
continuing operations
 – basic   5.56p  3.75p 4.68p  2.96p
 – diluted  5.38p  3.63p 4.52p  2.86p
Dividend per share 9      
 – paid    1.55p   1.36p
 – proposed    1.10p   1.00p
Dividends paid and proposed during the year were £2.1 million and £2.1 million respectively (2011 £1.9 million and 
£1.4 million respectively).
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
All income and expenses relate to continuing operations.
Consolidated Income Statement 65
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2012
      2012 2011
     Note £000 £000
Proﬁt for the year      5,180 4,071
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations     (40) (19)
Adjustments in respect of prior years due to change in tax rate   6 (284) (194)
Actuarial losses on deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans    14 (9,160) (8,868)
Income tax thereon     6 2,107 2,217
(Loss) / gain on cash ﬂow hedges taken directly to equity     (64) 26
Income tax thereon      15 (7)
Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax     (7,426) (6,845)
Total comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax     (2,246) (2,774)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent      (2,246) (2,774)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 66
Consolidated Balance Sheet
31 December 2012
      2012 2011
     Note £000 £000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment     10 19,853 21,003
Intangible assets     11 166,846 162,675
Trade and other receivables     16 69 124
Deferred tax assets     6 2,215 1,571
      188,983 185,373
Current assets
Inventories     15 7,423 7,914
Trade and other receivables     16 41,527 34,545
Cash and cash equivalents     18 21,548 13,280
      70,498 55,739
TOTAL ASSETS      259,481 241,112
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent
Equity share capital     19 35,251 34,663
Share premium     19 22 22
Merger reserve     19 11,427 11,427
ESOP reserve     19 (346) (535)
Capital redemption reserve     19 1,375 1,375
Cumulative translation adjustment     19 (221) (181)
Retained earnings      77,679 82,021
Total equity      125,187 128,792
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings     20 40,518 37,107
Trade and other payables     22 766 223
Retirement beneﬁt obligations     14 21,713 14,186
Provisions      21 761 1,127
      63,758 52,643
Current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings     20 1,030 903
Trade and other payables     22 67,650 56,224
Income tax payable      471 644
Provisions     21 1,321 1,798
Financial liability     23 64 108
      70,536 59,677
Total liabilities      134,294 112,320
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES      259,481 241,112
The Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 64 to 114 were approved by the Board on 7 March 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
Andy Blundell 
Nigel Howes 
Directors
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 67
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2012
      2012 2011
     Note £000 £000
Cash ﬂows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations     31 14,512 8,773
Interest paid      (1,954) (1,882)
Interest received      229 108
Income tax (paid) / received      (730) 788
Net cash ﬂows from operating activities      12,057 7,787
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash acquired)    (1,278) (7,749)
Disposal of subsidiary undertakings      450 –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment      (3,139) (3,305)
Purchase of intangible assets      (2,206) (1,058)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment     10 308
Net cash ﬂows from investing activities      (6,163) (11,804)
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Purchase of own shares      – (197)
Sharesave options exercised      588 12
New borrowings      13,000 50,000
Repayment of borrowings      (9,000) (33,000)
Debt arrangement fees      – (790)
Dividends paid      (2,137) (1,879)
Net cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities      2,451 14,146
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents      8,345 10,129
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January      13,280 3,202
Exchange rate effects      (77) (51)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December      21,548 13,280
Cash and cash equivalents consist of:   
Cash and cash equivalents      18 21,548 13,280
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 68
Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2012
     Capital Cumulative 
 Issued Share Merger ESOP redemption translation Retained Total 
 capital premium reserve  reserve reserve adjustment earnings equity 
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 1 January 2011 34,651 22 11,427 (338) 1,375 (162) 86,523 133,498
Proﬁt for the year – – – – – – 4,071 4,071
Other comprehensive loss – – – – – (19) (6,826) (6,845)
Total comprehensive loss – – – – – (19) (2,755) (2,774)
Employee share option schemes 
– value of services provided – – – – – – 132 132
Shares issued – exercise of options 12 – – – – – – 12
Purchase of own shares – – – (197) – – – (197)
Dividends paid – – – – – – (1,879) (1,879)
As at 31 December 2011 34,663 22 11,427 (535) 1,375 (181) 82,021 128,792
Proﬁt for the year – – – – – – 5,180 5,180
Other comprehensive loss – – – – – (40) (7,386) (7,426)
Total comprehensive loss – – – – – (40) (2,206) (2,246)
Employee share option schemes 
– value of services provided – – – – – – 190 190
Shares issued – exercise of options 588 – – – – – – 588
Shares issued from ESOP – – – 189 – – (189) –
Dividends paid – – – – – – (2,137) (2,137)
As at 31 December 2012 35,251 22 11,427 (346) 1,375 (221) 77,679 125,187
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 69
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements
1 Authorisation of Financial Statements
The Consolidated Financial Statements of Communisis plc 
(“the Group”) for the year ended 31 December 2012 were 
authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the 
directors on 7 March 2013. Communisis plc is a public limited 
company incorporated and domiciled in England whose shares 
are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
2 Accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation
The Consolidated Financial Statements of Communisis plc are 
for the year ended 31 December 2012. They have been prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in 
sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 
British pounds (£000) except where otherwise indicated.
The presentation of the Income Statement has been adjusted 
to reﬂect a more consistent approach to that adopted by other 
listed businesses. This is also in line with how analysts report 
numbers in the market.
New standards and interpretations
There are no IFRS or IFRIC interpretations effective for the 
ﬁrst time this ﬁnancial year that have had a material impact 
on the Group.
2.2 Basis of consolidation
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial 
Statements of Communisis plc and its subsidiaries as at  
31 December each year . The results of subsidiaries prepared for 
the same reporting year as the parent company are included 
in these Consolidated Financial Statements, using consistent 
accounting policies. All intra-group balances and transactions, 
including unrealised proﬁts arising from intra-group 
transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated 
from the date on which control is transferred out of the 
Group. Where there is a change of control of a subsidiary, the 
Consolidated Financial Statements include the results for the 
part of the reporting year during which Communisis plc 
has control.
2.3 Signiﬁcant accounting judgements and 
estimates
Estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key 
sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date 
that have a signiﬁcant risk of causing a material adjustment to 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next 
ﬁnancial year are discussed below.
Impairment of Goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on at 
least an annual basis. This requires an estimation of the value 
in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is 
allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to 
make an estimate of the expected future cash ﬂows from the 
cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount 
rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash ﬂows. 
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2012 was 
£154,687 ,000 (2011 £153,697 ,000). Additional information is 
included in Note 12.
Business combinations
Upon acquisition of another entity the Group evaluates 
intangibles arising using methodologies recognised under 
IFRS 3 Business Combinations. Judgement is required as to 
which intangibles meet the recognition criteria of separable 
or contractual, and estimates involving cash ﬂow forecasts 
are performed to quantify the value of these assets arising. 
Intangibles arising are assessed for indicators of 
impairment annually. 
Pensions
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about 
discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary 
increases, mortality rates and future pension increases. 
Due to the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are 
subject to signiﬁcant uncertainty. Additional information is 
included in Note 14.
Provisions
The measure of surplus property provisions requires estimation 
of a suitable discount rate and future costs to be incurred  
(see Note 21). This requires judgement in estimating the likely 
outcomes of negotiations and time frames for settlement.
for the year ended 31 December 2012 70
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
2.4 Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the 
functional currency at the rate ruling at the date of the 
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange 
ruling at the balance sheet date and exchange differences 
arising are recognised in the Income Statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical 
cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rate at the date of the initial transaction. Non-monetary items 
measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated 
using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value 
was determined.
The functional currencies of the overseas subsidiaries include 
the Euro and the Indian Rupee. The assets and liabilities of 
these overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at 
the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and 
their income statements are translated at the weighted 
average exchange rates for the year where this is a reasonable 
approximation to actual translation rates. The exchange 
differences arising on the retranslation are taken directly to 
a separate component of equity described as the ‘cumulative 
translation adjustment’. On disposal of a foreign entity, the 
cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that 
particular foreign operation is recognised in the Income 
Statement. The cumulative translation adjustment reserve was 
set to zero on 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment in 
value. Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the 
estimated useful life of the asset as follows:
Freehold property 25 to 50 years 
Long leasehold property 25 to 50 years
Short leasehold property 10 to 20 years
Plant, equipment and motor vehicles 4 to 10 years
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment 
are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in 
circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be 
recoverable. If any such indication exists, and where the 
carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, 
the assets are written down to their recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment 
is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. 
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount 
rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset. Useful 
economic lives, depreciation methods and residual values 
are reviewed annually. For an asset that does not generate 
largely independent cash inﬂows, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset 
belongs. Impairment losses are recognised in the 
Income Statement.
Borrowings and borrowing costs
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of 
transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently 
stated at amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds 
(net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is 
recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the 
borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classiﬁed as current liabilities unless the Group 
has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability 
for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a 
substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or 
sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets. 
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur . 
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an 
entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. The 
Group capitalises borrowing costs for all eligible assets where 
construction was commenced on or after 1 January 2009. 
Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition 
method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the 
aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at 
acquisition date fair value and the amount of any 
non-controlling interest in the acquiree. Acquisition costs 
incurred are expensed and included in exceptional items.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the ﬁnancial 
assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classiﬁcation 
and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, 
economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the 
acquisition date. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in 
transactions separate to the business combinations, such as 
the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition 
remuneration arrangements are accounted for separately from 
the business combination in accordance with their nature and 
applicable IFRSs.
for the year ended 31 December 2012 71
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Business combinations continued
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the 
acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition 
date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent 
consideration which is deemed to be an asset or a liability 
will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in proﬁt 
or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. If the 
contingent consideration is classed as equity, it is not 
re-measured until it is ﬁnally settled within equity.
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisitions is initially measured at cost being 
the excess of the cost of the business combination over the 
acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the identiﬁable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Following initial 
recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. Goodwill is not amortised. Any unamortised 
goodwill on 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, was 
frozen from that date.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more 
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
its carrying value may be impaired. Goodwill is allocated to the 
related cash-generating units monitored by management for 
the purpose of impairment testing. 
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit 
(or group of cash-generating units) and an operation within 
that unit (or group of units) is disposed of, the goodwill 
associated with the operation disposed of is included in the 
carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain 
or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this 
circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the 
operations disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating 
unit (or group of units) retained.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Intangible 
assets created within the business are not capitalised (unless 
speciﬁc conditions are met) and expenditure is charged to the 
Income Statement in the year in which the expenditure 
is incurred. 
(a) Acquired from a business combination
Intangibles arising from a business combination are capitalised 
at fair value at the date of acquisition, where it can be measured 
reliably. Following initial recognition, the cost model is applied 
to the class of intangible assets. The useful lives of these 
intangible assets are assessed to be either ﬁnite or indeﬁnite. 
Amortisation charged on assets with a ﬁnite life is recognised 
in amortisation expense in the Income Statement over the 
expected life of the asset. Intangible assets currently recognised 
are being amortised over between ﬁve and ten years.
(b) Customer relationships
Amounts paid to secure customer contracts are capitalised 
and amortised over the length of the contract. An impairment 
review is carried out when events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
(c) Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Expenditure on a 
development project, such as computer software, which 
is reliably measurable, is capitalised when the technical 
feasibility and commercial viability of the project is 
demonstrated. The Group must intend to and have available 
the resources to complete the project and be satisﬁed that 
the intangible asset arising from the development project will 
generate probable future economic beneﬁts. Capitalisation 
ceases when the product is ready for launch. 
Following the initial recognition of the development expenditure, 
the cost model is applied requiring the asset to be carried at cost 
less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment 
losses. Any expenditure carried forward is amortised over the 
period of expected future sales from the related project, from 
the date the asset is available for use.
The carrying value of development costs is reviewed when 
there is an indicator of impairment. In addition it is reviewed 
annually when the asset is not yet in use. 
(d) Computer software costs
Acquired computer software and licenses are capitalised.  
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives 
(three to eight years). 
Costs associated with maintaining computer software 
programs are recognised as an expense as incurred. Costs that 
are directly associated with the production of identiﬁable and 
unique software products controlled by the Group, and that 
will generate probable economic beneﬁts exceeding costs 
beyond one year , are recognised as intangible assets. Direct 
costs include the costs of software development employees. 
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives 
(three to eight years).
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and 
adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
for the year ended 31 December 2012 72
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value.
Raw materials are stated at purchase cost on a ﬁrst-in, ﬁrst-out 
basis. For ﬁnished goods and work in progress, costs include 
directly attributable material and labour costs and certain 
overhead costs that contribute in bringing the inventories to 
their present location and condition. Selling expenses and 
other administrative overhead expenses are excluded.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the 
estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Provision is made for items of stock that are damaged, obsolete 
or slow-moving.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables, which generally have 30-90 days' 
credit terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice 
amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts. 
An estimate for doubtful debts is made. Bad debts are written 
off when identiﬁed.
Impairment of assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any 
indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator 
of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate 
of recoverable amount. Where the carrying amount of an 
asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is considered 
impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. 
Recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s, or 
cash-generating unit’s, fair value less costs to sell and its 
value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless 
the asset does not generate cash inﬂows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, 
in which case impairment is determined at the cash-generating 
unit level. The carrying amounts of the cash-generating units 
to which goodwill is allocated and intangible assets not yet 
available for use are reviewed annually or more frequently 
when there is an indication of impairment.
Value in use is determined by the estimated future pre-tax 
cash ﬂows, discounted to their present values using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risk speciﬁc to the asset.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet comprise cash 
at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, 
cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents 
as deﬁned above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts. 
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables, which generally have 30-90 days’ 
credit terms, are recognised and carried at original 
invoice amount.
Contingent consideration
The amount of contingent consideration on business 
combinations is determined by discounting the amounts 
payable to their present value at the date of acquisition, taking 
into account any premium or discount likely to be incurred 
in settlement. Contingent consideration is determined by 
reference to the appropriate factors that inﬂuence the possible 
payment of that consideration. Contingent consideration is 
recognised where the payment is probable and the amount 
can be reliably measured. Where the future event does not 
occur or the amount of consideration may be different from 
the original estimate, the cost of the business combination is 
adjusted to reﬂect the actual outcome and the amount ﬁnally 
paid. For acquisitions undertaken prior to 1 July 2009, any 
change in contingent consideration, other than the effect of 
the unwinding discount, will result in a change to goodwill. 
For acquisitions undertaken after 1 July 2009, this change will 
be recognised in the Income Statement.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised in the 
Group’s Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets
The Group’s ﬁnancial assets can all be classiﬁed as ‘loans and 
receivables’. 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 73
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have 
ﬁxed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an 
active market are classiﬁed as loans and receivables. Loans 
and receivables are measured at amortised cost, less any 
impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the 
effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables  
when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of ﬁnancial assets
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a 
ﬁnancial asset or group of ﬁnancial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on assets 
carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of 
the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s 
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future 
cash ﬂows (excluding future credit losses that have not been 
incurred) discounted at the ﬁnancial asset’s original effective 
interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at initial 
recognition). The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, 
through the use of an allowance account. The amount of the 
loss is recognised in other operating expenses.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment 
loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively 
to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, 
the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any 
subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the 
Income Statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the 
asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is 
made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability 
of insolvency or signiﬁcant ﬁnancial difficulties of the debtor) 
that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due 
under the original terms of the invoice. The carrying amount of 
the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account. 
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed 
as irrecoverable.
Derecognition of ﬁnancial assets
The Group derecognises a ﬁnancial asset only when the 
contractual rights to the cash ﬂows from the asset expire, 
or it transfers the ﬁnancial asset and substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. 
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the 
risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the 
transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in 
the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement and an 
associated liability reﬂecting obligations retained. If the Group 
retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a 
transferred ﬁnancial asset, the Group continues to recognise the 
ﬁnancial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for 
the proceeds received. If the Group neither transfers nor retains 
substantially all risks and rewards and does not control the 
transferred asset, then it derecognises the asset.
Financial liabilities
The Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities include borrowings and trade 
and other payables, which are all classiﬁed as ‘other ﬁnancial 
liabilities’. Other ﬁnancial liabilities are initially measured at 
fair value, net of transaction costs. Other ﬁnancial liabilities 
are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method, with interest expense recognised 
on an effective yield basis. The effective interest method is a 
method of calculating the amortised cost of a ﬁnancial liability 
and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period. 
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash payments through the expected life of 
the ﬁnancial liability, or , where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of ﬁnancial liabilities
The Group derecognises ﬁnancial liabilities when, and only 
when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled, or 
they expire.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedge 
accounting
Initial recognition and subsequent measurement
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments such as 
forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge 
its foreign currency and interest rate risks respectively. Such 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments are initially recognised at fair 
value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into 
and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are 
carried as ﬁnancial assets when the fair value is positive and as 
ﬁnancial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on 
derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting and the ineffective portion of an effective hedge, 
are taken directly to the Income Statement.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is the difference 
between the forward exchange rate and the contract rate. 
The forward exchange rate is referenced to current forward 
exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity proﬁles. 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 74
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedge 
accounting continued
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the difference between 
the ﬁxed rate and the one month LIBOR rate implied at the 
balance sheet date, calculated monthly, and discounted to 
present value.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classiﬁed as 
cash ﬂow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash 
ﬂows, that is either attributable to a particular risk associated 
with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast 
transaction, or when hedging the foreign currency risk in an 
unrecognised ﬁrm commitment.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which 
hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is 
formally designated and documented at its inception. 
This documentation identiﬁes the risk management objective 
and strategy for undertaking the hedge, the hedging 
instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of 
the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured 
throughout its duration. Such hedges are expected to be 
highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash ﬂows 
and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they 
actually have been highly effective throughout the ﬁnancial 
reporting periods for which they were designated.
Cash ﬂow hedges
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income, 
while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in  
the Income Statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the Income 
Statement when the hedged transaction affects proﬁt or 
loss, such as when the hedged ﬁnancial income or ﬁnancial 
expense is recognised or when a forecast sale occurs. Where 
the hedged item is the cost of a non-ﬁnancial asset or non-
ﬁnancial liability, the amounts taken to other comprehensive 
income are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the 
non-ﬁnancial asset or liability.
If the forecast transaction or ﬁrm commitment is no longer 
expected to occur , amounts previously recognised in equity 
are transferred to the Income Statement. If the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without 
replacement or rollover , or if its designation as a hedge is 
revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in 
other comprehensive income until the forecast transaction 
or ﬁrm commitment occurs.
The Group uses forward exchange contracts as hedges of its 
exposure to foreign currency risk in forecasted transactions 
and ﬁrm commitments. 
During the ﬁrst half of 2012 the Group had two interest rate 
swap arrangements in place to mitigate the impact of ﬂoating 
interest rates; those arrangements matured in June and were 
subsequently replaced by a single arrangement with a notional 
amount of £18,351,000, whereby the Group pays a ﬁxed rate of 
interest of 3.715%, and receives a variable rate equal to LIBOR+3% 
on the notional amount (see Note 23 for more details). 
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, 
it is probable that an outﬂow of resources embodying economic 
beneﬁts will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made, but there is some uncertainty about the 
timing of the future expenditure required in settlement. If the 
effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are 
determined by discounting the expected future cash ﬂows at a 
pre-tax rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and, where appropriate, the risks speciﬁc to the 
liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision 
due to the passage of time is recognised as a ﬁnance cost.
Pensions and similar obligations
Group companies operate deﬁned contribution and deﬁned 
beneﬁt pension plans.
Payments to deﬁned contribution pension plans are charged 
as an expense to the Income Statement as incurred when 
the related employee service is rendered. The Group has no 
further legal or constructive payment obligations once the 
contributions have been made.
For deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, the cost of providing 
beneﬁts is determined using the Projected Unit Method and 
the service cost relating to the beneﬁt earned in the period 
is recognised in employee beneﬁts expense in the Income 
Statement. An interest cost representing the unwinding of the 
discount rate on the scheme’s liabilities, net of the expected 
return on scheme assets, is charged to the Income Statement. 
The liability recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of 
deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is the present value of the 
deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the balance sheet date less the 
fair value of the plan assets. The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 
is calculated annually by independent actuaries. The present 
value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash outﬂows using interest 
rates of AA rated corporate bonds that have terms of maturity 
approximating to the terms of the relevant pension liability.
for the year ended 31 December 2012
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued 75
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Pensions and similar obligations continued
When a settlement (eliminating all obligations for beneﬁts 
already accrued) or a curtailment (reducing future obligations 
as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership 
or a reduction in future entitlement) occurs, the obligation and 
the related plan assets are re-measured using current actuarial 
assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the 
Income Statement during the period in which the settlement 
or curtailment occurs.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the 
present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation and the 
fair value of plan assets are recognised immediately in the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. 
Share-based payment transactions
Certain directors and management are eligible to participate in 
share-based payment schemes, all of which are equity-settled.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is 
measured by reference to their fair value at the date at which 
they are granted. The fair value is determined by an external 
valuer using an appropriate model. In valuing equity-settled 
transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, 
other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of 
Communisis plc (‘market conditions’).
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together 
with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in 
which the performance or service conditions are fulﬁlled, 
ending on the date on which the relevant employees become 
fully entitled to the award (‘vesting date’). The cumulative 
expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each 
reporting date reﬂects the extent to which the vesting period 
has expired and the Group’s best estimate of the number of 
equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately 
vest, except for awards where vesting or non-vesting is 
conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as 
vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition 
is satisﬁed, provided that all other performance or service 
conditions are satisﬁed.
The Group has an employee share ownership plan (“ESOP”) 
for the granting of non-transferable options. Shares in the 
Group held by the (“ESOP”) are accounted for in the same way 
as treasury shares and presented in the Balance Sheet as a 
deduction from equity described as the ‘ESOP reserve’. 
The Group took advantage, on transition to IFRS, to apply IFRS 
2 to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 not 
vested by 31 December 2004.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if 
it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet 
recognised in the Income Statement for the award is expensed 
immediately. This includes any awards where non-vesting 
conditions within the control of the Group or the employee 
are not met. Any compensation paid up to the fair value of 
the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted 
from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an 
expense in the Income Statement.
Where an equity-settled award is forfeited, the total cost 
recognised in the Income Statement to date for the award 
is reversed. 
ESOP reserve
Communisis plc shares held by the Group are classiﬁed in 
shareholders’ equity as the ‘ESOP reserve’ and are recognised at 
cost. Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also 
recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds 
from sale and the original cost being taken to retained 
earnings. No gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement 
on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Leases
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, 
a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at 
inception date: whether fulﬁlment of the arrangement is 
dependent on the use of a speciﬁc asset or assets or the 
arrangement conveys a right to use the assets.
For arrangements entered into prior to 1 January 2005, the 
date of inception is deemed to be 1 January 2005 in accordance 
with the transitional requirements of IFRIC 4.
Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the 
risks and beneﬁts incidental to ownership of the leased item, 
are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the fair 
value of the leased asset or , if lower , at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned 
between ﬁnance charges and reduction of the lease liability 
on a straight-line basis. Finance charges are recognised in the 
Income Statement.
Leased assets are depreciated over the useful life of the asset. 
However , if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group 
will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is 
depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the 
asset and the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the 
Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term or in 
accordance with utilisation of the leased asset if more appropriate.
for the year ended 31 December 2012 76
Revenue
Revenue represents the turnover , net of discounts, derived 
from services provided to customers and sales of products 
applicable to the year .
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable to the extent that it is probable that 
the economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Group and the revenue 
can be reliably measured. The following speciﬁc recognition 
criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
Sale of goods
Revenue is recognised when the signiﬁcant risks and rewards 
of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the 
amount of revenue can be measured reliably; this is usually  
on despatch by the Group. 
Provision of services
The provision of Print Sourcing services includes the sourcing 
and supply of printed and other marketing material (included 
within SPS revenue). Revenue from such services is recognised 
when the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership of the 
material have passed to the customer and the amount of 
revenue can be measured reliably; this is usually on despatch 
by the supplier .
Revenue from Creative, Data & Analysis services (included 
within IDC revenue), is recognised when the service has been 
provided and customer acknowledgement of completion has 
been received. 
Revenue from Campaign Management services (included 
within IDC revenue), is recognised when the service has been 
provided under the terms of the contract, on a time basis which 
is either a monthly or annual charge, or on a management 
fee basis.
Revenue from Postal Sortation services (included within 
IDC revenue) is recognised on despatch of the post to the 
postal carrier .
Revenue from software licences is recognised over the period 
of the licence.
Revenue from delivery of customer projects is recognised by 
reference to the stage of completion. Stage of completion is 
measured by reference to labour hours incurred to date as a 
percentage of total estimated labour hours for each project. 
Where the project outcome cannot be measured reliably, 
revenue is recognised only to the extent of the expenses 
recognised that are recoverable.
Pass through revenue
Pass through revenue is deﬁned as those pre-agreed or 
contracted revenues representing charges for print, postal 
and other marketing material which are passed onto clients at 
cost as part of a wider service. Postal charges are recognised on 
despatch to the postal carrier , and print and other marketing 
material charges are recognised on despatch by the supplier .
Interest
Finance revenue is recognised as the interest accrues using 
the effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly 
discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected 
life of the ﬁnancial instrument to the net carrying amount.
Exceptional items
The Group presents separately, on the face of the Income 
Statement, those material items of income and expense which, 
because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events 
giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow 
shareholders to understand better the elements of ﬁnancial 
performance in the year , so as to facilitate comparison with 
prior periods and to improve assessment of trends in ﬁnancial 
performance.
Income tax
Current tax
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current year are 
measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or 
paid to the Taxation Authorities. The tax rates and tax laws 
used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on 
all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between 
the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts for ﬁnancial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences except in respect of taxable temporary 
differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where 
the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be 
controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
for the year ended 31 December 2012
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued 77
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Income tax continued
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the 
temporary differences arise from the initial recognition 
of goodwill, or from the initial recognition (other than in 
a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a 
transaction that affects neither the taxable proﬁt nor the 
accounting proﬁt.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets 
and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that 
taxable proﬁt will be available against which the deductible 
temporary differences and the carry-forward of unused tax 
assets and unused tax losses can be utilised. In respect of 
deductible temporary differences associated with investments 
in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will 
reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable proﬁt will be 
available against which the temporary differences 
can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed 
at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that 
it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable proﬁt will be 
available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset 
to be utilised. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the 
tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset 
is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax 
laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity is also recognised 
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Sales tax
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the 
amount of sales tax except:
 where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and 
services is not recoverable from the Taxation Authority, 
in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost 
of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as 
applicable; and
 receivables and payables which are stated with the amount 
of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, 
the Taxation Authority is included as part of receivables or 
payables in the Balance Sheet.
Dividend distribution
The ﬁnal dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders 
is recognised as a liability in the Group’s Financial Statements 
in the year in which the dividend is approved by the Company’s 
shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised in the year in 
which they are paid.
2.5 Adoption of new and revised standards
During the year , the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following 
standards and interpretations with an effective date after 
1 January 2012:
 IAS 19 – Employee Beneﬁts
 IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements
 IFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements
 IFRS 12 – Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities
 IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement
The Group has not early adopted these amended standards 
and interpretations.
With the exception of changes to IAS 19 detailed below, 
the directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these 
standards and interpretations will have a material impact 
on the Group’s Financial Statements, other than additional 
disclosures, in the period of initial application.
IAS 19 ‘Employee Beneﬁts’ was amended in June 2011. 
The impact on the Group will be to replace interest cost and 
expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that 
is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net deﬁned 
beneﬁt asset and to transfer the costs of administrating the 
pension scheme from a deduction from expected return on 
plan assets into other operating expenses.
The Group has assessed the impact of the revised standard 
IAS 19 (2011). The impact on the results for the year ended 
31 December 2012 will be to increase other operating expenses 
by £0.9m, to increase the net ﬁnance cost by £0.8m and 
reduce the income tax charge by £0.4m, resulting in a lower 
proﬁt after tax of £3.9m. Within the Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income, the impact will be to increase the 
actuarial gains on deﬁned beneﬁt schemes by £1.7m and to 
increase the tax on actuarial gains by £0.4m resulting in a 
lower total comprehensive loss of £0.9m. There is no impact on 
either the net retirement beneﬁt liability or related deferred 
tax balance within the Balance Sheet.
for the year ended 31 December 2012 78
3 Segmental information
Business segments
Management has determined the operating segments based 
on the reports reviewed by the Board that are used to make 
strategic decisions. The Group’s activities are focused in two 
main areas which are:
 Intelligence Driven Communications (“IDC”) which aims to 
help businesses increase the revenue that they generate 
from their customer base, utilising data to deliver more 
targeted and relevant marketing programmes across 
a range of different channels. Four key services are 
offered under the IDC banner – Data & Analysis, Campaign 
Management, Creative and Postal Sortation; and
 Specialist Production and Sourcing (“SPS”) which aims 
to help businesses improve the efficiency and quality of 
their supply chains at reduced cost. Four key services are 
offered under the SPS banner – Print Sourcing, Direct Mail, 
Transactional Services and Cheques.
Certain revenues are classed as pass through revenues, which 
are pre-agreed or contracted revenues that include an element 
regarding print, postal and other marketing material which 
are passed onto clients at cost as part of a wider service. Where 
it is agreed that these revenues will be recharged at cost, 
management classiﬁes these items as pass through for internal 
reporting purposes.
The Communisis Board considers the performance of IDC and 
SPS in assessing the performance of the Group and making 
decisions about the allocation of resources. Segmental 
disclosures have therefore been presented on this basis.
Segment performance is evaluated based on operating proﬁt 
or loss and is measured consistently with operating proﬁt 
or loss in the Consolidated Financial Statements. However , 
Corporate Costs, Group ﬁnancing (including ﬁnance costs and 
ﬁnance income) and income taxes are managed on a group 
basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
A software asset with a net book value of £1,514,000 (2011 
£1,831,000) has been allocated to segment assets as follows: 
IDC £509,000, SPS £925,000 and Corporate Costs £80,000. The 
amortisation charge on the asset for 2012 has been allocated to 
segments as follows: IDC £38,000, SPS £259,000 and Corporate 
Costs £20,000.
Transfer pricing between business segments is set on an arm’s 
length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third 
parties. Segment revenue, segment expense and segment 
proﬁts include sales between business segments. Those sales 
are eliminated on consolidation and are not included in the 
segmental revenue ﬁgures.
Sales to external customers disclosed in geographical 
information are based on the customers’ geographical 
location.
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012 79
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
3 Segmental information continued
Business segments continued
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2012 are as follows:
     Continuing operations
     Pass Corporate 
   IDC SPS Through Costs Total 
   £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue   30,075 148,749 50,950 – 229,774
Proﬁt from operations before amortisation of 
acquired intangibles and exceptional items   4,092 11,744 – (3,505) 12,331
Amortisation of acquired intangibles   (328) (449) – – (777)
Proﬁt from operations before exceptional items  3,764 11,295 – (3,505) 11,554
Exceptional items   (541) (1,499) – (700) (2,740)
Proﬁt from operations   3,223 9,796 – (4,205) 8,814
Net ﬁnance costs        (2,037)
Proﬁt before tax       6,777
Income tax expense       (1,597)
Proﬁt for the year       5,180
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets excluding goodwill   8,772 69,446 – 2,813 81,031
Goodwill   80,302 74,385 – – 154,687
   89,074 143,831 – 2,813 235,718
Deferred Tax       2,215
Cash and cash equivalents       21,548
Total assets       259,481
Segment liabilities   3,518 62,194 – 4,850 70,562
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings       41,548
Retirement beneﬁt obligations       21,713
Income tax payable       471
Total liabilities       134,294
Other segment information
Capital expenditure
 Property, plant & equipment   283 3,197 – 44 3,524
 Intangible assets   2,910 4,374 – – 7,284
   3,193 7,571 – 44 10,808
Depreciation   338 4,270 – 66 4,674
Amortisation   1,579 1,186 – 20 2,785
Proﬁt on disposal of property, plant & equipment  – 10 – – 10
Revenue includes sales to two customers who each individually represent more than 10% of the Group's total revenue. Sales to 
Customer 1 were £35.8m and Customer 2 £28.3m and included transactions with each business segment.
Inter-segment sales amounting to £9,655,000 were made to SPS from IDC, and sales of £13,000 were made to IDC from SPS during 
the year . 80
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
3 Segmental information continued
Business segments continued
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2011 are as follows:
     Continuing operations
     Pass Corporate 
   IDC SPS Through Costs Total 
   £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue   25,016 144,791 38,469 – 208,276
Proﬁt from operations before amortisation of 
acquired intangibles and exceptional items   3,405 10,259 – (3,742) 9,922
Amortisation of acquired intangibles   (228) (288) – – (516)
Proﬁt from operations before exceptional items  3,177 9,971 – (3,742) 9,406
Exceptional items   (422) (3,529) – (382) (4,333)
Proﬁt from operations   2,755 6,442 – (4,124) 5,073
Net ﬁnance costs before exceptional items       (913)
Proﬁt before tax       4,160
Income tax expense       (89)
Proﬁt for the year       4,071
Assets and liabilities
Segment assets excluding goodwill   10,004 60,026 – 2,534 72,564
Goodwill   79,312 74,385 – – 153,697
   89,316 134,411 – 2,534 226,261
Deferred Tax       1,571
Cash and cash equivalents       13,280
Total assets       241,112
Segment liabilities   4,785 48,775 – 5,920 59,480
Interest–bearing loans and borrowings       38,010
Retirement beneﬁt obligations       14,186
Income tax payable       644
Total liabilities       112,320
Other segment information
Capital expenditure     
 Property, plant & equipment   153 2,442 – 460 3,055
 Intangible assets   898 3,075 – – 3,973
   1,051 5,517 – 460 7,028
Depreciation   271 4,459 – 57 4,787
Amortisation   1,276 858 – 3 2,137
Proﬁt on disposal of property, plant & equipment  – 240 – – 240
Revenue includes sales to four customers who each individually represent more than 10% of the Group’s total revenue. Sales to 
Customer 1 were £30.5m, Customer 2 £26.2m, Customer 3 £23.9m and Customer 4 £29.0m, and included transactions with each 
business segment.
Inter-segment sales amounting to £6,875,000 were made to SPS from IDC, and sales of £2,000 were made to IDC from SPS during 
the year . 81
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
3 Segmental information continued
Geographical information
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Revenues from external customers
United Kingdom      214,624 200,677
Other countries      15,150 7,599
      229,774 208,276
Non-current assets
United Kingdom      186,686 183,677
Other countries      13 1
      186,699 183,678
Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
4 Revenue
Revenue disclosed in the Income Statement is analysed as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Sale of goods      110,110 109,238
Provision of services      119,664 99,038
Sales revenue      229,774 208,276
Interest income on ﬁnancial assets carried at amortised cost    25 122
Change in fair value of derivatives      108 203
Retirement beneﬁt related income      145 867
Finance revenue      278 1,192
Total revenue      230,052 209,468
No revenue was derived from exchanges of goods and services (2011 £nil).
5 Other expenses
5.1 Total ﬁnance costs
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Interest expense for borrowings at amortised cost     2,296 2,089
Loss on foreign currency liabilities      19 16
Total ﬁnance costs      2,315 2,105 82
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
5 Other expenses continued
5.2 Finance costs and ﬁnance revenue by category of ﬁnancial instruments
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Interest on ﬁnancial assets measured at amortised cost     25 122
Interest on ﬁnancial liabilities measured at amortised cost     (2,296) (2,089)
Net interest from ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities not at fair value through Income Statement (2,271) (1,967)
Change in fair value of derivatives      108 203
Loss on foreign currency liabilities      (19) (16)
Retirement beneﬁt related income      145 867
      (2,037) (913)
5.3 Employee beneﬁts expense
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Wages and salaries      50,733 46,957
Social security costs      4,837 4,524
Pension costs      1,971 1,880
Expense of share-based payments      190 132
Redundancy costs      143 59
      57,874 53,552
      2012 2011 
      Number Number
The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows:
United Kingdom      1,479 1,376
Other      46 7
      1,525 1,383
Compensation of key management personnel
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Short-term employee beneﬁts      1,700 2,192
Post-employment beneﬁts      39 36
Share-based payments (equity-settled)      77 49
Total compensation paid to key management personnel     1,816 2,277
 
Key management personnel consist of directors of the Company only. Details of individual director’s remuneration, pension 
entitlements and interests are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 63. Details of the Group’s 
pension commitments are provided in Note 14 to these Financial Statements.
Details of the directors’ interests in employee share incentive plans are provided within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 52 to 63. 83
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
5 Other expenses continued
5.4 Exceptional items
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Proﬁt from operations is arrived at after charging  the following items:
Acquisition and set up costs      700 236
Exceptional restructuring costs      1,712 3,697
Impairment of intangible assets (see Note 11)      328 –
Pension deﬁcit reduction project      – 400
Exceptional items      2,740 4,333
Acquisition and set up costs in 2011 and 2012 relate to non-recurring professional fees for acquisition related activities.
During 2012 the Group incurred £1,712,000 (2011 £3,697 ,000) in respect of organisational restructuring which included further site 
consolidation, headcount reduction across the Group and a further £120,000 relating to the closure of Orchestra Bristol Limited. 
Of this amount, £1,514,000 is unpaid at 31 December 2012.
A customer relationship with a cost of £410,000 and accumulated amortisation of £82,000 has been written down to £nil in the 
year due to the loss of a customer .
The pensions deﬁcit reduction costs relate to legal and consultancy expenses of £400,000 for a project undertaken during 2011. 
This has been fully paid at 31 December 2012.
5.5 Auditor’s remuneration
The remuneration of the auditor is analysed as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Audit of the Group Financial Statements      109 97
Other fees to the auditor – local statutory audits for subsidiaries    73 53
 – taxation services      20 28
 – advisory services in relation to acquisitions*    61 –
      263 178
* Recorded in exceptional items. In addition to these fees £69,000 has been recorded as a prepayment in the ﬁnancial statements 
for fees in relation to the raising of equity.
5.6 Operating lease payments
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Minimum lease payments      4,582 4,141
Sub-lease receipts      (883) (1,099)
      3,699 3,042
5.7 Research and development
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Research and development expenditure expensed during the year    391 372 84
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
6 Income tax
The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 are:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Tax charged in the Income Statement
Current income tax
UK Corporation Tax      1,864 557
Adjustments in respect of prior years      (332) (1,350)
Overseas tax on proﬁts for the year      144 41
Total current income tax charge / (credit)      1,676 (752)
Deferred income tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences     (202) 758
Adjustments in respect of prior years      178 144
Adjustments in respect of prior years – due to change in tax rate    (55) (61)
Total deferred tax (credit) / charge      (79) 841
Tax charge in the Consolidated Income Statement     1,597 89
Tax relating to items charged or credited to other comprehensive income
Deferred income tax
Actuarial losses on pension scheme current year credit     (2,107) (2,217)
Adjustment in respect of prior years – due to change in tax rate    284 194
Tax on ﬁnancial liability      (15) 7
Income tax credit reported in Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income   (1,838) (2,016)
Current tax adjustments in respect of prior years relate to the release of provisions created in respect of prior years’ tax 
submissions, agreed in the current year .
Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The tax expense in the Income Statement for the year is lower (2011 lower) than the average standard rate of Corporation Tax in 
the UK of 24.5% (2011 26.5%). The differences are reconciled below:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Proﬁt before income tax      6,777 4,160
At UK statutory income tax rate of 24.5% (2011 26.5%)     1,660 1,102
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes      264 299
Unrelieved overseas losses      3 4
Untaxed overseas proﬁts      – (22)
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions   (1) (32)
Share-based payments      (70) 40
Change in deferred tax in respect of rolled over capital gains    (50) (35)
Adjustments in respect of prior years      (154) (1,206)
Adjustment in respect of prior years – due to change in tax rate    (55) (61)
Tax charge in the Consolidated Income Statement     1,597 89 85
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
6 Income tax continued
Unrecognised tax losses
The Group has unrecognised losses, which arose outside of the UK, of £797 ,000 (2011 £820,000) that are available for offset 
against future taxable proﬁts of the companies in which the losses arose. No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of 
any of these losses as their future utilisation is uncertain and they may not be used to offset taxable proﬁts elsewhere in the Group.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet is as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Deferred tax asset
Accelerated capital allowances      1,186 1,529
Other short-term timing differences      (443) (795)
Losses available for offset against future taxable income     (34) –
Held-over capital gains      195 212
Capital gains rolled over into replacement assets     680 793
Share-based payments      (283) (221)
Pensions      (3,835) (3,548)
Financial liability      (15) (27)
Customer relationships intangible assets      334 486
Deferred tax asset      (2,215) (1,571)
The realisation of the above current year deferred tax asset is dependant upon the anticipated continuing proﬁtability of the 
Group. The deferred tax asset is recognised as the directors foresee future proﬁts adequate to assume recovery.
The deferred tax (credit) / charge included in the Consolidated Income Statement is as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Accelerated capital allowances      (343) (216)
Other short-term timing differences      352 186
Losses available against future taxable income     (4) –
Held-over capital gains      (17) (17)
Capital gains rolled over into replacement assets     (113) (101)
Share-based payments      (62) (7)
Pensions      377 1,088
Customer relationships intangible assets      (296) (149)
Financial asset      27 57
Deferred tax (credit) / charge      (79) 841
Finance Act 2012 enacted a reduction of the main rate of Corporation Tax from 24% to 23% from April 2013. It was announced in 
the 2012 Budget that this rate was to reduce to 22% from April 2014; subsequently in the Autumn Statement on 28 November 
2012, the intention was announced to reduce the rate of Corporation Tax to 21% from April 2014. The legislation dealing with the 
reduction in rates will be included in future Finance Acts.
The provision for deferred tax at 31 December 2012 has been made at 23%. If the further rate changes had been substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date the deferred tax asset would have reduced by approximately £192,000. 86
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
7 Acquisition of business
On 18 April 2012, the Group acquired the whole issued share capital of Kieon Limited (“Kieon”). Kieon is a UK-based specialist 
software production agency, with an offshore development facility in Bangalore, India. The addition of Kieon to the Group 
widens and deepens Communisis’ creative services capabilities to include the building of websites and mobile and other digital 
applications. Details of the consideration paid and book values of assets and liabilities acquired are set out below. This transaction 
has been accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting.
      Fair value 
      to Group 
      £000
Property, plant and equipment      17
Trade names      173
Cash at bank      327
Trade and other receivables      340
Trade and other payables      (121)
Deferred tax      (6)
Fair value of net assets acquired      730
Goodwill (Note 11)      226
Consideration       956
Satisﬁed by:
Cash       73
Deferred cash consideration      883
Total consideration       956
The net cash inﬂow arising from the acquisition was as follows:
Cash consideration, as above       (73)
Cash acquired, as above      327
Net inﬂow of cash       254
The goodwill recognised above comprises certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured 
due to their nature. These items include an assembled workforce and the expected value of synergies through future earning 
capacity and cost savings.
At 31 December 2012 the amount of deferred consideration outstanding was £21,000. A further £198,000 of payments to 
the vendors which are linked to future service will be expensed through the Income Statement in line with IFRS 3 Business 
Combinations. £65,000 has been expensed in the year and is included in employee beneﬁts expense.
The results of this business are included within the IDC business segment.
The acquired business contributed revenue of £661,000 and a proﬁt of £30,000 from the date of acquisition (18 April 2012) to 
31 December 2012. If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year the consolidated proﬁt of the Group would 
have been £5,222,000 and revenue from continuing operations would have been £230,054,000.
Acquisition and set up costs of £46,000 have been expensed and are included in exceptional items. 87
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
7 Acquisition of business continued
On 3 May 2012, the Group acquired the trade and certain assets of Yomego Limited (“Yomego”). Yomego is a specialist social 
media agency that advises on the role of social media as an integral part of broader on-line and off-line marketing campaigns, 
measures its effectiveness and provides insights into brand reputation and sentiment across social media sources. Details of the 
consideration paid and book values of assets and liabilities acquired are set out below:
      Fair value 
      to Group 
      £000
Property, plant and equipment      5
Software assets      55
Deferred tax      (13)
Fair value of net assets acquired      47
Goodwill (Note 11)      328
Consideration       375
Satisﬁed by:
Cash       375
The net cash outﬂow arising from the acquisition was as follows:
Cash consideration, as above       (375)
Net outﬂow of cash      (375)
The goodwill recognised above comprises certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured 
due to their nature. These items include an assembled workforce and the expected value of synergies through future earning 
capacity and cost savings.
The results of this business are included within the IDC business segment.
The acquired business contributed revenue of £358,000 and a loss of £176,000 from the date of acquisition (3 May 2012) to 
31 December 2012. If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year the consolidated proﬁt of the Group would  
have been £5,150,000 and revenue from continuing operations would have been £230,001,000.
Acquisition and set up costs of £56,000 have been expensed and are included in exceptional items.
On 14 June 2012, the Group acquired 49% of the voting shares of The Garden Marketing Limited (“TGML”) for a cash consideration 
of £392,000. The Group also holds a call option to purchase the remaining 51% of the voting shares for a consideration of £543,000.
TGML is a full-service integrated marketing agency based in London. The company was founded in 1987 and specialises in creating 
lead generation and collateral marketing communications for ﬁnancial services and technology clients. It delivers print and 
digital marketing assets, advertising and direct mail campaigns across both consumer and business-to-business channels. 
Communisis’ investment in TGML extends the Group’s creative services offering, adding further strategic planning expertise, 
conceptual creative services, copywriting and additional artworking resources to Communisis’ strong and growing marketing 
services proposition.
Details of the consideration paid and book values of assets and liabilities acquired are set out below. This transaction has been 
accounted for by applying the acquisition method under IFRS 3, as despite only currently holding 49% of voting rights, the Group 
has the power to control TGML by virtue of the call option held, and clauses in TGML’s Articles of Association. In the Consolidated 
Financial Statements TGML is accounted for as though it was 100% owned and no minority interest is shown as the Group has 
present access to the economic beneﬁts associated with 100% ownership of TGML by virtue of the call option’s ﬁxed price, 
and the terms of a Shareholders’ agreement. A ﬁnancial liability of £543,000 is recognised in respect of the amount due to 
the non-controlling shareholders under the call option. 88
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
7 Acquisition of business continued
The fair values of the identiﬁable assets and liabilities of TGML, as at the date of acquisition were:
      Fair value 
      to Group 
      £000
Property, plant and equipment      16
Customer relationships      410
Cash at bank       99
Trade and other receivables       124
Trade and other payables       (14)
Corporation tax       (42)
Deferred tax      (94)
Fair value of net assets acquired      499
Goodwill (Note 11)      436
Consideration       935
Satisﬁed by:
Cash       392
Call option price       543
Total consideration       935
The net cash outﬂow arising from the acquisition was as follows:
Cash consideration, as above       (392)
Cash acquired, as above       99
Net outﬂow of cash      (293)
The acquired business contributed revenue of £548,000 and a proﬁt of £215,000 from the date of the acquisition (14 June 2012) 
to 31 December 2012. If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year , the consolidated proﬁt of the Group would 
have been £5,113,000 and revenue from continuing operations would have been £230,141,000.
The results of this business are included within the IDC segment.
Acquisition and set up costs of £38,000 have been expensed and are included in exceptional items.
The goodwill recognised above comprises certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured 
due to their nature. These items include an assembled workforce, and value of expected synergies through future earning capacity 
and cost savings. 89
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
7 Acquisition of business continued
On 14 June 2011, the Group acquired the trade and assets of Orchestra Bristol Ltd which allowed the Group to secure a contract with 
Proximity (BBC TV Licensing). This acquisition brought other new customer opportunities and helped to build volume activity 
within our SPS segment.
Details of the consideration paid and book values of assets and liabilities acquired are set out below:
      Fair value 
      to Group 
      £000
Property, plant and equipment      40
Customer relationships      970
Separately identiﬁable intangibles       242
Liabilities acquired       (116)
Deferred tax      (303)
Fair value of net assets acquired       833
Goodwill (Note 11)      1,416
Consideration       2,249
Satisﬁed by:
Cash       2,249
The net cash outﬂow arising from the acquisition was as follows:
Cash consideration, as above       (2,249)
Net outﬂow of cash      (2,249)
The goodwill recognised above comprises certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured 
due to their nature. The items include the expected value of synergies though future earning capacity and cost savings.
The results of this business are included within the SPS business segment.
The acquired business contributed revenue of £4,703,000 and a proﬁt of £120,000 from the date of acquisition (14 June 2011) 
 to 31 December 2011. If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year the consolidated proﬁt of the Group would 
have been £3,959,000 and revenue from continuing operations would have been £212,292,000.
Acquisition and set up costs of £236,000 have been expensed and were included in exceptional items. 90
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
8 Earnings per share
      2012 2011 
      000 000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding ESOP shares) for basic earnings per share  138,263 137,765
Effect of dilution:
Share options      4,583 4,739
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (excluding ESOP shares) 
adjusted for the effect of dilution      142,846 142,504
573,730 (2011 886,138) shares were held in trust at 31 December 2012.
Share options in issue for which exercise is currently unlikely (as the option price is higher than the average market price) total 
583,306 (2011 1,324,250) options. As a consequence, these options have not been included in the diluted earnings per share in the 
current year .
Basic and diluted earnings per share is calculated as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the parent     5,180 4,071
Earnings per share:
Basic      3.75p 2.96p
Diluted      3.63p 2.86p
Earnings per share from continuing operations before exceptional items and amortisation 
of acquired intangibles
Net proﬁt from continuing operations before exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangibles, attributable to equity 
holders of the parent is derived as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Proﬁt after taxation from continuing operations     5,180 4,071
Exceptional costs (Note 5.4)      2,740 4,333
Taxation on exceptional items      (633) (1,116)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles      777 516
Taxation on amortisation of acquired intangibles     (220) (154)
Taxation – adjustments in respect of prior years (Note 6)     (154) (1,206)
Proﬁt after taxation from continuing operations excluding exceptional items 
and amortisation of acquired intangibles      7,690 6,444
Adjusted earnings per share:
Basic      5.56p 4.68p
Diluted      5.38p 4.52p
The basis of measurement of adjusted EPS has been changed during the year to reﬂect more accurately the measure of EPS used by 
the market and the comparative has been updated accordingly.
Adjusted earnings per share uses the same weighted average number of ordinary shares as reported above. 91
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
9 Dividends paid and proposed
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Declared and paid during the year
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend of the year ended 31 December 2010 of 0.86p per share    – 1,190
Interim dividend of the year ended 31 December 2011 of 0.50p per share    – 689
Final dividend of the year ended 31 December 2011 of 1.00p per share    1,378 –
Interim dividend of the year ended 31 December 2012 of 0.55p per share    759 –
      2,137 1,879
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognised as a liability as at 31 December)
Final equity dividend on ordinary shares of 1.10p (2011 1.00p) per share (based on issued 
share capital at the date of approval of the Financial Statements)    2,095 1,378
10 Property, plant and equipment
     Plant, 
    Long Short equipment 
   Freehold leasehold leasehold and motor 
   property property property vehicles Total 
   £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2011   9,071 1,447 1,519 60,203 72,240
Additions   62 35 – 2,918 3,015
Disposals   – – – (2,777) (2,777)
Acquisition of business   – – – 40 40
Exchange adjustment   – – – (3) (3)
At 31 December 2011   9,133 1,482 1,519 60,381 72,515
Additions   – 14 686 2,786 3,486
Disposals   – – – (456) (456)
Acquisition of business   – – – 38 38
Exchange adjustment   – – – (4) (4)
At 31 December 2012   9,133 1,496 2,205 62,745 75,579
Depreciation
At 1 January 2011   2,688 795 308 45,646 49,437
Depreciation charge for the year   334 19 139 4,295 4,787
Disposals   – – – (2,709) (2,709)
Exchange adjustment   – – – (3) (3)
At 31 December 2011   3,022 814 447 47,229 51,512
Depreciation charge for the year   320 30 134 4,190 4,674
Disposals   – – – (456) (456)
Exchange adjustment   – – – (4) (4)
At 31 December 2012   3,342 844 581 50,959 55,726
Net book value at 31 December 2012   5,791 652 1,624 11,786 19,853
Net book value at 31 December 2011   6,111 668 1,072 13,152 21,003
Net book value at 31 December 2010   6,383 652 1,211 14,557 22,803
The carrying value of plant and equipment held under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2012 was 
£1,782,833 (2011 £2,400,756).
There is no security, nor any restriction on title.
Included within plant, equipment and motor vehicles are assets currently in development of £1,333,200 (2011 £1,312,254). 
Depreciation will commence in 2013. 92
for the year ended 31 December 2012
11 Intangible assets
   Software Customer Trade 
  Goodwill assets relationships names Licences Total 
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2011  207,324 11,809 7,088 – – 226,221
Additions  – 1,061 – – 150 1,211
Acquisition of business  1,416 242 970 – – 2,628
Disposals  – (113) – – – (113)
Deferred consideration adjustment  134 – – – – 134
At 31 December 2011  208,874 12,999 8,058 – 150 230,081
Additions  – 2,380 2,800 – 476 5,656
Acquisition of business  990 55 410 173 – 1,628
Disposals  – (34) (410) – – (444)
At 31 December 2012  209,864 15,400 10,858 173 626 236,921
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2011  55,177 6,419 3,786 – – 65,382
Amortisation during the year  – 1,255 882 – – 2,137
Disposals  – (113) – – – (113)
At 31 December 2011  55,177 7,561 4,668 – – 67,406
Amortisation during the year  – 1,582 1,094 9 100 2,785
Disposals  – (34) (82) – – (116)
At 31 December 2012  55,177 9,109 5,680 9 100 70,075
Net book value at 31 December 2012  154,687 6,291 5,178 164 526 166,846
Net book value at 31 December 2011  153,697 5,438 3,390 – 150 162,675
Net book value at 31 December 2010  152,147 5,390 3,302 – – 160,839
As from 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, goodwill is no longer amortised but is now subject to annual impairment 
testing (Note 12). The cumulative impairment loss is £30.2m (2011 £30.2m).
Software assets are amortised evenly over their useful economic lives of between three and eight years and have between nil 
and ﬁve years left to be amortised. Included in software assets is £nil (2011 £1,558,950) currently in development. Amortisation 
commenced in 2012.
A customer relationship with a cost of £410,000 and accumulated amortisation of £82,000 has been written down to £nil in the 
year due to the loss of a customer since acquisition.
The trade name asset arose on the acquisition of Kieon Limited (Note 7), and is being amortised on a straight-line basis over its 
useful life of 10 years.
Included within Licences are amounts spent for the development of software which Communisis has the exclusive right to sell 
within the UK. Amortisation commenced in 2012.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets amounting 
to £136,000 (2011 £24,000).
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued 93
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
12 Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated for impairment testing purposes to two cash-generating units 
(“CGUs”), which are reportable segments, as follows:
 Intelligence Driven Communications (“IDC”), and
 Specialist Production and Sourcing (“SPS”)
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to cash-generating units is as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
IDC      80,302 79,312
SPS      74,385 74,385
      154,687 153,697
The Group conducts annual impairment tests on the carrying value of goodwill using value in use calculations. The key 
assumptions included in the value in use calculation are revenue growth, product and services mix / proﬁt margins, the long-term 
growth rates and the discount rate applied.
The Group prepares cash ﬂow forecasts for these CGUs based on the most recent annual budgets approved by the Board. These are 
based upon detailed budgets for the coming year and internal forecasts of future growth over a ﬁve-year period (2011 ﬁve-year 
period) and cash ﬂows beyond the ﬁve-year period (2011 ﬁve-year period) are extrapolated using external forecasts of expected 
growth rates. Further information on the assumptions used within the major CGUs is detailed below.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations
The calculation of value in use for both CGUs is most sensitive to the following assumptions:
 revenue growth rates;
 product and services mix / proﬁt margins; and
 growth rates used to extrapolate cash ﬂows beyond the budget period
In addition the calculation of value in use is sensitive to movements in the discount rate.
Revenue growth included in the approved ﬁnancial budgets
The revenue growth forecast in the risk-adjusted IDC cash ﬂow projections based on ﬁnancial budgets is 47% in 2013 and between 
7% and 9% in years two to ﬁve.
The revenue growth forecast in the risk-adjusted SPS cash ﬂow projections based on ﬁnancial budgets is -9% in 2013 and between 
1% and 2% in years two to ﬁve.
Product and services mix / proﬁt margins
IDC is expected to have an increased share of Group revenues relative to SPS over the ﬁve-year forecast period. Higher margins are 
generated in IDC as this CGU beneﬁts from a relatively ﬁxed overhead base which does not ﬂex up as revenues increase.
The Group proﬁt margin is projected to increase from 6.5% in 2012 (excluding pass through revenue) to 9.5% by the end of the 
detailed forecast period. 94
for the year ended 31 December 2012
12 Impairment of goodwill continued
Proﬁt growth rate used to extrapolate cash ﬂows beyond the budget period
The proﬁt growth rate used to extrapolate cash ﬂow projections beyond the budget period for both CGUs is considered to be a 
representative rate for the markets to which these segments are dedicated and in line with long-term economic growth forecasts.
Proﬁt growth rates have been assessed individually for each CGU. IDC proﬁt growth rates of 2.9% (2011 2.9%), and SPS proﬁt 
growth rates of 2.4% (2011 2.4%) have been used.
Discount rates
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the IDC cash ﬂow projections is 10.4% (2011 10.0%) and to the SPS cash ﬂow projections 
is 11.6% (2011 11.5%). This is the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted to a pre-tax rate and adjusted to reﬂect 
management’s view of the market assessment of speciﬁc risks associated with each separate CGU.
  Revenue 
 Goodwill at growth rates Proﬁt margin Terminal Pre-tax 
 31 December 2012 years 2-5 years 2-5 growth rates discount rate 
 £000 % % % %
  7%, 8%, 9%, 9% 17%, 17%, 18%, 19%
IDC 80,302 Respectively Respectively 2.9% 10.4%
  1%, 1%, 1%, 2% 8%, 8%, 8%, 8%
SPS 74,385 Respectively Respectively 2.4% 11.6%
  Revenue 
 Goodwill at growth rates Proﬁt margin Terminal Pre-tax 
 31 December 2011 years 2-5 years 2-5 growth rates discount rate 
 £000 % % % %
  6%, 8%, 9%, 9% 18%, 20%, 23%, 24%
IDC 79,312 Respectively Respectively 2.9% 10.0%
  -6%, -2%, -1%, 1% 8%, 8%, 9%, 9%
SPS 74,385 Respectively Respectively 2.4% 11.5%
Goodwill was allocated to each individual CGU using a relative value approach during the resegmentation exercise which was 
completed in 2010. The growth rates used in years two to ﬁve are below the growth rates expected by management for the business.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
There are reasonably possible changes in key assumptions which could erode the headroom by which the carrying value of the 
CGUs exceed their recoverable amount. The sensitivity to each of these reasonably possible changes is detailed below.
All other items remaining equal the following changes to key assumptions would remove headroom as follows:
In IDC short-term revenue growth rates in years two to ﬁve would need to reduce from between 7% and 9% to between 5% and 7% 
to remove all headroom on the IDC impairment test.
In SPS short-term revenue growth rates in years two to ﬁve would need to reduce from between 1% and 2% to between 0% and 1% 
to remove all headroom on the SPS impairment test.
The discount rate would need to increase by 2.1% to 12.5% to remove all headroom within the IDC impairment test and by 1.6% to 
13.2% to remove all headroom within the SPS impairment test.
On average, long-term proﬁt growth rates would need to be reduced by 2% and 2.3% to remove all headroom on the IDC and SPS 
impairment tests respectively.
In 2012 no impairment charge has been made against goodwill for either of the CGUs (2011 £nil). The headroom in the IDC segment 
is £32m (2011 £17m) and the SPS segment is £16m (2011 £12m).
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued 95
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
13 Share-based payments
The Communisis Long Term Incentive Plan 2007
Certain directors and managers are eligible to participate in this plan at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. The 
exercise price in respect of options granted under the scheme is £nil. For all options granted up to 31 December 2009, up to 
50% of the options may vest if the Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) of the Company, as compared to the TSR performance 
of all companies in the Support Services sector of the FTSE All Share Index (excluding FTSE 100 companies), is at or above the 
median level over a three-year period. The other 50% of the options may vest if the TSR of the Company, as compared to the TSR 
performance of all companies in the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding investment trusts), is at or above the median level over a 
three-year period. 30% of each tranche of options will vest for performance at the median of the comparator group rising, on a 
straight-line basis, to 100% vesting for performance in the top decile of the comparator group. If the performance conditions are 
not fulﬁlled within the three-year period from the date of grant, the options lapse. The contractual life of each option granted is 
ﬁve years. There are no cash settlement alternatives.
For options granted under this scheme in 2010, the options will vest if the share price of the Company attains certain thresholds 
measured by reference to a rolling three month average at any time within three years of the date of award. If the share price 
increases to 30p 10% of the options vest, at 50p 30% vest, at a share price of 70p 60% will vest and 100% vesting will be attained if 
the share price exceeds 90p.
For the options granted under this scheme in 2011, no options will vest unless the three month rolling average share price 
increases to more than 32.742p. At 50p 19.78% of the awards will vest, at a share price of 70p 52.78% will vest and 100% vesting 
will be attained if the share price exceeds 90p.
For the options granted in both 2011 and in 2010 vesting will occur on a straight-line pro rata basis between the thresholds 
outlined above. No vested shares will be released before the third anniversary of the award date and no vested shares will be 
released for at least two years after the attainment of the threshold. Additionally the Remuneration Committee will only sanction 
vesting of these awards if they are satisﬁed as to the Company’s underlying ﬁnancial performance in the performance period.
No options were granted under this scheme in the year ended 31 December 2012. The fair value of options granted under the 
Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 in the year to 31 December 2011 was estimated on the date of grant using a binomial simulation 
option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The following weighted 
average assumptions were used in that model: an expected life of ﬁve years; share price at the date of grant of £0.30; estimated 
annualised dividend yield of approximately 5.5%; risk-free interest rate of approximately 2.53% and expected volatility of 48.0%. 
The weighted average fair value of the share options granted in the year ended 31 December 2011 under this plan was £0.13523.
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns which may occur . 
The expected volatility reﬂects historical volatility adjusted for future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome. 
Both the historical and expected volatilities reﬂect the volatility of the share prices of Communisis plc and comparator companies.
The Executive Share Option Scheme 2010
This scheme was introduced in 2010 to replace the Executive Share Option Scheme 2000. Certain directors and managers are 
eligible to participate in this scheme at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. The exercise price of the options granted 
under this scheme is equal to the market value of the shares on the date of grant.
No options were granted under this scheme in the year ended 31 December 2012 nor in the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Executive Share Option Scheme 2000
This scheme has now been superseded by the Executive Share Option Scheme 2010. Under this scheme, certain directors and 
managers were eligible to participate at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. The exercise price of options granted 
under this scheme were equal to the market value of the shares on the date of grant. In respect of options granted prior to 
1 January 2005, which have not yet lapsed, the options vest if the percentage increase in normalised earnings (i.e. before 
intangibles amortisation, restructuring costs and other exceptional items) per share over any three consecutive ﬁnancial 
years exceeds the percentage increase in the Retail Prices Index over that period by an average of at least 3% per annum.  
The contractual life of each option granted is ten years. There are no cash settlement alternatives. There are no outstanding 
options which were issued after 1 January 2005. 96
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
13 Share-based payments continued
The Sharesave Scheme
All UK employees (including directors) are eligible to participate in the Communisis Sharesave Scheme. The exercise price of the 
options is usually equal to the market price of the shares at the date of invitation to participate less a maximum discount of 20%. 
The options vest on either the third or ﬁfth anniversary of the commencement of the savings period. Any options which have not 
been exercised within six months of the vesting date lapse.
The weighted average fair value of Sharesave options granted in the year ended 31 December 2012 was estimated at the date of 
grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following weighted average assumptions were used in that model: option 
holders will exercise their option at expiry; share price at the date of grant of £0.3725 (2011 £0.31); estimated annualised dividend 
yield of approximately 5.5% (2011 5.5%); risk-free interest rate of 0.7072% (2011 2.52%) and expected volatility of 48.18% (2011 
48.00%). The volatility has been determined by reference to Communisis plc’s and comparator companies’ historical volatility 
over a three-year period, adjusted for expected future trends, to reﬂect the share price of Communisis plc in the future. The 
exercise price is £0.32 (2011 £0.26) for options exercisable three years after the date of grant. No options exercisable ﬁve years 
after the date of grant were granted in 2012 or 2011. The weighted average fair value of the share options granted in the year ended 
31 December 2012 was £0.106 (2011 £0.095).
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reﬂected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share.
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices ("WAEP") of, and movements in, share options 
during the year .
    2012 2012 2011 2011 
    Number WAEP £ Number WAEP £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 
1
    9,264,326 0.17558 9,634,811 0.15363
Granted during the year    2,782,002 0.32000 2,265,402 0.18489
Forfeited during the year    (493,706) 0.31007 (2,237,328) 0.11631
Exercised during the year 
2
    (2,665,083) 0.22069 (48,559) 0.25000
Expired during the year    (121,594) 1.54848 (350,000) –
Outstanding at the end of the year 
1
     8,765,945 0.18108 9,264,326 0.17558
Exercisable at the end of the year    456,679 0.20905 303,058 –
1
 There are no options over shares (2011 115,747 shares) that have not been recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002.
2 
 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in the year ended 31 December 2012 was £0.36986 (2011 £0.27726).
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2012 is 2.64 years 
(2011 2.65 years).
The weighted average fair value of all options granted during the year was £0.1060 (2011 £0.1066).
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was £nil – £1.055 (2011 £nil – £1.6267). 
The number of share options for which the exercise price is £nil total 4,104,245 (2011 4,422,500). 97
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
14 Retirement beneﬁt plans
The Group operates deﬁned contribution and deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans.
Deﬁned contribution schemes
The Group operates a UK deﬁned contribution arrangement within three UK Group Companies, Communisis plc, Communisis UK 
Limited and Communisis Data Intelligence Limited. The assets of the arrangements are held separately from those of the Group.
Group companies are required to contribute a speciﬁed percentage of payroll costs to the retirement beneﬁt scheme to fund the 
beneﬁts. The only obligation of the Group with respect to the retirement beneﬁt scheme is to make the speciﬁed contributions.
The total cost charged to income of £1,536,723 (2011 £1,483,761) represents contributions payable to these arrangements by the 
Group at speciﬁed rates. As at 31 December 2012 all contributions due in respect of the current reporting period had been paid over 
to the arrangements (2011 all paid over).
The Group expects to contribute £1.9 million to the deﬁned contribution pension arrangements in 2013.
Deﬁned beneﬁt scheme
The deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme closed to new members on 6 April 2005 (with the exception of ex-HSBC members). Following 
the statutory consultation period, the deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan closed to future service accruals from 30 November 2007 . 
From that date the scheme was closed for all members with the exception of the ex-HSBC members. 
The deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are as follows:
Final salary
The ﬁnal salary section provides a pension of one sixtieth or one eightieth (depending on the level of employee contribution) of 
ﬁnal salary at normal retirement age for each year of pensionable service. This is subject to the beneﬁt not exceeding one thirtieth 
of the scheme speciﬁc earnings cap for each year of pensionable service, which applies to members who joined the Plan on or after 
1 June 1989. Normal retirement age is 65 (60 for ex-HSBC members).
Career average revalued earnings
The career average revalued earnings section provides an accrual each year of a unit of one forty-ﬁfth, one sixtieth or one 
eightieth (depending on the level of employee contribution) of pensionable salary for that year . The unit is then revalued in each 
subsequent year by the rate of growth in the Retail Prices Index until normal retirement age. The normal retirement age under this 
section is 65 except for certain executives whose normal retirement age is set at 62, where the accrual rate is one forty-ﬁfth.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for 
the year are analysed as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Recognised in the Income Statement
Current service cost      (253) (235)
Recognised in arriving at proﬁt from operations     (253) (235)
Expected return on scheme assets      6,840 8,363
Interest cost on scheme liabilities      (6,695) (7,496)
Other ﬁnance income       145 867
Taken to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Actual return on scheme assets      12,160 1,777
Less: expected return on scheme assets      (6,840) (8,363)
      5,320 (6,586)
Other actuarial losses      (14,480) (2,282)
Actuarial losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  (9,160) (8,868) 98
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
14 Retirement beneﬁt plans continued
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 January 2004 in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income is a loss of £7 ,970,000 (2011 gain of £1,190,000). The directors are unable to determine how much of the 
pension scheme deﬁcit recognised on transition to IFRS and taken directly to equity of £38,240,000 is attributable to actuarial 
gains and losses since inception of the Group’s pension scheme. Consequently, the directors are unable to determine the amount 
of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Group Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
before 1 January 2004.
The following tables summarise the components of net beneﬁt expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement and 
the funded status and amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan.
Net beneﬁt expense
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Current service cost      (253) (235)
Interest cost on scheme liabilities      (6,695) (7,496)
Expected return on scheme assets      6,840 8,363
Net beneﬁt (expense) / income      (108) 632
Actual return on plan assets      12,160 1,777
Beneﬁt asset / (liability)
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation      (158,717) (144,271)
Fair value of plan assets      137,004 130,085
Net pension deﬁcit      (21,713) (14,186)
The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation comprises £159 million (2011 £144 million) arising from a partly funded plan.
Present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation
Changes in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation are as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Opening deﬁned beneﬁt obligation      144,271 140,527
Interest cost      6,695 7,496
Current service cost      253 235
Beneﬁts paid      (6,982) (6,269)
Actuarial losses on obligations      14,480 2,282
Closing deﬁned beneﬁt obligation      158,717 144,271 99
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
14 Retirement beneﬁt plans continued
Fair value of plan assets
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Opening fair value of plan assets      130,085 130,848
Expected return on plan assets      6,840 8,363
Contributions by employer       1,741 3,729
Beneﬁts paid      (6,982) (6,269)
Actuarial gains / (losses) on assets      5,320 (6,586)
Closing fair value of plan assets      137,004 130,085
The Group expects to pay £1.7 million to the deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme in 2013, £1.15m annual rent and £0.6m administration 
costs (2012 £1.95 million).
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of the fair value of total plan assets are as follows:
      2012 2011 
      % %
Asset category
Equities      58 48
Bonds / Gilts / Cash      41 42
Property      – 8
Other      1 2
      100 100
None of the above represents equities or bonds issued by the Group, nor properties owned by the Group.
In February 2012 the Group and the Trustees agreed to an arrangement involving the securitisation of a rental stream on one of 
the Group’s freehold properties to help address the pension fund deﬁcit. In connection with the arrangement certain freehold 
property was transferred to a limited partnership established by the Group. The partnership is controlled by, and its results are 
consolidated by the Group. The fair value of the assets transferred was £9.8m and on the same date the Pension Scheme used the 
contribution to acquire an interest in the partnership for its fair value of £9.8m. The Pension Scheme’s partnership interest entitles 
it to a distribution from the income of the partnership over 15 years. At inception the discounted value of the cash distributions 
was assessed at £9.8m which was recognised as a pension plan asset that reduced the funding deﬁcit by the same amount. As 
part of the arrangement the Trustees agreed that the £9.8m constituted a prepayment for the years 2012 to 2014 inclusive. 
Consequently the annual payments to the Pension Scheme will be limited to the annual rent on the property of £1.15m between 
2012 and 2014 and then increase to £4.15m from 2015 onwards, subject to review after the next triennial valuation in 2014. 100
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
14 Retirement beneﬁt plans continued
Assumptions
The valuation has been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the scheme as at 31 March 2011 (the date of the last 
completed triennial valuation at the balance sheet date) updated by independent qualiﬁed actuaries to take account of the 
requirements of IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts in order to assess the liabilities of the scheme at 31 December 2012.
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group 
considered the current level of expected return on risk-free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of 
the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns 
of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted, based on the asset allocation, to develop the 
assumed expected long-term rate of return on assets of 5.71% for the portfolio for the year ended 31 December 2012 (2011 5.86%).
The principal weighted average assumptions used to determine beneﬁt obligations for the Group’s plan are shown below:
      2012 2011 
      % %
Discount rate      4.30 4.75
Rate of compensation increase      2.95 3.05
Inﬂation assumption – Retail Prices Index      2.95 3.05
Inﬂation assumption – Consumer Prices Index      2.25 2.05
Mortality rates
Assumed life expectancy for a member aged 65 is as follows:
      Years Years
Current pensioners:
 Male      21.4 20.9
 Female      23.9 23.1
Future pensioners:
 Male      22.7 21.4
 Female      25.2 23.9
A 0.25 percentage point change (in absolute terms), in the factors below, would have the following effects:
      Increase Decrease 
      £000 £000
Discount rate
Effect on current service cost and interest cost     240 (240)
Effect on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation      (6,500) 6,900
Inﬂation
Effect on current service cost and interest cost     (190) 190
Effect on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation      4,400 (4,700) 101
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
14 Retirement beneﬁt plans continued
   2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 
Five-year history   £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation   (158,717) (144,271) (140,527) (155,460) (135,200)
Fair value of plan assets   137,004 130,085 130,848 137,942 124,100
Deﬁcit   (21,713) (14,186) (9,679) (17,518) (11,100)
   2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 
History of experience gains and losses    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Experience adjustments on plan assets   5,320 (6,586) 5,363 14,389 (31,855)
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities   – 5,183 – (2,134) (1,239)
Changes in actuarial assumptions   (14,480) (7,465) (3,133) (21,008) 34,334
15 Inventories
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Raw materials      3,750 3,432
Work in progress      2,003 2,811
Finished goods      1,670 1,671
      7,423 7,914
All inventories are held at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
16 Trade and other receivables
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Trade receivables      30,521 25,935
Prepayments, accrued income and other receivables     11,075 8,734
      41,596 34,669
Current      41,527 34,545
Non-current      69 124
      41,596 34,669
Prepayments, accrued income and other receivables includes £nil (2011 £450,000) of deferred consideration due to the Group on 
the disposal of the Bath business. The deferred consideration was fully paid during the year .
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and generally on 30-90 days’ credit terms. The carrying value of trade receivables 
is considered a reasonable approximation of fair value. All of the Group’s trade and other receivables have been reviewed for 
indicators of impairment. 102
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
16 Trade and other receivables continued
The doubtful debt provision has moved as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
At 1 January       344 360
Provisions made during the year      1 130
Amounts written off as uncollectable      – (148)
Released during year      (180) –
Exchange adjustment      – 2
At 31 December       165 344
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable 
from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third 
parties. The top 10 customers make up 72% of the receivables balance (2011 71%). Generally, customers who wish to trade on 
credit terms are subject to credit veriﬁcation procedures. In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with 
the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not signiﬁcant. 
During the year the Group has entered into trade credit insurance arrangements which cover 60% of the Group’s turnover up to a 
maximum aggregate claim in any one year of £4 million. The concentration of credit risk is therefore limited to the carrying value 
of trade debtors not covered by the credit insurance. Accordingly the directors believe that there is no further credit provision 
required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts in respect of the portion not covered by the credit insurance and an excess 
of £85,000 in respect of the portion covered by the credit insurance. Certain trade receivables were found to be impaired and a 
provision of £165,000 (2011 £344,000) is carried at the year end. Trade receivables are shown net of this doubtful debt provision.
In addition, some of the unimpaired trade receivables are past due as at the reporting date. The age of ﬁnancial assets past due 
but not impaired is as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Overdue by less than 30 days      2,308 839
30 – 60 days overdue      373 65
60 – 90 days overdue      121 5
90+ days      161 –
      2,963 909 103
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
17 Financial assets and liabilities
17 .1 Financial assets by category
The IAS 39 categories of ﬁnancial asset included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the headings in which they are included are 
as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Non-current assets  
Trade and other receivables – Loans and receivables     – 50
Current assets
Trade and other receivables – Loans and receivables     36,577 31,514
Cash and cash equivalents      21,548 13,280
      58,125 44,794
17 .2 Financial liabilities by category
The IAS 39 categories of ﬁnancial liability included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the headings in which they are included 
are as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Non-current liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost  40,000 36,000
Trade and other payables – Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost   766 223
Hire purchase commitments       848 1,660
Provisions      761 1,127
      42,375 39,010
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables – Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost   66,023 54,629
Cash ﬂow hedges      64 108
Hire purchase commitments       1,030 903
Provisions      1,321 1,798
      68,438 57,438
Disclosures have been provided in the current year for trade and other payables, hire purchase commitments and provisions within 
this note. Prior year comparatives have also been included. 104
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
18 Cash and cash equivalents
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand      21,548 13,280
Cash at bank earns interest at ﬂoating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is 
£21,548,000 (2011 £13,280,000). Cash at bank includes an amount of £76,500 (2011 £76,500) held in a separate bank account for 
the purposes of repaying certain creditors following the cancellation of the share premium account.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand      21,548 13,280
19 Equity share capital and reserves
 2012 2011
   Number of   Number of 
   shares £000  shares £000
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 25p each   141,004,215 35,251  138,651,540 34,663
The Group has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to ﬁxed income.
The Group has four share option schemes under which options to subscribe for the Company’s shares have been granted to 
employees (Note 13).
Share premium reserve
This represents the share premium attaching to those shares issued upon the exercise of certain share options. 
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve is used to record the effect of share capital buy-backs made by the Company where the nominal 
value of share capital acquired is transferred to this reserve.
ESOP reserve
The ESOP reserve is used to record the investment in Communisis plc shares held by the employee share ownership plan (‘‘ESOP’’). 
The ESOP is for the beneﬁt of all employees and can be used in conjunction with any of the Group’s share schemes. The ESOP reserve 
holds 573,730 shares at 31 December 2012 (2011 886,138) with an average cost of 60.34p (2011 60.34p) and the market value of 
these shares is £225,189 (2011 £238,194).
Merger reserve
This represents the share premium attaching to those shares issued upon the acquisition of subsidiaries. 
Cumulative translation adjustment
The cumulative translation adjustment reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial 
statements of foreign subsidiaries. This reserve was reset to zero on 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS. 105
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
20 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
   2012 2011 
 Maturity  £000 £000
Current
Hire purchase contracts October 2015  1,030 903
   1,030 903
Non-current
Hire purchase contracts October 2015  848 1,660
£45,000,000 bank loan (2011 £40,000,000) August 2014  39,670 35,447
   40,518 37,107
Hire purchase
See Note 25 for full details. One further contract has been entered into during the year .
Bank overdrafts
The bank overdrafts are principally denominated in sterling and bear interest at rates set by reference to the UK Base Rate. 
The overdrafts are secured by cross guarantee arrangements with the relevant banks. At 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 
bank overdraft facilities of £5,000,000 were available but not utilised.
£45,000,000 Bank loan
This loan is secured by a cross guarantee arrangement and is repayable on 24 August 2014. Interest is charged at LIBOR plus a rate 
of between 2.50% and 4.25% depending on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA in the preceding performance period.
The Group is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its borrowing, which, if breached, would result in its loans becoming 
immediately repayable. These covenants specify certain maximum limits in terms of net debt as a multiple of EBITDA, interest 
payable as a multiple of EBITDA and cash ﬂow as a multiple of debt service costs. At the year end the Group was not in breach of any 
bank covenants.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had available £5,000,000 (2011 £4,000,000) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect 
of which all conditions precedent had been met.
With the exception of hire purchase agreements, early repayment is possible under the terms of all the borrowing facilities listed 
above at no cost by giving more than ﬁve days notice. 106
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
21 Provisions
    Business Onerous Litigation
  restructuring leases provisions Total
    £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2012    25 2,590 310 2,925
Arising in the year    120 – 288 408
Utilised    – (950) (98) (1,048)
Released in the year    (25) (35) (143) (203)
At 31 December 2012    120 1,605 357 2,082
Current 2012    120 844 357 1,321
Non-current 2012    – 761 – 761
At 31 December 2012    120 1,605 357 2,082
Current 2011    25 1,606 167 1,798
Non-current 2011    – 984 143 1,127
At 31 December 2011    25 2,590 310 2,925
Business restructuring
The provision for business restructuring represents management’s best estimate of the Group’s expected costs relating to the 
closure of the Bristol site. It is expected that the costs will be incurred within one year of the balance sheet date.
Onerous leases
The exceptional property provisions relate primarily to the estimated costs for the rental obligations, dilapidations and other 
costs of surplus premises which are long-term in nature. The provision reﬂects the estimated discounted net cost to the Group 
over the remainder of the lease period. It is expected that the costs will be incurred within three years of the balance sheet date.
Litigation provisions
This provision represents management’s best estimate of the outcome of potential historical contractual liabilities.
22 Trade and other payables
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Trade payables      45,035 37,635
Other payables      12,127 7,225
Taxation and social security      3,067 2,038
Accruals and deferred income      8,169 9,537
Interest payable      18 12
      68,416 56,447
Current      67,650 56,224
Non-current      766 223
      68,416 56,447
Trade and other payables are non–interest bearing and generally on 30-90 days’ credit terms. The carrying values are considered to 
be a reasonable approximation of fair value. 107
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
23 Financial liabilities
       2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Current liabilities:
Interest rate swaps      64 108
      64 108
Interest rate swaps
During the ﬁrst half of 2012 the Group had two interest rate swap arrangements in place to mitigate the impact of ﬂoating interest 
rates; those arrangements matured in June and were subsequently replaced by a single arrangement with a notional amount of 
£18,351,000, whereby the Group pays a ﬁxed rate of interest of 3.715%, and receives a variable rate equal to LIBOR+3% on the 
notional amount.
Fair value hierarchy
The Group used the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments by valuation 
technique;
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a signiﬁcant effect on the recorded fair value are observable either 
directly or indirectly
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a signiﬁcant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable 
market data.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group held the following ﬁnancial instruments measured at fair value:
    2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 
    £000 £000 £000 £000
Financial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss
Interest rate swaps    64 – 64 –
During the year there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into or out of Level 
3 fair value measurements. 108
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
24 Obligations under operating leases
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessee
Motor vehicles and machinery leases
The Group has entered into commercial leases on motor vehicles and items of machinery (including high-speed colour digital 
presses). These leases have a remaining life of between one and ﬁve years.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
No later than one year      3,464 2,600
After one year but no more than ﬁve years      9,172 11,219
      12,636 13,819
Land and building leases
The Group has entered into commercial land and building leases. These leases have a remaining life of between one and 69 years.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
No later than one year      2,217 2,394
After one year but no more than ﬁve years      6,566 7,394
After ﬁve years      9,652 11,648
      18,435 21,436
Operating lease commitments – Group as lessor
Surplus land and building leases
The Group has entered into commercial land and building leases consisting of the Group’s surplus office and manufacturing 
buildings. These leases have a remaining life of between one and 59 years.
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
No later than one year      865 1,011
After one year but no more than ﬁve years      3,435 3,956
After ﬁve years      2,997 4,432
      7,297 9,399 109
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
25 Hire purchase commitments
The Group has entered into hire purchase contracts for various items of plant and machinery with a purchase option at the end of 
the lease term, for a nominal fee. Future minimum lease payments under ﬁnance leases and hire purchase contracts together with 
the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows:
 2012 2011
     Present  Present 
     value of  value of 
    Minimum payments Minimum payments 
    payments (Note 20) payments (Note 20) 
    £000 £000 £000 £000
Within one year    1,110 1,030 1,027 903
After one year but no more than ﬁve years    877 848 1,752 1,660
Total minimum lease payments    1,987 1,878 2,779 2,563
Less amounts representing ﬁnance charges    (109) – (216) –
Present value of minimum lease payments    1,878 1,878 2,563 2,563
26 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s principal ﬁnancial instruments comprise bank loans and overdrafts (Note 20), cash and short-term deposits 
(Note 18) and forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps (Note 23). The main purpose of these ﬁnancial instruments is to 
raise ﬁnance for the Group’s operations and to manage exchange rate and interest rate risk. The Group has various other ﬁnancial 
assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Group’ s policy that no trading in ﬁnancial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments are cash ﬂow interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk and 
credit risk.
Cash ﬂow interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s medium-term debt obligations 
with a ﬂoating interest rate.
All borrowings are held on ﬂoating rate terms and so the Group is exposed to interest rate movements on these borrowings. 
The Group’s policy is to monitor interest rate exposure on this ﬂoating rate debt and maintain interest rate swaps through separate 
ﬁnancial instruments where appropriate. During the ﬁrst half of 2012 the Group had two interest rate swap arrangements in place 
to mitigate the impact of ﬂoating interest rates; those arrangements matured in June and were subsequently replaced by a single 
arrangement. This new arrangement covers 99.45% of the year end bank debt (2011 44.01%). This arrangement matures in 2014.
At 31 December 2012, if interest rates had been 100 basis points higher for the full ﬁnancial year , with all other variables held 
constant, this would have resulted in a reduction of pre-tax proﬁts of £216,000 and a post-tax reduction in equity of £163,000;  
if interest rates had been lower by 25 basis points throughout the ﬁnancial year the pre-tax proﬁts would have been £54,000 
higher and the post-tax impact on equity would have been an increase of £41,000. 
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates principally in the UK with approximately 6.6% (2011 3.6%) of sales arising from companies operating with 
functional currencies other than sterling. The value of currency exposure is not signiﬁcant to the Group. The Group enters into 
forward foreign exchange contracts to cover speciﬁc foreign currency payments and receipts and to manage the risk associated 
with the anticipated sale and purchase transactions. The foreign currency contracts outstanding at the year-end comprise 
contracts to buy €147 ,000 at an average exchange rate of €1.2278:£1 giving an overall contract value of £120,000. These contracts 
mature in less than 12 months from the balance sheet date. The fair value of these contracts amount to £nil. 110
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
26 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Liquidity risk
The Group regularly monitors its risk to a shortage of funds taking account of the maturity proﬁle of its ﬁnancial assets and 
liabilities and the projected cash ﬂows from operations.
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and ﬂexibility through a mix of medium-term funding 
of committed ﬂoating rate facilities supplemented by uncommitted bank overdraft facilities. At 31 December 2012 none of the 
Group’s medium-term debt matures in less than twelve months (2011 Nil) but 100% matures between one and two years from the 
balance sheet date (2011 Nil). None of the medium-term debt matures between two and ﬁve years from the balance sheet date 
(2011 100%).
The directors consider this funding structure to be adequate for the Group’s current requirements.
The maturity proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 December 2012 is shown in Note 27 .
Credit risk
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties. Generally, customers who wish to trade on credit terms are 
subject to credit veriﬁcation procedures. During the year the Group has entered into trade credit insurance arrangements which 
cover 60% of the Group’s turnover up to a maximum aggregate claim in any one year of £4 million. The concentration of credit risk 
is therefore limited to the carrying value of trade debtors not covered by the credit insurance as disclosed in Note 16. The Group’s 
exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of 
these instruments. As at the balance sheet date there are no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
The credit risk arising from the other ﬁnancial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, is managed by Group 
treasury in accordance with Group policy. Investments of surplus funds are only made with established banks approved by the 
Board. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying 
amount of these instruments.
Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital 
ratios in order to support the business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, being bank debt divided by equity plus bank debt. The policy is to maintain 
the gearing ratio below 50%. Within bank debt the Group includes all interest-bearing loans and borrowings, less cash and cash 
equivalents.
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings      40,000 36,000
Less cash and cash equivalents      (21,548) (13,280)
Bank debt      18,452 22,720
Equity      125,187 128,792
Capital and bank debt      143,639 151,512
Gearing ratio      13% 15%
For the purposes of capital management, the Group considers undiscounted interest-bearing loans and borrowings as the 
appropriate measure for the purposes of determining bank debt. 111
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
27 Financial instruments
The following table sets out the maturity of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk, based on 
contractual undiscounted payments.
At 31 December 2012
      More  
 Within 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 than 5 
 1 year years years years years years Total 
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash assets 21,548 – – – – – 21,548
Trade payables (45,035) – – – – – (45,035)
£45,000,000 bank loan (1,497) (40,998) – – – – (42,495)
Forward currency contract        
 Outﬂow (120) – – – – – (120)
 Inﬂow 120 – – – – – 120
Interest rate swaps (64) – – – – – (64)
Provisions  (1,321) (295) (311) (155) – – (2,082)
Hire purchase (1,030) (678) (170) – – – (1,878)
 (27,399) (41,971) (481) (155) – – (70,006)
At 31 December 2011
      More  
 Within 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 than 5 
 1 year years years years years years Total 
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash assets 13,280 – – – – – 13,280
Trade payables (37,635) – – – – – (37,635)
£40,000,000 bank loan (1,448) (1,448) (36,966) – – – (39,862)
Forward currency contract        
 Outﬂow – – – – – – –
 Inﬂow – – – – – – –
Interest rate swaps (108) – – – – – (108)
Provisions  (1,798) (473) (295) (359) – – (2,925)
Hire purchase (903) (957) (601) (102) – – (2,563)
 (28,612) (2,878) (37,862) (461) – – (69,813) 112
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
27 Financial instruments continued
 Carrying amount Fair value
 2012 2011 2010  2012 2011 2010 
 £000 £000 £000  £000 £000 £000
Financial assets
Cash assets 21,548 13,280 3,202  21,548 13,280 3,202
Trade receivables 30,521 25,935 20,825  30,521 25,935 20,825
 52,069 39,215 24,027  52,069 39,215 24,027
Financial liabilities
Trade payables (45,035) (37,635) (28,235)  (45,035) (37,635) (28,235)
Other ﬁnancial liabilities:       
 Loans (39,670) (35,447) (19,000)  (42,165) (39,309) (19,067)
 Forward currency contract – – (26)  – – (26)
 Interest rate swaps (64) (108) (311)  (64) (108) (311)
 Provisions  (2,082) (2,925) (2,024)  (2,082) (2,925) (2,024)
 Hire purchase commitments (1,878) (2,563) (3,317)  (1,878) (2,563) (3,317)
 (88,729) (78,678) (52,913)  (91,224) (82,540) (52,980)
28 Capital commitments
At 31 December 2012, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 
amounting to £474,000 (2011 £497 ,000).
29 Contingent liabilities
The Group has contingent liabilities where it has provided rental guarantees to landlords in respect of certain leasehold properties 
occupied by companies that were formerly subsidiaries of the Group, but have subsequently been sold. The principal risk is that 
current leasehold occupants will become insolvent and that guarantees will be called, resulting in a material cash cost to the 
Group. To the extent that they have not already been called, these guarantees represent contingent liabilities of the Group. Other 
than those leases for which the liability is considered to be remote, the Group has guaranteed rentals on leases with remaining 
terms that vary from one month to eleven years, with annual rentals that range from £9,000 to £856,000 per annum. No provision 
for these guarantees has been made in the Financial Statements because, at the balance sheet date, the directors believe that it is 
not probable that any further guarantees will be called.
30 Events after the balance sheet date
Share issue
The Board announced on 14 February 2013 the details of a Firm Placing, Placing and Open Offer to raise £20 million (approximately 
£18.9 million net of expenses) through the issue of 50,000,000 new ordinary shares at an issue price of 40 pence per new ordinary 
share, subject to Shareholder approval. This was given at the General Meeting on 5 March 2013.
Bank facilities extension
On 14 February 2013, Communisis increased its committed bank facilities by £10 million to a total of £55 million. The new facilities 
comprise two new tranches to the multi-currency revolving credit facility, being (i) a £5 million tranche and (ii) a further £5 million 
tranche which Communisis may utilise by way of an overdraft facility (with such overdraft being provided on a committed basis). 113
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
30 Events after the balance sheet date continued
Bank facilities extension continued
It is a requirement of the facility agreement that the net proceeds of the equity raise are used to repay the facilities extension. 
On completion of the equity raise and repayment of the £10 million additional facilities, it is expected that Barclays Bank PLC will 
provide an uncommitted overdraft facility of £5 million to replace it, such that the amount of the overdraft facilities available 
to the Company will remain unchanged. The Group’s bank facilities will then total £50 million, comprising a £45 million multi-
currency revolving credit facility (committed until 24 August 2014) and an uncommitted £5 million overdraft facility.
31 Cash generated from operations
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Continuing operations
Proﬁt before tax      6,777 4,160
Adjustments for:
 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business acquisitions    777 516
 Depreciation and other amortisation      6,682 6,408
 Excess of contributions paid over Income Statement pension costs    (99) (95)
 Exceptional items      2,740 4,333
 Proﬁt on sale of property, plant & equipment      (10) (240)
 Share-based payment charge      190 132
 Net ﬁnance costs      2,037 913
 Additional contribution to the deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan    (863) (2,975)
 Cash cost of exceptional items      (3,663) (3,926)
Changes in working capital:
 Decrease / (increase) in inventories      483 (567)
 Increase in trade and other receivables      (8,472) (7,431)
 Increase in trade and other payables      7,933 7,545
Cash generated from operations      14,512 8,773
32 Related party transactions
During the year the directors were remunerated for services provided to the Group. This is disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 52 to 63. The directors are considered to be key management personnel.
There were no other related party transactions in the year .
For details of compensation of key management personnel see Note 5.3. 114
for the year ended 31 December 2012
33 Investments
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Financial Statements of Communisis plc, the ultimate parent undertaking, and 
all subsidiary undertakings. The Group’s trading subsidiary operations are listed in the following table. 
 Country of % equity % equity 
Name incorporation interest 2012 interest 2011 Immediate parent
Communisis UK Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Communisis plc
Communisis France SARL  France 100 100 Communisis Europe Limited
Communisis Ireland Limited Ireland 100 100 Communisis UK Limited
Communisis Data Intelligence Limited  United Kingdom 100 100 Communisis UK Limited
Communisis Italia Srl Italy 100 100 Communisis Europe Limited
Communisis Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 100 Communisis Europe Limited
Communisis Spain SL Spain 100 100 Communisis Europe Limited
Kieon Limited United Kingdom 100 – Communisis 2012 Limited
Yomego Limited United Kingdom 100 – Communisis 2012 Limited
The Garden Marketing Limited United Kingdom 49 – Communisis 2012 Limited
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under section 410(2) of the Companies Act 2006 to only disclose 
above those undertakings that principally affect the results or ﬁnancial position of the Group.
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements continued 115
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Independent Auditor’s report to the 
members of Communisis plc
We have audited the Group Financial Statements of 
Communisis plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 
which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity and the related Notes 1 to 33. The ﬁnancial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and International Financial Reporting  
Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and 
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on pages 50 and 51, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the Group Financial 
Statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair 
view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on 
the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error . This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates 
made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
ﬁnancial statements. In addition we read all the ﬁnancial and 
non-ﬁnancial information in the annual report and ﬁnancial 
statements to identify any material inconsistencies with 
the audited ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of 
any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements:
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2012 and of its proﬁt for the year then 
ended;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union; and
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the 
ﬁnancial year for which the Group Financial Statements are 
prepared is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements; and
 the information given in the Corporate Governance Report 
set out on pages 44 to 49 with respect to internal control 
and risk management systems in relation to ﬁnancial 
reporting processes and about share capital structure is 
consistent with the ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion:
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by 
law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
 a Corporate Governance Report has not been prepared by 
the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 the directors’ statement, set out on page 42, in relation to 
going concern;
 the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 
to 49 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code speciﬁed for  
our review; and
 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
on directors’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company Financial 
Statements of Communisis plc for the year ended 31 December 
2012 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report that is described as having been audited. 
Christabel Cowling (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor 
Leeds 
7 March 2013
Report of the Auditor on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements 116
Company Balance Sheet
31 December 2012
      2012 2011 
     Note £000 £000
Fixed assets
Tangible assets     5 1,169 1,214
Investments     6 212,977 212,977
      214,146 214,191
Current assets
Debtors     7 1,797 1,999
Cash at bank and in hand     8 11,218 10,052
      13,015 12,051
Creditors (amounts due within one year)
Borrowings     9 (3,802) (10,024)
Other creditors     10 (5,389) (5,312)
      (9,191) (15,336)
Net current assets / (liabilities)      3,824 (3,285)
Total assets less current liabilities      217,970 210,906
Creditors (amounts due after one year)
Borrowings     9 (39,670) (35,447)
Loans due to group undertakings      (79,746) (81,738)
Provisions for liabilities     12 (673) (1,634)
Net assets excluding net pension liability      97,881 92,087
Net pension liability     17 (1,815) (1,071)
Net assets      96,066 91,016
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital     13 35,251 34,663
Share premium account     15 22 22
Capital redemption reserve     15 1,375 1,375
Merger reserve     15 10,908 10,908
ESOP reserve     14 (346) (535)
Proﬁt and loss account     16 48,856 44,583
Equity shareholders' funds      96,066 91,016
The Financial Statements on pages 116 to 135 were approved by the Board on 7 March 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
Andy Blundell 
Nigel Howes 
Directors
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Financial Statements. 117
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Reconciliation of Movements in Equity 
Shareholders’ Funds
for the year ended 31 December 2012
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Proﬁt / (loss) attributable to shareholders      7,356 (23,112)
Ordinary dividends paid      (2,137) (1,879)
Adjustment in respect of prior years due to change in tax rate    (29) (17)
Share options exercised      588 12
Purchase of own shares      – (197)
(Loss) / gain on cash ﬂow hedges taken to equity     (64) 26
Actuarial losses on deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan     (1,128) (1,091)
Deferred tax on items taken directly to equity      274 266
Employee share option schemes – value of services provided    190 132
      5,050 (25,860)
Equity shareholders' funds at start of year      91,016 116,876
Equity shareholders’ funds at end of year      96,066 91,016
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Financial Statements. 118
Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements
1 Accounting policies
1.1 Basis of preparation
The Company Financial Statements are prepared in accordance 
with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards 
and under the historical cost convention and are made up to 31 
December each year .
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided 
by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its 
individual Proﬁt and Loss Account and related notes.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption in 
paragraph 2D of FRS 29 and have excluded disclosures relating 
to ﬁnancial instruments from these Financial Statements 
as disclosures are included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Group.
The Company has net current assets of £3,824,000 (2011 
liabilities of £3,285,000) as at 31 December 2012. The 
Company’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its 
liquidity risk, as well as potential exposure to cash ﬂow interest 
rate risk, are described in Note 26 in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. 
Through the Group, the Company has considerable ﬁnancial 
resources and as a consequence, the directors believe that the 
Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully 
despite the continuing uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company has adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the Financial Statements.
1.2 Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies
Tangible ﬁxed assets
Tangible ﬁxed assets in the Financial Statements of the 
Company are stated at cost, less aggregate depreciation and 
any provision for impairment.
Depreciation
The charge is calculated at rates appropriate to write off the 
cost less residual value of individual assets from the time they 
become operational by equal annual instalments over their 
estimated useful economic lives which are principally as follows:
Freehold property 25 to 50 years
Plant, equipment and motor vehicles 4 to 10 years
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for 
impairment.
Impairment
In accordance with FRS 11 ‘Impairment of ﬁxed assets and 
goodwill’, ﬁxed assets are subject to an impairment review if 
circumstances or events change to indicate that the carrying 
value may not be fully recoverable. The review is performed 
by comparing the carrying value of the ﬁxed asset to its 
recoverable amount, being the higher of the net realisable 
value and value in use. The net realisable value is considered to 
be the amount that could be obtained on disposal of the asset. 
The value in use of the asset is determined by discounting, at a 
market-based pre-tax discount rate, the expected future cash 
ﬂows resulting from its continued use, including those arising 
from its ultimate disposal. 
When the carrying values of ﬁxed assets are written down by 
any impairment amount, the loss is recognised in the Proﬁt 
and Loss Account in the period in which it occurred. Should 
circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal of 
a previous impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the 
Proﬁt and Loss Account in the period in which it occurs and the 
carrying value of the asset is increased. The increase in the 
carrying value of the asset will only be up to the amount that it 
would have been had the original impairment not occurred. 
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, income 
generating units are considered to be groups of assets and 
liabilities that generate income, and are largely independent 
of other income streams. They also include those assets and 
liabilities directly involved in producing the income and a 
suitable proportion of those central assets used to produce 
more than one income stream.
Taxation
Current tax, being UK corporation tax, is provided at amounts 
expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and 
laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised as a liability or asset in respect of 
all timing differences that have originated but not reversed 
if the transactions or events that give rise to an obligation 
to pay more tax in future, or a right to pay less tax in future, 
have occurred by the balance sheet date, with the following 
exceptions:
for the year ended 31 December 2012 119
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Taxation continued
 provision is made for tax on gains arising from the 
revaluation (and similar fair value adjustments) of ﬁxed 
assets, and gains on disposal of ﬁxed assets that have 
been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the 
extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding 
agreement to dispose of the assets concerned. However, 
no provision is made where, on the basis of all available 
evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not 
that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement 
assets and charged to tax only where the replacement 
assets are sold;
 provision is made for deferred tax that would arise 
on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas 
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the 
extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been 
accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the 
directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will 
be suitable taxable proﬁts from which the underlying timing 
differences can be deducted. Deferred tax is measured on an 
undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply 
in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax 
rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is 
also recognised in equity.
Foreign currencies
The Company’ s functional currency and presentation currency is 
pounds sterling. Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded 
at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated 
at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All 
differences are taken to the Proﬁt and Loss Account. Non-
monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a 
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the 
dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured 
at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the 
exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
Pension costs
The Company operates deﬁned contribution and deﬁned 
beneﬁt pension plans.
Payments to deﬁned contribution pension plans are charged 
as an expense to the Proﬁt and Loss Account as incurred when 
the related employee service is rendered. The Company has 
no further legal or constructive payment obligations once the 
contributions have been made.
The deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan is a Group scheme. The 
Company’s share of the assets and liabilities of the scheme  
has been allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis.
An interest cost representing the unwinding of the discount 
rate on the scheme’s liabilities, net of the expected return on 
scheme assets, is charged to the Proﬁt and Loss Account. The 
liability recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of the plan 
is the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the 
balance sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets net 
of deferred tax. The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is calculated 
annually by independent actuaries. The present value of the 
deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is determined by discounting the 
estimated future cash outﬂows using interest rates of AA rated 
corporate bonds that have terms of maturity approximating to 
the terms of the relevant pension liability.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the 
present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation and the 
fair value of plan assets are recognised immediately in the 
Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses. 
Leases
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the 
Proﬁt and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
Employee Share Ownership Plan
The Company maintains an Employee Share Ownership Plan 
(“ESOP”). All assets and liabilities of the ESOP are accounted for 
in accordance with UITF 38 ‘Accounting for ESOP Trusts’. The 
investment in Communisis plc shares held by the ESOP trust 
is classiﬁed at original cost as a deduction from shareholders’ 
funds. 
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of 
transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated 
at amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net 
of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in 
the Proﬁt and Loss Account over the period of the borrowings 
using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classiﬁed as current liabilities unless the 
Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of  
the liability for at least twelve months after the balance 
sheet date.
Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred.
for the year ended 31 December 2012 120
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, 
it is probable that an outﬂow of resources embodying 
economic beneﬁts will be required to settle the obligation 
and a reliable estimate can be made, but there is some 
uncertainty about the timing of the future expenditure 
required in settlement. If the effect of the time value of 
money is material, provisions are determined by discounting 
the expected future cash ﬂows at a pre-tax rate that reﬂects 
current market assessments of the time value of money and, 
where appropriate, the risks speciﬁc to the liability. Where 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the 
passage of time is recognised as a ﬁnance cost. 
Share-based payment transactions
Certain directors and management are eligible to participate in 
share-based payment schemes all of which are equity-settled, 
in return for services provided to Communisis plc.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is 
measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which 
they are granted. The fair value is determined by an external 
valuer using an appropriate model. In valuing equity-settled 
transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, 
other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of 
Communisis plc (‘market conditions’).
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together 
with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in 
which the performance or service conditions are fulﬁlled, 
ending on the date on which the relevant employees become 
fully entitled to the award (‘vesting date’). The cumulative 
expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each 
reporting date reﬂects the extent to which the vesting period 
has expired and the Company’s best estimate of the number of 
equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately 
vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a 
market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting 
irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting 
condition is satisﬁed, provided that all other performance or 
service conditions are satisﬁed.
The Company has taken advantage of the transitional 
provisions of FRS 20 in respect of equity-settled awards and has 
applied FRS 20 only to equity-settled awards granted after  
7 November 2002 that had not vested on or before  
31 December 2004.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as 
if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not 
yet recognised in the Proﬁt and Loss Account for the award is 
expensed immediately. This includes any award where non-
vesting conditions within the control of the Company or the 
employee are not met. Any compensation paid up to the fair 
value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is 
deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being 
treated as an expense in the Proﬁt and Loss Account.
Where an equity-settled award is forfeited, the total cost 
recognised in the Proﬁt and Loss Account to date for the  
award is reversed. 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedge accounting
Initial recognition and subsequent measurement
The Company uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments such as 
forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge 
its foreign currency and interest rate risks respectively. Such 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments are initially recognised at fair 
value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into 
and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are 
carried as ﬁnancial assets when the fair value is positive and as 
ﬁnancial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on 
derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting and the ineffective portion of an effective hedge, 
are taken directly to the Proﬁt and Loss Account.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is the difference 
between the forward exchange rate and the contract rate. 
The forward exchange rate is referenced to current forward 
exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity proﬁles. 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the difference between 
the ﬁxed rate and the one month LIBOR rate implied at the 
balance sheet date, calculated monthly, and discounted to 
present value.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classiﬁed as 
cash ﬂow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash 
ﬂows, that is either attributable to a particular risk associated 
with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast 
transaction, or when hedging the foreign currency risk in an 
unrecognised ﬁrm commitment.
Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012 121
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedge 
accounting continued
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which 
hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is 
formally designated and documented at its inception. This 
documentation identiﬁes the risk management objective and 
strategy for undertaking the hedge, the hedging instrument, 
the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being 
hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout 
its duration. Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in 
offsetting changes in fair value or cash ﬂows and are assessed 
on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been 
highly effective throughout the ﬁnancial reporting periods for 
which they were designated.
Cash ﬂow hedges
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging 
instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any 
ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Proﬁt and 
Loss Account.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the Proﬁt and Loss 
Account when the hedged transaction affects proﬁt or loss, 
such as when the hedged ﬁnancial income or ﬁnancial expense 
is recognised or when a forecast sale occurs. Where the hedged 
item is the cost of a non-ﬁnancial asset or non-ﬁnancial 
liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the 
initial carrying amount of the non-ﬁnancial asset or liability.
If the forecast transaction or ﬁrm commitment is no longer 
expected to occur , amounts previously recognised in equity 
are transferred to the Proﬁt and Loss Account. If the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without 
replacement or rollover , or if its designation as a hedge is 
revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain 
in equity until the forecast transaction or ﬁrm commitment 
occurs.
The Company uses forward exchange contracts as hedges of its 
exposure to foreign currency risk in forecasted transactions and 
ﬁrm commitments. 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 122
Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
2 Operating costs and income
Auditor’s remuneration
The auditor's remuneration charge relating to the year was £10,000 (2011 £10,000).
The parent company is exempt from disclosing remuneration for non-audit services as the Group accounts are required to include 
the information required by Regulation 4(1)(b) of the Companies Regulations 2005 in respect of the Group.
Employee numbers
The average number of persons employed by the Company during the year was:
      2012 2011
      Number Number
United Kingdom      31 31
Directors’ remuneration
Details of individual directors’ remuneration, pension entitlements and interests of the directors in Communisis plc are provided 
within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 63.
Proﬁt attributable to members of the parent company
The proﬁt for the year attributable to members of the parent company was £7 ,356,000 (2011 loss £23,112,000) and is stated after a 
ﬁxed asset investment impairment loss of £nil (2011 £30,399,000).
3 Dividends paid and proposed
      2012 2011
      £000 £000
Declared and paid during the year
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:  
Final dividend of the year ended 31 December 2010 of 0.86p per share    – 1,190
Interim dividend of the year ended 31 December 2011 of 0.50p per share    – 689
Final dividend of the year ended 31 December 2011 of 1.00p per share    1,378 –
Interim dividend of the year ended 31 December 2012 of 0.55p per share    759 –
      2,137 1,879
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognised as a liability as at 31 December)  
Final equity dividend on ordinary shares of 1.10p (2011 1.00p) per share 
(based on issued share capital at the date of approval of the Financial Statements)   2,095 1,378 123
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
4 Deferred taxation
      2012 2011
      £000 £000
The asset at 23% (2011 25%) for deferred taxation is as follows:
Accelerated capital allowances      (5) 4
Other short-term timing differences      288 508
Share-based payments      23 108
Financial liability      15 27
Total deferred tax      321 647
Finance Act 2012 enacted a reduction of the main rate of Corporation Tax from 24% to 23% from April 2013. It was announced in 
the 2012 Budget that this rate was to reduce to 22% from April 2014; subsequently in the Autumn Statement on 28 November 
2012 the intention was announced to reduce the rate of Corporation Tax to 21% from April 2014. The legislation dealing with the 
reduction in rates will be included in future Finance Acts.
The provision for deferred tax at 31 December 2012 has been made at 23%. If the further rate changes had been substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date the deferred tax asset would have reduced by approximately £28,000.
5 Tangible ﬁxed assets
      Plant, 
      equipment 
     Freehold and motor   
     property vehicles Total 
     £000 £000 £000
Cost
1 January 2012     1,100 1,239 2,339
Additions     – 43 43
31 December 2012     1,100 1,282 2,382
Accumulated depreciation
1 January 2012     405 720 1,125
Charge for year     20 68 88
31 December 2012     425 788 1,213
Net book value at 31 December 2012     675 494 1,169
Net book value at 31 December 2011     695 519 1,214 124
Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
6 Investments
     Shares Provisions Total 
     £000 £000 £000
Subsidiaries
As at 1 January 2012 and 31 December 2012     377,233 (164,256) 212,977
The recoverable amount of investments is greater than the carrying amount and therefore no impairment is required. The carrying 
amount has been determined based on the value in use of assets comprising the Company’s investment in subsidiaries, which are 
in turn allocated across the Income Generating Units (“IGUs”) of the Group. These are based upon detailed budgets for the two 
IGUs of the Group – Intelligent Driven Communications (“IDC”) and Specialist Production and Sourcing (“SPS”), for the coming year 
and internal forecasts of future growth over a ﬁve-year period (2011 ﬁve-year period). Cash ﬂows beyond the ﬁve-year period  
(2011 ﬁve-year period) are extrapolated using external forecasts of expected growth rates. 
Revenue growth included in the approved ﬁnancial budgets
The revenue growth forecast in the risk-adjusted IDC cash ﬂow projections based on ﬁnancial budgets is 47% in 2013 and between 
7% and 9% in years two to ﬁve.
The revenue growth forecast in the risk-adjusted SPS cash ﬂow projections based on ﬁnancial budgets is -9% in 2013 and between 
1% and 2% in years two to ﬁve.
Product and services mix/proﬁt margins
IDC is expected to have an increased share of Group revenues relative to SPS over the ﬁve-year forecast period. Higher margins are 
generated in IDC as this IGU beneﬁts from a relatively ﬁxed overhead base which does not ﬂex up as revenues increase. 
The Group proﬁt margin is projected to increase from 6.5% in 2012 (excluding pass through revenue) to 9.5% by the end of the 
detailed forecast period. 
Proﬁt growth rate used to extrapolate cash ﬂows beyond the budget period
The proﬁt growth rate used to extrapolate cash ﬂow projections beyond the budget period for both IGUs is considered to be a 
representative rate for the markets to which these segments are dedicated and in line with long-term economic growth forecasts. 
Proﬁt growth rates have been assessed individually for each IGU. IDC proﬁt growth rates of 2.9% (2011 2.9%), and SPS proﬁt 
growth rates of 2.4% (2011 2.4%) have been used. 
Discount rates
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the IDC cash ﬂow projections is 10.4% (2011 10.0%) and to the SPS cash ﬂow projections 
is 11.6% (2011  11.5%). This is the Group’s weighted average cost of capital adjusted to a pre-tax rate and adjusted to reﬂect 
management’s view of the market assessment of speciﬁc risks associated with each separate IGU. 125
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
6 Investments continued
The Company’s main subsidiary operations are listed in the following table:
  % equity % equity 
 Country of interest interest 
Name incorporation 2012 2011 Immediate parent
Communisis UK Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Communisis plc
Communisis France SARL  France 100 100 Communisis Europe Limited
Communisis Ireland Limited Ireland 100 100 Communisis UK Limited
Communisis Data Intelligence Limited  United Kingdom 100 100 Communisis UK Limited
Communisis Italia Srl Italy 100 100 Communisis Europe Limited
Communisis Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 100 Communisis Europe Limited
Communisis Spain SL Spain 100 100 Communisis Europe Limited
Kieon Limited United Kingdom 100 – Communisis 2012 Limited
Yomego Limited United Kingdom 100 – Communisis 2012 Limited
The Garden Marketing Limited United Kingdom 49 – Communisis 2012 Limited
7 Debtors
      2012 2011
      £000 £000
Trade debtors      310 135
Amounts owed by group undertakings      47 35
Other debtors      566 787
Prepayments and accrued income      273 171
Deferred tax asset (Note 4)      321 647
VAT recoverable      280 224
      1,797 1,999
8 Cash at bank and in hand
      2012 2011
      £000 £000
Cash and bank balances      11,218 10,052 126
Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
9 Borrowings
   2012 2011 
 Interest rate % Maturity £000 £000
Current
Bank overdrafts Base rate + 3.50 On demand 3,802 10,024
   3,802 10,024
Non-current    
£45,000,000 bank loan (2011 £40,000,000) See note below August 2014 39,670 35,447
   39,670 35,447
Bank overdrafts
The bank overdrafts are principally denominated in sterling and bear interest at rates set by reference to the UK Base Rate. 
The overdrafts are secured by cross guarantee arrangements with the relevant banks. 
£45,000,000 Bank loan
This loan is secured by a cross guarantee arrangement and is repayable on 24 August 2014. Interest is charged at LIBOR plus a rate 
of between 2.50% and 4.25% depending on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA in the preceding performance period.
The Company is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its borrowing, which, if breached, would result in its loans 
becoming immediately repayable. These covenants specify certain maximum limits in terms of net debt as a multiple of EBITDA, 
interest payable as a multiple of EBITDA and cash ﬂow as a multiple of debt service costs. At the year end the Company was not in 
breach of any bank covenants.
At 31 December 2012, the Company had available £5,000,000 (2011 £4,000,000) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in 
respect of which all conditions precedent had been met. 
With the exception of hire purchase agreements, early repayment is possible under the terms of all the borrowing facilities listed 
above at no cost by giving more than ﬁve days notice.
10 Other creditors (amounts due within one year)
      2012 2011
      £000 £000
Trade creditors      700 1,005
Amounts due to group companies      3 3
Other creditors      201 325
Corporation tax payable      1,801 1,535
Taxation and social security      1,504 1,411
Accruals and deferred income      1,116 925
Financial liability      64 108
      5,389 5,312 127
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
11 Financial liabilities
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Interest rate swaps      64 108
Interest rate swaps
During the ﬁrst half of 2012 the Company had two interest rate swap arrangements in place to mitigate the impact of ﬂoating 
interest rates; those arrangements matured in June and were subsequently replaced by a single arrangement with a notional 
amount of £18,351,000, whereby the Company pays a ﬁxed rate of interest of 3.715%, and receives a variable rate equal to 
LIBOR+3% on the notional amount.
12 Provisions for liabilities
     Onerous Litigation 
     leases provisions Total 
     £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2012     1,324 310 1,634
Released      (35) (143) (178)
Utilised     (685) (98) (783)
At 31 December 2012     604 69 673
Onerous leases
The exceptional property provisions relate primarily to the estimated costs for the rental obligations, dilapidations and other 
costs of surplus premises which are long-term in nature. The provision reﬂects the estimated discounted net cost to the Group 
over the remainder of the lease period. It is expected that the costs will be incurred within three years of the balance sheet date.
Litigation provisions
This provision represents management’s best estimate of the outcome of potential historical contractual liabilities.
13 Called up share capital
 2012 2011
   Number of   Number of 
   shares £000  shares £000
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 25p each   141,004,215 35,251  138,651,540 34,663
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to ﬁxed income.
The Company has four share option schemes under which options to subscribe for the Company’s shares have been granted to 
employees (Note 18). 128
Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
14 ESOP reserve
The ESOP reserve is used to record the investment in Communisis plc shares held by the employee share ownership plan (“ESOP”). 
The ESOP is for the beneﬁt of all employees and can be used in conjunction with any of the Group’s share schemes. The ESOP reserve 
holds 573,730 shares at 31 December 2012 (2011 886,138) with an average cost of 60.34p (2011 60.34p) and the market value of 
these shares is £225,189 (2011 £238,194).
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale 
and the original cost being taken to retained earnings. No gain or loss is recognised in the Proﬁt and Loss Account on the purchase, 
sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
15 Reserves
    Share Capital 
    premium redemption Merger ESOP 
    account reserve reserve reserve 
    £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 1 January 2012    22 1,375 10,908 (535)
Movement in the year    – – – 189
As at 31 December 2012    22 1,375 10,908 (346)
16 Proﬁt and Loss Account
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
As at 1 January       44,583 70,258
Proﬁt / (loss) for the ﬁnancial year      7,356 (23,112)
Ordinary dividends paid      (2,137) (1,879)
Adjustment in respect of prior years due to change in tax rate    (29) (17)
(Loss) / gain on cash ﬂow hedges taken directly to equity     (49) 19
Actuarial losses recognised in the pension scheme     (1,128) (1,091)
Income tax on items taken directly to equity      259 273
Employee share option schemes – value of services provided    190 132
Shares issued from ESOP      (189) –
As at 31 December      48,856 44,583
17 Pensions and other post-employment beneﬁt plans
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Pension liability      (2,357) (1,428)
Deferred tax      542 357
Net pension liability      (1,815) (1,071)
The Company has complied with the requirements of FRS 17 in the current and preceding period. These Financial Statements 
include a proportion of the Group pension deﬁcit and charge which has been allocated to the Company.
The Company operates deﬁned contribution and deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans. 129
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
17 Pensions and other post-employment beneﬁt plans continued
Deﬁned contribution schemes
The Company operates UK deﬁned contribution arrangements. The assets of the arrangements are held separately from those of 
the Company.
The Company is required to contribute a speciﬁed percentage of payroll costs to the retirement beneﬁt scheme to fund the 
beneﬁts. The only obligation of the Company with respect to the retirement beneﬁt scheme is to make the speciﬁed contributions.
The total cost charged to income of £91,000 (2011 £101,000) represents contributions payable to these arrangements by the 
Company at speciﬁed rates. As at 31 December 2012, contributions of £nil (2011 £nil) due in respect of the current reporting period 
have not been paid over to the arrangements.
The Company expects to contribute £0.1 m (2011 £0.1m) to the deﬁned contribution pension arrangements in 2013.
Deﬁned beneﬁt scheme
The deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme closed to new members on 6 April 2005.
Following the statutory consultation period, the deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan closed to future accrual from 1 December 2007 .
The scheme was closed for all members.
The deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are as follows:
Final salary
The ﬁnal salary section provides a pension of one sixtieth or one eightieth (depending on the level of employee contribution) of 
ﬁnal salary at normal retirement age for each year of pensionable service. This is subject to the beneﬁt not exceeding one thirtieth 
of the scheme speciﬁc earnings cap, which applies to members who joined the Plan on or after 1 June 1989, for each year of 
pensionable service. Normal retirement age is 65.
Career average revalued earnings 
The career average revalued earnings section provides an accrual each year of a unit of one forty-ﬁfth, one sixtieth or one 
eightieth (depending on the level of employee contribution) of pensionable salary for that year . The unit is then revalued in each 
subsequent year by the rate of growth in the Retail Prices Index until normal retirement age. The normal retirement age under this 
section is 65 except for certain executives, where the accrual rate is one forty-ﬁfth, whose normal retirement age is set at 62.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of the fair value of total plan assets are as follows:
      2012 2011 
Asset category      % %
Equities      58 48
Bonds / Gilts / Cash      41 42
Property      – 8
Other      1 2
      100 100
None of the above represents equities or bonds issued by the Company, nor properties owned by the Company. 130
Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
17 Pensions and other post-employment beneﬁt plans continued
Assumptions
The valuation has been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the scheme as at 31 March 2011 (the date of the last 
completed triennial valuation at the balance sheet date) updated by independent qualiﬁed actuaries to take account of the 
requirements of FRS17 Employee Beneﬁts in order to assess the liabilities of the scheme at 31 December 2012.
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the year ended 31 December 2012, the Company 
considered the current level of expected return on risk-free investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of 
the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns 
of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then weighted, based on the asset allocation, to develop the 
assumed expected long-term rate of return on assets of 5.71% for the portfolio for the year ended 31 December 2012 (2011 5.86%).
The principal weighted average assumptions used to determine beneﬁt obligations for the Company’s plan are shown below:
      2012 2011 
      % %
Discount rate      4.30 4.75
Rate of compensation increase      2.95 3.05
Inﬂation assumption – Retail Prices Index      2.95 3.05
Inﬂation assumption – Consumer Prices Index      2.25 2.05
Mortality rates
Assumed life expectancy for a member aged 65 is as follows:    Years Years
Current pensioners:   
 Male      21.4 20.9
 Female      23.9 23.1
Future pensioners:
 Male      22.7 21.4
 Female      25.2 23.9
 
Deferred pensions are revalued to retirement age in line with the plan’s rules and statutory requirements.
The Company expects to contribute £0.2m (2011 £0.2m) to the deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme in 2013. 
In February 2012 the Company and the Trustees agreed to an arrangement involving the securitisation of a rental stream on one 
of the Group’s freehold properties to help address the pension fund deﬁcit. In connection with the arrangement certain freehold 
property was transferred to a limited partnership established by the Company. The partnership is controlled by, and its results 
are consolidated by the Company. The fair value of the assets transferred was £9.8m and on the same date the Pension Scheme 
used the contribution to acquire an interest in the partnership for its fair value of £9.8m. The Pension Scheme’s partnership 
interest entitles it to a distribution from the income of the partnership over 15 years. At inception the discounted value of the cash 
distributions was assessed at £9.8m which was recognised as a pension plan asset that reduced the funding deﬁcit by the same 
amount. As part of the arrangement the Trustees agreed that the £9.8m constituted a prepayment of the Group's liabilities for 
the years 2012 to 2014 inclusive. Consequently the annual payments to the Pension Scheme will be limited to the annual rent on 
the property of £1.15m between 2012 and 2014 and then increase to £4.15m from 2015 onwards, subject to review after the next 
triennial valuation in 2014. 131
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
17 Pensions and other post-employment beneﬁt plans continued
The amounts which have been recognised in the Company Proﬁt and Loss Account and in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains 
and Losses for the year are analysed as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Analysis of net return on pension scheme
Expected return on scheme assets      841 1,026
Interest cost on scheme liabilities      (823) (920)
Interest income       18 106
Analysis of amount recognised in Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets     653 (809)
Experience losses on liabilities      (1,781) (282)
Actuarial losses recognised in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses   (1,128) (1,091)
Beneﬁt asset/(liability)
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation      (18,776) (17,031)
Fair value of plan assets      16,419 15,603
Net pension deﬁcit      (2,357) (1,428)
The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation comprises £18.8 million (2011 £17 million) arising from a partly funded plan.
Present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation
Changes in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation are as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Opening deﬁned beneﬁt obligation      17,031 16,600
Interest cost      823 920
Beneﬁts paid      (859) (771)
Actuarial losses on obligations      1,781 282
Closing deﬁned beneﬁt obligation      18,776 17,031
Fair value of plan assets
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Opening fair value of plan assets      15,603 15,729
Expected return on plan assets      841 1,026
Contributions by employer      181 428
Beneﬁts paid      (859) (771)
Actuarial gains / (losses) on assets      653 (809)
      16,419 15,603 132
Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
17 Pensions and other post-employment beneﬁt plans continued
   2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 
Five-year history   £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation   (18,776) (17,031) (16,600) (18,462) (15,994)
Fair value of plan assets   16,419 15,603 15,729 16,632 14,955
Deﬁcit   (2,357) (1,428) (871) (1,830) (1,039)
History of experience gains and losses   2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Experience adjustments on plan assets (£000)  653 (809) 659 1,770 (3,918)
Percentage of scheme assets   4% 5% 4% 11% 26%
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities (£000)  – 638 –  (262) (152)
Percentage of scheme liabilities   – 4% – 1% 1%
Total amount recognised in Statement of Total Recognised 
Gains and Losses (£000)   (1,128) (1,091) 274 (1,214) 153
Percentage of scheme liabilities   6% 6% 2% 7% 1%
18 Share-based payments
The Communisis Long Term Incentive Plan 2007
Certain directors and managers are eligible to participate in this plan at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. The 
exercise price in respect of options granted under the scheme is £nil. For all options granted up to 31 December 2009, up to 50% 
of the options may vest if the TSR of the Company, as compared to the TSR performance of all companies in the Support Services 
sector of the FTSE All Share Index (excluding FTSE 100 companies), is at or above the median level over a three-year period. The 
other 50% of the options may vest if the TSR of the Company, as compared to the TSR performance of all companies in the FTSE 
Small Cap Index (excluding investment trusts), is at or above the median level over a three-year period. 30% of each tranche 
of options will vest for performance at the median of the comparator group rising, on a straight-line basis, to 100% vesting for 
performance in the top decile of the comparator group. If the performance conditions are not fulﬁlled within the three-year 
period from the date of grant, the options lapse. The contractual life of each option granted is ﬁve years. There are no cash 
settlement alternatives.
For options granted under this scheme in 2010, the options will vest if the share price of the Company attains certain thresholds 
measured by reference to a rolling three month average at any time within three years of the date of award. If the share price 
increases to 30p 10% of the options vest, at 50p 30% vest, at a share price of 70p 60% will vest and 100% vesting will be attained if 
the share price exceeds 90p. 
For the options granted under this scheme in 2011, no options will vest unless the three month rolling average share price 
increases to more than 32.742p. At 50p 19.78% of the awards will vest, at a share price of 70p 52.78% will vest and 100% vesting 
will be attained if the share price exceeds 90p.
For the options granted in both 2011 and in 2010 vesting will occur on a straight-line pro rata basis between the thresholds 
outlined above. No vested shares will be released before the third anniversary of the award date and no vested shares will be 
released for at least two years after the attainment of the threshold. Additionally the Remuneration Committee will only sanction 
vesting of these awards if they are satisﬁed as to the Company’s underlying ﬁnancial performance in the performance period.
No options were granted under this scheme in the year ended 31 December 2012. The fair value of options granted under the 
Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 in the year to 31 December 2011 was estimated on the date of grant using a binomial simulation 
option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The following weighted 
average assumptions were used in that model: an expected life of ﬁve years; share price at the date of grant of £0.30; estimated 
annualised dividend yield of approximately 5.5%; risk-free interest rate of approximately 2.53% and expected volatility of 48.0%. 
The weighted average fair value of the share options granted in the year ended 31 December 2011 under this plan was £0.13523. 133
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
18 Share-based payments continued
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns which may occur . 
The expected volatility reﬂects historical volatility adjusted for future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual 
outcome. Both the historical and expected volatilities reﬂect the volatility of the share prices of Communisis plc and comparator 
companies.
The Executive Share Option Scheme 2010
This scheme was introduced in 2010 to replace the Executive Share Option Scheme 2000. Certain directors and managers are 
eligible to participate in this scheme at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. The exercise price of the options granted 
under this scheme is equal to the market value of the shares on the date of grant.
No options were granted under this scheme in the year ended 31 December 2012 nor in the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Executive Share Option Scheme 2000
This scheme has now been superseded by the Executive Share Option Scheme 2010. Under this scheme, certain directors and 
managers were eligible to participate at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. The exercise price of options granted 
under this scheme were equal to the market value of the shares on the date of grant. In respect of options granted prior to 
1 January 2005, which have not yet lapsed, the options vest if the percentage increase in normalised earnings (i.e. before 
intangibles amortisation, restructuring costs and other exceptional items) per share over any three consecutive ﬁnancial 
years exceeds the percentage increase in the Retail Prices Index over that period by an average of at least 3% per annum. The 
contractual life of each option granted is ten years. There are no cash settlement alternatives. There are no outstanding options 
which were issued after 1 January 2005.
The Sharesave Scheme
All UK employees (including directors) are eligible to participate in the Communisis Sharesave Scheme. The exercise price of the 
options is usually equal to the market price of the shares at the date of invitation to participate less a maximum discount of 20%. 
The options vest on either the third or ﬁfth anniversary of the commencement of the savings period. Any options which have not 
been exercised within six months of the vesting date lapse.
The weighted average fair value of Sharesave options granted in the year ended 31 December 2012 was estimated at the date of 
grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following weighted average assumptions were used in that model: option 
holders will exercise their option at expiry; share price at the date of grant of £0.3725 (2011 £0.31); estimated annualised dividend 
yield of approximately 5.5% (2011 5.5%); risk-free interest rate of 0.7072% (2011 2.52%) and expected volatility of 48.18% (2011 
48.00%). The volatility has been determined by reference to Communisis plc’s and comparator companies’ historical volatility 
over a three-year period, adjusted for expected future trends, to reﬂect the share price of Communisis plc in the future. The 
exercise price is £0.32 (2011 £0.26) for options exercisable three years after the date of grant. No options exercisable ﬁve years 
after the date of grant were granted in 2012 or 2011. The weighted average fair value of the share options granted in the year ended 
31 December 2012 was £0.106 (2011 £0.095). 
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reﬂected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share.  134
Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2012
18 Share-based payments continued
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices ( “WAEP”) of, and movements in, share options 
during the year .
    2012 2012 2011 2011 
    Number WAEP £ Number WAEP £
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 1
    9,264,326 0.17558 9,634,811 0.15363
Granted during the year    2,782,002 0.32000 2,265,402 0.18489 
Forfeited during the year    (493,706) 0.31007 (2,237,328) 0.11631
Exercised during the year 
2
    (2,665,083) 0.22069 (48,559) 0.25000
Expired during the year    (121,594) 1.54848 (350,000) –
Outstanding at the end of the year
 1
    8,765,945 0.18108 9,264,326 0.17558
Exercisable at the end of the year    456,679 0.20905 303,058 –
1
  There are no options over shares (2011 115,747 shares) that have not been recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002. 
2
 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in the year ended 31 December 2012 was £0.36986 (2011 £0.27726).
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2012 is 2.64 years 
(2011 2.65 years).
The weighted average fair value of all options granted during the year was £0.1060 (2011 £0.1066).
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was £nil – £1.055 (2011 £nil – £1.6267). The number of 
share options for which the exercise price is £nil total 4,104,245 (2011 4,422,500).
19 Other ﬁnancial commitments
At 31 December 2012 the Company had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases for assets as set out below:
 Land and buildings
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Operating leases which expire:
 – within one year      – 225
 – in two to ﬁve years      – 9
 – over ﬁve years      205 144
      205 378
 Other
      2012 2011 
      £000 £000
Operating leases which expire:
 – within one year      7 –
 – in two to ﬁve years      76 125
      83 125 135
Communisis plc  Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012
for the year ended 31 December 2012
20 Contingent liabilities
The Company has contingent liabilities where it has provided rental guarantees to landlords in respect of certain leasehold 
properties occupied by companies that were formerly subsidiaries of the Company, but have subsequently been sold. The principal 
risk is that current leasehold occupants will become insolvent and that guarantees will be called, resulting in a material cash 
cost to the Company. To the extent that they have not already been called, these guarantees represent contingent liabilities of 
the Company. Other than those leases for which the liability is considered to be remote, the Company has guaranteed rentals on 
leases with remaining terms that vary from one month to eleven years, with annual rentals that range from £9,000 to £856,000 
per annum. No provision for these guarantees has been made in the Financial Statements because, at the balance sheet date, the 
directors believe that it is not probable that any further guarantees will be called.
21 Related party transactions
The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS8 from disclosing related party transactions with its wholly owned subsidiaries. 
There were no other related party transactions in the year .
22 Post balance sheet events
Equity raise
The Board announced on 14 February 2013 the details of a Firm Placing, Placing and Open Offer to raise approximately £20 million 
(approximately £18.9 million net of expenses) through the issue of 50,000,000 new ordinary shares at an issue price of 40 pence 
per new ordinary share, subject to Shareholder approval. This was given at the General Meeting on 5 March 2013.
Bank facilities extension
On 14 February 2013, Communisis increased its committed bank facilities by £10 million to a total of £55 million. The new facilities 
comprise two new tranches to the multi-currency revolving credit facility, being (i) a £5 million tranche and (ii) a further £5 million 
tranche which Communisis may utilise by way of an overdraft facility (with such overdraft being provided on a committed basis).
It is a requirement of the facility agreement that the net proceeds of the equity raise are used to repay the facilities extension. 
On completion of the equity raise and repayment of the £10 million additional facilities it is expected that Barclays Bank PLC will 
provide an uncommitted overdraft facility of £5 million to replace it, such that the amount of the overdraft facilities available to 
the Company will remain unchanged. The Group’s bank facilities will then total £50 million, comprising a £45 million 
multi-currency revolving credit facility (committed until 24 August 2014) and an uncommitted £5 million overdraft facility.  136
Report of the Auditor on the Company 
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report to the 
Members of Communisis plc
We have audited the parent company Financial Statements of 
Communisis plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which 
comprise the Company Balance Sheet, the Reconciliation of 
Movements in Shareholders’ Funds and the related Notes 1 to 
22. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and 
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on pages 50 and 51, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the parent company Financial 
Statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair 
view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on 
the parent company Financial Statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’ s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error . This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates 
made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
ﬁnancial statements. In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial 
and non-ﬁnancial information in the annual report and 
ﬁnancial statements to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of 
any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion the parent company Financial Statements: 
 Give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2012;
 Have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial 
year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is 
consistent with the parent company Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
 Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
 The parent company Financial Statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by 
law are not made; or
 We have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements 
of Communisis plc for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Christabel Cowling (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor 
Leeds 
7 March 2013
for the year ended 31 December 2012 137
Communisis plc  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
Shareholder  
Information
Financial calendar
17 April 2013 Ex-dividend date – ﬁnal dividend
19 April 2013 Record date to be eligible for the ﬁnal dividend
9 May 2013 Annual General Meeting
20 May 2013 Final dividend payment date
1 August 2013 Interim results announcement 
11 September 2013 Ex-dividend date – interim dividend
13 September 2013 Record date to be eligible for the interim dividend
11 October 2013 Interim dividend payment date
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP  
1 Bridgewater Place 
Water Lane 
Leeds 
LS11 5QR
Principal Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
HSBC Bank plc
Lloyds Banking Group plc
Allied Irish Bank plc
Santander UK plc
Corporate Lawyers
Eversheds LLP
Clarion Solicitors LLP
Pinsent Masons LLP
Ward Hadaway LLP
Stockbrokers
Cenkos Securities PLC
6.7 .8 Tokenhouse Yard
London
EC2R 7AS
Nplus1 Singer LLP
Corporate Advisory & Broking
Time Central
32 Gallowgate
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE1 4SR
How to get in touch
Registered Office:
Communisis plc
Wakeﬁeld Road
Leeds
LS10 1DU
Tel: +44 (0) 113 277 0202
Fax: +44 (0) 113 271 3503
Registered in England and 
Wales. Number 02916113
Company Secretary
Sarah Caddy 
Head Office:
Communisis plc
Longbow House
14-20 Chiswell Street
London 
EC1Y 4TW
Tel: +44 (0) 207 382 8950
Fax: +44 (0) 207 382 8951
Annual General Meeting 2013
This year’s AGM will be held at the offices of Pinsent Masons LLP , 
30 Crown Place, Earl Street, London EC2A 4ES on Thursday  
9 May 2013. The meeting will start at 12 noon and registration 
will be available from 11.30 a.m. 138
Registrars and shareholding enquiries
Administrative enquiries about the holding of Communisis 
shares, such as change of address, change of ownership and 
dividend payments should be directed to Capita Registrars:
Tel: 0871 664 0300  
(calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras; lines are 
open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday)
Tel: +44 20 8639 3399 (for overseas shareholders)
Fax: +44 (0) 1484 600911
Email: shareholder .services@capitaregistrars.com
Alternatively you can use the shareholder portal at  
www.capitashareportal.com
For all other enquiries, please contact Capita by post at the 
following address:
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU
Dividends
We encourage shareholders to have dividends paid directly into 
their bank account to ensure efficient payment and cleared 
funds on the payment date. To select this payment method, 
please contact the Registrars on the telephone number given. 
Alternatively, you can update your address and mandate details 
and access information regarding your holding through the 
shareholder portal at www.capitashareportal.com 
To register for this service, you will require your investor  
code which can be located on a recent tax voucher or on  
your share certiﬁcate.
Electronic Communications
Shareholders can register to receive shareholder information 
electronically by visiting the Company’s registrars’ website and 
registering their details online at www.capitashareportal.com
Boiler Room Scams
Unfortunately, we are aware that in 2012 some of our 
shareholders were targeted by fraudsters who made offers to 
buy their shares at prices substantially in excess of the market 
price. General information on boiler room scams and how to 
report a suspected scam, is available from the FSA’s website  
at www.fsa.gov.uk/consumerinformation  Communisis plc 
Longbow House 
14-20 Chiswell Street 
London EC1Y 4TW
Tel: +44 (0) 207 382 8950 
Fax: +44 (0) 207 382 8951
www.communisis.com
Designed, produced and deployed by Communisis plc
P118
