 Registered office
Compass Group PLC
Compass House
Guildford Street
Chertsey
Surrey KT16 9BQ
United Kingdom
Registered No: 4083914
Tel +44 (0)1932 573 000
Fax +44 (0)1932 569 956
www.compass-group.com
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Hill House
1 Little New Street
London EC4A 3TR
Financial advisors
Citigroup Global Markets Ltd
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 5LB
Legal advisors
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Stockbrokers
Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited
25 Cabot Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 4QA
Merrill Lynch International
Merrill Lynch Financial Centre
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
Delivering
proﬁtable 
growth
Annual Report 2007
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr +44 (0)20 7610 6140. Printed in the UK by CTD.
This report is printed on Look, which is 100% ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) pulp and is 100% recyclable and sourced from carefully 
managed and renewed commercial forests, certified in accordance with the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council). The mill is ISO 14001 certified.
Our printers are fully accredited to the ISO 14001 environmental management system. They utilise vegetable based inks and operate a direct
computer to plate repro system, eliminating the need for film with its chemicals such as developer and acid fixers. Contents
Our vision is to be a world-class provider 
of contract foodservice and support services,
renowned for our great people, our great service
and our great results. T o achieve this everyone 
in Compass Group is committed to consistently
delivering superior service in the most efficient 
way for the shared benefit of our customers,
shareholders and employees.
01 2007 highlights
02 Group at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
Delivering on our commitments
06 Chief Executive’s statement
Driving performance
13 Business review
17 Board of directors
18 Acting responsibly 
24 Directors’ report
24 Report of the directors
27 Corporate governance
33 Directors’ remuneration report
40 Consolidated financial statements
84 Parent Company financial statements
91 Shareholder information
93 Index to the consolidated financial statements
93 Index to the Parent Company financial statements
93 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Forward looking statements
This Report contains forward looking statements within 
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act,
as amended. These statements are subject to a number of
risks and uncertainties and actual results and events could
differ materially from those currently being anticipated as
reflected in such forward looking statements. The terms
‘expect’, ‘should be’, ‘will be’, ‘is likely to’ and similar
expressions identify forward looking statements. Factors
which may cause future outcomes to differ from those
foreseen in forward looking statements include, but are 
not limited to: general economic conditions and business
conditions in Compass Group’s markets; exchange rate
fluctuations; customers’ and clients’ acceptance of its
products and services; the actions of competitors; and
legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments.
Index to the consolidated financial statements
Note Page
Independent auditors’ report 40
Consolidated income statement 41
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 42
Consolidated balance sheet 43
Consolidated cash flow statement 44
Reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations 44
Accounting policies 45
1 Segmental reporting 49
2 Operating costs 52
3 Employees 53
4 Finance income and costs 54
5Tax 54
6 Discontinued operations 56
7 Exceptional items 58
8 Earnings per share 59
9 Dividends 59
10 Goodwill 60
11 Other intangible assets 61
12 Property , plant and equipment 62
13 Interests in associates 63
14 Other investments 63
15 Joint ventures 64
16 Trade and other receivables 64
17 Inventories 64
18 Cash and cash equivalents 65
19 Short-term and long-term borrowings 65
20 Derivative financial instruments 66
21 Trade and other payables 69
22 Provisions 70
23 Post-employment benefit obligations 70
24 Called up share capital 74
25 Reconciliation of movements in equity 75
26 Share-based payments 76
27 Business combinations 79
28 Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated by operations 79
29 Cash flow from discontinued operations 80
30 Analysis of net debt 80
31 Contingent liabilities 81
32 Capital commitments 81
33 Operating lease and concessions commitments 81
34 Related party transactions 82
35 Post balance sheet events 82
36 Exchange rates 82
37 Details of principal subsidiary companies 83
Index to the Parent Company financial statements 
Note Page
Directors’ responsibilities 84
Independent auditors’ report 85
Parent Company balance sheet 86
Parent Company accounting policies 87
1 Profit and loss account disclosures 88
2 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 88
3 Debtors 88
4 Creditors 88
5 Maturity of financial liabilities, other creditors and 
derivative financial instruments 89
6 Derivative financial instruments 89
7 Share capital 90
8 Capital and reserves 90
9 Contingent liabilities 90 01 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
2007 highlights
Group revenue
5% organic revenue growth on a constant 
currency basis.
1,5
Through the MAP process we have
transformed the performance of the business
with good quality organic revenue growth,
greater focus on like for like growth and cost
efficiencies together delivering £101 million
of operating profit growth at constant
currency and driving the operating margin
forward by 70 basis points. Our focus on
capital expenditure and working capital has
resulted in a step change in the delivery of
free cash flow , up 68% to £357 million.
The three main drivers of our £101 million of
operating profit growth this year have been:
Net new business achieved through new
clients, new services to existing clients and
managing retention of existing business 
has delivered £30 million of profit.
Base estate growth resulting from like for 
like price and volume growth and the
management of cost inflation has delivered
£35 million of profit.
Reducing above unit costs by a net 
£36 million.
5%
Organic revenue growth
5
2006: 7%
1.9%
Capital expenditure as a % of revenue
2006: 1.9%
12.5%
Return on capital employed
2006: 11.3%
10.8p
Full year dividend
2006: 10.1p
Total operating profit
A 24% increase in operating profit on a constant
currency basis.
1,2
Basic earnings per share
An underlying earnings per share increase of 62%.
4
Margin
A margin increase of 70 basis points.
1,6
Free cash flow
A step change in the delivery of free cash flow, up 68%.
All figures shown relate to continuing operations.
1. Constant currency restates the prior year results to 2007
average exchange rates.
2. Includes share of profit of associates. UK £3 million (2006: 
£1 million) and North America £1 million (2006: £1 million).
3. Excludes share of profit of associates.
4. Underlying profit before tax excludes revaluation gains and
losses on swaps and hedging instruments (hedge accounting
ineffectiveness) of £(6) million (2006: £11 million). Underlying
basic earnings per share excludes these items net of tax.
5. Organic growth is calculated by adjusting for acquisitions
(excluding current year acquisitions and including a full year in
respect of prior year acquisitions), disposals (excluded from
both years) and exchange rate movements (translating the
prior years at current year exchange rates) and compares the
results against 2006.
6. Operating margin is based on revenue and operating profit
excluding share of profit of associates.
Find out more online
More information on Compass Group can be found on
our website: www.compass-group.com.
For our Annual Review, go to our Investor Centre at
www.compass-group.com.
You can also go to our website to register to receive
future Annual Reports and Reviews and other
shareholder information electronically.
Our strong operating performance 
is being driven by concentrating on
the five key profit drivers of MAP , 
our Group-wide Management and
Performance framework, which is
now embedded within our business.
Cost of food
Buying the optimal
quality and range 
of food to meet 
the needs of our
customers at the
lowest cost, with
the most efficient
distribution and 
in-unit production.
Consumer
sales and
marketing
Driving growth in
consumer volume
and spending
through innovation
in our offer, the 
right pricing and 
the right retail skills.
Client 
sales and
marketing
Delivering profitable
growth from existing
and new clients, 
and developing our
penetration in our
chosen markets.
Unit costs
Delivering the right
level of service in 
the most efficient
way, focusing on
labour productivity
and controlling
labour and other 
in-unit costs.
Above unit
overheads
Creating a simpler
organisational
model, with 
fewer layers of
management and
less bureaucracy.
£9,768m
£10,268m
2006 2007
£428m
£529m
2006 2007
4.4%
5.1%
2006 2007
9.4p
15.2p
2006 2007
£212m
£357m
2006 2007 02 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Our strategy focuses on the
outsourced foodservice and
support services markets,
building on the existing
expertise and strengths we 
have as a Group. 
We estimate that outsourcing growth in the foodservice
market (which we estimate is £150 billion) is at least 5%
per annum. As market leader, we will strive for more and
faster penetration of the foodservice market that is still self
operated. The support services market is significantly
larger than the foodservice market and growing at a 
faster rate.
Our marketplace
Group at a glance
We are a world leading provider
of food and support services.
Every day we serve literally
millions of people around the
world, whether it is to provide
them with a meal, a cup of coffee,
a clean office or helping to keep
the entire workspace around
them working at its best. 
Business & Industry
No-one understands food at work quite like we do, 
whether it is in offices, distribution, factories or any 
other work environment. Our consumer focus drives 
the development and innovation in our food offers, 
brands and service to deliver the optimum solution from
restaurants and café style outlets to coffee bars and
vending. We also provide a selected range of support
services that complement our foodservice offer. This
includes cleaning, grounds maintenance, hospitality 
and reception services.
Fine Dining
Food is at the heart of what we do and, often working 
with world-renowned chefs, we bring exceptional
gastronomic creativity and flair, style and hospitality to
executive dining rooms, prestigious social and cultural
events and world famous venues. 
Healthcare & Seniors
One of the most demanding markets in which we 
operate. The very highest standards of food safety and
hygiene, working with clinical staff and having a detailed
understanding of the nutritional needs of those we care for
have made us a leader in this market. Our offer is broader
than simply foodservice for patients, staff and visitors, 
and includes a range of complementary support services
including services such as cleaning and housekeeping.
Education
From primary schools to some of the world’ s most renowned
universities, we provide a nutritious, well-balanced diet to
fuel the development of young minds and bodies. 
Sports & Leisure
We have unparalleled experience in providing high 
quality foodservice for some of the world’ s most 
prestigious sporting and leisure venues, visitor attractions
and social events. In addition we have the specialist in-
house expertise and resources to provide a single source
for the complete marketing and management of corporate
hospitality packages.
Defence, Offshore & Remote Sites
We provide vital workplace support for people working 
in some of the most hostile and demanding terrains in 
the world from oil and gas to major construction sites 
and remote mining locations. Our technical and logistical
competence, commitment to health and safety and ability
to effectively mobilise contracts have earned us an enviable
reputation for providing fully integrated food and support
services for global clients with workers around the world. 
Vending
Vending is an integral part of our foodservice offer and we
are able to deliver high quality, innovative solutions to our
customers. In North America this is through Canteen, our
specialist vending operation.
We have unparalleled experience in providing these
services to people in a whole range of environments –
at work, at school or university, in hospital, at sporting
or cultural events, or in remote environments. Our
proven capability in each of these markets results
from our sector focus, with dedicated operating
businesses in each sector in our main geographies.
This in-depth understanding of the demands of these
markets and the needs of our customers drives our
market-leading innovation, our operating efficiency
and ultimately the quality of the service our
customers experience.
Leading sector expertise
Our aim is to achieve market leadership in the sectors
and countries that we have identified as having real
prospects for strong long-term organic growth and
provide the global capability necessary to grow our
international client base.
Our guiding principles form the basis of our approach 
to delivering this strategy:
Health, safety and environment first
Never to compromise on the health and safety of our
customers and our people, and to manage responsibly
the impact that our business has on the environment.
Delivering for clients and consumers
T o earn the continued loyalty of our customers by
consistently demonstrating why we are the first choice
for quality, service, value and innovation.
Developing our people and valuing diversity
T o value and recognise the diversity and contribution 
of our people. We create a work environment that is
challenging and provides the opportunities and support
for everyone to develop, learn and succeed.
Profitable growth
T o deliver shareholder value through disciplined,
sustainable growth, underpinned by strong governance,
that contributes to and leverages the benefits of our
global scale.
Constant focus on performance and efficiency 
T o deliver the highest quality and performance, 
whilst relentlessly driving to be the lowest cost, most
efficient provider.
Business & Industry
Fine Dining
Healthcare & Seniors
Education
Sports & Leisure
Defence, Offshore
Vending
North America
Continental Europe
United Kingdom
Rest of the World
Market sectors and operating companies
North America Continental Europe United Kingdom Rest of the World
In a number of countries we have a single operating company providing
multi-sector solutions. For example, Onama in Italy and Seiyo in Japan. 03 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
£4,162m
Revenue
2006: £4,290m
North America
£261m
Operating profit
3
2006: £245m
For the 13th consecutive year Master Chef Wolfgang
Puck was selected to create the menu for The Academy
of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences post-Oscar event,
the Governor’ s Ball. In the same month Compass’
foodservice excellence was on show at the 49th 
Annual Grammy Awards and for the Players’ Party 
and Super Bowl Host Committee VIP Party at this 
year’ s Super Bowl.
Regional highlights
Continued excellent progress
delivering 6% organic revenue growth.
Operating profit from continuing
operations increased by £39 million 
on a constant currency basis to 
£261 million (2006: £222 million), 
a 60 basis point margin improvement. 
The Business & Industry sector has
been driven by innovation in our offer,
delivering 4% like for like revenue
growth. 
In Healthcare, 7% organic growth 
from increased cross-selling between
Morrison, our foodservice business,
and Crothall, our support services
business. 
Healthy eating programmes and 
the strength of the Chartwells brand
contributed to 9% organic revenue
growth in the Education sector. 
Good growth in Levy, our Sports 
& Leisure business.
Continued good progress with 
our business in Canada.
Our pipeline for 2008 looks healthy .
£1,931m
Revenue
2006: £1,882m
Percentage of 
Group revenue
19%
2006: 18%
United Kingdom
£107m
Operating profit
3
2006: £107m
The newly branded Restaurant Associates was launched
in May 2007 to respond to a growing demand for a
leading provider of executive hospitality , dining and
business support services to its prestigious blue-chip
clients; including 17 out of the top 20 investment banks in
London, law firms and leading organisations. The move
consolidated our previous brand operations under one
strong identity and management structure. Our new
business goals reflect a commitment to innovation,
service, lifestyle and simplicity .
Regional highlights
Revenue in the UK was £1,931 million
(2006: £1,882 million), growth of 
2% on an organic basis.
A solid result with, as expected,
operating profits in line with last year.
Largely completed the turnaround or
exit of poor performing contracts.
The Education sector has stabilised
following a difficult period.
We have continued to reorganise the
business to drive further efficiencies.
We expect a broadly similar
performance in 2008.
£2,553m
Revenue
2006: £2,484m
Percentage of 
Group revenue
25%
2006: 24%
Continental Europe
£151m
Operating profit
3
2006: £122m
Our business in Spain is capitalising on the rapid
expansion of the senior-living market. Building on our
experience of providing foodservice in the residential
care homes market, we have developed a delivered
meals service for senior and handicapped people 
at home; a model for other countries with ageing
populations looking for an alternative to moving 
people into rest homes. In the last year we have
delivered over 1.2 million meals to people in-home
providing a varied, healthy diet.
Regional highlights
Organic revenue growth has doubled 
to 4%, with good growth opportunities
for the future. 
On a constant currency basis, growth 
of £31 million operating profit from
continuing operations to £151 million
(2006: £120 million) represents a margin
improvement of 100 basis points.
In Spain, like for like growth, driven 
by new offerings and an increase in
consumer numbers, together with 
new business in the Healthcare and
Education sectors, have driven 
organic revenue growth of 13%. 
Continued high activity in the oil 
and gas industry in the Nordic region
contributed to 14% organic revenue
growth, while the focus on healthy
eating continues to drive volumes
through much of the region. 
Good turnaround in previously 
underperforming countries such 
as France and the Netherlands.
We are becoming more established 
in the Eastern European market, 
which is growing well.
£1,622m
Revenue
2006: £1,611m
Percentage of 
Group revenue
16%
2006: 16%
Rest of the World
£64m
Operating profit
3
2006: £47m
T engizchevroil (TCO), a Chevron managed joint venture
in Kazakhstan, renewed their contract for support
services at their Atyrau and T engiz facilities after a
competitive re-tendering process. This is one of our
largest remote site contracts, with over 3,200 of our
people providing a range of services, including full 
daily catering services and the full maintenance of
offices, accommodation rooms and town homes.
Regional highlights
Another very strong year, delivering
£64 million operating profit from
continuing operations (2006: 
£43 million on a constant currency
basis), an increase of £21 million.
Australia continues to deliver strong
organic revenue growth driven by the
ongoing buoyancy of the extraction
industries.
Encouraging progress in Japan, where
the focus on driving efficiency and 
restructuring the business has resulted
in good margin improvement.
Our businesses in Abu Dhabi and
Dubai have seen good revenue and
margin growth.
Good revenue growth with some
margin improvement in Latin America.
Looking forward there remains
significant opportunity to further
develop our businesses in the 
Rest of the World both in size and
operating performance.
Regional review at a glance
Percentage of 
Group revenue
40%
2006: 42%
See footnotes on page 1. 04 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
I am delighted to report a year of outstanding
progress against the commitments we have
given to improve returns to shareholders. 
The objective of the strategy we communicated
last year is to grow our business in a disciplined
way to deliver sustainable profit and growth.
This year represents an important first step in
delivering this strategy .
We remain firmly focused on developing 
our core foodservice business, in which we 
see continued strong long-term growth
opportunities in our chosen market sectors. 
Alongside this we are developing a range of
complementary support services, which we are
progressively bringing to market, prioritising
those sectors and countries where our ability
to provide both food and support services will
help us to develop our market. In particular,
we see a growing number of international
clients who are looking for a service partner
such as us who can deliver these services to
consistently high standards, globally .
The successful implementation of MAP has
given us the framework to manage the
business with the intensity necessary to drive
improved performance. MAP is now well-
established in the businesses. In the coming
year we will be taking further steps to embed
MAP even deeper into the organisation.
Our Group Chief Executive, Richard
Cousins, in his first full year in the role, 
has put in place a strong leadership team 
to lead the continued development and
implementation of our strategy , bringing in
competencies in areas such as marketing and
international clients to support the delivery 
of our objectives and to help drive value from
the combined strength of our global Group. 
I have continued the programme I initiated 
to improve corporate governance and
controls. Building on the progress we have
already made, our aim this year has been
reviewing and re-communicating Group
policies and practices, with processes and
training to ensure that these are received 
and understood. 
Over the last year we have further reviewed
our corporate social responsibility strategy
(‘CSR’) to ensure that we are addressing the
broader social and environmental issues in 
the way that we run our business. This
commitment is very much in evidence in 
our day-to-day operations, forming a firm
foundation to build on as we strive to
continuously improve our CSR journey . 
We have made good progress in the last year
and, going forward, I will continue to take 
the necessary steps to ensure that we set the
highest standards for corporate governance
and responsible business practice.
Chairman’s statement
Sir Roy Gardner
Chairman
Delivering on our commitments
Our performance reflects a clear,
well-executed strategy , which is
starting to deliver increased value 
to our shareholders.
The introduction of MAP , our
Management and Performance
framework, has given us a common
language and agenda resulting in
greater focus and visibility across the
whole business. We have delivered a
step change in profit and free cash
flow generation as new processes
begin to embed throughout the
organisation. Looking ahead, we
believe we are entering a new phase
of sustainable value creation, with
exciting opportunities to grow
revenues, improve margins and
generate significant cash flow .
Full year dividend
10.8p(+7%)
The FTSE 100 Index has been rebased to the
Compass Group share price on 29 September 2006
(268.25 pence)
Compass Group 
share price performance
vs FTSE 100 Index 2007
250
275
300
325
350
375
400
29/09
2006
28/09
2007
29/11
2006
29/01
2007
29/03
2007
29/05
2007
30/07
2007
Pence
Compass Group
FTSE 100 Index 05 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Returns to shareholders
The Board is proposing a final dividend 
of 7.2 pence per share for payment in 
March 2008. This brings our full year
dividend to 10.8 pence, a year on year
increase of 7%.
In July this year we completed the sale of
Selecta, the European vending business, 
for £772 million before transaction costs. 
Of these proceeds we are using £500 million
to extend our share buy-back programme.
This is in addition to the return of
£500 million to shareholders following 
the sale of SSP in 2006, taking the total share
buy-back programme to £1 billion. As of
30 September 2007 we had bought back
shares for cancellation to the value of
£720 million.
A further £45 million of the Selecta proceeds
have been contributed to Compass’ UK
closed defined benefit pension plans, taking
the total amount of special contributions 
to these plans over the past 15 months to
£325 million, significantly reducing the
pension deficit in these schemes.
The balance of the proceeds has been used 
to further reduce net debt. 
Management
On becoming Chairman I began the process
of reinvigorating the Board to achieve the
right blend of expertise, experience and
strong independent scrutiny to guide the
decisions of the Board over managing and
growing the business in the best interests of
our shareholders.
This has been achieved through an orderly
succession plan and without compromising
the effectiveness of the Board and its
committees.
Peter Blackburn, Peter Cawdron and Val
Gooding have all stepped down from the
Board in the last year and I would like to
thank each of them for the contribution 
they have made to the Group.
I am delighted that Sir Ian Robinson, Tim
Parker, Sir James Crosby and Susan Murray
joined the Board as non-executive directors
during the last 12 months, with Sir James
Crosby becoming the senior independent
non-executive director. Together with my
other colleagues on the Board, I look forward
to our new directors’ continued contribution
to the deliberations of the Board.
In June we appointed Mark White as the
Group’s General Counsel and Company
Secretary , a new role within the Group. 
Mark, a qualified solicitor, has extensive
international legal and business experience
and joined us from Wolseley plc. 
Our people
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank
all of our people around the world for their
commitment and efforts in achieving these
results and for the excellent service they
deliver daily; service that continues to earn
the loyalty of our clients and consumers and
reinforces our position as a leader in our
chosen markets.
Outlook 
The results that we have reported for 2007
demonstrate that we have the right strategy ,
the right leadership and, through MAP , the
right focus to capitalise on the considerable
opportunities that exist in our chosen markets.
I believe that these results and the actions 
we are taking give us a solid foundation on
which to base sustainable performance
improvements and deliver increasing value 
to our shareholders.
Sir Roy Gardner 
Chairman
28 November 2007 
Focus on our contract 
foodservice business
Grow our support
services business
Committed to giving
our customers 
superior levels 
of service
Focus on driving 
cost efficiencies
Our strategy
We have a very clear and focused strategy , 
a significant market opportunity and a tight
operating model with much improved
controls and governance. 06 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive’s statement
Richard Cousins
Group Chief Executive 
Over the last 18 months we have tightened
our strategy , simplified the business to focus
on our core food and support services offer 
by selling non-core businesses and have
considerably reduced our risk profile by
exiting high risk or volatile businesses. 
Our strong operating performance is being
driven by concentrating on the five key profit
drivers of MAP , our operating framework,
which is now embedded within our business.
Each MAP component has its own set of key
performance indicators. Performance is
reviewed with country management teams
both monthly and in our detailed business
reviews. Together these give greater visibility
of country performance, enable us to respond
more quickly to opportunities and changes in
our markets and ensure that our businesses
are constantly focused on profitable organic
growth. 
MAP has enabled us to deliver £101 million
of constant currency operating profit growth
through:
£30 million of net new business
growth driven by better quality new
business and retention
MAP 1 – Client sales and marketing:
achieved through better targeted businesses,
tighter contracts and sharper contract
evaluation. Included among our new business
wins: Asda in the UK; The House of
Representatives, Dell and DreamWorks in 
the US; Continental in Germany; and Shell
across Europe. 
£35 million of base estate profit
growth driven by like for like revenue
growth and cost efficiencies
Driving like for like revenue growth:
MAP 1 – Client sales and marketing: 
addresses driving like for like revenue through
client pricing strategies and growing client
volumes, for example: through additional
services, such as: cleaning, portering, reception
and concierge.
MAP 2 – Consumer sales and marketing: 
focuses on developing our retail philosophy in
order to increase participation and spend per
head, for example: extending our offer to
include breakfast and ‘Grab & Go’ concepts.
Driving cost efficiencies:
MAP 3 – Cost of food: addresses cost
efficiencies through a systematic approach to
menu planning, purchasing and supply chain,
and unit processes.
MAP 4 – Unit costs: we spend nearly £5.5
billion per year on unit costs and we have been
managing this through: labour productivity
and scheduling; control of labour costs; and 
in-unit overhead opportunities.
£36 million of above unit overhead
savings after allowing for inflation
MAP 5 – Above unit overheads: we spend
£0.8 billion on above unit overheads per year .
The savings have been achieved through:
management reorganisation; consolidated
back office functions; change management
processes; and tightened control of
discretionary spend.
Driving performance
Through the MAP process we have
delivered good quality organic
revenue growth, driven the operating
margin forward and significantly
increased operating profit. We have
achieved this through better quality
new business and retention, a greater
focus on like for like growth and
improved cost efficiencies. Our focus
on capital expenditure and working
capital has resulted in a step change
in the delivery of free cash flow . 07 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Food cost inflation
We spend around £3.5 billion a year on food.
We estimate that for last year we have seen
about a one percentage point increase in the
rate of inflation. To put this into context each
one percentage point of food cost inflation
adds about £35 million to the total cost base
of £9.7 billion. This is before taking into
account that around one third of our
contracts are cost plus. We believe that our
basket of goods is currently experiencing
market increases of some 4% to 5%.
In terms of its impact, most of the
geographies in which we operate and most
food categories have seen some inflation.
However, the larger double digit inflationary
increases have been in dairy , rice and pasta.
Together these categories account for only
about 10% of the Group’s spend on food.
Food price inflation is not a new phenomenon.
We have managed it well for many years and
continue to do so, but now , through the MAP
framework, with greater intensity . The specific
actions we are taking to address food inflation
fall into three categories: purchasing and
supply chain efficiencies; unit cost efficiencies
including menu re-engineering; client and
consumer price increases.
So, in conclusion, food price inflation is well
understood and being acted upon. Crucially ,
despite the inflation we have seen this year, 
we have been able to hold our gross margins
steady through the combination of cost
efficiencies and price increases.
Processes and people
Our new monthly reporting processes and
regular business reviews with country
management teams ensure that we are all
constantly focused on the management and
performance of the five MAP value drivers.
Our country managing directors are now fully
empowered to run their businesses, operating
within a clearly defined MAP operating
framework. 
The new measures have also led to tighter
discipline and sounder governance. Approval
processes have been strengthened and
remuneration policies reviewed. The
Corporate Responsibility Committee, a 
subcommittee of the Board, continues 
to oversee all aspects of health and food
safety , environmental impacts, governance
and its reporting. 
Over the past 18 months we have made
significant management changes at a Board,
Executive Committee, Group head office and
country leadership level. We have put in place
succession planning and are focusing on
management development to ensure that 
we are developing our leadership strength 
for the future.
The introduction of MAP and the removal 
of divisional management structures have
resulted in greater transparency across 
the organisation. We now have greater
management strength at both country 
and head office level and this new global
leadership team has been central to driving
the improved performance.
Strategy and the future
Looking back over the achievements of the
last 18 months, strategically , we have defined 
a clearer focused strategy and launched MAP .
We have made good progress in developing
our support services business and we have
simplified the business by exiting non-core
businesses such as SSP , Selecta, Hotels and
other non-core assets. We have also reduced
the number of countries in which we operate
and considerably reduced our risk profile.
We believe we now have a focused and
transparent business model which will
generate significant opportunities to grow 
the top line organically , improve margins 
and grow profitability and generate significant
cash flow . We believe we are entering a new
phase of sustainable value creation.
There will be no change in our core 
strategy as we enter the next phase of our
development. We remain very excited by 
the prospects for growth with significant
outsourcing potential in our core food and
support service markets. We estimate that
outsourcing growth in the foodservice market
(valued at £150 billion) is at least 5% per
annum. The support services market is larger
than the foodservices market and growing 
at a faster rate. Operationally we will stay
focused on MAP and embed it deeper into 
the organisation. The drive for like for like
growth and increased operational efficiencies
will also continue. From this we will expect
further significant cash flow generation.
Richard Cousins
Group Chief Executive
28 November 2007 
New business
Base estate
Client sales 
and marketing
Consumer
sales and
marketing
Cost of food
Unit costs
Above unit
overheads
Above unit
overheads
Cost efficiencies – purchasing, menu planning,
supply chain and in-unit processes 
Labour productivity, labour and in-unit 
cost control
Like for like price and volume growth – more
services, retention, and innovative offers
Market development, good quality 
new business
Simplified organisation, control of 
discretionary spend
Map – Driving profitable growth 08 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
MAP 1 – Client sales and marketing
MAP 1 focuses on delivering
profitable growth from existing
and new clients and developing
our penetration in our chosen
markets.
Growing our markets
We continue to see growth in our core
contract foodservice market. We see exciting
growth in every sector, especially Healthcare
and Education, driven by innovations such 
as ‘Steamplicity’, and in a growing Sports 
& Leisure market where we have had 
great success in winning contracts for 
prestigious events and major venues, such 
as The O2 in London, the largest sports and
entertainment complex in Europe, Kruger
National Park in South Africa and the 
Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Centre
(ADNEC) in the United Arab Emirates.
Our country MAP plans detail our approach
to developing each market. Our global 
sector forums, supported by our new market
development function, provide the means 
to identify and respond to emerging market
trends, facilitate the rapid transfer of
best practices from one part of the Group 
to another and drive innovation in our 
client offer. 
Last year we identified the support services
market as an attractive opportunity for a
number of reasons:
We have an existing capability to build 
on, with some industry leading expertise 
in certain services and sectors; 
It enables us to respond to an increasing
number of clients who are looking to
bundle services, including foodservice; and 
It complements the service and health 
and safety ethos that has gained us 
our reputation for excellence in the
foodservice market.
Our strategy is to develop the support services
market in a disciplined way by focusing on
selected services, sectors and countries. 
To give us real competitive advantage in this
market we have developed the Compass
Service Framework, using the very best
knowledge that we can find in the world to
ensure that we can deliver the world-class,
consistent capability that clients demand.
Driving like for like revenue
The size and depth of our client base and the
loyalty of our clients reflect the quality and
scope of the services we provide, and we are
proud to count organisations that are leaders
in their markets as our clients. 
The focus over the last 12 months and going
forward is to improve the discipline with
which we manage our existing client
relationships and improve the performance 
of our contract base. To achieve this we have
focused on the following areas:
Ensuring that we have the right contract
terms in place that accurately reflect the
services we are being paid to provide and
that we have the appropriate review
processes and controls in place to monitor
service levels, client satisfaction and price
indexation, the latter being vitally
important in managing through
inflationary cost increases;
Extending the services we provide, 
for example, adding vending or cleaning 
to a foodservice-only site, or increasing the
number of sites we support, and driving
like for like volume and average spend
increases in our existing operations; and
Proactively reviewing contracts where the
financial and operational performance 
does not meet expectations and taking the
opportunity to renegotiate these to put
them on the right basis going forward. 
More disciplined new business
As we develop our core markets it is vital that
we maintain a healthy new business pipeline,
supported by the necessary disciplines to
ensure that we take on the right business 
on the right terms. We have been putting in
place across all our businesses clear guidelines
and training for our sales teams on our key
contract terms. This is supported by a robust
approvals process for new business bids at a
country level and, dependent on the scale 
of the opportunity or the level of capital
investment required, review and approval 
at a Group level.
International clients management 
Through our international clients programme we 
are developing closer relationships with multinational
organisations. They recognise that we have the
geographical coverage and capability to deliver
outsourced food and support services to the same
world-class standards, globally and enable them to
achieve their own global objectives.
Steamplicity – market-leading innovation
Market-leading innovations like ‘Steamplicity’ are
helping us to open up new segments of our core
market sectors. Already being enjoyed by consumers
in the UK and Europe, ‘Steamplicity’ , uses patented
valve technology to healthily steam-cook meals within
minutes, retaining nutritional content and promoting
wellness and vitality. Ideal for providing hot meals
‘cooked to order’ for hospital patients, schools 
and environments where traditional kitchen space 
is often restricted. 
Chief Executive’s statement
continued
In response to our clients’ 
needs we have developed a
strong capability in a selected
range of support services 
that complement our core
foodservice offer. 09 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Our consumer focus 
is driving continued
innovation in our brands 
and foodservice offers.
MAP 2 – Consumer sales and marketing
MAP 2 reflects the importance of
having the right offers and retail
skills to drive growth in consumer
volume and spending.
Understanding consumer trends 
to drive innovation
Whilst we may be feeding people either in
their workplace, at college or in a hospital
restaurant, their demand for quality , choice
and value are equally as discerning as you
would find on the high street. Our focus on
understanding consumer needs and future
trends is driving the development and
innovation in our food offers, brands and
services. In Healthcare, for example, we have
led the market with the introduction of
personalised patient meal ordering, such as
our ‘Catering to Y ou’ service, which provides
greater flexibility , choice and individual
dietary control. Developed in the USA,
‘Catering to Y ou’ has already successfully
transferred to other countries.
Health, wellbeing and sustainability are
important topics that matter to our
consumers in every sector. As a global
foodservice company we fully understand 
the responsibility we have in helping
consumers make informed choices about 
diet and nutrition. Our in-house dieticians
work with our culinary , product development
and purchasing teams to create menu
programmes that combine menu planning,
labelling and promotion, and educational
training for our people to deliver food choices
that are safe, nutritious and balanced, and
suit the lifestyle and tastes of our consumers.
For example, in our US Education business,
‘Eat, Learn, Live’ is a market leading
commitment to the health and wellbeing 
of children and students from primary
schools to college. This holistic approach
drives innovations such as ‘Brake for
Breakfast’ and ‘Morning Editions’ providing 
a healthier start to the day . In addition we
help educate students to recognise and 
choose healthier options, provide a nutrition
and physical activity for the curriculum
‘Healthsmart’ and support health related 
in-classroom and outreach programmes.
Improved pricing management
In an increasingly ‘retail’ market we are
taking a more thorough approach to pricing
and are deploying pricing tools and processes
to enable our managers to undertake 
‘local market basket’ benchmarking which,
combined with national benchmarking,
enables a regular, fact-based pricing review
with our clients. For example, in our UK
business our units receive a regular ‘Price
Watch’ update providing information, based
on ‘high-street’ benchmarking research. 
Driving volume and spend
A greater understanding of our consumers
enables us to more effectively target offers
that entice consumers into more repeat visits
and encourage them to spend more per visit.
To achieve this we are developing a more
retail-focused approach to promotions, selling
skills and merchandising. In our Business &
Industry sector this might mean extending the
use of the restaurant through different day-
part offers, for example, broadening out from
a lunch time only service to include breakfast.
In Germany , in response to consumer
research we have developed a ‘Grab and Go’
offer as an additional service which is now
generating a like for like volume increase 
of 4%.
Controlling the cash
Learning from the retail sector, at the same
time as driving increased sales, we have
focused on ensuring that we are not losing this
cash to poor cash handling disciplines, stock
shrinkage or even theft. The experience of
a considerable number of trial sites for 
our ‘Profit Protection’ programme in the 
UK has shown that a focus on this area
(putting training and processes in place,
supported by the right technology) can 
lead to sales increases of up to 7%, cash
reconciliation improvements of up to 3% 
and a significant reduction in cash ‘loss’. 
Selling more beverages
In the Czech Republic we have doubled like for 
like beverage sales in our 350 Business & Industry
units. Through understanding consumer behaviours
we identified a significant opportunity to capture
incremental beverage sales by focusing on ‘hydrating’
people better in the workplace. Key initiatives were
based around expanding day-parts, increasing variety 
and choice and educating the consumer on the
importance of hydration. Solutions were to increase
range and package types, introduce larger pack
sizes, install incremental equipment (coolers and
racks), improve merchandising and place hydration
messages at point of sale.
Improved pricing through ‘Value Planning’
2,000 of our operating units in the USA are using 
the ‘Value Plan’, a simple but highly effective price
management and benchmarking tool which 
provides the framework for setting pricing strategies.
Through the ‘Value Plan’ we compare unit pricing
information against national and local ‘market basket’
benchmarks and inflation forecasts, to set our target
price points for each of our major categories. This
provides our Unit Managers with credible data to
develop their own unit pricing plan and set regular
pricing reviews with our clients. Performance is 
now being tracked through weekly ‘owners reports’
from each unit, comparing the actual price achieved
against our target price for the top selling categories.
Recently developed supporting tools such as
‘mapping the servery’ and ‘station profitability’ 
enable managers to analyse the performance of
individual areas of the restaurant. The impact of the
‘Value Plan’ is evidenced in like for like sales growth 
of 5% and an increase of up to 10% in average 
spend per transaction. 10 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
MAP 3 – Cost of food
We spend over £3.5 billion a
year on food alone. Our MAP 3
objective is to buy the optimal
quality and range of food and
products to meet the needs of
our customers at the lowest
cost, whilst having the most
efficient distribution and 
in-unit production.
Managing food cost inflation
We have held our cost of sales flat throughout
a year in which we have seen food cost
inflation affect most food categories in most 
of the countries in which we operate. The
drivers of inflationary pressures stem from
growth in demand, such as population and
economic growth, changes in eating habits
and the increased use of staple crops for 
bio-fuels, combined with pressure on the
supply side brought about by reduced
harvests, often caused by extreme weather, 
or the impact of food scares.
Our ability to manage these inflationary
pressures is a result of:
The work we have done to include food
cost indexation in our contracts, giving 
us the contractual right to review pricing
with our clients;
Re-engineering our menus to switch food
items in response to forecast shortages 
and cost increases; and
Continuing to drive greater purchasing
efficiencies through supplier rationalisation
and compliance.
Leveraging our scale
Our approach to purchasing reflects the need
to have the right supplier relationships and
partnerships in place at a local, regional,
national and international level. We now 
have country purchasing teams in place to
drive purchasing efficiencies in support of
individual country business plans. For
example, in the UK we have a programme
called ‘85:10:5’, the purpose of which has 
been to move all of our purchasing spend 
into the following categories: 
85% spend or greater through approved
suppliers; 
10% spend or less through suppliers of
unique products or services; and
5% spend or less through suppliers who
meet specific, local contract requirements.
‘85:10:5’ provides the right levels of control
and compliance combined with the flexibility
to meet individual contract or service specific
needs. At the same time we are better
leveraging our purchasing volumes by 
moving to a smaller group of suppliers and 
a narrower product range, as we have done 
in countries like Germany where we have
consolidated 80% of our purchasing volume
with 11 suppliers and decreased the number
of products from 40,000 to 7,000.
We are also seeing significant benefits in
compliance, cost control and forecasting
through more effective menu planning. 
In Brazil, for example, our units have 
online access to a centralised menu planning
database and have reduced average meal
costs by up to 10%. 
Reducing in-unit production costs
Another focus area under MAP 3 is reducing
the cost of in-unit meal production. A key
component of this is reducing food waste,
targeting wastage in the production process
itself, overproduction or incorrectly ordered
or out-of-date stock. Programmes such as
‘Trim Trax’, which has been trialled in the
US Business & Industry and Education
sectors, are providing simple, high impact
tools to raise awareness of the issue of
wastage with our in-unit teams and embed
the disciplines necessary to reduce it.
Trim Trax – reducing wastage
The ‘Trim Trax’ programme has been developed in 
the US Business & Industry sector to help reduce 
in-unit food wastage, focusing on the most frequent
reasons we have identified for production loss –
overproduction, out-of-date inventory and wastage 
in the food preparation itself. The programme
provides some very simple, very visible ways to
reinforce the message about reducing waste for our
in-unit teams. One simple, but effective way is giving
each member of the food production team their 
own individual ‘Trim Trax’ food waste bin, which has
the volume recorded, categorised and assigned a
value each day. Results are then tracked, with the
team identifying actions to reduce wastage and
recognition going to the best performers. 
Reducing supply chain costs
Our newly created European Consolidation Centre 
in Southern Spain has reduced supply chain costs 
by having fresh produce delivered directly to this
facility from our own nominated growers, which we
then quality assure and consolidate for dispatch 
to our distributors in 12 European countries. By
consolidating our spend and buying at source we
have significantly improved our buying price, quality
and traceability, reduced distribution costs, and
reduced the number of lorries on the road. We
received the UK Institute of Grocery Distribution’ s
2007 Food Industry Award for Supply Chain
Excellence in recognition of our fresh produce 
buying strategy.
Chief Executive’s statement
continued
We are addressing food 
cost efficiencies through 
a systematic approach to
menu planning, purchasing
and in-unit processes. 11 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
MAP 4 – Unit costs
MAP 4 focuses on driving 
cost efficiencies from our 
£5.5 billion of unit labour and 
other in-unit, non-food costs.
Improving labour productivity
Our objective is always to deliver the right
level of service in the most efficient way
possible, by ensuring that we have the right
number of trained people, performing the
right activities in the right place at the right
time, and have the flexibility to absorb
increases in volume.
With the focus on labour productivity
through MAP we have been deploying tools
and processes across our business to improve
our labour optimisation. These are scalable 
to suit the differing sizes of our operations
and range from simple unit-based labour
scheduling tools that track and forecast labour
hours against sales, through to intensive 
on-site reviews by productivity specialists 
in our major sites. These programmes, such 
as ‘Performance Plus’ in our US Healthcare
business, involve detailed time and motion
studies to analyse labour scheduling and
efficiency in all areas of the operation, from
food production to mapping front of house
service needs against consumer footfall. This
gives a clear picture of the optimal labour
hour requirements on a unit level, allowing us
to adjust rostering and employee hours
accordingly . 
With the work that we have been doing 
in this area we continue to deepen our
understanding of the key drivers of
productivity and how to measure, report 
and manage it more effectively .
Effectively managing labour and
ancillary costs
Through MAP we are also exercising better
control over other labour costs such as
absenteeism, overtime and third party 
agency spend.
We have put in place processes and disciplines
to improve our management of salary and
benefit costs and control labour cost inflation.
These include local sector benchmarking, 
a robust process for managing national or
sector wage agreements and reviewing
benefits to ensure that those we provide 
are competitive with local market practices,
are valued by our people and that, where 
we use external providers for benefits such 
as health insurance, we are leveraging our
scale effectively .
Along with food costs, we are now including
labour costs as part of our pricing indexation
models, which drive our pricing strategy ,
product tariffs and which we use in our
contract pricing review process.
Reducing unit overheads
Unit overheads are all the remaining non-
food and non-labour costs associated with
managing our units such as uniforms, linen,
crockery , laundry/cleaning, utilities and
occupancy costs where we have them.
Through good local initiatives and more
thorough analysis and measurement we 
have made solid progress in the last year,
resulting in a reduction in unit overheads 
as a percentage of revenue, which we aim 
to continue. Improving efficiency
Good progress is being made to further reduce costs
in the UK business. Unit labour scheduling is now
receiving intensive focus, following the creation of 
a dedicated business efficiency team. This team 
is directly supporting our operations in embedding
processes and disciplines to more effectively 
manage labour scheduling, temporary labour, the
management of payroll, sickness and holiday in our
units and the better usage of reporting tools. Integral
to this is the roll-out of a communication and training
programme for all our Unit Managers focusing
attention on getting the right people in the right 
place at the right time in order to maximise sales 
and improve customer service and productivity. 
Effective labour cost management
Based on the work done in Australia we have
developed tools which are now being used as a 
global template to more effectively measure and 
cost labour turnover and the use of agency staff at a
country and operating unit level, identifying previous
hidden labour costs. In Australia we have seen a 
1.6% reduction in direct labour costs as a result of
accurate KPI measurement and the implementation
of tailored retention strategies, improved absence
management and reduction in agency spend.
Improving efficiency and
costs in our units is a real
opportunity that we are
starting to address. 12 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
HR shared services
T o reduce overlap and duplication in its HR support
functions our US business has created a central
Human Resources Service Centre, as a single 
point of contact on HR related issues for over 85,000
employees. This has reduced HR overhead costs 
by 5% and led to speedier and more effective issue
resolution, reduced management intervention and
improved employee satisfaction.
Chief Executive’s statement
continued
We are improving overhead
efficiency by simplifying the
way we run the business
and tighter control of
discretionary spend.
MAP 5 – Above unit overheads
As a Group we have £800
million of above unit costs
associated with managing 
the business. MAP 5 focuses 
on how we create a simpler
organisational model with 
fewer layers of management
and less bureaucracy. 
Simplifying management structures
We have made significant inroads in reducing
duplicate layers of management and putting
in place simpler, affordable structures 
that give greater transparency through 
the business and improve the speed of
decision making.
To achieve this we have dismantled the
previous divisional structure creating a clear
line of sight between the businesses and 
the Group. This is supported by our new
Group financial and non-financial reporting
framework which, combined with regular
business reviews of country MAP plans, 
gives us greater visibility and understanding
of the underlying performance of each
business and makes us better placed to
respond to opportunities and risks.
The management teams in our countries 
are empowered to run and develop their
businesses within a ‘light’, non-bureaucratic
Group framework. This relies on a culture 
of openness, honesty and transparency ,
supported by good communication and the
disciplines and good governance expected 
of a major international group. 
We have taken a similar approach within 
the countries themselves, focusing first 
on businesses like France, Japan and the
Netherlands, and reorganised how we
manage the business to create much leaner,
more effective structures.
In developing countries or those where 
we don’t have density we have developed
successful zone management structures, 
with a single management team overseeing 
a cluster of countries within a specific region,
for example, Central and Eastern Europe, 
our Central Asia, Middle East and Africa
(CAMEA) remote site businesses and the
Nordic region.
Consolidated back office functions
As part of reducing overlap and duplication
we have consolidated common back office
functions, retaining separate functions only
where they are genuinely sector specific. 
The UK and the USA are good examples of
where we have created a more streamlined,
shared services model for HR, reducing cost
and improving service to our front-line teams.  Segmental performance 
For the year ended Constant
30 September Reported currency Organic
change change change
2007 2006 % % %
Continuing operations
Revenue (£m)
North America 4,162 4,290 (3) 6 6
Continental 
Europe 2,553 2,484 3 4 4
United 
Kingdom 1,931 1,882 3 3 2
Rest of 
the World 1,622 1,611 1 8 9
Total 10,268 10,267 – 5 5
Operating profit
1
(£m)
North America 261 245
Continental 
Europe 151 122 
United 
Kingdom 107 107
Rest of 
the World 64 47 
Unallocated 
overheads (58) (66) 
Associates 4 2
Total 529 457
Operating margin
2
(%)
North America 6.3 5.7
Continental 
Europe 5.9 4.9
United 
Kingdom 5.5 5.7
Rest of 
the World 3.9 2.9
Total 5.1 4.4
1. Operating profit includes share of profit of associates UK 
£3 million (2006: £1 million) and North America £1 million 
(2006: £1 million). 
2. Operating margin is based on revenue and operating profit
excluding share of profit of associates.
13 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Business review
Group trading review
The Group’s financial summary for the year
ended 30 September 2007 is set out below . 
Financial summary
For the year ended
30 September 2007 2006 Increase
Continuing operations 
Revenue
– constant currency
1
£10,268m £9,768m 5.1%
– reported £10,268m £10,267m –
Operating profit
2
– constant currency
1
£529m £428m 23.6%
– reported £529m £457m 15.8%
Operating margin
6
5.1% 4.4% 70bps
Profit before tax 
– underlying
4
£442m £312m 41.7%
– reported £436m £323m 35.0%
Free cash flow £357m £212m 68.4%
Basic earnings per share 
– underlying
4
15.2p 9.4p 61.7%
– reported
5
15.0p 9.7p 54.6%
Total Group including discontinued operations
Basic earnings per share 25.6p 13.3p 92.5%
T otal dividend per ordinary share 10.8p 10.1p 6.9%
1. Constant currency restates the prior year results to 2007
average exchange rates.
2. Includes share of profit of associates.
3. Excludes share of profit of associates.
4. Underlying profit before tax excludes revaluation gains and
losses on swaps and hedging instruments (hedge accounting
ineffectiveness) of £(6) million (2006: £11 million). Underlying
basic earnings per share excludes these items net of tax.
5. Reported basic earnings per share before exceptional items.
6. Operating margin is based on revenue and operating profit
excluding share of profit of associates.
Revenue
Overall, organic revenue growth was 5%,
comprising new business of 8%, retention 
of around 94%, about one percentage point
lower than in previous years due to the work
we have been doing to address loss-making
contracts, and like for like growth of just
under 3%. The significant strengthening 
of Sterling, in particular against the US
Dollar, impacted revenues by 5%, resulting 
in reported revenues remaining flat. 
Organic growth is calculated by adjusting 
for acquisitions (excluding current year
acquisitions and including a full year in
respect of prior year acquisitions), disposals
(excluded from both years) and exchange 
rate movements (translating the prior year at
current year exchange rates), and compares
the results against 2006. 
The table above right summarises the
performance of the Group’s continuing
operations by geographic segment.
The Group achieved 5% organic
revenue growth in 2007 with
excellent performances in the North
America and the Rest of the World
regions, a stronger performance in
Continental Europe and continuing 
difficult trading in the UK. The MAP
programme and resulting actions
have led to improvements in financial
performance, in particular, strong
free cash flow generation, and good
progress has been made in the year
towards the achievement of the
Group’s 2006 – 2008 targets to
increase ROCE by 100 basis points
and to deliver £800 – £850 million
of free cash flow over the period.
Andrew Martin
Group Finance Director 14 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Business review
continued
North America
40.5% Group revenue (2006: 41.8%)
North America continues to make excellent
progress across a broad and well balanced
portfolio. We have seen good organic revenue
growth, with a much better balance between
new contracts and like for like growth. The
Business & Industry sector has been driven
through innovation, delivering 4% like for like
revenue growth. We have had considerable
success in creating a multi-service business in
the Healthcare sector through cross-selling
between Morrison, our foodservice business,
and Crothall, our support services business. To
support this we completed an infill acquisition,
on 1 October 2007, of a company with 
£37 million of revenues called Propoco Inc
(‘Professional Services’) whose services and
business model align very closely to Crothall.
Healthy eating programmes and the strength
of the Chartwells brand contributed to 9%
organic revenue growth in the Education
sector. Combined with good progress in 
Levy , our Sports & Leisure business, and in 
the Canadian business, North America
delivered 6% organic revenue growth overall.
The pipeline into 2008 looks healthy .
Operating profit increased by £39 million, 
or 18%, on a constant currency basis to 
£261 million (2006: £222 million on a
constant currency basis), and we have seen 
a step change in the margin of 60 basis 
points to 6.3%. Around half of the margin
growth has come from a significant one-off
reduction in overheads. The remainder of
the improvement is the result of better like for
like growth and ongoing operating efficiencies
across the businesses, both in in-unit and
above unit overheads. We have seen an
improvement in margin of 40 basis points,
from 6.1% in the first half to 6.5% in the
second half.
Continental Europe
24.9% Group revenue (2006: 24.2%)
Organic revenue growth in Continental
Europe has doubled to 4%, with good growth
opportunities for the future. In Spain, good
like for like growth, driven by new offerings
and an increase in consumer numbers,
together with strong new business in the
Healthcare and Education sectors resulted 
in organic revenue growth of 13%. The
continued high activity in the oil and gas
industry in the Nordic region has contributed
to 14% organic revenue growth, while the
focus on healthy eating continues to drive
increasing volumes through much of the
region. We are becoming more established 
in the Eastern European market with our
businesses there growing well.
On a constant currency basis, growth of
£31 million, or 26%, in operating profit 
from continuing operations to £151 million
(2006: £120 million on a constant currency
basis) represents a margin improvement 
of 100 basis points. Just over half of
this improvement is attributable to the
completion of the turnaround of previously
underperforming countries such as France
and the Netherlands. The remaining margin
growth has come from improved like for 
like revenue growth, which is at a high 
drop through to margin, and focus on cost
control across all countries. It is important 
to remember that the seasonality of this
business, with the reduction in headcounts 
in the Business & Industry sector over the
summer period and the closure of schools,
means that we record stronger profits and
margin in the first half, 6.5%, compared to
the second half, 5.3%. The underlying trends
in the first and second half margin in 2007
are similar to 2006.
UK
18.8% Group revenue (2006: 18.3%)
The UK business has delivered a solid result
with, as expected, operating profits in line
with last year.
Fundamentally we have a very strong business
in the UK. We have continued to work hard
to fix the basics and build a solid foundation
for the future. Good progress has been made
by the new senior management team: the
work to improve or exit loss-making contracts
is now largely complete; we have continued 
to reorganise across the business to drive
further efficiencies; and Education, after 
a difficult period, is now stabilised. 
Although the organisation of the business is
much improved there is still more work to do.
As such, we expect the performance of the
business to be broadly similar in 2008. 
Rest of the World
15.8% Group revenue (2006: 15.7%)
In the Rest of the World our two largest
businesses, Australia and Japan, together
account for 52% of revenue. Australia has
continued to deliver strong organic revenue
growth driven by the continued buoyancy 
of the extraction industries. In addition to 
this, with the help of the MAP programme,
Australia has made good progress in
developing its margin.
In Japan, the focus has been on driving
efficiency . By restructuring the business and
increasing the focus on cost efficiency we 
have seen good improvement in the margin.
There is still more to do and we need to 
work harder to drive revenue growth, but 
we are very encouraged by the progress in 
the business over the last year.
Good progress has been made in Latin
America and the UAE with a healthy mix 
of revenue and profit growth.
Overall, the Rest of the World has had
another very strong year, delivering £64
million operating profit from continuing
operations (2006: £43 million on a constant
currency basis), an increase of £21 million, 
or 49%, on a constant currency basis. This
represents margin growth of 100 basis points,
approximately half of which has come from
the step change in lower margin countries 
such as Japan and the mobilisation of strong
new business, particularly in Australia and 
Latin America. In August, the Group sold a
significant part of its remaining high street
retail restaurants business in Japan for 
£26 million. The business recorded annual
operating profits of around £4 million in 
the year.
There remains significant opportunity to
further develop our businesses in the Rest 
of the World both in size and operating
performance.
Unallocated overheads
Unallocated overheads for the year were 
£58 million (2006: £66 million). The decrease
is largely due to the absence of non-recurring
restructuring costs last year and overhead
efficiencies, partly offset by the strengthening 
of central functions. 
Operating profit
Operating profit from continuing operations,
including associates, was £529 million 
(2006: £457 million), an increase of 16% 
on a reported basis. The operating profit
increased by £101 million on a constant
currency basis, up 24%. This represents a 
70 basis point improvement in margin. 
Finance cost
Underlying net finance cost, excluding
revaluation gains and losses on swaps and
hedging instruments (hedge accounting
ineffectiveness), was £87 million 
(2006: £145 million). With the full year 
benefit of the Selecta disposal proceeds 
going forward, we expect the 2008 underlying
finance charge to be around £70 million.
Profit before tax
Profit before tax from continuing operations
was £436 million (2006: £323 million). 
On an underlying basis, excluding 
revaluation gains and losses on swaps and
hedging instruments (hedge accounting
ineffectiveness), profit before tax from
continuing operations increased by 42% 
to £442 million (2006: £312 million).
Income tax expense
On an underlying basis, excluding revaluation
gains and losses on swaps and hedging
instruments (hedge accounting ineffectiveness),
the tax charge from continuing operations and
before exceptional items was £126 million
(2006: £101 million), an effective tax rate of
29% (2006: 32%). Against the background 
of reducing corporate tax rates in a number 
of territories, we now expect the Group’s
effective tax rate to average out at around 
the 29% level for the short-term. 
Discontinued operations
On 2 July 2007, the Group completed the sale
of its European vending business, Selecta, for 
a consideration of £772 million on a debt and
cash free basis. The Group has also completed 15 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
the sale and closure of a number of other
small businesses during the year as part of
its exit from the travel concessions business.
The 2006 revenue and operating profits of
all of these businesses closed in the year were
£548 million and £51 million respectively .
The results of these businesses are treated as
discontinued operations and are therefore
excluded from the results of continuing
operations in 2007. The 2006 results have
been restated on a consistent basis.
The profit after tax from discontinued operations
was £212 million (2006: £33 million). 
Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 25.6 pence
(2006: 13.3 pence). Excluding the results of
discontinued operations and exceptional
items, basic earnings per share on an
underlying basis, excluding revaluation gains
and losses on swaps and hedging instruments
(hedge accounting ineffectiveness), were 
15.2 pence (2006: 9.4 pence).
Attributable Basic earnings
Profit per share
2007 2006 2007 2006 Change
£m £m Pence Pence %
Reported 515 285 25.6 13.3 92.5
Discontinued 
operations and 
exceptional items (212) (77) (10.6) (3.6)
Hedge accounting 
ineffectiveness 
(net of tax) 4 (7) 0.2 (0.3)
Underlying 307 201 15.2 9.4 61.7
Dividends
A final dividend of 7.2 pence per share will
be proposed (to be paid on 3 March 2008 
to shareholders on the register on 
1 February 2008) and will result in a total
dividend for the year of 10.8 pence per share
(2006: 10.1 pence per share), a year on year
increase of 7%. Dividend cover for 2007 
was 2.5 times reported earnings. On an
underlying basis the dividend was covered 
1.5 times on an earnings basis and 1.7 times
on a free cash basis.
Free cash flow
Free cash flow from the continuing business
totalled £357 million (2006: £212 million).
The major factors contributing to the
increase were: £70 million increase in
operating profit before associates, £56 million
improvement in working capital and £47
million lower net interest payments, offset in
part by £24 million higher net tax payments.
Gross capital expenditure of £192 million
(2006: £198 million), including amounts
purchased by finance lease of £15 million
(2006: £15 million), represents 1.9% of
revenue (2006: 1.9% of revenue). We
continue to expect the level of gross capital
expenditure to remain at around 2% of
revenue going forward. Proceeds from the
sale of assets were £22 million and we would
expect this to be around £12 million lower 
in 2008.
We have seen a step change in the
management of working capital. There has
been a focus in all areas of working capital
and we have achieved an overall £38 million
working capital inflow in the year. We believe
there are further improvements possible and
expect to achieve an average sustainable
working capital inflow of £20 to £30 million
a year for the foreseeable future, but with
better improvement in the next couple 
of years.
The cash tax rate for the year was 26% 
(2006: 30%), based on underlying profit
before tax for the continuing operations, and
we continue to expect the cash tax rate to
average out at the mid to high 20s level over
the short-term.
The net interest outflow of £127 million
(2006: £174 million) continues to reflect the
impact of the 2004 swap monetisation, which
will be substantially unwound by the end 
of 2009. 
Acquisition payments
The acquisition of the remaining 5% 
interest in Onama, our Italian business, was
completed in December 2006 for £7 million.
A further £17 million was spent on deferred
consideration relating to prior year acquisitions
and £7 million on new acquisitions.
Disposal proceeds
The sale of the European vending business,
Selecta, was completed in July 2007 for 
gross consideration of £772 million, 
£725 million net of transaction costs 
and completion accounting adjustments. 
A further £37 million of deferred
consideration relating to prior year disposals
was received in the year and £56 million was
received from the disposal of other operations
in the year.
Return on capital employed 
Return on capital employed (ROCE) was
12.5% (2006: 11.3%) based on the continuing
business before exceptional items, excluding
the Group’s minority partner’s share of total
operating profit, net of tax at 30% and using
an average capital employed for the year of
£2,914 million (2006: £2,751 million)
calculated from the IFRS balance sheet.
Under UK GAAP , included within average
capital employed was goodwill previously
written off to reserves, now extinguished
under IFRS, and goodwill amortised prior to
30 September 2004, the date at which the net
book value of goodwill was frozen under
IFRS. Including these adjustments, average
capital employed for the year (for the
continuing businesses) would have been
£5,899 million (2006: £5,736 million) and
return on capital employed for the continuing
business would have been 6.5% (2006: 5.8%).
Financial targets
The Group’s three year targets for the
continuing business for 2006 to 2008 remain
unchanged at:
100 basis points improvement in ROCE; and
free cash flow from continuing operations
of £800 million to £850 million.
Pensions 
The Group has continued to review and
monitor its pension obligations throughout
the year working closely with the Trustees and
members of schemes around the Group to
ensure proper prudent assumptions are used
and adequate provision is made. 
Particularly good progress has been made in
respect of the Group’s UK defined benefit
pension schemes where a further £45 million
special contribution was paid in during the
year following completion of the sale of the
Selecta vending operation. This follows
special contributions in 2006 totalling 
£280 million to the UK defined benefit
pension schemes following the sale of the 
SSP travel concessions business and the
Strand Palace Hotel. 
In the UK defined benefit pension schemes we
have again increased our longevity assumptions
so that, for example, a female non-pensioner is
now assumed to survive 24.7 years following
retirement (2006: 23.7 years). The Group’s total
pension deficit was reduced significantly in 
the year, despite the adoption of the more
prudent assumptions, to £162 million 
(2006: £282 million). The deficit would have
reduced to only £70 million if the surplus on
certain schemes had been fully recognised.
IFRIC 14 only permits the recognition of a
pension fund surplus where a company can
clearly demonstrate that it can access the
surplus through, for example, reduced future
contributions. The Group has taken the
prudent view that it will not be able to access
these surpluses, totalling £92 million, in the
foreseeable future. 
The total pensions charge for defined
contribution schemes in the year was 
£36 million (2006: £33 million) and £22 million
(2006: £35 million) for defined benefit
schemes. Of the defined benefit scheme costs,
£2 million (2006: £11 million) was charged to
net finance cost.
Gearing
The ratio of net debt to market capitalisation
of £5,820 million as at 30 September 2007
was 13% (2006: 19%). 0
100
200
300
400
500
600
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
£ Bonds
£m
€ Bonds US$ Private Placement Bank
16 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Business review
continued
Financial instruments
The Group continues to manage its interest
rate and foreign currency exposure in
accordance with the policies set out below .
The Group’s financial instruments comprise
cash, borrowings, receivables and payables that
are used to finance the Group’s operations.
The Group also uses derivatives, principally
interest rate and cross currency swaps and
forward currency contracts, to manage interest
rate and currency risks arising from the
Group’s operations. The Group does not trade
in financial instruments. The Group’s treasury
policies are designed to mitigate the impact of
fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates
and to manage the Group’s financial risks. The
Board approves any changes to the policies.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board has a proactive approach to risk
management with the aim of protecting its
employees and customers and safeguarding
the interests of the Company and its
shareholders.
Compass Group has specific policies in place
to ensure that risks are properly evaluated 
and managed at the appropriate level within
the business. A risk assessment exercise is
carried out across the Group each year and the
outcome is reviewed by the Board bi-annually .
Outlined below is a summary of what the
Board considers to be the key risks and
uncertainties to successful delivery of its
corporate objectives and the activities the
Group undertakes to mitigate against these
key risks and uncertainties:
Description Mitigating activities
Food safety The Group has in place policies,
processes and training procedures 
to ensure compliance with its legal
obligations in relation to food hygiene 
and safety.
Client retention Our business model is structured so that
we are not reliant on one particular
sector, geography or client.
People retention Training and development programmes, 
and motivation succession planning and performance
management are designed to align
rewards with our corporate objectives
and to retain and motivate our 
best people.
Health, safety Our Health, Safety and Environment 
and environment Forum promotes policy, sets standards
and monitors best practice and reports 
to the Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee.
Purchasing To reduce risk we are focusing on
traceability, clear specification of our
requirements to nominated suppliers 
and the improvement of purchasing
compliance by Unit Managers.
Litigation Though we do not operate in a litigious
industry we have in place policies and
processes in our major countries to
mitigate against third-party litigation.
Reputation The Group’s zero tolerance based 
Code of Ethics governs all aspects of 
our relationship with our stakeholders. 
The Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee investigates any alleged
breaches.
Liquidity risk
The Group finances its borrowings from a
number of sources including banks, the
public markets and the US private placement
markets.
The maturity profile of the Group’s principal
borrowings at 30 September 2007 shows the
average period to maturity is 4.1 years. The
Group’s undrawn committed bank facilities 
at 30 September 2007 were £630 million.
Maturity profile of principal borrowings
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s policy is to match as far as
possible its principal projected cash flows by
currency to actual or effective borrowings in
the same currency . As currency earnings are
generated, they are used to service and repay
debt in the same currency . To implement this
policy , forward currency contracts or cross
currency swaps are taken out which, when
applied to the actual currency liabilities,
convert these to the required currency . A
reconciliation of the 30 September 2007 actual
currency liabilities to the effective currency
borrowed is set out below .
Forwards
and cross Effective 
Gross currency currency of 
borrowings swaps borrowings
Currency £m £m £m
Sterling 837 (318) 519
US Dollar 476 247 723
Euro 258 (98) 160
Japanese Yen 16 59 75
Other currencies 21 105 126
Total 1,608 (5) 1,603
Analysed as:
Non-
Current current
liabilities liabilities Total
Liability £m £m £m
Finance leases 14 36 50
Bank overdrafts 118 – 118
Bank loans 19 17 36
Loan notes – 380 380
Bonds – 1,019 1,019
Total 151 1,452 1,603
The borrowings in each currency give rise to
foreign exchange differences on translation
into Sterling. Where the borrowings are either
less than, or equate to, the net investment in
overseas operations, these exchange rate
movements are treated as movements on
reserves and recorded in the statement of
recognised income and expense rather than
in the income statement.
Non-Sterling earnings streams are translated
at the average rate of exchange for the year.
This results in differences in the Sterling 
value of currency earnings from year to year.
The table below sets out the exchange rates
used for major currencies for translating the
2007 and 2006 income statements and
balance sheets.
Average rate Closing rate
Currency 2007 2006 2007 2006
Australian Dollar 2.44 2.41 2.30 2.53
Brazilian Real 4.02 3.97 3.75 4.22
Canadian Dollar 2.19 2.06 2.02 2.13
Euro 1.48 1.46 1.43 1.48
Japanese Yen 234.05 209.07 234.33 220.54
Norwegian Krone 11.98 11.66 11.05 12.47
South African Rand 14.18 11.95 14.05 14.52
Swedish Krona 13.63 13.67 13.18 13.80
Swiss Franc 2.40 2.29 2.38 2.34
US Dollar 1.97 1.80 2.04 1.87
Interest rate risk
As detailed above, the Group has effective
borrowings in a number of currencies and 
its policy is to ensure that, in the short-term, 
it is not materially exposed to fluctuations 
in interest rates in its principal currencies.
The Group implements this policy either 
by borrowing fixed rate debt or by using
interest rate swaps so that at least 80% of
its projected net debt is fixed for one year,
reducing to 60% fixed for the second year
and 40% fixed for the third year.
Shareholder return
The market price of the Group’s ordinary
shares at the close of the financial year was
302 pence per share (2006: 268 pence).
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a
reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.
Conclusion
The successful disposal of the European
vending business, Selecta, and the exit from
other remaining non-core assets has resulted
in a focused Group with a strong financial
position. In the coming year the focus will
continue to be on embedding MAP deeper
into the organisation and on improving
business performance.
Andrew Martin
Group Finance Director
28 November 2007  17 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
01 Sir Roy Gardner
1
Chairman Age 62
Appointed Chairman in July 2006 having been
appointed to the Board as senior independent non-
executive director in October 2005. He is a senior
advisor to Credit Suisse, a non-executive director 
of Willis Group Holdings Limited, President of the
Energy Institute, Chairman of the Advisory Board of
the Energy Futures Lab of Imperial College London,
a member of the International Advisory Board of the
IESE Business School at the University of Navarra,
President of Carers UK, Chairman of the British
Olympics Appeal Committee for the Beijing Games
and Chairman of the Apprenticeship Ambassadors
Network. He is a former Chief Executive of Centrica
plc, Chairman of Manchester United plc, Finance
Director of British Gas plc, Managing Director of
GEC-Marconi Ltd and a Director of GEC plc and 
a former non-executive director of Laporte plc. 
Sir Roy received his Knighthood in 2002 for services
to the gas and electricity industries. 
02 Richard Cousins
2, 8
Group Chief Executive Age 48
Appointed to the Board in May 2006 and appointed
Group Chief Executive in June 2006. He is a 
non-executive director of HBOS plc. Richard was
until December 2005 Chief Executive Officer of 
BPB plc, having held a number of positions with 
that company since joining it in1990 and is a former
non-executive director of P&O. His earlier career
was with Cadbury Schweppes plc and BTR plc. 
03 Andrew Martin
2, 8
Group Finance Director Age 47
Appointed to the Board in March 2004. He was
previously a partner with Arthur Andersen and 
held senior financial positions with Forte Plc and
Granada Group PLC. Following the disposal of 
the Hotels Division in 2001, Andrew joined First
Choice Holidays PLC as Finance Director. He is an
Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants
in England and Wales and an Associate of the
Chartered Institute of T axation. 
04 Gary Green
8
Group Managing Director – USA, 
Canada and Mexico Age 50
Appointed to the Board in January 2007. Joined 
the Group in 1986 in a senior finance role in the 
UK and became a UK director in 1992. Gary
relocated to the USA in 1994 as Chief Finance
Officer of the Group’ s North American business and
in 1999 became Chief Executive Officer. He is a
chartered accountant and in 2001 received an
honorary doctorate from Johnson & Wales
University in the USA.
05 Sir James Crosby
3, 5
Senior independent non-executive 
director Age 51
Appointed to the Board in February 2007. He is 
a non-executive director of ITV plc and is Deputy
Chairman of the Financial Services Authority and 
is a former Chief Executive of HBOS plc. He is a
Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries.
06 Sven Kado
4, 6
Non-executive director Age 63
Appointed to the Board in April 2002. He is
Chairman of Marsh & McLennan Holdings GmbH
and was previously Chief Financial Officer of Nixdorf
Computer AG, Chief Financial Officer of Dyckerhoff
AG and senior advisor of Principal Finance
Group/Nomura International. 
07 Steve Lucas
2, 6, 7
Non-executive director Age 53
Appointed to the Board in July 2004. He is Finance
Director of National Grid plc having been previously
Executive Director, Finance of Lattice Group plc. 
He is a chartered accountant and has held a number
of senior finance positions with Shell International
Petroleum Company and British Gas. More recently
he was Treasurer at BG Group.
08 Susan Murray
Non-executive director Age 50
Appointed to the Board in October 2007. She is
non-executive Chairman of Farrow & Ball and a 
non-executive director of Enterprise Inns Plc, SSL
International PLC, Wm Morrison Supermarkets 
PLC and Imperial T obacco PLC. She is a former
non-executive director of Aberdeen Asset
Management PLC, a former Chief Executive of
Littlewoods Stores Limited and former Worldwide
President and Chief Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff
Company, part of Diageo plc. Susan is a Fellow of
the Royal Society of Arts and a council member of
the Advertising Standards Authority.
09 Tim Parker
4, 6
Non-executive director Age 52
Appointed to the Board in February 2007. He is 
a former Chief Executive of the AA and a former 
non-executive director of Alliance Boots Plc.
10 Sir Ian Robinson
3, 4
Non-executive director Age 65
Appointed to the Board in December 2006. 
He is Chairman of Ladbrokes plc (formerly Hilton
Group plc), a non-executive director of Scottish &
Newcastle plc and Siemens Holdings plc. He is a
former Chairman of Amey plc, Chief Executive of
Scottish Power plc and non-executive director of
ASDA plc and RMC plc. He is a Fellow of the Royal
Academy of Engineers, a Fellow of the Institution of
Chemical Engineers and a member of the T akeover
Panel. Sir Ian received his Knighthood in 2000 for
services to the electricity industry.
11 Mark White
2, 8, 9
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Age 47
A solicitor who joined Compass Group on 1June 2007.
He is secretary to the Audit, Disclosure, General
Business, Nomination and Remuneration
Committees. Mark was previously Group Company
Secretary and Counsel of Wolseley plc and Company
Secretary of Enterprise Oil plc and Rotork plc.
1. Chairman of the Nomination and Corporate 
Responsibility Committees
2. Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
3. Member of the Nomination Committee
4. Member of the Audit Committee
5. Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
6. Member of the Remuneration Committee
7. Chairman of the Audit Committee
8. Member of the Executive Committee
9. Trustee of the Compass Pension Scheme
Board of directors
01
07
02
08
03
09
04
10
05
11
06 18 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Over the past year, we have further reviewed
and continued to build on our Corporate 
Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) strategy against
the increasingly complex environment in
which we operate. As a result, we have
renewed and strengthened our determination
that Compass should continue to improve its
CSR journey .
We regard CSR as a sustainable approach 
to business that seeks benefits for all our
stakeholders, be they customers, employees,
communities, the environment or the
Company and its shareholders. We support
sound CSR policies and practices for good
business reasons. Our commitment to 
CSR is not simply a response to increased
market attention to this area, but acts as a
reinforcement of the way that our business
operates on a daily basis. The Board believes
that the progressive integration of CSR across
the Group and the inclusion of broader social
and environmental issues into our decision
making will help us achieve our business goals
and act as an essential building block for
growth in shareholder value.
Corporate culture
Our values
Our vision is detailed on the inside front cover
of the Annual Report. Our strong set of
values is key to achieving this; defining what,
collectively , we believe in and the basis of
everything we do:
Openness, trust and integrity
We have a commitment to open dialogue and
transparency with all of our stakeholders.
We set the highest ethical and professional
standards at all times. We want all our
relationships to be based on honesty , respect
and fairness. 
Passion for quality
We are passionate about delivering superior
food and service to our customers and take
pride in achieving this. We look to replicate
success, learn from mistakes and develop
ideas, innovation and practices that will help
us improve and be leaders in our marketplace.
Win through teamwork
We encourage individual ownership but 
work as a team. We value the expertise,
individuality and contribution of all our
employees, working in support of each other
and sharing good practice, in pursuit of
shared goals.
Can-do
We take a positive and commercially 
aware ‘can-do’ approach to the day-to-day
opportunities and challenges we face.
Responsibility
We take responsibility for our actions,
individually and as a Group. Everyday ,
everywhere we look to make a positive
contribution to the health and wellbeing 
of our customers, the communities we work 
in and the world we live in.
Code of Ethics
The Compass Code of Ethics sets out our
social, ethical and environmental commitment
towards each of our stakeholders and the
communities in which we operate. The Code
underpins our CSR programme and supports
our business integrity . During 2007, we
launched a specific ethical business training
programme for our European buying team
which supports an ethical approach to
business practice, the protection of human
rights and clearly sets out the behaviour 
we expect from buyers when dealing with 
our supply partners across Europe. 
This successful programme will be further
extended to include our buying colleagues 
in North America early in 2008.
We operate a ‘Speak Up’ programme so that
our employees can raise, on a confidential
basis, any concerns about how we conduct our
business. Our ‘whistle-blowing’ programme 
is available to 99% of our employees and we
will complete the roll-out to the balance of our
employees in the remaining countries during
the course of 2008. Ongoing work continues 
to be undertaken throughout the business to
raise employee awareness and regular reports
are also provided to the Audit Committee 
of the Board.
Corporate Responsibility Committee 
We have established a Corporate
Responsibility Committee of the Board, to
provide direction and guidance on all aspects
of business practice and responsibility ensuring
consistent application everywhere we operate.
The committee’s primary responsibilities
include: overseeing health, safety and
environmental practices, business conduct, the
positive promotion of employee engagement
as well as diversity and community
investment. The committee comprises 
Sir Roy Gardner (Chairman), Richard
Cousins, Andrew Martin, Steve Lucas,
Jane Kingston (Group Human Resources
Director), and Mark White.
A commitment to develop 
performance indicators
We want to track our progress along our CSR
journey and to update our stakeholders on the
progress we are making. We are developing and
refining a common set of key performance
indicators (‘KPIs’) and targets to measure our
CSR success. These will provide us with a
means to monitor and manage performance
at a Group level, complementing existing
measures at a business level. For example, 
we are working to assess our environmental
performance using the model recommended
by the UK Government Agency DEFRA, and
are selecting future KPIs that are relevant to
our sector. We have identified greenhouse
gases, particularly CO
2
emissions and waste,
as our key environmental impacts. From
October 2007, we implemented a web-based
tracking tool across our ‘Top Ten’ countries
(representing more than 80% of total Group
revenue), to collect the necessary environmental
performance data that we require, the results
of which will form the basis of our reporting
for our 2007/08 CSR review .
Acting responsibly
Speak Up 
Our ‘whistle-blowing’ programme is now available to
99% of our employees globally. 19 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Our people
We employ over 360,000 people in around 
64 countries. Our success is dependent on the
contribution of our employees. They remain
our most important asset and represent the
face that Compass presents to the world. 
A key objective is to ensure that we provide 
a workplace environment that encourages 
and supports our employees in achieving their
best personal performance. An engaged and
motivated workforce will enable our people 
to achieve their performance goals.
Over the last five years, we have conducted 
a number of employee surveys across the
business. In line with our new HR and
business strategies, we recently evolved the
way we conduct these surveys to help us better
understand how we can maximise employee
commitment, retention and discretionary
effort, in other words ‘engagement’. 
In April 2007, over 150,000 people from 
20 of our largest businesses (representing 
over 90% of total Group revenue) had the
opportunity to participate in our new ‘Y our
V oice’ People Survey . This year we extended
our use of web surveys while also giving many
of our employees the opportunity to share
their views using the telephone. 
Overall, the results from our 2007 survey are
very encouraging and our response rate of
61% was slightly ahead of that seen in our
2005 survey . Employees have a clear line of
sight with our new mission and understand
how they contribute to success. Managers feel
the Group is making the right changes to be
successful, has a clear sense of direction and 
is successfully focusing on both long-term
strategies and short-term results. 
Our positive ‘can-do’ attitude means 
people are motivated to go the extra mile 
and the results show that our new Guiding
Principles are fast becoming part of everyday
life at Compass.
In addition, three-quarters of employees who
responded agree that we are focused on
delivering excellent service.
We are able to compare some of our 2007
results with those achieved in our 2005 survey .
V ery positively , we see solid improvement in
ratings for health and safety , embracing
diversity and people being treated fairly
regardless of their gender, age, race,
background or beliefs. Moreover, internal
perceptions of the Group being a good
corporate citizen also show improvement. 
Health and safety is at the heart of everything
we do. The survey results support this as
people continue to agree that we place a 
high priority in this area and around 8 in 
10 people feel they are equipped to do their 
job safely and well. 
At the unit/site level, people are delivering
improved service and performance by
working together. Our Unit Managers are a
real strength and highly regarded by their
teams. They are respectful towards colleagues 
Our Guiding Principles
– Health, Safety and Environment First
– Delivering for Clients and Consumers
– Developing our People and Valuing Diversity
– Profitable Growth
– Constant Focus on Performance and Efficiency
and make clear what’s expected in the
workplace. Our employees believe managers
are good communicators – keeping people
informed of changes that may affect them,
while also providing constructive performance
feedback.
We have also been able to compare our results
with those of other multinational, multi-site
service-oriented businesses. It is pleasing to
note that in certain areas we rank above other
major employers. How our managers give
helpful feedback and how the Company values
ideas and opinions are just two examples.
While the survey gives us the ability to target
our efforts and resources in those areas that
have the greatest influence on engagement,
one of the real successes has been making the
results accessible to all employees, especially
those in our units/sites. People believe in the
survey , and globally more than 6 in 10 expect
positive action to be taken on the results. 
Our next global People Survey is planned 
for early 2009 and will include additional
countries to those participating in the 2007
survey such that we will aim to reach some
160,000 employees.
Developing our people
We know from the results of our survey that
we need to do more to help our people
develop their skills and further their careers
within the Company . This is something we 
will continue to focus on in 2008 through 
our global employment brand, talent
management and various learning and
development programmes.
Training and development programmes for
all employees are important both for our
employees to fulfil their potential and to the
ability of the business to achieve its goals. 
The development of leadership skills of
senior managers is also a key objective and
Compass has enabled an increasing number
of participants to attend in-house or external
programmes. Since its inception in 2003, our
current Compass Group Masters Programme
has seen over 60 members of our global
senior management graduate and achieve 
an MSc in Business Leadership. Through 
the programme each ‘student’ applies their
experience and skills to a business challenge
that directly relates to the business priorities 
in their job role and has measurable impact.
The structured programme involves extensive
internal and external research, drawing on
internal and external best practice and theory ,
as well as practical issues such as resources,
budgeting and project planning. 
Employee survey 
In 2007, over 150,000 employees had the opportunity
to participate in our global employee survey.
Healthcare & Seniors
Business & Industry
Fine Dining
Education
Sports & Leisure
Defence, Offshore
Vending
T op T en countries 
The T op T en countries representing more than 
80% of total Group revenue.
USA
UK
France
Japan
Canada
Germany
Italy
Spain
Netherlands
Switzerland 20 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
We continue to devote significant attention
and resources to the training of our
employees. Over 81,500 days of staff training
were provided during the year in our largest
businesses representing more than 80% of
Group revenue.
Equal opportunities
We regard the promotion of equal
opportunities as a long-term commitment. We
expect all of our employees to be treated with
respect and dignity . Our equal opportunity
policy is designed to ensure that both current
and potential employees are offered the same
opportunity to do a job regardless of sex,
race, colour, religion, nationality , ethnic
origin, age, sexual orientation, marital status
or disability . We value the diversity of our
people and strongly believe that a more
diverse workforce is a more creative
workforce, and one better able to adapt to
change. The more our employees reflect the
diversity of our clients and customers, the
better equipped we will be to service their
needs. We believe we have the right policies in
place to meet or exceed legal requirements in
this area, although we continue to undertake
further work to explore the factors that are
critical to achieving greater diversity . 
Reward 
Our remuneration policy seeks to deliver
improved performance throughout the
business, balancing short-term success with
the attainment of our longer-term business
goals and shareholder return. We work to
attract and retain people of proven ability ,
experience and skills. Under our pay and
reward programme, in the year to 
30 September 2007, the Group paid gross
employee pay of £4,518 million. Within this
figure, social security contributions and
payroll taxes together with pensions and other
employee costs amounted to £638 million
and £76 million respectively .
A safe and healthy workplace
Our number one operational priority remains
health, safety and the environment for the 
20 million daily consumers who eat and drink
with us. 
All management and Board meetings
throughout the Group feature a Health and
Safety update as one of their first agenda
items. The Board reviews the Health and Safety
and Food Safety policies annually to ensure
that they each continue to reflect our aims
and aspirations with a continued alignment
with legislation. Supporting the Board is our
internal Health, Safety and Environment F orum
made up of technical specialists from around
the Compass globe. It has become the key
body responsible for promoting policy , setting
standards, measuring compliance and sharing
best practice in these areas across the Group. 
We believe that each of us at Compass has a
moral obligation to safeguard each other, our
customers and the environment by operating
a safe, injury free and healthy workplace,
serving food that is always safe to eat and
which minimises our impact on the
environment. To ensure best practice, we have
developed a set of policies, minimum
operating standards and behaviours to be
rolled out across our ‘Top Ten’ as a minimum,
by December 2008. These standards are
based on the strictest regulatory requirements
and industry best practice. Indeed, world-class
performance continues to be our aim, seeking
over the next five years to set the benchmark
for our industry .
We strive to continuously improve our
performance and from October 2007 started
to measure our performance against a set of
clear KPIs and targets to assure our customers
and others who work with us that we are
operating the safest environment possible.
Specifically , we:
seek to prevent injury to any employee,
customer or contractor;
consider the safety implications of our
procurement decisions;
initiate a full risk assessment programme
upon commencement of a new contract;
ensure that every employee is properly
trained to safely perform their work; and
have in place appropriate consultation
arrangements to enable our employees and
their representatives to communicate and
raise concerns about health and safety
management.
We also expect similarly high standards from
our suppliers and business partners.
Health and safety have always had a special
focus for our offshore and remote site
workplaces, where our customers demand the
very highest operational standards. A good
example of our success is in Denmark, 
where our ESS support services team on the
South Arne platform in the North Sea have
completed five years of providing services to
our customer with no lost-time incidents. 
We received further recognition of our success
in this area when our ESS support services
team in Kazakhstan were proud to have
achieved the significant milestone of reaching
2,000,000 man-hours worked without a ‘Day
Away From Work Case’ at the Tengizchevroil
Village. We are responsible for the safe and
efficient running of this remote site serving
approximately 3,000 meals per day , with
difficult working conditions and extreme
temperatures. 
Our UK business reached a health and 
safety milestone this year, with the 50,000th
Compass employee gaining the Quality
Through Hygiene and Quality Through
Safety qualifications from the Institution of
Occupational Safety & Health (‘IOSH’). We
have enjoyed a successful partnership with
IOSH for several years, with the training 
body providing food safety and health and
safety training via distance learning to our
customer-facing employees.
From October 2007, we began to measure
and report on the number of days lost across
our ‘Top Ten’, as a result of health and safety
incidents. We will include the results of ‘lost
day injuries’ in our 2008 CSR report and our
aim will be to expand the reporting of days
lost across the Group and to consistently
improve and reduce such numbers. 
Acting responsibly
continued
Safety first
Our ESS support services team on the South Arne
Platform in the North Sea achieved five years of service 
to the client with no lost-time incidents. 21 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Diet and nutrition
As a global foodservice company , we
recognise that we have an enormous impact
on what our 20 million daily consumers
choose to eat and drink. Our contribution 
to their diet and nutrition is our most
significant impact. Our primary concern 
is that the food we serve is prepared to the
very highest standards using quality products
and ingredients and, at the very minimum, 
we comply with all relevant legislation and
approved codes of practice.
Initially developed in our UK and US
businesses, we are progressively implementing
during 2008, a healthy eating framework
called ‘Balanced Choices’, which will 
form the basis in a minimum standard 
for implementation in our ‘Top Ten’. 
The framework is based on sound science,
regulatory requirements and industry best
practice. To become a registered ‘Balanced
Choices’ outlet, the staff must undertake a
detailed training programme. In the UK, 
over 600 units are already qualified to operate
‘Balanced Choices’ and in Belgium, ‘Balanced
Choices’ has recently been officially endorsed
by the Belgian Government. In our US
business, almost 1,500 units offer ‘Balanced
Choices’ to their customers every day .
We are working closely with our customers
(and through them with our consumers) as
well as our suppliers, governments and
regulators across the globe to respond to
public health issues such as those associated
with obesity and diet. We aim to provide a
wide choice of menu items so that consumers
seeking healthier options are well served.
In the UK, our Education businesses
(Scolarest in state schools and Chartwells for
the independent sector) recognise that
teaching children, and increasingly their
parents, about food and getting them
enthused about healthy eating is key . We
promote a whole school approach, supported
by information for parents, extra training for
our teams and also encourage pupils to eat
healthily with a range of initiatives, including
cooking workshops in schools. All Scolarest
school meals meet the UK Government’s
food-based standards and 60% of primary
schools also meet the more strict nutrient
standards which will be introduced in 2008. 
Another innovative example of our
commitment to improving the wellbeing of
children, is the ‘BackPack’ programme in
Atlantic City , USA which helps ensure that
some of the neediest children have enough
nutritious food to eat over the weekend. 
Each Friday , our Chartwells team provide
backpacks filled with healthy , non-perishable
food that are collected by the children in the
programme, providing them with sufficient
food to last the weekend. The children return
the empty backpacks on Monday morning, 
so that they can be filled again. 
Around the world, our consumers are
becoming increasingly mindful and
knowledgeable about the nutritional aspects
of what they choose to eat. We are, therefore,
using frameworks like ‘Balanced Choices’ to
enhance nutritional labelling across our food
product range, providing customers with 
the information that they need to make
informed choices.
Responsible supply chain
The provenance and origin of the food 
we purchase is a key consideration for us. 
We require that food is only purchased from
authorised suppliers and is always prepared
under conditions that do not expose it 
to the risk of contamination. We expect our
suppliers to comply with the social, ethical
and environmental standards specified in 
our V endor Assurance Programme. Across
our ‘Top Ten’, our suppliers are assessed
according to risk assessment criteria, to ensure
that they too adhere to our own exacting
approach. We also recognise the benefits 
of working closely with them, especially in
developing markets, to share knowledge and
expertise that will help both organisations
maintain the standards that our clients and
customers have come to expect. 
Increasingly , we work with local producers to
improve their skills and capabilities to help
them develop new markets and support 
the local community . Our ground-breaking
‘Farm to Fork’ programme is one such
example of working with local producers.
This programme, started in 1999 by our Bon
Appétit team in the USA, set a new standard
for how a foodservice company could support
local communities. The Bon Appétit initiative
to purchase from within 150 miles of each
café has grown at an unprecedented rate with
local purchases exceeding US$55 million in 2007. 
In 2007, we have seen the amount of
Fairtrade coffee that we buy increase to 3.4
million cups per year across Europe, which
represents a 10% increase on last year.
Environment
A key driver towards our success is the degree
of autonomy which is afforded to local
management teams, allowing them to serve
local markets in the most appropriate manner.
To support their activities, we have developed
an environmental policy supported by a
minimum operating standard and a set of
behaviours that are being introduced into all
our operations. The underlying principles
relating to the environment cover: the
integration of environmental management
into our business operations to reduce our
known impacts; the commitment to
compliance with all relevant environmental
legislation and best practice; a commitment to
strive for continual improvement; and a
commitment to ensure proper communication
with, and training for, employees to enable
them to meet our standards. We are aiming,
over time, for our behavioural policy to set the
benchmark for our industry . 
We have set clear environmental objectives in
the following areas to:
reduce the water and energy used in our
principal office and production units;
reduce the CO
2
emissions of our 
vehicle fleets;
reduce the waste packaging of our supply
chain; and
seek to reduce food miles by increasing the
use of seasonally available products sourced
from the relevant domestic markets.
Healthy eating 
We support schools, parents and pupils to choose 
a healthy, balanced diet. 22 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
In October 2007, we introduced a web-based
reporting tool to track and report globally , in
a consistent manner, on our CO
2
emissions. 
We have initially launched the tool with our
‘Top Ten’ countries and will extend the
programme to more countries in 2008. 
The tool will help us to measure such areas as:
petrol and diesel used by company cars 
and fleet vehicles;
directly purchased electricity , which
generates greenhouse gases (including CO
2
emissions) relating to our main office
locations and significant production units
across our ‘Top Ten’ countries; and 
volume of general office waste generated
per annum relating to our main office
locations and significant production units
across our ‘Top Ten’ countries.
These results will act as the baseline data for
2007/08 and form the platform for our
environmental reporting in future years. 
In our 2008 CSR Report, we will publish 
our performance and clearly state our
improvement targets for 2009.
As in all other areas, Compass requires
similarly high standards from its suppliers and
contractors. Additionally , in the majority of
our locations where we are not directly
responsible for the procurement of utilities,
equipment, fuel etc., we are working closely
with our clients to consider how best to
improve the environmental performance of
our operations. 
During the year, we have made good progress
in logistics efficiencies, such as where our
French colleagues have worked closely with
their nominated logistics partners to
consolidate the range of products required 
by our business to fewer logistics providers.
Outlets consequently require fewer deliveries
but without negatively impacting on the way
in which they operate. During the last three
years, the streamlining of logistics providers
and the increase in the average weight per
delivery has helped to reduce the total
number of deliveries into our French business
by 350,000 deliveries over the period, thus
reducing the CO
2
emissions.
Our UK business is mindful of running a
large fleet of vehicles with relatively high
mileage and the subsequent effect this may
have on the environment. Consequently , those
drivers who choose company vehicles with
low CO
2
emissions are acknowledged with an
incentive payment for every one unit of CO
2
emission below 170 that their chosen vehicle
emits. This scheme is being evaluated for
potential implementation to our other
countries. 
At unit level, our UK business has for the last
two years organised the collection of used
cooking oil from our units for conversion 
to bio-fuel, with over 80% of used cooking oil
currently diverted to this use. Furthermore,
our logistics partners in the UK have begun
switching their commercial fuel use to 
bio-diesel.
Leith’s café at the British Library was one 
of the first establishments in London to sign
up to the Climate Care programme, which
offsets customers’ carbon footprints. The 
‘Last Word’ was conceived as an enhancement
to the services already provided at the 
British Library and as a response to the
growing trend for ethical and responsible
management. Leith’s pays to offset all its
carbon emissions including the travel costs 
of the staff and supply of food from depot 
to unit, and all on-site energy costs. Where
possible, energy efficient lighting has been
used and all appliances are minimum A rated
for energy efficiency . 
Within our European supply chain, we are
currently trialling the use of re-usable plastic
crates for the transport of our fresh produce
with the aim of maintaining hygiene but
significantly reducing the amount of
cardboard packaging which is currently used
to transport fresh produce to our units.
Already in use in our business in Switzerland
and the Netherlands, we are now trialling this
initiative in our UK business where, once fully
implemented, we can expect to save at least
2.5m kg of packaging waste per annum. 
We are developing Group-wide guidelines 
on the management of recycling and waste
separation. Our French colleagues have made
good headway already with an initiative
launched in 2006 to segregate their waste for
recycling purposes. In 2007, over 70% of our
French outlets participated in the programme
which represents a 5% increase on the 2006
participation rates. 
Compass In The Community
We have a strong track record in community
engagement and investment. Compass In The
Community , now in its 10th year, recognises
the best community-based initiatives from
across the Compass world. Each year, we 
hold an award ceremony to recognise, 
reward and celebrate our global community
engagement programmes and the teams that
make them happen. Projects promote healthy
lifestyles, tackle social exclusion, improve
employment chances and promote sustainability
and diversity . Whilst it is not possible to list
here all the worthy projects with which
Compass In The Community has been
involved, the following are just a few of
the many good news stories.
We value our membership of Business in 
the Community (‘BITC’), an organisation
which seeks to inspire, engage, support 
and challenge companies to continually
improve the impact they have on society 
and the environment. 
Acting responsibly
continued
2007 Compass In The Community 
Winners of the 2007 Compass In The Community
Awards, recognised for their community investment 
in health, nutrition and health and safety programmes. 23 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
As a major player in our industry , we
recognise our responsibility to bring on and
champion culinary talent and expertise. 
The UK and Ireland business’ work with
Hoxton Apprentice, a highly successful 
social enterprise restaurant in London,
demonstrates our continued commitment.
The venture provides in-work support and
mentoring and is operated by Training for
Life. Their aim is to provide training and
support to individuals from the local
community who have been unemployed on 
a long-term basis and to provide them with 
a chance to re-enter society . We are proud 
to have received a re-accreditation of the
previous ‘Big Tick’ awarded for the restaurant
at the 2007 BITC awards.
In July 2007, our UK and Ireland ESS team
initiative for the rehabilitation of female
prisoners also won a BITC ‘Example of
Excellence’ award. The programme provides
training and support, including the chance 
to gain National V ocational Qualification
catering qualifications, training in customer
service, health and safety and basic food
preparation. Barriers to employment are
effectively removed, helping ex-offenders 
from HM Prison Drake Hall find work and
make a fresh start following their release.
Since 1994, our Chartwells team in the 
US has been in partnership with Pioneer
House in Peabody , providing an advocacy 
and support network to members of the
community with mental health illnesses. 
The programme provides assistance with
employment, housing and education, with 
the transitional and supported employment
programmes offered by Chartwells, helping 
to give these members of the community a
stable and productive work experience.
An innovative approach from our ESS team
in Bogota, Colombia, resulted in a significant
and sustainable improvement to the lives of
the inhabitants of the economically depressed
small town of Pueblo Viejo, Colombia. 
By teaching best practice safety standards 
and handling procedures, our team helped
make the town’s fish-breeding programme
more productive, resulting in increased fish
production and better overall fish quality for
community consumption and external sale. 
Donations
During the year to 30 September 2007
charitable donations were £1,162,000.
We are members of the PerCent Club and
through our Compass In The Community
programme and the fund raising efforts of
our employees, we have donated a total of
£1.25 million in monetary resource and
donations in kind. 
In addition, a payroll giving initiative in our
UK business has generated more than
£140,000, supporting over 87 different
charities during the last year.
Achievements
Like many listed companies, Compass’
CSR performance is rated by independent
organisations that assess the extent to 
which companies effectively manage 
social, environmental and ethical matters.
In 2005, we became a member of the UK’s
FTSE4Good Index Series following its Policy
Committee’s decision that we had met the
criteria for inclusion in the Index. The
FTSE4Good Index aims to measure the
performance of companies that meet globally
recognised CSR standards and to facilitate
investment in those companies where such
issues are a deciding factor for investors.
As a signatory to the United Nations Global
Compact, we are also committed to taking
action to support and uphold each of the
principles it describes in relation to business
integrity , human rights and the environment.
A further index, the Dow Jones Sustainability
Index, assesses companies’ corporate
responsibility strategies in terms of corporate
governance, economic performance and
impact on the environment. In 2007, we
scored a creditable 71% overall score for 
our approach to community investment 
(2006: 65%) against a sector maximum score
average of 75%.
Charitable donations
in the year to 30 September 2007:
£1.16m
PerCent Club
through Compass In The Community and the 
fund raising efforts of our employees, total donations 
in monetary resource and donations in kind:
£1.25m
Payroll giving initiative
by the UK business in the last year to:
87 charities
2007
2007 24 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
The directors submit their
annual report and the audited
consolidated accounts of the
Company and its subsidiaries
for the year ended 30 September
2007
Principal activities and business review
Compass Group PLC is a holding company ,
its subsidiaries are organised into four
geographic areas and these are set out on
page 3. The principal activities of the Group
are the provision of contract foodservice 
and support services to clients in around 64
countries around the world. Details of the
development and performance of the Group’s
businesses during the year and an indication
of likely future key performance indicators
and information regarding principal risks and
uncertainties are set out together with the
information that fulfils the requirements of
the Business Review on pages 13 to 16 and 
is incorporated into this report by reference.
Results and dividends
The Group’s consolidated income statement,
set out on page 41 shows an increase of 16%
in Group operating profit from £457 million
to £529 million. An analysis of revenue 
and operating profit is set out on pages 49 
and 50 in note 1 to the consolidated financial
statements. There have been no significant
post balance sheet events.
The 2007 interim dividend of 3.6 pence 
per share (2006: 3.4 pence) was paid to
shareholders on 6 August 2007. The directors
recommend a final dividend of 7.2 pence 
per share (2006: 6.7 pence) making a total
dividend for the year of 10.8 pence per
ordinary share, an increase of 7% on the 
10.1 pence paid in respect of last year.
Payment of the recommended final dividend, 
if approved at the Annual General Meeting,
will be made on 3 March 2008 to shareholders
registered at the close of business on 1 February
2008. The shares will be quoted ex-dividend
from 30 January 2008.
The Company’s dividend reinvestment 
plan will continue to be available to eligible
shareholders. Shareholders who do not
currently participate in the plan and wish 
to do so can obtain an application form and
explanatory booklet from the Company’s
registrars, Capita Registrars (contact details
for the Registrars are given on page 91) or
from the Company’s website at www .compass-
group.com. The latest date for receipt of new
applications to participate in respect of the
2007 final dividend is 2 February 2008.
Disposal of assets
On 29 November 2006, the Company
announced its decision to sell Selecta, its
European vending business. The sale
completed on 2 July 2007 for a consideration 
of £772 million on a debt and cash free basis. 
Future development
The Group’s strategic focus continues to be
on the organic development of its existing
core businesses.
Share capital
General
At the date of this report, 1,894,687,283
ordinary shares of 10 pence each have been
issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on 
the London Stock Exchange. In addition, the
Company has entered into a level I American
Depository Receipt programme with the 
Bank of New Y ork Mellon, under which the
Company’s shares are traded on the over-the-
counter market in the form of American
Depository shares. 
During the year ended 30 September 2007,
options were exercised pursuant to the
Company’s share option schemes, resulting 
in the allotment of 9,679,856 new ordinary
shares. A further 1,352,327 new ordinary
shares have been allotted under these schemes
since the end of the financial year to the date
of this report.
Rights attaching to shares
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares
are defined in the Company’s Articles 
of Association. The Articles of Association
may be changed with the agreement of
shareholders. A shareholder whose name
appears on the Company’s register of
members can choose whether his shares 
are evidenced by share certificates 
(i.e. in certificated form) or held in electronic
(i.e. uncertificated) form in CREST (the
electronic settlement system in the UK).
Subject to any restrictions below , shareholders
may attend any general meeting of the
Company and, on a show of hands, every
shareholder (or his representative) who is
present at a general meeting has one vote 
on each resolution and, on a poll, every
shareholder (or his representative) who is
present has one vote on each resolution for
every ordinary share of which they are the
registered shareholder. A resolution put to 
the vote of a general meeting is decided on 
a show of hands unless before, or on the
declaration of the result of, a vote on a show
of hands, a poll is demanded by the chairman
of the meeting, or by at least five shareholders
(or their representatives) present in person 
and having the right to vote, or by any
shareholders (or their representatives) present
in person having at least 10% of the total
voting rights of all shareholders, or by any
shareholders (or their representatives) present
in person holding ordinary shares on which
an aggregate sum has been paid up of at least
one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all
ordinary shares. 
Shareholders can declare final dividends by
passing an ordinary resolution but the amount
of the dividends cannot exceed the amount
recommended by the Board. The Board can
pay interim dividends on any class of shares
of the amounts and on the dates and for the
periods they decide provided the distributable
profits of the Company justify such payment.
The Board may , if authorised by an ordinary
resolution of the shareholders, offer any
shareholder the right to elect to receive new
ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully
paid, instead of their cash dividend. 
Any dividend which has not been claimed 
for 12 years after it became due for payment
will be forfeited and will then belong to the
Company , unless the directors decide otherwise. 
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator
can, with the sanction of an extraordinary
resolution passed by the shareholders, divide
among the shareholders all or any part of the
assets of the Company and he can value any
assets and determine how the division shall be
carried out as between the members or
different classes of members. The liquidator
can also transfer the whole or any part of the
assets to trustees upon any trusts for the
benefit of the members. No shareholders can
be compelled to accept any asset which would
give them a liability .
Directors’ Report
Report of the directors 25 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Voting at general meetings
Any form of proxy sent by the Company to
shareholders in relation to any general
meeting must be delivered to the Company ,
whether in written form or in electronic form,
not less than 48 hours before the time
appointed for holding the meeting or
adjourned meeting at which the person
named in the appointment proposes to vote.
No shareholder is, unless the Board decide
otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either
personally or by proxy at a general meeting or
to exercise any other right conferred by being
a shareholder if he or any person with an
interest in shares has been sent a notice under
section 793 of the Companies Act 2006
(which confers upon public companies the
power to require information with respect to
interests in their voting shares) and he or any
interested person failed to supply the
Company with the information requested
within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend
is payable in respect of those default shares
and that no transfer of any default shares shall
be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt
by the Company of a notice of an approved
transfer of the shares or all the information
required by the relevant section 793 notice,
whichever is the earlier.
Transfers of shares
The Board may refuse to register a transfer 
of a certificated share which is not fully paid,
provided that the refusal does not prevent
dealings in shares in the Company from
taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register a
transfer of a certificated share unless (i) the
instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped
(if stampable), at the registered office of the
Company or any other place decided by the
Board accompanied by the certificate for the
share to which it relates and such other
evidence as the Board may reasonably require
to show the right of the transferor to make the
transfer, (ii) is in respect of only one class of
shares, and (iii) is in favour of not more than
four transferees.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be
carried out using CREST and the Board can
refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated
share in accordance with the regulations
governing the operation of CREST . 
The Board may decide to suspend the
registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a
year, by closing the register of shareholders.
The Board cannot suspend the registration of
transfers of any uncertificated shares without
gaining consent from CREST . There are no
other limitations on the holding of ordinary
shares in the Company .
Variation of rights
If at any time the capital of the Company is
divided into different classes of shares, the
special rights attaching to any class may be
varied or revoked either:
(i) with the written consent of the holders of
at least 75% in nominal value of the issued
shares of the class; or 
(ii)with the sanction of an extraordinary
resolution passed at a separate general
meeting of the holders of the shares 
of the class.
The Company can issue new shares and
attach any rights to them. If there is no
restriction by special rights attaching to
existing shares, rights attaching to new shares
can take priority over the rights of existing
shares, or the new shares and the existing
shares can rank equally , or the existing shares
can take priority , but the rights of existing
shares are deemed to be varied (unless the
rights expressly allow it) by a reduction of
paid up capital or if another share of that
same class is issued and ranks in priority for
payment of dividend or in respect of capital
or more favourable voting rights.
Repurchase of shares
On 12 May 2007, the Company announced
that its £500 million on-market share buy-
back programme, begun in June 2006, would
be extended by a further £500 million
utilising some of the proceeds arising from 
the sale of the Selecta vending business. It is
anticipated that the programme will complete
over the next six months. During the year
ended 30 September 2007 181,407,434
ordinary shares of 10 pence each of the
Company (representing 8.64% of the
ordinary shares in issue on 1 October 2006)
were purchased and cancelled for a
consideration of £575 million (including
expenses). A further 34 million ordinary
shares of 10 pence each (representing 
1.75% of the ordinary shares in issue on 
1 October 2007) have been purchased for 
a consideration of £105 million (before
expenses) and cancelled since the end of
the financial year to the date of this report. 
Resolution 13 set out in the Notice of
Meeting will be proposed as a Special
Resolution to renew the directors’ limited
authority last granted in 2007 to repurchase
ordinary shares in the market. The authority
sets the minimum and maximum prices which
may be paid and it will be limited to a
maximum of 10% of the Company’s issued
ordinary share capital at the date of this
report. This authority will enable your
directors to continue with the £500 million
share buy-back programme announced on 
9 April 2006 and which was subsequently
extended on 12 May 2007 to £1 billion.
Furthermore, this authority will enable your
directors to continue to respond promptly
should circumstances arise in which they
consider such a purchase would result in an
increase in earnings per share and would be
in the best interests of the Company .
Any purchases of ordinary shares will be 
by means of market purchases through the
London Stock Exchange and any shares 
so purchased may be cancelled or may be
placed into treasury in accordance with the
Companies (Acquisition of Own Shares)
(Treasury Shares) Regulations 2003. The
Company currently holds no shares in
treasury but the Regulations allow shares
repurchased by the Company to be held as
treasury shares that may be subsequently
cancelled, sold for cash or used for the
purpose of employee share schemes. 
The directors consider it desirable for these
general authorisations to be available to
provide flexibility in the management of
the Company’s capital resources.
Issue of shares
The directors propose in Resolution 11 set 
out in the Notice of Meeting to renew the
authority granted to them at the Annual
General Meeting held in 2007 to allot equity
shares up to an aggregate nominal value of
£63,100,000 (representing approximately
one-third of the ordinary shares issued at the
date of this report) (the ‘section 80 authority’).
If approved at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting, the authority will expire no
later than 15 months from the date on which
the resolution is passed, or at the conclusion 
of the Annual General Meeting to be held in
2009, whichever is the sooner. 26 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
The limited power granted to the directors 
at last year’s Annual General Meeting to allot
equity shares for cash other than pro rata 
to existing shareholders expires no later than
15 May 2008. Subject to the terms of the
section 80 authority , your directors
recommend that this authority should be
renewed. Resolution 12 set out in the Notice
of Meeting will be proposed as a Special
Resolution to give your directors the ability
(until the Annual General Meeting to be held 
in 2009) to issue ordinary shares for cash,
other than pro rata to existing shareholders, 
in connection with a rights issue or up to a
limit of 5% of the ordinary share capital
issued at the date of this report. In addition,
and in line with best practice, the Company
has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued
share capital on a non pro-rated basis over 
the last three years. Y our directors have no
present intention to issue ordinary shares,
other than pursuant to the Company’s
employee share schemes. The directors
recommend that shareholders vote in favour
of Resolutions 11 and 12 to maintain the
Company’s flexibility in relation to future
share issues, including any issues to finance
business opportunities should appropriate
circumstances arise.
Details of cancellations of existing shares and
issues of new shares are set out in note 24 to
the accounts on page 74, which also contains
details of options granted over unissued
capital.
Major shareholdings
The following major shareholdings have been
notified to the Company . 
% of issued capital
Franklin Resources, Inc. and its affiliates 9.32
Legal & General Group Plc 6.00
Harris Associates L.P . 3.01
Directors
Brief particulars of the directors in office at
the date of this Report are listed on page 17
and further details of the Board composition
are disclosed in the Corporate governance
report. Sir James Crosby and Tim Parker
were appointed to the Board as non-executive
directors on 17 February 2007 and Susan
Murray was appointed to the Board as a non-
executive director on 11 October 2007. Each
of them will stand for election at the Annual
General Meeting. The directors standing for
re-election at the Annual General Meeting 
are Sir Roy Gardner and Steve Lucas. Each
director, being eligible, offers himself for
election or re-election and each, following 
a performance evaluation during the year
(save for Susan Murray), continues to be
effective and demonstrates commitment to 
his respective role. It is the view of the Board
that each of the non-executive directors bring
considerable management experience and
independent perspective to the Board’s
discussions and they are considered to be
independent of management and free from
any relationship or circumstance that could
affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their
independent judgement.
Directors’ interests in shares
The directors who have held office during 
the year ended 30 September 2007 had the
following interests in the ordinary shares of
the Company .
30 September 2007 1 October 2006
(or date of retirement) (or on appointment)
Peter Blackburn
1
5,000 5,000
Peter Cawdron
2
24,200 24,200
Richard Cousins 200,000 100,000
Sir James Crosby 34,000 –
Sir Roy Gardner 175,000 100,000
Val Gooding
2
5,502 5,502
Gary Green 624,270 624,270
Sven Kado 33,000 12,500
Steve Lucas 1,000 –
Andrew Martin 158,559 110,027
Tim Parker 20,219 –
Sir Ian Robinson 6,289 1,289
1. Peter Blackburn retired as a director on 31 October 2007.
2. Val Gooding and Peter Cawdron retired as directors on 
31 December 2006 and 16 February 2007 respectively.
There were no changes to the shareholdings
of those directors in office at the date of
this Report between 1 October 2007 and 
28 November 2007.
Directors’ Report
Report of the directors
continued 27 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Directors’ Report
Corporate governance
including the report of the Audit Committee
Compliance with the Combined Code
The Board is committed to the highest
standards of corporate governance set out in
the Combined Code on corporate governance
published by the Financial Reporting Council
in June 2006 (the ‘Code’). The Board is
accountable to the Company’s shareholders
for good governance and this report describes
how the Board applied the principles of good
governance set out in the Code during the
year under review .
The Board
As at 30 September 2007 and at the date of
this report, the Board of directors was made
up of 10 members comprising the Chairman,
three executive directors and six non-executive
directors. On 11 October 2007 Susan Murray 
was appointed as a non-executive director 
and Peter Blackburn retired from the Board
on 31 October 2007. The non-executive
directors are considered by the Board to be
independent of management and free of any
relationship which could materially interfere
with the exercise of their independent
judgement. The Board considers that each 
of the non-executive directors brings his own
senior level of experience, gained in his own
field mainly in international operations.
Biographical details of the directors currently
in office are shown on page 17. The
Company’s policy relating to the terms of
appointment and the remuneration of both
executive and non-executive directors is
detailed in the directors’ remuneration report
on pages 33 to 39.
The Board meets regularly during the year 
as well as on an ad hoc basis, as required by
business need. The Board manages the
business of the Company and may , subject 
to the Articles of Association and applicable
legislation, borrow money , guarantee,
indemnify , mortgage or charge the business,
property , assets (present and future) and issue
debentures and other securities and give
security , whether outright or as a collateral
security , for any debt, liability or obligation 
of the Company or of any third party . The
Board has a formal schedule of matters
reserved for its decision, although its 
primary role is to provide entrepreneurial
leadership and to review the overall strategic
development of the Group as a whole. In
addition the Board sets the Group’s values
and standards and ensures that it acts ethically
and that its obligations to its shareholders are
understood and met. The Board may delegate
any of its powers to any committee consisting
of one or more directors. The Company has
delegated day-to-day operational decisions to
the Executive Committee referred to on page
29. The Board met nine times during the year
and director attendance for each meeting is
shown in the table on page 29. The Board 
has established a procedure for directors, 
if deemed necessary , to take independent
professional advice at the Company’s expense
in the furtherance of their duties. This is in
addition to the access that every director has
to the General Counsel and Company
Secretary , who is charged with ensuring that
Board procedures are followed and that good
corporate governance and compliance is
implemented within the Group. Together
with the Group Chief Executive and the
General Counsel and Company Secretary , 
the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept
properly informed and is consulted on all
issues reserved to it. Board papers and other
information are distributed at times to allow
directors to be properly briefed in advance of
meetings. In accordance with the Company’s
Articles of Association, directors have been
granted an indemnity issued by the Company
to the extent permitted by law in respect of
liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity would not provide any
coverage to the extent that a director is proved
to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly . 
The Company has also arranged appropriate
insurance cover in respect of legal action
against its directors and officers. The roles 
of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are
separate and clearly defined with the division
of responsibilities set out in writing and
agreed by the Board. 
The Chairman has addressed the
developmental needs of the Board as a whole,
with a view to developing its effectiveness 
as a team and assists in the development of
individual skills, knowledge and expertise.
During the year, the Board took forward 
the results of previous evaluation processes 
to assess its performance and that of its
committees and to identify areas in which its
effectiveness, policies and processes might be
enhanced, which utilised both a questionnaire
and discussions with all Board members.
Performance evaluations, including the skills
brought to the Board and the contributions
each director made to it, were carried out 
for each director. Executive directors’
performance has been assessed by the
Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Chief Executive’s performance
was evaluated by the Chairman and the non-
executive directors. The senior independent
non-executive director led the review of the
Chairman’s performance in consultation with
the executive and non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors’ performance
was considered by the Chairman and by the
Group Chief Executive, as well as by the
Board as a whole, which reviewed the results
of the questionnaires referred to above.
Meetings between the non-executive
directors, both with and without the presence
of the Group Chief Executive, are scheduled
in the Board’s annual programme. The 
Board has also arranged to hold at least two
Board meetings each year at Group business
locations to help all Board members gain 
a deeper understanding of the business. 
This also provides senior managers from
across the Group the opportunity to present
to the Board as well as to meet the directors
on more informal occasions.
As part of their ongoing development, the
executive directors are encouraged to seek 
an external non-executive role on a non-
competitor board, for which they may retain
the remuneration in respect of the
appointment. In order to avoid any conflict 
of interest, all appointments are subject to the
Board’s approval and the Board monitors the
extent of directors’ other interests to ensure
that the effectiveness of the Board is not
compromised. Succession planning is a matter
for the whole Board rather than for a
committee. The Company’s Articles of
Association provide that one-third of the
directors retire by rotation each year and 
that each director will seek re-election at the
Annual General Meeting every three years.
Additionally , new directors may be appointed
by the Board but are subject to election by
shareholders at the first opportunity after
their appointment. The Articles of
Association limit the number of directors to
not less than two and not more than 20 save
where shareholders decide otherwise. It is
Board policy that non-executive directors 
are appointed normally for an initial term 
of three years which is then reviewed and
extended for a further three-year period. It is
also Board policy that non-executive directors
should not generally serve on the Board for
more than nine years. Following their
appointment, formal comprehensive and
tailored induction is offered to all non-
executive directors, supplemented by visits to
key locations within the Group and meetings
with members of the Executive Committee
and other key senior executives. With the
exception of Susan Murray , all of the directors
being proposed for election or re-election at
the Annual General Meeting have been
subject to a performance evaluation during
the year ended 30 September 2007 and the
Board is content that each has continued to 
be effective and has demonstrated his
commitment to his respective role.
Although the non-executive directors are not
asked to meet the shareholders of the Company ,
their attendance at presentations of the 
annual and interim results is encouraged. The
Chairman ensures that the Board maintains 
an appropriate dialogue with shareholders. 
Sir James Crosby is the Company’s senior
independent non-executive director .
The formal terms of reference for the main
Board committees, approved by the Board
and complying with the Code to assist in the
discharge of its duties, are available from the
General Counsel and Company Secretary
and can also be found on the Company’s
website at www .compass-group.com.
Membership of the various committees is
shown on page 29. The General Counsel 
and Company Secretary acts as secretary 
to all Board committees. 28 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises Steve Lucas
(Chairman), Sven Kado, Sir Ian Robinson
and Tim Parker. Val Gooding and Peter
Cawdron stepped down as members of this
committee upon their retirement as directors
of the Company on 31 December 2006 and
16 February 2007 respectively as did Peter
Blackburn upon his retirement from the
Board on 31 October 2007. The committee’s
membership is reviewed by the Nomination
Committee and as part of the annual Board
performance evaluation. Members of the
committee are appointed by the Board
following recommendations by the
Nomination Committee.
Each member of the committee brings
relevant financial experience from senior
executive levels. The expertise and experience
of the members of the committee are
summarised on page 17. The Board considers
that each member of the committee is
independent within the definition set out in
the Code. Steve Lucas is considered by the
Board to have significant, recent and relevant
financial experience, as he is currently
Finance Director of National Grid plc.
All members of the committee receive
appropriate induction, which is in addition to
the induction which all new directors receive
and includes an overview of the business, its
financial dynamics and risks. Audit Committee
members are expected to have an
understanding of the principles of, and
developments in, financial reporting,
including the applicable accounting standards
and statements of recommended practice, key
aspects of the Company’s policies, financing,
internal control mechanisms, and matters that
require the use of judgement in the
presentation of accounts and key figures as
well as the role of internal and external
auditors. Members of the committee
undertake ongoing training as required.
The committee meets regularly throughout
the year and its agenda is linked to events in
the Company’s financial calendar. Each
member of the committee may require
reports on matters of interest in addition to
the regular items. Members’ attendance at the
meetings held during the year is set out in the
table on page 29.
The committee invites Sir Roy Gardner, the
Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance
Director, the Group Financial Controller and
the Director of Internal Audit together with
senior representatives of the external auditors
to attend each meeting although it reserves
part of each meeting for discussions without
invitees being present. Other senior
management are invited to present such
reports as are required for the committee to
discharge its duties.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee
attends the Annual General Meeting to
respond to any shareholder questions that
might be raised on the committee’s activities.
The remuneration of the members of the
committee is set out on page 35 and the policy
with regard to the remuneration of the non-
executive directors is set out on page 38.
The committee assists the Board to fulfil its
responsibilities related to external financial
reporting and associated announcements.
During the year, the committee reviewed: 
the interim and annual financial statements;
the interim and preliminary announcements
made to the London Stock Exchange;
significant accounting issues including the
consideration of any goodwill impairment
assessments; operation of the ‘whistle-blowing’
policy; litigation and contingent liabilities and
tax matters, including compliance with
statutory tax reporting obligations.
The committee is also responsible for the
development, implementation and monitoring
of the Company’s policy on external audit.
The committee reserves oversight
responsibility for monitoring the auditors’
independence, objectivity and compliance
with ethical, professional and regulatory
requirements. The committee recommends
the appointment, reappointment and removal
of the Company’s external auditors. The
committee also reviews the terms, areas of
responsibility and scope of the audit as set out
in the external auditors’ engagement letter;
the overall work plan for the forthcoming
year, together with the associated fee proposal
and cost-effectiveness of the audit; any major
issues which arise during the course of the
audit and their resolution; key accounting and
audit judgements; the level of errors identified
during the audit; the recommendations made
to management by the auditors and
management’s response; and the auditors’
overall performance. The committee also
ensures that key partners within the external
auditors are rotated from time to time in
accordance with applicable UK rules. The
committee also monitors the extent of non-
audit work which the external auditors can
perform, to ensure that the provision of those
non-audit services that can be undertaken by
the external auditors falls within the agreed
policy and does not impair their objectivity or
independence. In this respect the committee
has agreed that, unless there is no other
competent and available provider, the
external auditors should be excluded from
providing the Company with general
consultancy and all other non-audit and non-
tax-related services.
Within the constraints of applicable UK rules,
the external auditors undertake some due
diligence reviews and provide assistance on
tax matters given their in-depth knowledge of
the Group’s business although assistance on
tax matters is also obtained from other firms.
The provision of non-audit services within
such constraints and the agreed policy is
assessed on a case-by-case basis so that the
best-placed advisor is retained. During the
year, the committee reviewed the effectiveness
of the external auditors and considered
whether the agreed plan had been fulfilled
and the reasons for any variation from the
plan. The committee also considered the
external auditors’ robustness and the degree
to which the external auditors were able to
assess key accounting and audit judgements
and the content of the management letter.
The total fees paid to Deloitte & Touche LLP
in the year ended 30 September 2007 were 
£5.1 million (2006: £7.6 million
1
) of which 
£2.1 million (2006: £4.0 million) related to 
non-audit work. Further disclosure of the
non-audit fees paid during the year ended 
30 September 2007 can be found in note 2 
to the consolidated financial statements on
pages 52 and 53.
The committee also reviews the effectiveness
of the Group’s internal audit function and its
relationship with the external auditors,
including internal audit resources, plans and
performance as well as the degree to which the
function is free of management restrictions.
Throughout the year, the committee reviewed
the internal audit function’s plans and its
achievements against plans. The committee
considered the results of the audits undertaken
by the internal audit function and considered
the adequacy of management’s response to
matters raised, including the time taken to
resolve any such matters.
The committee also reviews, where
practicable, all proposed announcements to 
be made by the Company to the extent that
they contain material financial information.
The committee monitors and reviews the
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control
systems, accounting policies and practices and
compliance controls as well as the Company’s
statements on internal control before they are
agreed by the Board for each year’s annual
report. The Board retains overall responsibility
for internal control and the identification and
management of business risk.
The Company’s ‘whistle-blowing’ or ‘Speak Up’
policy (which is an extension of the Code of
Ethics) sets out arrangements for the receipt, 
in confidence, of complaints on accounting, 
risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and
related matters which would, as appropriate, 
be reported to the committee. A copy of the
Code of Ethics is available on the Company’s
website at www .compass-group.com.
Each year the committee reviews critically 
its own performance and considers where
improvements can be made.
1. £7.3 million of which relates to the continuing business.
Directors’ Report
Corporate governance
continued 29 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee meets on an as
needed basis and at the date of this report is
comprised of Sir Roy Gardner (Chairman),
Sir James Crosby and Sir Ian Robinson. 
Val Gooding and Peter Cawdron stepped
down as members of this committee upon
their retirement as directors of the Company
on 31 December 2006 and 16 February 2007
respectively as did Peter Blackburn upon his
retirement from the Board on 31 October
2007. The committee reviews the structure,
size and composition of the Board and its
committees and makes recommendations with
regard to any changes that are considered
necessary , both in the identification and
nomination of new directors and appointment
of members to the Board committees, and the
continuation of existing directors in office to
ensure that there is a balanced Board in terms
of skills, knowledge and experience. The
committee retains external search consultants
as appropriate and reviews the leadership
needs of the Group to enable it to compete
effectively in the marketplace. The committee
also advises the Board on succession planning
for executive Board appointments although
the Board itself is responsible for succession
generally . The committee met four times
during the year and director attendance for
such meetings is shown in the table below .
Remuneration Committee
The committee comprises; Sir James Crosby
(Chairman), Steve Lucas, Sven Kado and
Tim Parker all of whom are independent
within the definition set out in the Code. Val
Gooding stepped down as a member of the
committee upon her retirement as a director
of the Company on 31 December 2006. Sir
James Crosby succeeded Peter Cawdron as
Chairman of the committee on 17 February
2007. The committee met six times during the
year and director attendance for each meeting
is shown in the table below . The committee is
responsible for making recommendations on
remuneration to the Board. The Director’s
remuneration report is set out on pages 
33 to 39. 
The Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee attends the Annual General
Meeting to respond to any shareholder
questions that might be raised on the
committee’s activities.
General Business Committee
The General Business Committee comprises
all the executive directors and meets as
required to conduct the Company’s business
within the clearly defined limits delegated by
the Board and subject to those matters
reserved to the Board.
Corporate Responsibility Committee
The Corporate Responsibility Committee
comprises Sir Roy Gardner (Chairman),
Richard Cousins, Andrew Martin, Steve
Lucas, Mark White and the Group Human
Resources Director. The committee’s primary
responsibilities include; health, safety and
environmental practices, business conduct, 
the promotion of employee engagement and
diversity and community investment. 
Disclosure Committee
The Disclosure Committee comprises Andrew
Martin, Mark White, the Group Financial
Controller and the Director of Corporate
Strategy , Media and Investor Relations. The
committee meets as required to deal with all
matters relating to public announcements of
the Company and the Company’s obligations
under the Listing Rules and Disclosure Rules
of the UK Listing Authority .
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee comprises, the
executive directors of the Company , the
General Counsel and Company Secretary ,
Group Human Resources Director and 
the Group Managing Directors. The
committee normally meets monthly and it is
responsible for implementing Group policy ,
day-to-day management, monitoring business
performance and reporting on these areas to
the Board. 
Meetings attendance
The table below shows the attendance of
directors at meetings of the Board, Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination Committees
during the year.
Internal audit
The internal audit function is involved in the
assessment of the quality of risk management
and internal control and helps to promote and
further develop effective risk management
within the businesses. Certain internal audit
assignments (such as those requiring specialist
expertise) continue to be outsourced by the
Director of Internal Audit to KPMG LLP 
as required. A policy has been established
regarding the recruitment of staff from
Deloitte & Touche LLP . The Audit Committee
reviews internal audit reports and considers
the effectiveness of the function.
Internal control
In a highly decentralised Group, where local
managements have considerable autonomy to
run and develop their businesses, a well
designed system of internal control is
necessary to safeguard shareholders’
investments and the Company’s assets. The
directors acknowledge that they have overall
responsibility for the Group’s systems of
internal control and for reviewing the
effectiveness of those controls. In accordance
with the guidance set out in the Turnbull
Report, ‘Internal Control: Guidance for
Directors on the Combined Code’, an
ongoing process had been established for
identifying, managing and evaluating the risks
faced by the Group. This process has been in
place for the full financial year and up to the
date on which the financial statements were
approved.
The systems are designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
the Group’s objectives, safeguard the Group’s
assets against material loss, fairly report the
Directors’ attendance
Audit Remuneration Nomination 
Board meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings
Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible
Name of director Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend
Peter Blackburn 8934––34
Peter Cawdron
1
33––3333
Richard Cousins 99––––––
Sir James Crosby
2
45––3311
Sir Roy Gardner 99––4444
Val Gooding
1
22––2222
Gary Green
2
77––––––
Sven Kado 893466––
Steve Lucas 894466––
Andrew Martin 99––––––
Tim Parker
2
452222––
Sir Ian Robinson
2
7822––11
This table shows only those meetings which each director attended as a member rather than as an invitee.
1. Val Gooding and Peter Cawdron retired as directors on 31 December 2006 and 16 February 2007 respectively.
2. Sir Ian Robinson and Gary Green were appointed directors on 1 December 2006 and 1 January 2007 respectively. 
Sir James Crosby and Tim Parker were appointed directors on 17 February 2007. 30 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Group’s performance and position and to
ensure compliance with relevant legislation,
regulation and best practice including that
related to social, environmental and ethical
matters. The systems provide reasonable, not
absolute, assurance against material
misstatement or loss. Such systems are
reviewed by the Board to deal with changing
circumstances.
A summary of the key financial risks inherent
in the Group’s business is given on page 16.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral
part of the annual planning cycle. Each
business documents the strategic objectives
and the effectiveness of the Group’s systems
of internal control. As part of the review , each
significant business and function has been
required to identify and document each
significant risk, together with the mitigating
actions implemented to manage, monitor and
report to the management on the effectiveness
of these controls. Senior managers are also
required to sign bi-annual confirmations of
compliance with key procedures and to report
any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these
procedures. Summarised results have been
presented to senior management (including 
to the Executive Committee) and to the Audit
Committee. These processes have been in
place throughout the financial year ended 
30 September 2007 and have continued to the
date of this report. The Board has reviewed
the effectiveness of the Group’s system of
internal control for the year under review and
a summary of the principal control structures
and processes in place across the Group is set
out below .
Control environment 
Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for
the Group’s system of internal control and for
reviewing its effectiveness, it has delegated
responsibility for the operation of the internal
control and risk management programme to
the Executive Committee. The detailed
review of internal control has been delegated
to the Audit Committee. The management of
each business is responsible for internal
control and risk management within its own
business and for ensuring compliance with the
Group’s policies and procedures. Each
business has appointed a risk champion whose
primary role in such capacity is to ensure
compliance by local management with the
Group’s risk management and internal
control programme. The internal and the
external auditors have reviewed the overall
approach adopted by the Group towards its
risk management activities so as to reinforce
these internal control requirements.
Control procedures 
The Board reviews its strategic plans and
objectives on an annual basis and approves
Group company budgets and strategies in
light of these. Control is exercised at Group
and business level through the Group’s MAP
process and monthly monitoring of
performance by comparison with budgets,
forecasts and cash targets and by regular visits
to Group companies by the Group Chief
Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Group businesses approve and submit risk
reports for the Board on a bi-annual basis,
summarising the key risks facing their
businesses and the controls in place to manage
those risks. These reports, together with
reports on internal control and departures, if
any , from established Group procedures
prepared by the internal and external
auditors, are reviewed by the Group Finance
Director and the Audit Committee. The Group
companies also submit bi-annual risk and
internal control assurance letters to the Group
Finance Director on internal control and risk
management issues, with comments on the
control environment within their operations.
The Group Finance Director summarises
these submissions for the Audit Committee
and the Chairman of the Audit Committee
reports to the Board on any matters that have
arisen from the committee’s review of the way
in which risk management and internal
control processes have been applied.
The Board has formal procedures in place for
approval of investment and acquisition
projects, with designated levels of authority ,
supported by post investment review processes
for selected acquisitions and major capital
expenditure. The Board considers social,
environmental and ethical matters in relation
to the Group’s business and assesses these
when reviewing the risks faced by the Group.
The Board is conscious of the effect such
matters may have on the short- and long-term
value of the Company . The external auditors
of the Company and the Director of Internal
Audit attend Audit Committee meetings and
receive its papers. The report of the Audit
Committee is set out on page 28 and the
Audit Committee members meet regularly
with the Director of Internal Audit and the
external auditors without the presence of
executive management.
There were no changes to the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the year ended 30 September
2007 that have affected materially , or are
reasonably likely to affect materially , the
Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.
Compliance statement
The Company applied all of the principles set
out in section 1 of the Code for the period
under review and has throughout the year
complied with the detailed provisions set out
therein.
The Company’s auditors, Deloitte & Touche
LLP , are required to review whether the above
statement reflects the Company’s compliance
with the nine provisions of the Code specified
for its review by the Listing Rules of the UK
Listing Authority and to report if it does not
reflect such compliance. No such report has
been made.
Communications with shareholders
The Company places considerable
importance on communication with its
shareholders, including its employee
shareholders. The Group Chief Executive
and the Group Finance Director are closely
involved in investor relations and a senior
executive has day-to-day responsibility for
such matters. The views of the Company’s
major shareholders are reported to the Board
by the Group Chief Executive and the Group
Finance Director as well as by Sir Roy
Gardner (who remains in contact with the 
10 largest shareholders) and discussed at its
meetings. The Annual Report and Accounts
are available to all shareholders either in
paper form or electronically and can be
accessed via the Company’s website at
www.compass-group.com.
There is regular dialogue with institutional
shareholders and this has been extended to
include private shareholders through the
Annual General Meeting and meetings 
with the United Kingdom Shareholders
Association. Contact with institutional
shareholders (and with financial analysts,
brokers and the media) is controlled by
written guidelines to ensure the protection of
share price sensitive information that has not
already been made generally available to the
Company’s shareholders. Contact is also
maintained, when appropriate, with
shareholders to discuss overall remuneration
plans and policies. The Group’s preliminary
and interim results, as well as all
announcements issued to the London Stock
Exchange, are published on the Company’s
website at www .compass-group.com. The
Company issues regular trading updates and
will issue interim management statements to
the market and these, together with copies of
presentations and interviews with the Group
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director
are, and will be, posted on the Company’s
website. The Notice of Meeting is circulated 
Directors’ Report
Corporate governance
continued 31 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
to all shareholders at least 20 working days
before such meeting and it is Company policy
not to combine resolutions to be proposed at
general meetings. All shareholders are invited
to the Company’s Annual General Meeting 
at which they have the opportunity to put
questions to the Board and it is standard
practice to have the Chairmen of the Audit,
Nomination and Remuneration Committees
available to answer questions. The proxy votes
for and against each resolution, as well as
abstentions (which may be recorded on the
form of proxy accompanying the Notice of
Meeting), are counted before the Annual
General Meeting and the results will be made
available at the meeting after shareholders
have voted on each resolution on a show 
of hands. The results are also announced 
to the London Stock Exchange and are
published on the Company’s website shortly
after the meeting.
Donations
The Company’s corporate responsibility 
report is set out on pages 18 to 23. The 
Group’s charitable donations in 2007 
totalled £1,162,000 (2006: £1,556,000).
At each Annual General Meeting held since
2004, shareholders have passed a resolution,
on a precautionary basis, to approve
donations to political organisations and to
incur political expenditure (as such terms
were defined under the Companies Act 1985)
not exceeding £125,000 per annum. The
Board has consistently confirmed that it
operates a policy of not giving any cash
contribution to any political party in the
ordinary meaning of those words and that it
has no intention of changing that policy . The
directors, however, propose to seek renewed
authority for the Group to make political
donations and incur political expenditure 
(as such terms are defined in sections 362 to
365 of the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘ Act’)) 
of not more that £125,000 in total until the
Company’s next Annual General Meeting,
which they might otherwise be prohibited
from making or incurring under the terms 
of the Act and which would not amount 
to ‘donations’ in the ordinary sense of the
word. The authority sought by Resolution 
14 in the Notice of Meeting will last until the
Company’s next Annual General Meeting.
Awards under employee share
schemes
In March 2007 options were granted under
the Compass Group Management Share
Option Plan over 4,198,525 ordinary shares
(2006: 7,813,300) to senior employees of the
Group at an option price of 335.75 pence per
share. In September 2007 further options
were granted under the Compass Group
Management Share Option Plan over
265,354 ordinary shares to a further 15 senior
employees of the Group at an option price of
310.75 pence per share. The Company also
operates the Compass Group Share Option
Plan for senior employees and there are rules
in place for all-employee share plans in the
UK and overseas. No grants were made
under any of these plans during the year
ended 30 September 2007 (2006: nil). Further
details regarding the plans, including the total
number of options outstanding, are set out in
notes 24 and 26 to the financial statements 
on pages 74 to 79. Details of awards made to
directors of the Company under the Compass
Group Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) 
are set out on page 36. The Plan is described
in more detail in the directors’ remuneration
report on pages 35 and 36 which shows the
total number of LTIP awards outstanding as
at 30 September 2007.
Employee policies and involvement
The Group places particular importance on
the involvement of its employees, keeping
them regularly informed through informal
bulletins and other in-house publications,
meetings and the Company’s internal website,
on matters affecting them as employees and
on the issues affecting their performance.
Each EU country’s business operates a
domestic works council of workforce
representatives and delegates from these
bodies are selected by the representatives 
to attend the Compass European Council
which has been in operation since 1996 and
which provides a forum for dialogue and
consultation with employees on significant
developments in the Group’s operations,
management’s plans and expectations,
organisational changes within the Group 
and for employee representatives to consult
management about concerns over any aspect
of the Group’s operations. At the date of
this Report, there are 23 member country
businesses represented from the EU and EFTA,
comprising 33 employee representatives.
Permanent UK employees are usually 
invited to join either the Company’s defined
contribution scheme (‘CRISP’) or the
Company’s stakeholder arrangement.
However, those UK employees who transfer
from the public sector under the Transfer of
Undertakings (Protection of Employment)
Regulations 2006 will be eligible to join the
Compass Group Pension Plan (the ‘Plan’), 
a defined benefit arrangement which is
otherwise closed to new entrants. CRISP has a
corporate trustee. The Chairman, Tony Allen,
is independent. The other five trustee directors
are UK-based employees of the Group, two of
whom have been nominated by CRISP
members. The Plan has a corporate trustee
with two independent directors, including the
Chairman Peter Morriss. There are a further
seven trustee directors and they are UK-based
employees or former employees of the Group,
four of whom have been nominated by Plan
members. The other main UK pension
arrangement, the Compass Pension Scheme
(the ‘Scheme’) is a closed defined benefit
scheme. As with the Plan and CRISP , the
Scheme has a corporate trustee. The
Chairman, David Bishop, is independent. 
The remaining seven trustee directors are 
UK-based employees or former employees 
of the Group, three of whom have been
nominated by Scheme members. Permanent
employees outside of the UK are usually
offered membership of local pension
arrangements if and where they exist and
where it is appropriate to have company
sponsored arrangements.
Employees are offered a range of benefits
depending on the local environment, such as
private medical cover. Priority is given to the
training of employees and the development of
their skills is of prime importance. Employment
of disabled people is considered on merit with
regard only to the ability of any applicant to
carry out the function required. Arrangements
to enable disabled people to carry out the
function required will be made if it is
reasonable to do so. An employee becoming
disabled would, where appropriate, be offered
retraining. The Group continues to operate
on a highly decentralised basis. This provides
the maximum encouragement for the
development of entrepreneurial flair,
balanced by a rigorous control framework
exercised by a small head office team. Local
managements are responsible for maintaining
high standards of health and safety and for
ensuring that there is appropriate employee
involvement in decision-making.
Creditor payment policy
All Group companies are responsible for
establishing terms and conditions with their
suppliers and it is Group policy that payments
are made within such agreed terms and
conditions. The amount of trade creditors 
for the Group as at 30 September 2007 was
equivalent to 48 days (2006: 48 days for the
continuing business) of trade purchases.
Shareholder services
The Share Portal is a service offered by our
registrars, Capita Registrars, which allows
shareholders online access to a range of
shareholder information. The Share Portal
provides access to details of shareholdings 
in the Company and practical help on
transferring shares and updating personal
details. It enables shareholders to receive
shareholder communications electronically ,
rather than by post and it also enables
shareholders to appoint proxies to attend and
vote at general meetings of the Company . 
To register, shareholders simply need to log 
on to www .capitashareportal.com and follow
the instructions to register. Shareholders
registering for the Share Portal will need to
have their investor code to hand which is
shown on share certificates and on the form 
of proxy sent with this report. 32 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
The Company’s ordinary shares can be
traded through most banks, building societies,
stockbrokers or ‘share shops’ in the UK and,
in addition, Capita Registrars provide a 
share dealing service (maximum deal size
£25,000) which is available to shareholders
who live in the UK. This is a simple and
convenient way to buy and sell shares over 
the telephone and on the Internet without the
need to pre-register and complete application
forms. To use this service either log on to
www .capitadeal.com or call 0871 664 0445
(Monday to Friday between 8.00a.m. and
4.30p.m.). Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus
network extras.
Further shareholder information is set out 
on page 91.
CREST
The Company’s ordinary shares and Sterling
Eurobonds are in CREST , the settlement
system for stocks and shares.
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche LLP are willing to continue
as auditors of the Company and Resolution 9
in the Notice of Meeting concerning their
reappointment and Resolution 10 in the
Notice of Meeting concerning the
determination of their remuneration are to 
be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The directors confirm that, so far as they 
are each aware, there is no relevant audit
information of which Deloitte & Touche LLP
are unaware and each director has taken all
the steps that ought to have been taken as a
director to be aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that Deloitte &
Touche LLP are aware of that information.
On behalf of the Board
Mark J White
General Counsel and Company Secretary
28 November 2007
Directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing
the annual report and the financial
statements. The directors are required to
prepare financial statements for the Group 
in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’). Company 
law requires the directors to prepare such
financial statements in accordance with IFRS,
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires
that financial statements present fairly for
each financial year the Group’s financial
position, financial performance and cash
flows. This requires the faithful representation
of the effects of transactions, other events 
and conditions in accordance with the
definitions and recognition criteria for assets,
liabilities, income and expenses set out in 
the International Accounting Standards
Board’s ‘Framework for the Preparation and
Presentation of Financial Statements’. In
virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation
will be achieved by compliance with all
applicable International Financial Reporting
Standards. Directors are also required to:
properly select and apply accounting
policies;
present information, including accounting
policies, in a manner that provides relevant,
reliable, comparable and understandable
information;
provide additional disclosures when
compliance with the specific requirements
in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to
understand the impact of particular
transactions, other events and conditions on
the entity’s financial position and financial
performance; and
prepare the accounts on a going concern
basis unless, having assessed the ability of
the Group to continue as a going concern,
management either intends to liquidate the
entity or to cease trading, or have no
realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records which disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company , for safeguarding the
assets, for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities and for the preparation of a
directors’ report and directors’ remuneration
report which comply with the requirements 
of the Companies Act 1985. The directors,
having prepared the financial statements,
have permitted the auditors to take whatever
steps and undertake whatever inspections they
consider to be appropriate for the purpose of
enabling them to give their audit opinion.
The directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the Compass
Group PLC website. Legislation in the United
Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ Report
Corporate governance
continued 33 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Directors’ Report
Directors’ remuneration report
including the statement of remuneration 
policy for the year ended 30 September 2007
The Board presents its remuneration 
report, which has been prepared on the
recommendation of the Remuneration
Committee (‘the committee’) and in
accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 1985. Shareholders will be
invited to approve the report at the Annual
General Meeting on 8 February 2008. 
The report covers the following matters:
executive remuneration policy for the 
year ended 30 September 2007 and the
intended policy for the year ending 
30 September 2008; and
directors’ remuneration, incentive plan
participation and pension provision.
With the exception of the annual
performance-related award, service
agreement details, the first shareholder 
return graph on page 36, disclosure of
remuneration to other senior executives and
external directorships, the information set out
on pages 33 to 39 of this report represents 
the auditable disclosures referred to in the
Auditors’ report on page 40 as specified 
by the UK Listing Authority and under
Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
Role of Remuneration Committee
The Board sets the Company’s remuneration
policy and the committee is responsible,
within the authority delegated by the Board,
for determining specific remuneration
packages and the terms and conditions of
employment for the members of the
Executive Committee, which comprises the
executive directors and other senior
executives. The committee ensures that the
members of the Executive Committee are
provided with the appropriate incentives to
enhance the Group’s performance and to
reward them for their personal contribution 
to the success of the business. The committee
reviews the remuneration arrangements for
Group employees whose salaries exceed a
specified level and administers the Company’s
share incentive plans. The committee also
determines the Chairman’s remuneration
although the Board itself determines the level
of fees paid to the non-executive directors. 
No directors are involved in deciding their
own remuneration. 
The committee also maintains an active
dialogue with shareholder representatives and
its full terms of reference are set out on the
Company’s website www .compass-group.com.
Membership of the committee
The committee consists entirely of
independent non-executive directors (as
defined in the Code). The committee has been
chaired by Sir James Crosby , senior
independent non-executive director since his
appointment as a director on 17 February
2007. Sir James Crosby succeeded Peter
Cawdron as Chairman of the committee upon
his retirement as a director of the Company at
the conclusion of the 2007 Annual General
Meeting. Other members who served during
the year were Sir Roy Gardner; Sven Kado;
Steve Lucas; Tim Parker, since his appointment
on 17 February 2007; and V al Gooding until
her resignation on 31 December 2006.
Biographical details of the current members 
of the committee are set out on page 17. The
General Counsel and Company Secretary 
acts as the secretary to the committee. The
committee met on six occasions during the
year. Attendance details are shown on page 29.
Advisors to the committee
The committee has access to detailed external
information and research on market data and
trends from independent consultants. During
the year KPMG LLP (who also provide due
diligence services and support some of the
Company’s internal audit projects),
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (who also
provide expatriate assignment advice) and the
Hay Group were engaged by the committee
to advise on the design of incentive
arrangements, job evaluation and
remuneration levels as well as general human
resource and compensation related matters.
The committee also engaged Mercer Human
Resource Consulting (who also provided
pensions and actuarial advice to some of the
Group’s pension schemes) to provide advice
on job evaluation, remuneration levels and
pension issues for employees below executive
director level, and they also provided general
actuarial advice. The committee also sought
advice from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
in its capacity as legal advisor to the Company . 
In addition, Alithos Limited provided
information for the testing of the total
shareholder return performance conditions
for the Company’s Long-Term Incentive Plan
(‘LTIP’).
The Chairman and the Group Chief
Executive together with Jane Kingston, 
the Group Human Resources Director, and
David Walker, Director of Group Reward, are
normally invited to attend each committee
meeting and provide advice and guidance to
the committee (other than in respect of their
own remuneration). 
Summary of activity during the year
During the year the committee conducted its
annual review of remuneration to ensure that
the overall remuneration structure continues
to promote the Company’s business strategy .
In addition the committee sought to
harmonise Executive Committee members’
service contracts in order to expressly require
an executive to seek alternative employment 
in the event of termination and to accept
payments in lieu of notice in monthly
instalments. Further details of the executive
directors’ service contracts are set out on 
page 38. The committee also reviewed the
long-term incentive plans and reconfirmed
that the bonus matching and share option
plans would not be used for new awards to
executive directors without seeking renewed
shareholder approval. The committee also
reviewed the free cash flow targets used 
in the LTIP in light of the disposal of the
Selecta vending business and adjusted the
same for awards made in the years ended 
30 September 2006 and 2007. Details of the
LTIP and the adjustments made to the targets
are set out on pages 35 and 36. 34 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Remuneration policy and components
The committee reviews the Company’s
remuneration philosophy and structure 
each year to ensure that the remuneration
framework remains effective in supporting the
Company’s business objectives, in line with
best practice and fairly rewards individuals 
for the contribution that they make to the
business, having regard to the size and
complexity of the Group’s operations and 
the need to retain, motivate and attract
employees of the highest calibre.
The committee intends that base salary 
and total remuneration of executive 
directors should be in line with the market.
Remuneration is benchmarked annually
against rewards available for equivalent 
roles in a suitable comparator group with 
the aim of paying neither significantly above
nor below the median for each element of
remuneration. The committee also considers
general pay and employment conditions
elsewhere within the Group when assessing the
level of salaries and remuneration packages.
The total remuneration package links
corporate and individual performance with
an appropriate balance between short- and
long-term elements, and fixed and variable
components. The policy is designed to
incentivise executives to meet the Company’s
key objectives, such that a significant portion
of total remuneration is performance related,
based on a mixture of internal targets linked 
to the Company’s key business drivers (which
can be easily measured, understood and
accepted by both executives and shareholders)
and appropriate external comparator groups.
The committee considers that the targets set
for the different elements of performance
related remuneration are both appropriate
and demanding in the context of the business
environment and the challenges with which
the Group is faced. The following table shows
the average proportions of salary , target (or
par) bonus, pension, benefits and the expected
value of long-term incentives granted to each
of the executive directors during the year
ended 30 September 2007.
Details of each individual element of the
remuneration package are given below . 
Salary 
Base salaries are rigorously benchmarked 
and reflect the role, job size and responsibility
as well as individual performance and
effectiveness. The Group Chief Executive’s
salary is reviewed annually each June by the
committee with any increase taking effect on
1 July of each year. Other executives’ salaries
are subject to annual review each December
with any increases taking effect on 1 January . 
The annual base salaries of the executive
directors are: 
Annual base salaries
Richard Cousins £800,000 (effective 1 July 2007)
Gary Green US$1,000,000 (effective 1 January 2007)
Andrew Martin £500,000 (effective 1 January 2007)
Benefits
These comprise healthcare insurance for
executive directors and their dependants,
limited financial advice, life assurance and 
car benefit.
Pensions
The Group’s policy is not to offer defined
benefit arrangements to new employees at 
any level (save where required by applicable
legislation). Incoming executive directors 
are invited either to join the Company’s
contracted-in money purchase arrangement
or to take a fixed salary supplement, which is
excluded from any bonus calculation. 
At 30 September 2007 there were no executive
directors actively participating in any Compass
Group defined benefit pension arrangements
and none of the executive directors is accruing
additional entitlement to benefit under any
arrangements that existed prior to their
appointment as executive directors. 
Richard Cousins and Gary Green elected to
receive a salary supplement equal to 35% of
their basic salaries in lieu of pension. 
In the light of the A Day pension legislation,
Andrew Martin also elected to receive a salary
supplement equal to 35% of basic salary with
effect from 6 April 2006 and waived all rights
to his final salary pension, money purchase
pension and unfunded unapproved pension
relating to his employment prior to that date
as reported in 2006.
Annual bonus
The annual bonus is earned by the
achievement of performance targets set by the
committee at the start of each financial year
and is delivered in cash. The target (or par)
award for the year ended 30 September 2007
was 75% of base salary , with a further
maximum of 75% of base salary available 
for superior performance. 
For the year ended 30 September 2007, the
bonus measures for Messrs Cousins and
Martin were Group profit before interest and
tax (‘PBIT’) (60%), free cash flow (‘FCF’)
(20%) and a personal target (‘PT’) (20%) 
with a supplementary financial underpin 
such that the amount payable pursuant to the
achievement of the FCF and PT measures
would be halved unless the threshold PBIT
measure was achieved. Mr Green’s 60%/20%
PBIT/cash targets are split as to 20%/5%
based on Group PBIT/FCF and 40%/15%
based on PBIT/cash flow for his area of
responsibility in the USA, Canada and Mexico.
The percentages of base salary shown below
were paid to the directors for the year ended
30 September 2007.
Actual bonus paid
(% of base salary)
Richard Cousins 145.5%
Gary Green 127.5%
Andrew Martin 147.0%
The committee continues to be satisfied that
the performance targets are challenging and
promote the Company’s business strategy and
have, accordingly , confirmed that there will 
be no change to the bonus measures for the
year ending 30 September 2008, together 
with the supplementary underpin based on
achievement of the Group’s PBIT target.
Executive directors’ remuneration package elements 
Year ended 30 September 2007
33% Salary
3% Benefits
12% Pension
25% Annual bonus
27% LTIP
Directors’ Report
Directors’ remuneration report
continued 35 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Long-Term Incentive Plan
The Company currently operates an LTIP
under which executives may receive a
conditional award of shares which may vest
after a single three-year performance period,
based on the achievement of stretching
performance conditions. Prior to each year
end the committee agrees the LTIP awards 
to be made on the basis of the share price as
at the year end. Because each LTIP award
also depends on financial information only
available after the year end LTIP grants are
not normally made until some weeks after 
the year end. Both total shareholder return
(‘TSR’) and FCF have been selected since
2006 as the performance conditions which are
considered to most closely align the interests
of participants with those of the shareholders.
The LTIP rewards the achievement of the
Group’s FCF targets (which are key business
targets for the Group) as well as the
Company’s relative TSR outperformance
against a defined list of comparator
companies (which aligns the interests of
participants with those of shareholders).
During the year the committee reviewed the
TSR comparator group and determined that
the financial services constituents of the
FTSE 100 should be excluded for the purpose
of the TSR target for awards made in the
year ending 30 September 2008. For awards
made in the year ended 30 September 2007
the TSR comparator group was the entire
FTSE 100.
50% of any LTIP award is based on the
Group’s FCF over the three-year performance
period and 50% on the Company’s TSR over
the same period relative to the companies
comprising the TSR comparator group at 
the start of the performance period. The
precise FCF target for each award is linked to
the Group’s wider business targets and is set
by the committee at the time of grant based
on Group projections and market expectations. 
No shares vest unless the Group achieves
minimum performance. 25% of the portion
of the award based on FCF vests on the
achievement of minimum performance.
Awards vest on a straight-line basis between
25% and 100% where FCF is between
minimum and maximum performance.
Calculations of the achievement of the 
targets are independently performed and 
are approved by the committee.
Following the sale of the Selecta vending
business in July 2007, the committee agreed 
to adjust the FCF targets for existing awards
made in the years ended 30 September 2006
and 2007. The committee considered the
contribution to the FCF made by the Selecta
vending business and sought to make an
adjustment which maintained the targets
originally set in respect of the remaining
business. The minimum and maximum
targets for awards made in the year 
ended 30 September 2006 were amended
from £825 million and £900 million to 
£768 million and £843 million and the FCF
targets for awards made in the year ended 
30 September 2007 from £950 million and
£1,050 million to £859 million and 
£959 million. 
TSR is the aggregate of share price growth
and dividends paid (assuming reinvestment 
of those dividends in the Company’s shares
during the third-year performance period).
100% of the portion of the award based on
TSR will vest if performance is in the top
quartile and 25% of the award will vest 
if performance is at the median. Where
performance is between the median and top
quartile, awards will vest on a straight-line
basis between the median and top quartile.
No shares will be released if the Company’s
TSR performance is below the median.
Emoluments
The aggregate remuneration of the directors who served during the financial year ended 30 September 2007 was as follows:
Salary Salary Annual 2007 2006
& fees supplement
1
bonus Benefits Total Total
Name of director £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Directors in service at 30 September 2007
Chairman
Sir Roy Gardner 363 – – 38 401 188
Executive directors
Richard Cousins 763 267 1,164 36 2,230 831
Gary Green
2
380 133 484 21 1,018 –
Andrew Martin 494 168 735 57 1,454 1,229
Non-executive directors
Peter Blackburn 60––– 60 50
Sir James Crosby
3
63––– 63 –
Sven Kado
4
67––– 67 53
Steve Lucas 75––– 75 65
Tim Parker
3
38––– 38 –
Sir Ian Robinson
5
50––– 50 –
Former directors
Peter Cawdron
6
38––– 38 90
Val Gooding
7
15––– 15 50
Directors who left during the previous year ––––– 2,282
Total 2,406 568 2,383 152 5,509 4,838
1. A supplement of 35% of basic salary is paid in monthly instalments in lieu of pension participation. 
2. Gary Green was appointed as a director of the Company on 1 January 2007 and the figures shown in the above table are pro-rated for the nine months from that date.
3. Sir James Crosby and Tim Parker were appointed as directors of the Company on 17 February 2007.
4. The figure shown for Sven Kado for 2006 and 2007 includes a fee of €4,000 and €10,000 respectively in respect of his non-executive directorship of Compass Group Deutschland GmbH.
5. Sir Ian Robinson was appointed as a director of the Company on 1 December 2006.
6. Peter Cawdron resigned as a director of the Company on 16 February 2007.
7. Val Gooding resigned as a director of the Company on 31 December 2006. 36 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
The following table sets out the percentage 
of each award which has vested and the
percentage of each extant award, had it
vested on 30 September 2007.
Percentage vested on maturity 
or indicative vesting percentage
Y ear of based on performance Performance
award as at 30 September 2007 conditions
2001/02 0% (ended on 1 October 2006) TSR
2002/03 0% (ended on 1 October 2007 TSR
2003/04 0% (performance after 1st extended 
performance period of 48 months) TSR
2004/05 0% (ended on 1 October 2007) TSR
2005/06 73% (performance after 24 months) TSR/FCF
2006/07 100% (performance after 12 months) TSR/FCF
Awards made since 2004 do not benefit 
from retesting. In addition, for awards made
in the year ended 30 September 2006 and
subsequent years, any vesting of an award 
at the end of the performance period is
conditional upon the committee being
satisfied that the underlying financial
performance of the Group justifies such
vesting. Extant awards remain subject to the
achievement of performance conditions
following a participant’s agreed retirement
date and vesting is determined at the end 
of the performance period.
Awards are discretionary and may be granted
up to an annual maximum of 200% of base
salary . Each year the committee assesses the
balance between fixed and variable pay and
resolved that, exceptionally , any award made
in the year ending 30 September 2008 should
be set at 200% of annual base salary to
recognise exceptional performance achieved
during the year ended 30 September 2007.
Directors’ Report
Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Directors’ interests in the Long-Term Incentive Plan
Details of existing awards as at the date of this report and awards conditionally made to the executive directors in office during the year ended 
30 September 2007 are shown in the table below:
As at
30 Sep 2006 Awarded Lapsed
(or date of during during As at
appointment): the year: the year: 30 Sep 2007: Market price at 
number of number of number of number of date of award: Performance
Name of director shares shares shares shares pence conditions Date of award Vesting date
Richard Cousins 727,272 – – 727,272 206.25 TSR/FCF 14 Jun 2006 1 Oct 2008
– 419,384 – 419,384 312.00 TSR/FCF 8 Mar 2007 1 Oct 2009
727,272 419,384 – 1,146,656
Gary Green
1
70,340 – 70,340 – 482.00 TSR
2
25 Feb 2002 1 Oct 2006
3
135,286 – – 135,286 336.25 TSR
2
3 Jul 2003 1 Oct 2007
3
104,896 – – 104,896 371.75 TSR
2
19 Dec 2003 1 Oct 2008
3
168,461 – – 168,461 243.50 TSR
2
21 Dec 2004 1 Oct 2007
365,938 – – 365,938 206.25 TSR/FCF 14 Jun 2006 1 Oct 2008
– 298,706 – 298,706 312.00 TSR/FCF 8 Mar 2007 1 Oct 2009
844,921 298,706 70,340 1,073,287
Andrew Martin 142,449 – – 142,449 243.50 TSR
2
21 Dec 2004 1 Oct 2007
460,606 – – 460,606 206.25 TSR/FCF 14 Jun 2006 1 Oct 2008
– 279,588 – 279,588 312.00 TSR/FCF 8 Mar 2007 1 Oct 2009
603,055 279,588 – 882,643
1. Gary Green was appointed as a director of the Company on 1 January 2007.
2. 100% of the award is based on growth in the Company’ s TSR relative to the FTSE 100 subject to the achievement of a supplementary financial underpin whereby average increase in 
earnings per share (‘EPS’) must be greater than the increase in the UK Retail Price Index (‘RPI’) over a three year period.
3. Awards made prior to 2004 were subject to retesting. The dates shown are the final vesting dates for these awards. After 2004, all awards have only one vesting date as shown.
All Awards were granted for nil consideration.
The highest mid-market price of the Company’ s ordinary shares during the year was 381.75 pence and the lowest was 264.50 pence. The year end price was 302.00 pence.
Total shareholder return
The performance graphs below show the Company’s TSR performance against the performance of the FTSE 100 over the two and five-year
periods to 30 September 2007. The FTSE 100 Index has been chosen as being a broad equity market index of which the Company has been 
a constituent member throughout each period. 
Compass Group
FTSE 100 Index
Sep 07 Sep 06 Sep 02
0
50
100
150
200
250
Value of a hypothetical £100 holding (£)
Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05
Compass Group
FTSE 100 Index
Sep 07 Mar 07 Jun 07 Dec 06 Sep 05
100
120
140
160
180
200
Value of a hypothetical £100 holding (£)
Dec 05 Jun 06 Mar 06 Sep 06
TSR performance against FTSE 100 
Over two years
TSR performance against FTSE 100 
Over five years 37 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Suspended plans
The LTIP was the only form of equity-based
incentive granted for the year ended 
30 September 2007, and this will continue 
to be the policy for the year ending 
30 September 2008. 
Awards prior to 2005 were made under two
further share incentive plans in previous years:
the Compass Group Bonus Matching Shares
Plan and the Compass Group Share Option
Plan. Existing rights under these plans remain
and may result in the vesting of further shares
in the capital of the Company . Shareholder
approval will be sought should the Company
wish to make any further awards to executive
directors under these suspended plans.
Under the Compass Group Bonus 
Matching Shares Plan, executive directors
were permitted to invest up to 50% of any
pre-tax performance related bonus in the
Company’s shares. If the shares were held 
for three years and the director continued to
be employed by the Group, the participant
would be eligible to receive a proportion of
matching shares based on the Group achieving
underlying earnings per share average growth
in excess of RPI over the period. 
Under the Compass Group Share Option
Plan, executive directors were eligible to
receive awards equating to an annual
maximum of 200% of basic salary , at an
exercise price not lower than the market 
value of the Company’s shares on the day
prior to grant. Options would normally be
exercisable on a sliding scale between the
third and tenth anniversaries of the date 
of grant subject to satisfaction of an 
EPS performance condition, after which 
they lapse. 
The Company also has in place UK and
overseas all-employee plans in which
executive directors may participate. However,
no grants have been made under these plans
since 2005. Further details of the plans may
be found in prior years’ annual reports.
Suspended plans
The tables below show the number of options and awards held by the directors in office during the year under the suspended share incentive plans. 
Directors’ bonus matching share awards 
As at date of As at Market price
appointment: 30 Sep 2007: at date of 
number of number of award:
Name of director shares shares pence Deferral period
Gary Green 103,275 103,275
1
220.50 1 Oct 2004 – 30 Sep 2007
1. These shares can be called for by Mr Green in the 12 months from 1 October 2007.
Directors’ interests in share options 
As at
30 Sep 2006 Exercised Lapsed
(or date of during during As at
appointment): the year: the year: 30 Sep 2007: Exercise Performance
number of number of number of number of price: conditions
Name of director shares shares shares shares pence (see notes below) Normal exercise period 
Gary Green
Share Option Plan 467,925 – – 467,925 316.10 1 29 Sep 2002–28 Sep 2009
458,750 – – 458,750 371.60 2 13 Sep 2003–12 Sep 2010
350,000 – – 350,000 430.00 2 19 Sep 2004–18 Sep 2011
350,000 – – 350,000 422.00 2 23 May 2004–22 May 2012
129,500 – – 129,500 292.50 2 30 Sep 2005–29 Sep 2012
500,000 – – 500,000 320.00 2,4 28 May 2006–27 May 2013
300,000 – – 300,000 316.25 2,3 3 Aug 2007–2 Aug 2014
450,000 – – 450,000 229.25 2,3 1 Dec 2007–30 Nov 2014
US Stock Bonus Plan 11,006 – – 11,006 – 5 1 Sep 2008
3,017,181 – – 3,017,181
Andrew Martin
Share Option Plan 650,000 – – 650,000 333.50 2,3 7 Jun 2007–6 Jun 2014
365,000 – – 365,000 229.25 2,3 1 Dec 2007–30 Nov 2014
Sharesave 3,532 3,532 – – 266.80 5 1 Sep 2007–29 Feb 2008
1,018,532 3,532 – 1,015,000
1.  Options were awarded under the Compass Group 1999 Executive Share Option Plan. The performance targets on these grants ceased to apply following the Granada Compass merger in 2000.
2.  Options were awarded under the Compass Group Share Option Plan. If average earnings per share growth is at least 6% over a three year period between grant and exercise, one third of shares under 
option become exercisable. Options are exercisable in full at 12% growth and on a straight line basis in between. 
3.  Performance is tested once only after a three year period. There is no further opportunity for retesting.
4.  The earnings per share target has not been met. The target may be retested annually for the life of the option. 
5.  Options were awarded under an all-employee plan, and are not subject to satisfaction of a performance target. 
No awards or options were granted or exercised under any of the suspended share incentive plans during the year ended 30 September 2007.
Earnings per share measures have been adjusted for awards made prior to 2005 to achieve consistency between IFRS and UK GAAP reporting.
The highest mid-market price of the Company’ s ordinary shares during the year was 381.75 pence and the lowest was 264.50 pence. The year end price was 302.00 pence. Dilution limits
All of the Company’s equity based incentive
plans incorporate the current ABI Guidelines
on headroom which provide that overall
dilution under all plans should not exceed
10% over a 10 year period in relation to the
Company’s issued share capital (or reissue of
treasury shares), with the further limitation of
5% in any 10 year period on executive plans.
The committee regularly monitors the
position and prior to the making of any award
considers the effect of potential vesting of
options or share awards to ensure that the
Company remains within these limits. Any
awards which are required to be satisfied by
market purchased shares are excluded from
such calculations. No treasury shares were
utilised in the year ended 30 September 2007. 
As at 30 September 2007, the Company’s
headroom position, which remains within
current ABI Guidelines, was as shown in the
table to the left.
Service agreements 
It is the Company’s policy that service
contracts for the executive directors have no
fixed term but are capable of termination 
on 12 months notice from the Company 
and six months notice from the director, 
(12 months for Richard Cousins). The
Company also retains the right to terminate
the contract immediately by making a
payment in lieu of notice equal to 12 months
pay , on target bonus, pension supplement 
and an amount equal to 10% of basic pay in
respect of benefits to be paid in monthly
instalments, subject to an obligation on the
director to mitigate his loss. The service
contracts outline the components of
remuneration paid to the individual but do
not prescribe how remuneration levels are to
be modified from year to year.
Executive directors’ service
agreements
Date of contract
Richard Cousins 22 November 2007
Gary Green 27 November 2007
Andrew Martin 27 November 2007
External appointments
With the Board’s agreement executive
directors may take up one non-executive
directorship outside of the Group. Richard
Cousins receives a fee of £94,000 p.a., in
respect of his directorship of HBOS plc,
which he is permitted to retain. 
Share ownership policy
In order that their interests are aligned with
those of shareholders, executive directors are
expected to build up and maintain a personal
shareholding in the Company of at least
100% of gross base salary . New directors 
will undertake to build up their shareholding
within four years of their appointment. 
The committee reviewed and noted that 
these targets were achieved by all executive
directors during the year. Directors’ current
shareholdings are set out on page 26.
Chairman
The fee for the Chairman is reviewed
annually by the committee each June 
with any increase taking effect on 1 July . 
The Chairman’s fee was set at £400,000 
p.a., with effect from 1 July 2007. 
The Chairman is not eligible for pension
scheme membership, bonus or incentive
arrangements. He is entitled to the provision
of life and medical insurance for himself and
his spouse, financial planning assistance and
car benefit.
Policy on remuneration of 
non-executive directors
The fees for the non-executive directors 
are reviewed and determined by the Board 
each year. The base fee for the year ended 
30 September 2007 was £60,000 p.a., with an
additional fee of £15,000 p.a. payable where
a non-executive director acts as Chairman of
either the Audit or Remuneration Committee
and an additional fee of £25,000 p.a. for the
director nominated as senior independent
non-executive director. Non-executive
directors are not eligible for pension scheme
membership, bonus or incentive
arrangements. 
Non-executive directors have letters of
engagement. They are appointed for an 
initial period of three years, after which the
appointment is renewable at three-year
intervals by mutual consent. Details of their
appointments, which are terminable without
compensation, are set out in the table on 
page 39.
38 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Directors’ Report
Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Plan limits headroom
5% in 10 years 10% in 10 years
3.73% Executive
0.38% LTIP 
0.89% Headroom
2.77% All Employee
3.73% Executive
0.38% LTIP 
3.12% Headroom 39 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Other senior executives and
management
There are a number of senior executives 
who, with the executive directors, comprise
the Executive Committee. These key
management roles influence the ability of
the Group to meet its strategic targets. The
committee has regard to the remuneration
level and structure of this group whose total
remuneration including salary and other
short-term benefits, target (or par) bonus and
the expected value of long-term incentives is
summarised below .
T otal remuneration
for the year ended
30 September 2007
£000 Number in band
201 – 500 1
501 – 800 –
801 – 1 ,100 2
1 , 101 – 1 ,400 3
1 ,401 – 1 ,450 1
On behalf of the Board
Sir James Crosby
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
28 November 2007
Non-executive directors’ letters of engagement
T otal length 
Original date of service at
Non-executive director of appointment Letter of engagement 30 September 2007
Sir Roy Gardner 1 Oct 2005 15 Sep 2005 2 years
Peter Blackburn
1
10 Apr 2002 16 May 2002
(renewed 31 Mar 2004) 5 years, 5 months
Sir James Crosby 17 Feb 2007 16 Feb 2007 7 months
Sven Kado 10 Apr 2002 10 Apr 2002
(renewed 31 Mar 2004) 5 years, 5 months
Steve Lucas 7 Jul 2004 17 Jun 2004
(renewed 25 Jun 2007) 3 years, 2 months
Susan Murray 11 Oct 2007 11 Oct 2007 –
Tim Parker 17 Feb 2007 16 Feb 2007 7 months
Sir Ian Robinson 1 Dec 2006 1 Dec 2006 10 months
1. Mr Blackburn retired from the Board on 31 October 2007. 40 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Introduction
We have audited the Group financial
statements of Compass Group PLC for the
year ended 30 September 2007 which
comprise the consolidated income statement,
the consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense, the consolidated balance
sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement,
the accounting policies and the related notes 
1 to 37. These Group financial statements
have been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein. We have also audited
the information in the Directors’ remuneration
report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the parent
company financial statements of Compass Group
PLC for the year ended 30 September 2007.
This report is made solely to the Company’s
members, as a body , in accordance with
section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that
we might state to the Company’s members
those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditors’ report and for no other
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law ,
we do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than the Company and the
Company’s members as a body , for our audit
work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of 
directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing
the Annual Report, the Directors’
remuneration report and the Group financial
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the
European Union are set out in the statement
of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group
financial statements in accordance with
relevant legal and regulatory requirements
and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether
the Group financial statements give a true 
and fair view , whether the Group financial
statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether
the part of the Directors’ remuneration report
described as having been audited has been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985. We also report to you
whether in our opinion the information given
in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the
Group financial statements. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion,
we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit, 
or if information specified by law regarding
directors’ remuneration and other transactions
is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance
Statement reflects the Company’s compliance
with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority , and
we report if it does not. We are not required 
to consider whether the Board’s statements on
internal control cover all risks and controls, 
or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s corporate governance procedures or
its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in
the Annual Report as described in the contents
section and consider whether it is consistent
with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report 
if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies 
with the Group financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any further
information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis,
of evidence relevant to the amounts and
disclosures in the Group financial statements
and the part of the Directors’ remuneration
report to be audited. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and
judgements made by the directors in the
preparation of the Group financial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as 
to obtain all the information and explanations
which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the Group financial
statements and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report to be audited are free
from material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In
forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the Group financial statements
and the part of the Directors’ remuneration
report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
the Group financial statements give a 
true and fair view , in accordance with
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union,
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 
30 September 2007 and of its profit for 
the year then ended;
the Group financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation; 
the part of the Directors’ remuneration
report described as having been audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985; and
the information given in the Directors’
Report is consistent with the Group
financial statements.
Deloitte & T ouche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London
28 November 2007
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Compass Group PLC 41 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 30 September 2007
2007 2006
Before Exceptional Before Exceptional
exceptional items exceptional items
items (Note 7) T otal items (Note 7) T otal
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations:
Revenue 1 10,268 – 10,268 10,267 – 10,267
Operating costs 2 (9,743) – (9,743) (9,812) – (9,812)
Operating profit 1 525 – 525 455 – 455
Share of profit of associates 4–4 2–2
Total operating profit 529 – 529 457 – 457
Finance income 4 28 – 28 15 – 15
Finance costs 4 (115) – (115) (160) – (160)
Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 4 (6) – (6) 11 – 11
Profit before tax 436 – 436 323 – 323
Income tax (expense)/credit 5 (124) – (124) (105) 44 (61)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 1 312 – 312 218 44 262
Discontinued operations:
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 6 15 197 212 60 (27) 33
Continuing and discontinued operations:
Profit for the year 327 197 524 278 17 295
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the Company 318 197 515 268 17 285
Minority interest 9–9 10 – 10
Profit for the year 327 197 524 278 17 295
Basic earnings per share (pence)
From continuing operations 8 15.0p 11.7p
From discontinued operations 8 10.6p 1.6p
From continuing and discontinued operations 8 25.6p 13.3p
Diluted earnings per share (pence)
From continuing operations 8 15.0p 11.7p
From discontinued operations 8 10.4p 1.6p
From continuing and discontinued operations 8 25.4p 13.3p 42 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Net income/(expense) recognised in equity
Fair value movement on cash flow hedges – 4
Currency translation differences (12) (7)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on post-retirement employee benefits 23 38 (37)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 5 8 3
Recognition of deferred tax asset relating to currency translation differences in prior years 5 37 –
Income/(expense) recognised directly in equity 71 (37)
Transfers
Transfer to profit or loss from equity of cumulative translation differences on discontinued activities – 2
Transfer to profit or loss from equity on cash flow hedges – (6)
Net transfer to profit or loss from equity – (4)
Net gain/(loss) recognised directly in equity
Net gain/(loss) recognised directly in equity 71 (41)
Profit for the financial year
Profit for the financial year 524 295
Total recognised income and expense for the year 25 595 254
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the Company 576 248
Minority interests 19 6
Total recognised income and expense for the year 25 595 254
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 30 September 2007 43 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 30 September 2007
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 10 2,985 3,451
Other intangible assets 11 142 152
Property , plant and equipment 12 576 756
Interests in associates 13 25 39
Other investments 14 12 9
Deferred tax assets
*
5 240 237
Trade and other receivables 16 66 117
Derivative financial instruments
**
20 13 22
Non-current assets 4,059 4,783
Current assets
Inventories 17 179 212
Trade and other receivables 16 1,343 1,424
Tax recoverable
*
10 10
Derivative financial instruments
**
20 2 9
Cash and cash equivalents
**
18 839 848
Current assets 2,373 2,503
Total assets 6,432 7,286
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings
**
19 (151) (119)
Derivative financial instruments
**
20 – (2)
Current tax liabilities
*
(171) (357)
Trade and other payables 21 (1,833) (1,990)
Provisions 22 (86) (65)
Current liabilities (2,241) (2,533)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings
**
19 (1,452) (1,835)
Derivative financial instruments
**
20 (15) (18)
Post-employment benefit obligations 23 (162) (282)
Provisions 22 (351) (242)
Deferred tax liabilities
*
5 (5) (18)
Other payables 21 (36) (46)
Non-current liabilities (2,021) (2,441)
Total liabilities (4,262) (4,974)
Net assets 2,170 2,312
Equity
Share capital 24, 25 193 210
Share premium account 25 122 96
Capital redemption reserve 25 33 15
Less: own shares 25 (1) –
Other reserves 25 4,312 4,288
Retained earnings 25 (2,511) (2,303)
Total equity shareholders’ funds 2,148 2,306
Minority interests 25 22 6
Total equity 2,170 2,312
* Component of current and deferred taxes ** Component of net debt
Approved by the Board of directors on 28 November 2007 and signed on their behalf by
Richard J Cousins, Director
Andrew D Martin, Director 44 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 28 753 651
Interest paid (152) (186)
Interest element of finance lease rentals (3) (3)
Tax received 4 4
Tax paid (121) (97)
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities of continuing operations 481 369
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities of discontinued operations 29 (18) 178
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 463 547
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of subsidiary companies and investments in associated undertakings 27 (31) (167)
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary companies and associated undertakings – discontinued activities 6 782 1,807
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary companies and associated undertakings – other activities 32 –
Proceeds from sale of other investments 4 –
Tax on profits from sale of subsidiary companies and associated undertakings (51) (50)
Contribution of disposal proceeds to pension plans (45) (280)
Purchase of property , plant and equipment (156) (153)
Proceeds from sale of property , plant and equipment 22 20
Purchase of intangible assets and investments (21) (30)
Dividends received from associated undertakings 6 2
Interest received 28 15
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities by continuing operations 570 1,164
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities by discontinued operations 29 (30) (105)
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities 540 1,059
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 25 27 2
Purchase of own shares
1
(576) (148)
Net increase/(decrease) in borrowings 30 (239) (647)
Repayment of obligations under finance leases 30 (15) (15)
Equity dividends paid 9, 25 (208) (213)
Dividends paid to minority interests 25 (3) (11)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities by continuing operations (1,014) (1,032)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities by discontinued operations 29 – –
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities (1,014) (1,032)
Cash and cash equivalents
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 30 (11) 574
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 30 848 281
Exchange gains and losses on cash and cash equivalents 30 2 (7)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 30 839 848
1. Share buy-back £575 million. Own shares acquired to satisfy employee share based payments £1 million.
Reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations
for the year ended 30 September 2007
2007 2006
£m £m
Net cash from operating activities of continuing operations 481 369
Purchase of property , plant and equipment (156) (153)
Proceeds from sale of property , plant and equipment 22 20
Purchase of intangible assets and investments (21) (30)
Dividends received from associated undertakings 6 2
Interest received 28 15
Dividends paid to minority interests (3) (11)
Free cash flow from continuing operations 357 212
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 30 September 2007 45 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Accounting policies
for the year ended 30 September 2007
Introduction
The significant accounting policies adopted 
in the preparation of the Group’s financial
statements are set out below:
A   Accounting convention and basis 
of preparation
The financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) 
and International Financial Reporting
Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’)
interpretations as adopted by the European
Union at 30 September 2007 and with those
parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable
to companies reporting under IFRS. They
have been prepared under the historical cost
convention as modified by the revaluation 
of certain financial instruments. 
Certain new standards, amendments and
interpretations to existing standards have 
been published that are mandatory for the
Group’s accounting period beginning on 
1 October 2007 or later periods. The Group
has identified IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments:
Disclosures’ , IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’,
IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’
(revised 2007), IFRIC 11 ‘IFRS 2 Group and
Treasury Share Transactions’ and IFRIC 12
‘Service Concession Arrangements’ as being
relevant to its business but the Group has not
adopted these early . The Group does not
anticipate that any of these standards and
interpretations would have a material impact
on the Group’s financial statements. 
IFRIC 14 ‘IAS 19 The Limit on a 
Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding
Requirements and their Interaction’ is not
mandatory for the Group’s accounting period
ending 30 September 2007, but has been
adopted early . The Group has not recognised
actuarial surpluses of £92 million arising on
defined benefit obligations in its accounts for
the year ended 30 September 2007.
B   Use of assumptions and estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial
statements requires management to make
judgements, estimates and assumptions that
affect the application of policies and reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, income and
expenses. These estimates and assumptions
are based on historical experience and other
factors that are believed to be reasonable
under the circumstances. Actual results may
differ from these estimates. The estimates and
assumptions that have a significant risk of
causing a material adjustment to the carrying
value of assets and liabilities in the next
financial year are discussed below .
Income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in
numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgement 
is required in determining the worldwide
provision for income taxes as there are many
transactions and calculations for which the
ultimate tax determination is uncertain during
the ordinary course of business. The Group
recognises liabilities based on estimates of
whether additional taxes will be due. Where
the final tax outcome of these matters is
different from the amounts that were initially
recorded, such differences will impact the
results for the year and the respective income
tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in
which such determination is made.
Goodwill
The Group tests annually whether goodwill
has suffered any impairment in accordance
with the accounting policy set out in section 
M below . The recoverable amounts of cash
generating units have been determined based
on value in use calculations. These calculations
require the use of estimates and assumptions
consistent with the most up-to-date budgets
and plans that have been formally approved 
by management. The key assumptions used
for the value in use calculations are set out in
note 10 to the financial statements.
Post employment beneﬁts
Defined benefit schemes are reappraised
annually by independent actuaries based on
actuarial assumptions. Significant judgement 
is required in determining these actuarial
assumptions. The principal assumptions used are
described in note 23 to the financial statements.
C   Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements 
consist of the financial statements of the
Company , entities controlled by the Company
(its subsidiaries) and the Group’s share of
interests in joint ventures and associates made
up to 30 September each year.
D   Subsidiaries, associates and 
joint ventures
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group
has the power to govern the financial and
operating policies. The existence and effect 
of potential voting rights that are currently
exercisable or convertible are considered
when assessing control.
Joint ventures
Joint ventures are entities in which the Group
holds an interest on a long-term basis and
which are jointly controlled by the Group and
other venturers under a contractual
agreement. The Group’s share is accounted
for using the proportionate consolidation
method. The consolidated income statement
and balance sheet include the Group’s share
of the income, expenses, assets and liabilities.
Associates
Associates are undertakings that are not
subsidiaries or joint ventures over which the
Group has significant influence and can
participate in financial and operating policy
decisions. Investments in associated
undertakings are accounted for using the
equity method. The consolidated income
statement includes the Group’s share of the
profit after tax of the associated undertakings.
Investments in associates include goodwill
identified on acquisition and are carried in 
the Group balance sheet at cost plus post-
acquisition changes in the Group’s share 
of the net assets of the associate, less any
impairment in value. 
Adjustments
Where necessary , adjustments are made 
to the financial statements of subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures to bring the
accounting policies used in line with those
used by the Group.
Acquisitions and disposals
The results of subsidiaries, associates or 
joint ventures acquired or disposed of during
the period are included in the consolidated
income statement from the effective date 
of acquisition or up to the effective date of
disposal, as appropriate.
Intra-group transactions
All intra-group transactions, balances, income
and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Where a Group subsidiary transacts with a
joint venture of the Group, profits or losses
are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s
interest in the relevant joint venture.
E   Acquisitions
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted
for using the purchase method. The cost 
of acquisition is measured at the aggregate 
of the fair values, at the date of exchange, 
of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed,
and equity instruments issued plus costs
directly attributable to the acquisition. 
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
and contingent liabilities assumed are
recognised at the fair values at the acquisition
date, except for non-current assets (or disposal
groups) that are classified as held for sale
which are recognised and measured at fair
value less costs to sell. 
The cost of the acquisition in excess of the
Group’s interest in the net fair value of the
identifiable net assets acquired is recorded 
as goodwill. If the cost of the acquisition is
less than the fair value of the net assets of
the subsidiary acquired, the difference is
recognised directly in the income statement. 46 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
F   Foreign currency
The consolidated financial statements are
prepared in pounds Sterling, which is the
functional currency of the parent company .
In preparing the financial statements of
individual companies within the Group,
transactions in currencies other than pounds
Sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange
on the dates of the transaction. At each
balance sheet date, monetary assets and
liabilities that are denominated in foreign
currencies are retranslated at the rates on the
balance sheet date. Gains and losses arising 
on retranslation are included in the income
statement for the period, except for where
they arise on items taken directly to equity , in
which case they are also recognised in equity .
In order to hedge its exposure to certain
foreign exchange risks the Group enters into
forward contracts (see section Q below for 
the Group’s accounting policies in respect of
derivative financial instruments).
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of
the Group’s overseas operations (expressed in
their functional currencies, being the currency
of the primary economic environment in
which each entity operates) are translated 
at the exchange rates on the balance sheet
date. Income and expense items are translated
at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any , are
classified as equity and transferred to the
Group’s translation reserve. Such translation
differences are recognised as income or
expense in the period in which the operation
is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising
on the acquisition of a foreign entity are
treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign
entity and translated at the closing rate.
G   Revenue
Revenue is recognised in the period in which
services are provided in accordance with the
terms of the contractual relationships with
third parties. Revenue represents the fair value
of the consideration received or receivable for
goods and services provided in the normal
course of business, excluding trade discounts,
value added tax and similar sales taxes.
Management fee contracts
Revenue from management fee contracts
comprises the total of sales made to consumers,
the subsidy charged to clients, together with the
management fee charged to clients.
Fixed price contracts
Revenue from fixed price contracts is recognised
in proportion to the volume of services that the
Group is contracted to supply in each period.
Inter-segment transactions
There is minimal intra-group trading between
the reported business segments. Where such
trading does take place it is on similar terms and
conditions to those available to third parties. 
H   Rebates and other amounts
received from suppliers
Rebates and other amounts received from
suppliers include agreed discounts from
suppliers’ list prices, value and volume-related
rebates.
Income from value and volume-related rebates
is recognised based on actual purchases in the
period as a proportion of total purchases made
or forecast to be made over the rebate period. 
Agreed discounts relating to inventories are
credited to the income statement as the goods
are consumed. 
Rebates relating to items purchased but still
held at the balance sheet date are deducted
from the carrying value of these items so that
the cost of inventories is recorded net of
applicable rebates.
Rebates received in respect of plant and
equipment are deducted from the costs
capitalised.
I   Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are recognised in the income
statement in the period in which they are
incurred.
J   Operating proﬁt
Operating profit is stated before the share of
results of associates, investment revenue and
finance costs.
K   Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed and described
separately in the financial statements where 
it is necessary to do so to provide further
understanding of the financial performance
of the Group. They are material items of
income or expense that have been shown
separately due to the significance of their
nature or amount.
L   Tax
Income tax expense comprises current and
deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income
statement except where it relates to items
taken directly to equity , in which case it is
recognised in equity .
Current tax is the expected tax payable on 
the taxable income for the period, using tax
rates that have been enacted or substantively
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance
sheet liability method, providing for temporary
differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities for financial reporting
purposes and the amounts used for tax
purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are generally
recognised for all taxable temporary differences
and deferred tax assets are recognised to the
extent that it is probable that taxable profits
will be available against which deductible
temporary differences can be utilised. Such
assets and liabilities are not recognised if the
temporary difference arises from goodwill or
from the initial recognition (other than in a
business combination) of other assets and
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither
the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for
taxable temporary differences arising on
investments in subsidiaries and associates, 
and interest in joint ventures, except where
the Group is able to control the reversal of
the temporary difference and it is probable
that the temporary difference will not reverse
in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets 
is reviewed at each balance sheet date and
reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profits will 
be available to allow all or part of the asset 
to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that
are expected to apply in the period when the
liability is settled or the asset realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset
against each other when they relate to income
taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and
the Group intends to settle its current tax
assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
M   Intangible assets
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents
the excess of the cost of acquisition over 
the fair value of the Group’s share of the
identifiable assets and liabilities of the
acquired subsidiary , associate or joint venture
at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is tested
annually for impairment and is carried at cost
less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units
(‘CGU’) for the purpose of impairment
testing. A CGU is identified at the lowest
aggregation of assets that generate largely
independent cash inflows, and that which is
looked at by management for monitoring and
managing the business. This is generally the
total business for a country . However, in some
instances, where there are distinct separately
managed business activities within a country ,
particularly if they fall within different
secondary business segments, the CGU 
is identified at this lower level.
Accounting policies
for the year ended 30 September 2007 47 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
If the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit is less than the carrying
amount, an impairment loss is allocated 
first to reduce the carrying amount of any
goodwill allocated to the unit and then to 
the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the
basis of the carrying amount of each asset 
in the unit. Any impairment is immediately
recognised in the income statement and an
impairment loss recognised for goodwill is 
not subsequently reversed.
On disposal, the attributable amount of
goodwill is included in the determination 
of the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the
date of transition to IFRS has been retained
at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject 
to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK
GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated
and is not included in determining any
subsequent gain or loss on disposal. 
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are
capitalised at cost or, if acquired as part of
a business combination, are capitalised at 
fair value as at the date of the acquisition.
Internally-generated intangible assets are 
not capitalised. Amortisation is charged on 
a straight-line basis on assets over their
expected useful lives. 
The following rates applied for the Group:
Contract-related intangible assets: the life 
of the contract; and
Computer software: 6% to 33% per annum.
The typical life of contract-related intangibles
is between 2 and 20 years.
N   Property, plant and equipment
All tangible fixed assets are reviewed for
impairment when there are indications that
the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Freehold land is not depreciated. All other
property , plant and equipment assets are
carried at cost less accumulated depreciation
and any recognised impairment in value.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis
over the anticipated useful lives of the assets. 
The following rates applied for the Group: 
Freehold buildings and long-term 
leasehold property: 2% per annum;
Short-term leasehold property: the life 
of the lease;
Plant and machinery: 8% to 33% 
per annum; and
Fixtures and fittings: 8% to 33% per annum.
When assets are sold, the difference between
sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the
assets is dealt with in the income statement.
O   Assets held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups are
classified as held for sale if the carrying
amount will be recovered through a sale
transaction rather than through continuing
use. This condition is regarded as met only
when the sale is highly probable, management
is committed to a sale plan, the asset is
available for immediate sale in its present
condition and the sale is expected to be
completed within one year from the date 
of classification. These assets are measured 
at the lower of carrying value and fair value
less costs to sell. 
P   Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value. Cost is calculated
using either the weighted average price or 
the first in, first out method as appropriate 
to the circumstances. Net realisable value is
the estimated selling price in the ordinary
course of business, less applicable variable
selling expenses.
Q   Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are
recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when
the Group becomes a party to the contractual
provisions of the instrument. Financial assets
and liabilities, including derivative financial
instruments, denominated in foreign currencies
are translated into Sterling at period-end
exchange rates. Gains and losses are dealt with
through the income statement, unless hedge
accounting treatment is available.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at
bank and in hand and short-term deposits with
an original maturity of three months or less.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at the
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at
amortised cost; any difference between the
proceeds (net of direct issue costs) and the
redemption value is recognised in the income
statement over the period of the borrowings
using the effective interest method.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company
are recorded at the proceeds received, net of
direct issue costs.
Liabilities in respect of option agreements
Option agreements that allow minority
shareholders to require the Group to purchase
the minority interest are treated as derivatives
over equity instruments. These are recorded
in the balance sheet at fair value and the
valuation is re-evaluated at each period end.
Fair value is based on the present value of
expected cash outflows. The movement in fair
value is recognised as income or expense
within finance costs in the income statement.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and 
hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial
instruments such as foreign currency contracts
and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks
associated with changes in foreign exchange
rates and interest rates. Such derivative
financial instruments are initially measured 
at fair value on the contract date, and are 
re-measured to fair value at subsequent
reporting dates.
The use of financial derivatives is governed 
by the Group’s policies approved by the Board
of directors that provide written principles 
on the use of financial derivatives consistent
with the Group’s risk management strategy .
The Group does not use derivative financial
instruments for speculative purposes.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange
contracts is calculated by reference to current
forward exchange rates for contracts with
similar maturity profiles. The fair value of
interest rate swaps is determined by reference
to market values for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges
are classified as either fair value hedges when
they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair
value of a recognised asset or liability; or cash
flow hedges where they hedge exposure to
variability in cash flows that is either attributable
to a particular risk associated with a recognised
asset or liability or a forecasted transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges (interest 
rate swaps) which meet the conditions for
hedge accounting, any gain or loss from 
re-measuring the hedging instrument at fair
value is recognised immediately in the income
statement. Any gain or loss on the hedged
item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted
against the carrying amount of the hedged
item and recognised in the income statement.
Where the adjustment is to the carrying
amount of a hedged interest-bearing financial
instrument, the adjustment is amortised to 
the net profit and loss such that it is fully
amortised by maturity .
When fair value hedge accounting is
discontinued, any adjustment to the carrying
amount of the hedged item for the designated
risk for interest-bearing financial instruments
is amortised to profit or loss, with amortisation
commencing no later than when the hedged
item ceases to be adjusted.
The Group’s policy is to convert a proportion
of its floating rate debt to fixed rates, using
floating to fixed interest rate swaps. The Group
designates these as cash flow hedges of interest
rate risk. 48 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
In relation to cash flow hedges (forward 
foreign exchange contracts) to hedge firm
commitments which meet the conditions for
hedge accounting, the portion of the gain 
or loss on the hedging instrument that is
determined to be an effective hedge is
recognised directly in equity and the ineffective
portion is recognised in the income statement.
When the hedged firm commitment results 
in the recognition of an asset or liability , then
at the time the asset or liability is recognised,
the associated gains or losses that had
previously been recognised in equity are
included in the initial measurement of the
acquisition cost of other carrying amount of
the asset or liability . For all other cash flow
hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised
in equity are transferred to the income
statement in the same period in which the
hedged firm commitment affects the net profit
and loss, for example when the future sale
actually occurs.
For derivative financial instruments that do
not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains 
or losses arising from changes in fair value 
are taken directly to the income statement 
in the period.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when 
the hedging instrument expires or is sold,
terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies
for hedge accounting. At that point in time,
any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging
instrument recognised in equity is kept in
equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected
to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss
recognised in equity is transferred to the
income statement in the period.
Additional information can be found in note 20 
to the financial statements.
R   Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases
whenever the terms of the lease transfer
substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership to the lessee. All other leases are
classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are
recognised as assets of the Group at their fair
value or, if lower, at the present value of the
minimum lease payments, each determined at
the inception of the lease. The corresponding
liability to the lessor is included in the balance
sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease
payments are apportioned between finance
charges and reduction of the lease obligation
so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on
the remaining balance of the liability . Finance
charges are charged directly against income.
Payments made under operating leases are
charged to income on a straight-line basis
over the period of the lease. Any incentives to
enter into an operating lease are also spread
on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
S   Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group 
has a present obligation as a result of a past
event and it is probable that the Group will be
required to settle that obligation. Provisions
are measured at the directors’ best estimate 
of the cost of settling these liabilities and are
discounted to present value where the effect 
is material.
T   Employee beneﬁts
Pension obligations
Payments made to defined contribution
pension schemes are charged as an expense
when they fall due. Payments made to 
state-managed schemes are dealt with as
payments to defined contribution schemes
where the Group’s obligations under the
schemes are equivalent to those arising in 
a defined contribution pension scheme.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost
of providing benefits is determined using the
Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial
valuations being carried out at each balance
sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are
recognised immediately in the statement of
recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to
the extent that the benefits are already vested,
and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line
basis over the average period until the benefits
become vested.
The pension obligation recognised in the
balance sheet represents the present value of
the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for
unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced
by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset
resulting from this calculation is limited to
past service cost, plus the present value of
available refunds and reductions in future
contributions to the plan.
Other post-employment obligations
Some Group companies provide other 
post-employment benefits. The expected costs
of these benefits are accrued over the period
of employment using a similar basis to that
used for defined benefit pension schemes.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised
immediately in the statement of recognised
income and expense.
Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled and 
cash-settled share-based payments to certain
employees. Equity-settled share-based
payments are measured at fair value
(excluding the effect of non market-based
vesting conditions) at the date of grant. 
The fair value determined at the grant date 
of the equity-settled share-based payments is
expensed on a straight-line basis over the
vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate
of the shares that will eventually vest and
adjusted for the effect of non market-based
vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the
binomial distribution or Black-Scholes option
pricing models as is most appropriate for each
scheme. The expected life used in the models
has been adjusted, based on management’s
best estimate, for the effects of exercise
restrictions and behavioural considerations.
For cash-settled share-based payments, 
a liability equal to the portion of the goods 
or services received is recognised at the
current fair value determined at each balance
sheet date.
Holiday pay 
Paid holidays and similar entitlements are
regarded as an employee benefit and are
charged to the income statement as the
benefits are earned. An accrual is made at 
the balance sheet date to reflect the fair value
of holidays earned but not taken.
Accounting policies
for the year ended 30 September 2007 49 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007
1 Segmental reporting
Geographical segments
North Continental United Rest of Intra
America Europe Kingdom the World Group T otal
Revenues £m £m £m £m £m £m
Y ear ended 30 September 2007
Total revenue 4,162 2,842 1,986 1,654 (18) 10,626
Less: inter-segment revenue – (7) (7) (4) 18 –
External revenue 4,162 2,835 1,979 1,650 – 10,626
Less: discontinued businesses – (282) (48) (28) – (358)
External revenue – continuing 4,162 2,553 1,931 1,622 – 10,268
Y ear ended 30 September 2006
Total revenue 4,437 3,321 2,815 1,730 (39) 12,264
Less: inter-segment revenue – (13) (10) (16) 39 –
External revenue 4,437 3,308 2,805 1,714 – 12,264
Less: discontinued businesses (147) (824) (923) (103) – (1,997)
External revenue – continuing 4,290 2,484 1,882 1,611 – 10,267
Geographical segments
North Continental United Rest of Central
America Europe Kingdom the World activities T otal
Result £m £m £m £m £m £m
Y ear ended 30 September 2007
Total operating profit before associates 261 181 107 57 (58) 548
Less: discontinued businesses – (30) – 7 – (23)
Operating profit before associates – continuing 261 151 107 64 (58) 525
Add: Share of profit of associates 1–3––4
Operating profit – continuing 262 151 110 64 (58) 529
Finance income 28
Finance costs (115)
Hedge accounting ineffectiveness (6)
Profit before tax 436
Income tax expense (124)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 312
Y ear ended 30 September 2006
Total operating profit before associates 247 177 125 46 (66) 529
Less: discontinued businesses (2) (55) (18) 1 – (74)
Operating profit before associates – continuing 245 122 107 47 (66) 455
Add: Share of profit of associates 1–1––2
Operating profit – continuing 246 122 108 47 (66) 457
Finance income 15
Finance costs (160)
Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 11
Profit before tax 323
Income tax expense (61)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 262
Russia and Turkey were transferred from the Rest of the World to the Continental Europe segment during the current reporting period to ensure alignment with the new management reporting structure. 
The 2006 segmental results have been restated on a consistent basis. The combined revenue and operating proﬁt of these businesses was £46 million and £3 million respectively for the year ended 
30 September 2006. 1 Segmental reporting continued
Business segments
Travel
Contracts Vending Concessions Total
Revenues £m £m £m £m
Y ear ended 30 September 2007
External revenue 9,843 783 – 10,626
Less: discontinued businesses (33) (325) – (358)
External revenue – continuing 9,810 458 – 10,268
Y ear ended 30 September 2006 
External revenue 9,784 1,009 1,471 12,264
Transfers 77 – (77) –
Less: discontinued businesses (121) (482) (1,394) (1,997)
External revenue – continuing 9,740 527 – 10,267
The Travel Concessions businesses held on 30 September 2006 were transferred to the Contracts segment to ensure alignment with the new management reporting structure.
Geographical segments Unallocated
North Continental United Rest of Central Current and Net
America Europe Kingdom the World activities deferred tax debt T otal
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 30 September 2007
Total assets 1,726 849 2,124 620 9 250 854 6,432
Total liabilities (654) (713) (333) (362) (406) (176) (1,618) (4,262)
Net assets 1,072 136 1,791 258 (397) 74 (764) 2,170
T otal assets include:
Interests in associates 2 – 23–––– 25
As at 30 September 2006
Total assets 1,845 1,347 2,201 710 57 247 879 7,286
Less: discontinued businesses – (557) (111) (20) – – – (688)
Assets – continuing 1,845 790 2,090 690 57 247 879 6,598
Total liabilities (746) (766) (424) (349) (340) (375) (1,974) (4,974)
Less: discontinued businesses – 112 15 20––– 147
Liabilities – continuing (746) (654) (409) (329) (340) (375) (1,974) (4,827)
Net assets 1,099 581 1,777 361 (283) (128) (1,095) 2,312
Less: discontinued businesses – (445) (96) –––– (541)
Net assets – continuing 1,099 136 1,681 361 (283) (128) (1,095) 1,771
T otal assets include:
Investment in associates 16 1 22–––– 39
Less: discontinued businesses ––––––––
Interests in associates – continuing 16 1 22–––– 39
Russia and Turkey were transferred from the Rest of the World to the Continental Europe segment during the current reporting period to ensure alignment with the new management reporting structure. 
The 2006 segmental results have been restated on a consistent basis.
Business segments Unallocated
T ravel Central Current and Net
Contracts Vending Concessions activities deferred tax debt T otal
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 30 September 2007
Total assets 5,128 191 – 9 250 854 6,432
As at 30 September 2006
Total assets 5,284 800 19 57 247 879 7,286
Transfers 19 – (19) ––––
Less: discontinued businesses (27) (661) –––– (688)
Assets – continuing 5,276 139 – 57 247 879 6,598
The Travel Concessions businesses held on 30 September 2006 were transferred to the Contracts segment to ensure alignment with the new management reporting structure.
50 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 51 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
1 Segmental reporting continued
Geographical segments
North Continental United Rest of Central
America Europe Kingdom the World activities T otal
Other information £m £m £m £m £m £m
Y ear ended 30 September 2007
Total additions to property , plant and equipment
1
101 67 18 18 1 205
Less: discontinued businesses
1
– (31) (3) – – (34)
Additions to property , plant and equipment – continuing
1
101 36 15 18 1 171
Total additions to other intangible assets 73722 21
Less: discontinued businesses ––––––
Additions to other intangible assets – continuing 73722 21
Total depreciation of property , plant and equipment 64 56 34 15 1 170
Less: discontinued businesses – (24) (4) – – (28)
Depreciation of property , plant and equipment – continuing 64 32 30 15 1 142
Total amortisation of other intangible assets 108931 31
Less: discontinued businesses ––––––
Amortisation of other intangible assets – continuing 108931 31
Total other non-cash expenses 57544 25
Less: discontinued businesses – (1) – – – (1)
Other non-cash expenses – continuing 56544 24
Y ear ended 30 September 2006
Total additions to property , plant and equipment
1
122 88 50 24 – 284
Less: discontinued businesses
1
(9) (59) (45) – – (113)
Additions to property , plant and equipment – continuing
1
113 29 5 24 – 171
Total additions to other intangible assets 16 2 11 1 1 31
Less: discontinued businesses – (1) – – – (1)
Additions to other intangible assets – continuing 16 1 11 1 1 30
Total depreciation of property , plant and equipment 77 82 63 20 1 243
Less: discontinued businesses (9) (50) (33) – – (92)
Depreciation of property , plant and equipment – continuing 68 32 30 20 1 151
Total amortisation of other intangible assets 13 15811 38
Less: discontinued businesses – – (1) – – (1)
Amortisation of other intangible assets – continuing 13 15711 37
Total other non-cash expenses 67831 25
Less: discontinued businesses – (1) (3) – – (4)
Other non-cash expenses – continuing 66531 21
1. Includes leased assets.
Other non-cash expenses are mainly comprised of share-based payments.
Russia and Turkey were transferred from the Rest of the World to the Continental Europe segment during the current reporting period to ensure alignment with the new management reporting structure. 
The 2006 segmental results have been restated on a consistent basis. 52 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
1 Segmental reporting continued
Business segments
Travel Central
Contracts Vending Concessions activities Total
Other information £m £m £m £m £m
Y ear ended 30 September 2007
Total additions to property , plant and equipment
1
157 47 – 1 205
Less: discontinued businesses
1
– (34) – – (34)
Additions to property , plant and equipment – continuing
1
157 13 – 1 171
Total additions to other intangible assets 182–1 21
Less: discontinued businesses –––––
Additions to other intangible assets – continuing 182–1 21
Y ear ended 30 September 2006
Total additions to property , plant and equipment
1
150 61 73 – 284
Transfers
1
12 – (12) – –
Less: discontinued businesses
1
– (52) (61) – (113)
Additions to property , plant and equipment – continuing
1
1629–– 171
Total additions to other intangible assets 30––1 31
Transfers –––––
Less: discontinued businesses (1) – – – (1)
Additions to other intangible assets – continuing 29––1 30
1. Includes leased assets.
The Travel Concessions businesses held on 30 September 2006 were transferred to the Contracts segment to ensure alignment with the new management reporting structure.
2 Operating costs
2007 2006
Operating costs £m £m
Cost of food and materials:
Cost of inventories consumed 3,426 3,441
Labour costs:
Employee benefit expense (note 3) 4,518 4,506
Overheads:
Depreciation – owned property , plant and equipment 131 140
Depreciation – leased property , plant and equipment 11 11
Amortisation – owned intangible assets 31 37
Property lease rentals 52 56
Other occupancy rentals – minimum guaranteed rent 38 36
Other occupancy rentals – rent in excess of minimum guaranteed rent 4 4
Other asset rentals 55 60
Audit and non-audit services (see below) 5 7
Other expenses 1,472 1,514
Total continuing operations 9,743 9,812
The 2006 amounts in respect of rental expenses have been restated to reﬂect a more accurate classiﬁcation of costs adopted in 2007.
Impairment of goodwill, impairment of inventories, impairment of ﬁnancial assets and net foreign exchange gains/losses recorded in income statement £nil (2006: £nil).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 53 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
2 Operating costs continued
2007 2006
Audit and non-audit services £m £m
Audit services
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements 0.4 0.4
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for other services to the Group:
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries and joint ventures pursuant to legislation 2.6 2.7
Audit fees relating to IFRS comparatives – 0.2
Total audit fees 3.0 3.3
Non-audit services
Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.3
Other services relating to tax 1.7 2.9
All other services 0.3 0.8
Total non-audit fees 2.1 4.0
Total audit and non-audit services
Total audit and non-audit services 5.1 7.3
All other services includes £0.2 million in respect of assurance work relating to disposals (2006: £0.5million). 
3 Employees
2007 2006
Average number of employees, including directors and part-time employees Number Number
North America 126,691 122,412
Continental Europe 66,990 67,302
United Kingdom 66,105 68,885
Rest of the World 101,541 96,633
Total continuing operations 361,327 355,232
Discontinued businesses 4,303 34,008
Total continuing and discontinued 365,630 389,240
2007 2006
Aggregate remuneration of all employees including directors £m £m
Wages and salaries 3,804 3,853
Social security costs 638 587
Share-based payments 24 21
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 34 27
Pension costs – defined benefit plans 18 18
Total continuing operations 4,518 4,506
Discontinued businesses 102 505
Total continuing and discontinued 4,620 5,011
In addition to the pension cost shown in operating costs above, there is a pensions-related net charge to finance costs of £2 million (2006: £11 million).
The remuneration of directors and key management personnel is set out below . Additional information on directors’ and key management
remuneration, share options, long-term incentive plans, pension contributions and entitlements can be found in the audited section of the
Director’s remuneration report on pages 33 to 39 and forms part of these financial statements.
2007 2006
Remuneration of key management personnel £m £m
Salaries 4.8 4.3
Other short-term employee benefits 6.4 4.9
Termination benefits 2.3 0.4
Share-based payments 5.5 2.8
Pension 0.9 0.4
Total 19.9 12.8
Key management personnel is deﬁned as the Board of directors and the members of the Executive Committee. 54 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
4 Finance income and costs
2007 2006
Finance income and costs £m £m
Finance income
Bank interest 28 15
Finance costs
Bank loans and overdrafts 5 35
Other loans 104 107
Finance lease interest 3 3
Interest on bank loans, overdrafts, other loans and finance leases 112 145
Unwinding of discount on put options held by minority shareholders 1 4
Interest on pension scheme liabilities net of expected return on scheme assets (note 23) 2 11
Total finance costs 115 160
Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 
Unrealised net losses/(gains) on financial instruments 3 (11)
Unhedged translation losses on foreign currency borrowings 3 –
Total hedge accounting ineffectiveness losses/(gains) 6 (11)
5 Tax
2007 2006
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
Recognised in the income statement:
items items Total items items Total
income tax expense on continuing operations £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current year 149 – 149 146 (17) 129
Adjustment in respect of prior years (27) – (27) (40) (5) (45)
Current tax expense/(credit) 122 – 122 106 (22) 84
Current year 2–2 (1) (22) (23)
Impact of changes in statutory tax rates 6–6 –––
Adjustment in respect of prior years (6) – (6) –––
Deferred tax expense/(credit) 2–2 (1) (22) (23)
Income tax expense/(credit) on continuing operations 124 – 124 105 (44) 61
The income tax expense for the year is based on the United Kingdom statutory rate of corporation tax of 30% (2006: 30%). Overseas tax is
calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. The impact of changes in statutory tax rates relates principally to the reduction of
the UK corporation tax rate from 30% to 28% from 1 April 2008. This change has resulted in a deferred tax charge arising from the reduction in
the balance sheet carrying value of deferred tax assets to reflect the anticipated rate of tax at which those assets are expected to reverse.
2007 2006
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
Reconciliation of the income tax expense on continuing operations £m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit before tax from continuing operations before exceptional items 436 – 436 323 – 323
Notional income tax expense at the UK statutory rate of 30% on profit before tax 131 – 131 97 – 97
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 19 – 19 20 – 20
Impact of changes in statutory tax rates 6–6 –––
Permanent differences 3–3 22 – 22
Impact of share-based payments ––– 3–3
Tax on profit of associates (1) – (1) (1) – (1)
Losses and other temporary differences not previously recognised (10) – (10) (7) (27) (34)
Unrelieved current year tax losses 9–9 7–7
Prior year items (33) – (33) (37) (17) (54)
Other ––– 1–1
Income tax expense on continuing operations 124 – 124 105 (44) 61
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 55 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
5 Tax continued
2007 2006
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
Tax credited/(charged) to equity £m £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax (charge)/credit on actuarial gains/losses 
on post-employment benefits (6) – (6) 10 – 10
Tax on foreign exchange movements recognised in equity 13 – 13 (10) – (10)
Other current and deferred tax credits 1–1 3–3
Tax on items credited to equity 8–8 3–3
Recognition of deferred tax asset relating to
currency translation differences in prior years 37 – 37 –––
Tax credited to equity 45 – 45 3–3
Pensions Net
and post- Self-funded short-term
Tax employment insurance temporary
depreciation Intangibles beneﬁts T ax losses provisions differences T otal
Movement in net deferred tax asset/(liability) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2005 (51) 12 172 12 19 17 181
Credit/(charge) to income 22 (8) (23) – 4 47 42
Credit/(charge) to equity – (9) 10 – – (3) (2)
Transfer from/(to) current tax – – (1) – – – (1)
Business disposals 4 (4) – (1) – 4 3
Other movements 3 2 (1) – 1 (9) (4)
Exchange adjustment 1 5 (3) (1) (1) (1) –
At 30 September 2006 (21) (2) 154 10 23 55 219
At 1 October 2006 (21) (2) 154 10 23 55 219
Credit/(charge) to income 36 (12) (45) 1 9 6 (5)
Credit/(charge) to equity – (7) (8) – – 36 21
Transfer from/(to) current tax (11) ––––– (11)
Business disposals 11 – (2) –––9
Other movements – (1) 1 (2) – 5 3
Exchange adjustment 2 – (4) – (2) 3 (1)
At 30 September 2007 17 (22) 96 9 30 105 235
Net short-term temporary differences relate principally to provisions and other liabilities of overseas subsidiaries. 
After netting off balances within countries, the following are the deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the consolidated balance sheet:
2007 2006
Net deferred tax balance £m £m
Deferred tax assets 240 237
Deferred tax liabilities (5) (18)
Net deferred tax asset/(liability) 235 219
Unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences amount to £43 million (2006: £55 million). Of the 
total, tax losses of £2 million will expire at various dates between 2009 and 2013. These deferred tax assets have not been recognised as the timing
of recovery is uncertain. No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of £2,726 million (2006: £1,850 million) relating to the
unremitted earnings of overseas operations as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable
that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 56 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
6 Discontinued operations
Year ended 30 September 2007: 
The Group disposed of its European vending business, Selecta, on 2 July 2007. The Group has also completed the sale and closure of a number 
of other small businesses as part of the exit from the discontinued travel concessions business. The results of all these businesses are classified as
discontinued operations and are therefore excluded from the results of continuing operations in 2007. The 2006 results have been restated on a
consistent basis. The process was complete by the end of the year and no assets or liabilities are classified as being held for sale as at 30 September 2007.
Year ended 30 September 2006: 
The Group disposed of its Inflight catering operations, which operated principally in Continental Europe, on 19 December 2005, and disposed of its
travel concession catering business, Select Service Partner, including Creative Host Services in the US (together ‘SSP’) on 15 June 2006. The Group
also discontinued its Middle East military catering operations and withdrew from or disposed of various other businesses. The results of these
businesses are classified as discontinued operations and are therefore excluded from the results of continuing operations in 2006. This process was
substantially complete by the end of the year and no assets or liabilities were classified as being held for sale at 30 September 2006.
2007 2006
Selecta Other
1
Total SSP Selecta Other
2
Total
Net assets disposed and disposal proceeds £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Goodwill 411 2 413 798 – 51 849
Other intangible assets ––– 10–– 10
Property , plant and equipment 144 2 146 755 – 125 880
Investments ––– 5–38
Inventories 37 – 37 29–9 38
Trade and other receivables 58 3 61 74 – 49 123
Cash and cash equivalents 53 1 54 94 – 24 118
Gross assets disposed of 703 8 711 1,765 – 261 2,026
Trade and other payables (100) – (100) (208) – (51) (259)
Post-employment benefit obligations – (3) (3) (10) – (4) (14)
Tax (15) – (15) (6) – (6) (12)
Minority interest ––– (1) – (5) (6)
Other liabilities (3) (2) (5) – – (5) (5)
Gross liabilities disposed of (118) (5) (123) (225) – (71) (296)
Net assets disposed of 585 3 588 1,540 – 190 1,730
Liabilities retained 63 45 108 88 – 21 109
Cumulative exchange translation loss recycled on disposals
3
––– 2––2
Profit/(loss) on disposal 130 (27) 103 168 – (54) 114
Consideration, net of costs 778 21 799 1,798 – 157 1,955
Consideration deferred to future periods ––– (37) – (8) (45)
Cash disposed of (53) (1) (54) (94) – (24) (118)
Cash inflow from current year disposals 725 20 745 1,667 – 125 1,792
Deferred consideration relating to previous disposals –3737 – – 15 15
Cash inflow from disposals 725 57 782 1,667 – 140 1,807
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 57 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
6 Discontinued operations continued
2007 2006
Selecta Other
1
Total SSP Selecta Other
2
Total
Financial performance of discontinued operations £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trading activities of discontinued operations
External revenue 325 33 358 1,238 483 276 1,997
Inter-segment revenues 14 1 15 –21 – 21
Total revenue 339 34 373 1,238 504 276 2,018
Operating costs (307) (43) (350) (1,209) (456) (279) (1,944)
Trading activities of discontinued operations before exceptional costs 32 (9) 23 29 48 (3) 74
Exceptional operating costs (note 7) ––– – – (47) (47)
Profit before tax 32 (9) 23 29 48 (50) 27
Income tax (expense)/credit (see below) (8) – (8) (7) (8) 1 (14)
Profit after tax 24 (9) 15 22 40 (49) 13
Exceptional items: disposal of net assets and other 
adjustments relating to discontinued operations
Profit on disposal of net assets of discontinued operations 130 18 148 170 – (54) 116
Increase in provisions related to discontinued operations
4
– (45) (45) ––––
Cumulative translation exchange loss recycled on disposals
3
––– (2) – – (2)
Profit on disposal before tax 130 (27) 103 168 – (54) 114
Income tax (expense)/credit (see below) (1) 95 94 (99) – 5 (94)
Total profit after tax 129 68 197 69 – (49) 20
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 153 59 212 91 40 (98) 33
2007 2006
Selecta Other
1
Total SSP Selecta Other
2
Total
Income tax from discontinued operations £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Income tax on trading activities of discontinued operations
Current tax (7) – (7) (9) (12) 1 (20)
Deferred tax (1) – (1) 24–6
Income tax (expense)/credit on discontinued operations (8) – (8) (7) (8) 1 (14)
Exceptional items: income tax on disposal of net assets and 
other adjustments relating to discontinued operations
Current tax (1) 18 17 (117) – 11 (106)
Deferred tax – (2) (2) 18 – (6) 12
Exceptional tax credit (note 7) –7979 ––––
Income tax (expense)/credit on disposal of net assets of
discontinued operations (1) 95 94 (99) – 5 (94)
Total income tax from discontinued operations
Total income tax (expense)/credit from discontinued operations (9) 95 86 (106) (8) 6 (108)
1. Travel concessions and various other non-core businesses and adjustments to prior year disposals.
2. Middle East military catering operations and various other non-core businesses.
3. The Group manages foreign currency exposures in accordance with the policies set out in note 20, matching its principal projected cash ﬂows by currency to actual or effective borrowings in the same
currency. As a result the cumulative exchange translation loss recycled on disposals is £nil (2006: £2 million).
4. Additional provisions established in respect of the prior year disposal of travel concessions catering businesses and in respect of Middle East military catering operations discontinued in the prior year. 58 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
7 Exceptional items
Exceptional items are disclosed and described separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to clearly explain the financial
performance of the Group. Items reported as exceptional are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the
significance of their nature or amount.
2007 2006
Exceptional items £m £m
Continuing operations
Current year tax – 5
Adjustment in respect of prior year’s tax – 17
Current year tax – 22
Current year deferred tax – 22
Adjustment in respect of prior year’s deferred tax – –
Current year deferred tax – 22
Continuing operations (note 5) – 44
Discontinued operations
Profit on disposal of net assets and other adjustments relating to discontinued operations net of tax (note 6) 197 20
Settlement of UN contract claims and related expenses – (39)
Middle East military catering business – (8)
Discontinued operations 197 (27)
Continuing and discontinued operations
Total 197 17
Year ended 30 September 2007: 
The Group disposed of its European vending business, Selecta, on 2 July 2007 for a net profit after tax of £129 million. 
The Group also completed the sale and closure of a number of other small businesses as part of the exit from discontinued operations, and
established additional provisions totalling £45 million in respect of prior year disposals in these areas, resulting in a net loss after tax of £11 million
before the net release of tax provisions of £79 million. These provisions were released following the settlement of a number of long-standing issues
connected with prior year discontinued activities. The total net profit after tax arising on disposal of these operations was £68 million.
Overall an exceptional net credit of £197 million was recognised in the period.
Year ended 30 September 2006: 
A £44 million exceptional tax credit arose in respect of previously unrecognised tax losses and tax deductions in respect of pension prepayments 
in the UK tax group that originated in previous years.
£39 million was charged to complete investigations and to settle lawsuits for lost profits brought by two competitors of the Group, ES-KO
International Inc and Supreme Foodservice AG in relation to contracts awarded to Eurest Support Services by the United Nations.
£8 million was provided to settle claims arising in respect of the discontinued Middle East military catering operations.
A profit of £20 million (net of cumulative translation exchange losses and tax) was recognised in respect of the disposal of the Group’s Inflight
catering services business on 19 December 2005 and its travel concessions catering business (‘SSP’) on 15 June 2006.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 59 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
8 Earnings per share
The calculation of earnings per share is based on earnings after tax and the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period. 
The adjusted earnings per share figures have been calculated based on earnings excluding the effect of discontinued activities and exceptional
items; these are disclosed to show the underlying trading performance of the Group.
2007 2006
Attributable Attributable
proﬁt proﬁt
Attributable profit £m £m
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 515 285
Less: profit for the year from discontinued operations (212) (33)
Attributable profit for the year from continuing operations 303 252
Less: profit from exceptional items included in continuing operations (net of tax) – (44)
Attributable profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items 303 208
Add back: loss/(profit) from hedge accounting ineffectiveness (net of tax) 4 (7)
Underlying attributable profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items 307 201
2007 2006
Ordinary Ordinary
shares of shares of
10p each 10p each
Average number of shares (millions of ordinary shares of 10p each) millions millions
Average number of shares for basic earnings per share 2,015 2,147
Dilutive share options 11 3
Average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 2,026 2,150
2007 2006
Earnings Earnings
per share per share
pence pence
Basic earnings per share (pence)
From continuing and discontinued operations 25.6 13.3
From discontinued operations (10.6) (1.6)
From continuing operations 15.0 11.7
Exceptional items included in continuing operations (net of tax) – (2.0)
From continuing operations before exceptional items 15.0 9.7
Hedge accounting ineffectiveness (net of tax) 0.2 (0.3)
From underlying continuing operations before exceptional items 15.2 9.4
Diluted earnings per share (pence)
From continuing and discontinued operations 25.4 13.3
From discontinued operations (10.4) (1.6)
From continuing operations 15.0 11.7
Exceptional items included in continuing operations (net of tax) – (2.0)
From continuing operations before exceptional items 15.0 9.7
Hedge accounting ineffectiveness (net of tax) 0.2 (0.4)
From underlying continuing operations before exceptional items 15.2 9.3
9 Dividends
A final dividend in respect of 2007 of 7.2 pence per share, £139 million in aggregate
1
, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 
8 February 2008 giving a total dividend in respect of 2007 of 10.8 pence per share (2006: 10.1 pence per share). These financial statements 
do not include an accrual for this final dividend.
2007 2006
Dividends Dividends
per share per share
Dividends on ordinary shares of 10p each pence £m pence £m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders during the year:
Final dividend for the prior year 6.7p 136 6.5p 140
Interim dividend for the current year 3.6p 72 3.4p 73
Total dividends 10.3p 208 9.9p 213
1. Based on the number of shares in issue at 30 September 2007. 60 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
10 Goodwill
During the year the Group acquired the remaining 5% of its Italian subsidiary Onama S.p.A. It also made a number of small acquisitions in
North America and the Rest of the World. This is reflected in the £12 million addition to goodwill shown below .
Goodwill £m
Cost
At 1 October 2005 4,327
Additions arising from acquisitions 152
Reclassified (6)
Business disposals – discontinued activities (849)
Currency adjustment (66)
At 30 September 2006 3,558
At 1 October 2006 3,558
Additions arising from acquisitions 12
Reclassified –
Business disposals – discontinued activities (413)
Currency adjustment (65)
At 30 September 2007 3,092
Impairment
At 1 October 2005 107
Impairment charge recognised in the year –
At 30 September 2006 107
At 1 October 2006 107
Impairment charge recognised in the year –
At 30 September 2007 107
Net book amounts
At 30 September 2006 3,451
At 30 September 2007 2,985
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the cash generating units (‘CGUs’) that are expected to benefit from that
business combination. A summary of goodwill allocation by business segment is shown below . 
2006
After
2007 Original Transfers Disposals disposals
Goodwill by business segment £m £m £m £m £m
USA 757 825 – – 825
Rest of North America 87 83–– 83
Total North America 844 908 – – 908
Continental Europe 161 500 2 (352) 150
United Kingdom 1,733 1,798 – (65) 1,733
Rest of the World 247 245 (2) – 243
Continuing Business 2,985 3,451 – (417) 3,034
Discontinued Business – – – 417 417
Total 2,985 3,451 – – 3,451
Russia and Turkey were transferred from the Rest of the World to the Continental Europe segment during the current reporting period to ensure alignment with the new management reporting structure. 
The transfers column adjusts prior year goodwill so that it is on a consistent basis. 
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable
amount of a CGU has been determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for these calculations are long-term growth rates 
and pre-tax discount rates and use cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets and forecasts approved by management
covering a five-year period. Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using estimated growth rates based on local expected
economic conditions and do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for that country . The pre-tax discount rates are based on the Group’s
weighted average cost of capital adjusted for specific risks relating to the country in which the CGU operates. 
Residual Pre-tax
Growth and discount rates growth rates discount rates
USA 2.8% 12.2%
Rest of North America 2.2% 10.4%
Continental Europe 0.6-2.7% 7.0-10.7%
United Kingdom 2.5% 9.8%
Rest of the World (0.3)-9.0% 6.5-17.6%
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 61 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
11 Other intangible assets
Contract Computer
related software Total
Other intangible assets £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 October 2005 81 173 254
Additions 16 15 31
Disposals (3) – (3)
Business acquisitions (1) – (1)
Business disposals – discontinued activities (3) (20) (23)
Reclassified 10 – 10
Currency adjustment (6) (3) (9)
At 30 September 2006 94 165 259
At 1 October 2006 94 165 259
Additions 16 5 21
Disposals (10) (22) (32)
Business acquisitions 1–1
Business disposals – discontinued activities (3) (1) (4)
Reclassified 12 2 14
Currency adjustment (3) (2) (5)
At 30 September 2007 107 147 254
Amortisation
At 1 October 2005 23 63 86
Charge for the year 13 25 38
Disposals (1) – (1)
Business disposals – discontinued activities – (13) (13)
Reclassified –––
Currency adjustment (2) (1) (3)
At 30 September 2006 33 74 107
At 1 October 2006 33 74 107
Charge for the year 14 17 31
Disposals (8) (21) (29)
Business disposals – discontinued activities (3) (1) (4)
Reclassified 8–8
Currency adjustment (1) – (1)
At 30 September 2007 43 69 112
Net book amounts
At 30 September 2006 61 91 152
At 30 September 2007 64 78 142
Contract-related intangible assets result from payments made by the Group in respect of client contracts and generally arise where it is economically more efﬁcient for a client to purchase assets used in the
performance of the contract and the Group fund these purchases. 62 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
12 Property, plant and equipment
Land and Plant and Fixtures and
buildings machinery ﬁttings Total
Property , plant and equipment £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 October 2005 973 1,346 768 3,087
Additions 22 193 69 284
Disposals (19) (75) (77) (171)
Business acquisitions ––44
Business disposals – discontinued activities (679) (328) (283) (1,290)
Reclassified 15 (59) 28 (16)
Currency adjustment (19) (41) (12) (72)
At 30 September 2006 293 1,036 497 1,826
At 1 October 2006 293 1,036 497 1,826
Additions 18 144 43 205
Disposals (46) (121) (63) (230)
Business acquisitions ––––
Business disposals – discontinued activities (16) (318) (58) (392)
Reclassified (32) 46 (17) (3)
Currency adjustment (7) (30) 1 (36)
At 30 September 2007 210 757 403 1,370
Depreciation
At 1 October 2005 220 800 410 1,430
Charge for the year 24 152 67 243
Disposals (9) (75) (52) (136)
Business disposals – discontinued activities (112) (171) (127) (410)
Reclassified (3) (7) (6) (16)
Currency adjustment (8) (26) (7) (41)
At 30 September 2006 112 673 285 1,070
At 1 October 2006 112 673 285 1,070
Charge for the year 14 110 46 170
Disposals (27) (107) (52) (186)
Business disposals – discontinued activities (7) (197) (42) (246)
Reclassified 4 (4) 3 3
Currency adjustment 1 (20) 2 (17)
At 30 September 2007 97 455 242 794
Net book amounts
At 30 September 2006 181 363 212 756
At 30 September 2007 113 302 161 576
The net book amount of the Group’s property , plant and equipment includes assets held under finance leases as follows:
Land and Plant and Fixtures and
buildings machinery ﬁttings Total
Property , plant and equipment held under finance leases £m £m £m £m
At 30 September 2006 539 6 50
At 30 September 2007 241 2 45
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 63 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
13 Interests in associates
During the year the Group sold half of its 25% interest in its former associate Au Bon Pain leaving it with a 12.5% shareholding. This shareholding
is now accounted for as an investment (note 14).
Principal associates Country of incorporation
Twickenham Experience Ltd England & Wales
Oval Events Limited England & Wales
Thompson Hospitality Services LLC USA
2007 2006
Interests in associates £m £m
Net book value
At 1 October 39 45
Additions – –
Business disposals – discontinued activities – (5)
Business disposals – other activities (7) –
Share of profits less losses (net of tax) 4 2
Dividends received (6) (2)
Reclassified to investments (note 14) (6) –
Currency and other adjustments 1 (1)
At 30 September 25 39
The Group’s share of revenues and profits (including those from Au Bon Pain up to the date the Group reduced its shareholding to 12.5%) 
is included below:
2007 2006
Associates £m £m
Share of revenue and profits
Revenue 37 50
Expenses (33) (48)
Profit after tax for the year 4 2
Share of net assets
Goodwill 19 25
Other 6 14
Net assets 25 39
Share of contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities – –
14 Other investments
2007 2006
Other investments £m £m
Net book value
At 1 October 9 6
Additions 2 2
Business disposals – discontinued activities – (2)
Business disposals – other activities (4) –
Reclassified from interests in associates (note 13) 6 –
Currency and other adjustments (1) 3
At 30 September 12 9
Comprised of
Debenture and other holdings in sports and leisure venues 1 4
Investment in Au Bon Pain 6 –
Other investments 5 5
Total 12 9 64 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
15 Joint ventures
During the year the Group’s joint venture partner in Turkey exercised an option to acquire 4% of the share capital of Sofra Y emek Üretim V e
Hizmet AS, reducing the Group’s holding to 50%. This did not affect the treatment of Sofra which was accounted for as a joint venture in the
prior year as the partners worked with equal powers to control the entity .
Principal joint ventures Country of incorporation % ownership
GR SA Brazil 50
Quadrant Catering Ltd England & Wales 49
Radhakrishna Hospitality Services Ltd India 50
Sofra Y emek Üretim V e Hizmet AS Turkey 50
ADNH-Compass Middle East LLC United Arab Emirates 50
None of these investments is held directly by the ultimate parent company . All joint ventures provide foodservice in their countries of incorporation
and make their accounts up to 30 September.
The share of the revenue, profits, assets and liabilities of the joint ventures which are included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows:
2007 2006
Joint ventures £m £m
Share of revenue and profits
Revenue 318 282
Expenses (291) (266)
Profit after tax for the year 27 16
Share of net assets
Non-current assets 34 40
Current assets 66 72
Non-current liabilities (6) (10)
Current liabilities (56) (51)
Net assets 38 51
Share of contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities 10 3
16 Trade and other receivables
2007 2006
Current Non-current Current Non-current
Trade and other receivables £m £m £m £m
Trade receivables 1,196 4 1,212 4
Less: provision for the impairment of receivables (47) – (41) –
Net trade receivables 1,149 4 1,171 4
Amounts owed by associates 51 –1
Other receivables 63 54 151 100
Prepayments and accrued income 126 7 102 12
Trade and other receivables 1,343 66 1,424 117
The book value of net trade receivables approximates to their fair value due to the short-term nature of the receivables. There is limited
concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables due to the diverse and unrelated nature of the Group’s customer base. The year 
on year change in provision for the impairment of receivables is largely explained by the deconsolidation of the discontinued businesses.
Trade receivable days for the continuing business at 30 September 2007 were 50 days (2006: 51 days for the continuing business). 
17 Inventories
2007 2006
Inventories £m £m
Food and beverage inventories 135 154
Other inventories 44 58
Inventories 179 212
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 65 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
18 Cash and cash equivalents
2007 2006
Cash and cash equivalents £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 140 153
Short-term bank deposits 699 695
Cash and cash equivalents 839 848
2007 2006
Cash and cash equivalents by currency £m £m
Sterling 685 741
US Dollar 45 20
Euro 35 53
Japanese Y en 5 3
Other 69 31
Cash and cash equivalents 839 848
19 Short-term and long-term borrowings
2007 2006
Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total
Short-term and long-term borrowings £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts 118 – 118 56 – 56
Bank loans 19 17 36 15 22 37
Loan notes – 380 380 33 421 454
Bonds – 1,019 1,019 – 1,350 1,350
Borrowings (excluding finance leases) 137 1,416 1,553 104 1,793 1,897
Finance leases 14 36 50 15 42 57
Borrowings (including finance leases) 151 1,452 1,603 119 1,835 1,954
Bank overdrafts principally arise as a result of uncleared transactions. Interest on bank overdrafts is at the relevant money market rates. 
All amounts due under bonds, loan notes and bank facilities are shown net of unamortised issue costs. Bonds are unsecured and are comprised 
as follows:
Bonds Nominal value Redeemable Interest
Euro Eurobond a300m 2009 6.0%
Sterling Eurobond £200m 2010 7.125%
Sterling Eurobond £325m 2012 6.375%
Sterling Eurobond £250m 2014 7.0%
The bond redeemable in 2014 is recorded at its fair value to the Group on acquisition.
The Group has fixed term, fixed interest private placements totalling US$769 million (£377 million) at interest rates between 5.11% and 7.955%. 
US$15 million (£7 million) is repayable in 5 to 10 years. The carrying value of these loan notes is £380m.
2007 2006
Maturity profile of borrowings (excluding finance leases) £m £m
Within 1 year, or on demand 137 104
Between 1 and 2 years 292 7
Between 2 and 3 years 224 606
Between 3 and 4 years 63 228
Between 4 and 5 years 550 72
In more than 5 years 287 880
Borrowings (excluding finance leases) 1,553 1,897 66 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
19 Short-term and long-term borrowings continued
2007 2006
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
Carrying value/fair value of borrowings (excluding finance leases) £m £m £m £m
r300m/r750m Eurobond 2009
1
212 214 519 531
£200m Eurobond 2010 201 204 204 208
£325m Eurobond 2012 328 324 339 333
£250m Eurobond 2014 278 258 288 266
US private placements 380 392 448 478
Other loan notes –– 66
Bank loans 36 37 37 36
Overdrafts 118 118 56 56
Borrowings (excluding finance leases) 1,553 1,547 1,897 1,914
1. m450m of Eurobonds due in 2009 were repurchased during the current year leaving m300m outstanding.
2007 2006
Present Present
Gross value Gross value
Present value of finance lease liabilities £m £m £m £m
Finance lease payments falling due:
Within 1 year 16 14 18 15
In 2 to 5 years 32 28 35 33
In more than 5 years 98 11 9
57 50 64 57
Less: future finance charges (7) – (7) –
Present value of finance lease liabilities 50 50 57 57
2007 2006
Finance Finance
Borrowings leases Total Borrowings leases Total
Borrowings by currency £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling 831 1 832 849 3 852
US Dollar 452 24 476 481 25 506
Euro 237 21 258 525 22 547
Japanese Y en 16 – 16 22 1 23
Other 17 4 21 20 6 26
Total 1,553 50 1,603 1,897 57 1,954
The Group had the following undrawn committed facilities available at 30 September 2007, in respect of which all conditions precedent had then
been met:
2007 2006
Undrawn committed facilities £m £m
Expiring between 2 and 5 years 630 960
20 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
Financial management
The Group continues to manage its interest rate and foreign currency exposure in accordance with the policies set out below .
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash, borrowings, receivables and payables that are used to finance the Group’s operations. 
The Group also uses derivatives, principally interest rate and cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts, to manage interest rate 
and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations. The Group does not trade in financial instruments. The Group’s treasury policies are
designed to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates and to manage the Group’s financial risks. The Board
approves any changes to the policies.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 67 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
20 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The Group finances its borrowings from a number of sources including the bank and public and US private placement markets. 
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s policy is to match its principal projected cash flows by currency to actual or effective borrowings in the same currency . As currency
earnings are generated, they are used to service and repay debt in the same currency . Where necessary , to implement this policy , forward foreign
exchange contracts and cross currency swaps are taken out which, when applied to the actual currency liabilities, convert these to an effective 
amount borrowed by currency .
The borrowings in each currency give rise to foreign exchange differences on translation into Sterling. As the borrowings are either less than, 
or equate to, the net investment in overseas operations, these exchange rate movements are treated as movements on reserves and recorded in 
the statement of recognised income and expense rather than in the income statement.
Non-Sterling earnings streams are translated at the average rate of exchange for the year. Fluctuations in exchange rates have given and will
continue to give rise to translation differences.
Interest rate risk
As detailed above, the Group has effective borrowings in a number of currencies and its policy is to ensure that, in the short-term, it is not materially
exposed to fluctuations in interest rates in its principal currencies. The Group implements this policy either by borrowing fixed rate debt or by using
interest rate swaps so that at least 80% of the Group’s projected net debt is fixed for one year, reducing to 60% fixed for the second year and 40%
fixed for the third year.
Hedging activities
Fair value hedges
The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value of fixed rate borrowings. These instruments swap the fixed interest payable on the
borrowings into floating interest rates and hedge the fair value of the borrowings against changes in interest rates.
Cash ﬂow hedges
The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge the cash flows from floating rate borrowings. These instruments swap floating interest payable on
these borrowings into fixed interest rates and hedge against cash flow changes caused by changing interest rates. The cash flows and income
statement impact hedged in this manner will occur between one and three years of the balance sheet date. 
Net investment hedge
The Group uses foreign currency denominated debt, forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency swaps to hedge against the change in
Sterling value of its foreign currency denominated net assets due to movements in foreign exchange rates.
Derivatives not in a hedging relationship
The Group has a number of derivative financial instruments that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting. These include interest rate swaps,
forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency swaps.
All derivative financial instruments are shown at fair value in the balance sheet. The fair values have been determined by reference to prices
available from the markets on which the instruments are traded. All other fair values shown above have been calculated by discounting cash flows
at prevailing interest rates.
2007 2006
Current Non-current Current Non-current Current Non-current Current Non-current
assets assets liabilities liabilities assets assets liabilities liabilities
Derivative financial instruments £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest rate swaps:
Fair value hedges – 13 – (15) – 22 – (18)
Cash flow hedges –––– ––––
Not in a hedging relationship 2––– 9 – (1) –
Cross currency swap:
Not in a hedging relationship –––– – – (1) –
Total 2 13 – (15) 9 22 (2) (18) 68 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
20 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
2007 2006
Fair value Cash ﬂow Fair value Cash ﬂow
swaps swaps swaps swaps
Notional amount of derivative financial instruments by currency £m £m £m £m
Sterling 775 30 775 –
US Dollar 173 245 236 375
Euro 52 35 339 156
Japanese Y en 16 77 21 68
Other – 128 – 223
Total 1,016 515 1,371 822
2007 2006
Forwards Forwards
and cross Effective and cross Effective
Gross currency currency of Gross currency currency of
Effective currency denomination of borrowings
borrowings swaps borrowings borrowings swaps borrowings
after the effect of derivatives £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling 837 (318) 519 851 (526) 325
US Dollar 476 247 723 506 375 881
Euro 258 (98) 160 547 (205) 342
Japanese Y en 16 59 75 23 58 81
Other 21 105 126 26 299 325
Total 1,608 (5) 1,603 1,953 1 1,954
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Between 3 Between 4 Over
1 year and 2 years and 3 years and 4 years and 5 years 5 years T otal
Gross debt maturity analysis £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
30 September 2007
Fixed interest:
r300m Eurobond 2009 – 211–––– 211
£200m Eurobond 2010 –– 200––– 200
£325m Eurobond 2012 –––– 324 – 324
£250m Eurobond 2014 ––––– 250 250
US private placements –721859 220 7 376
Bank loans 4444–– 16
Total fixed interest 4 287 222 63 544 257 1,377
Cash flow swaps (fixed leg) 316 199–––– 515
Fair value swaps (fixed leg) (4) (131) (454) (4) (423) – (1,016)
Fixed interest (asset)/liability 316 355 (232) 59 121 257 876
Floating interest:
Bank loans 2031– (1) 2 25
Overdrafts 118––––– 118
Other loans –––––––
Total floating interest 13831– (1) 2 143
Cash flow swaps (floating leg) (316) (199) –––– (515)
Fair value swaps (floating leg) 4 131 454 4 423 – 1,016
Floating interest (asset)/liability (174) (65) 455 4 422 2 644
Other:
Finance lease obligations 14 119538 50
Fair value adjustments to borrowings – (2) (2) – (9) 25 12
Swap monetisation –43– 16 3 26
Foreign currency and cross currency swaps (5) ––––– (5)
Other (asset)/liability 9 13 10 5 10 36 83
Gross debt excluding derivatives 151 303 233 68 553 295 1,603
Derivative financial instruments:
Derivative financial instruments (2) 3 (12) – 11 – –
Gross debt 149 306 221 68 564 295 1,603
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 69 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
20 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments continued
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Between 3 Between 4
1 year and 2 years and 3 years and 4 years and 5 years Over 5 years T otal
Gross debt maturity analysis £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
30 September 2006
Fixed interest:
r750m Eurobond 2009 – – 509––– 509
£200m Eurobond 2010 – – – 201 – – 201
£325m Eurobond 2012 ––––– 325 325
£250m Eurobond 2014 ––––– 250 250
US private placements 27 – 81 19 68 247 442
Bank loans 54444– 21
Total fixed interest 32 4 594 224 72 822 1,748
Cash flow swaps (fixed leg) 535 287–––– 822
Fair value swaps (fixed leg) (52) (4) (424) (454) (5) (432) (1,371)
Fixed interest (asset)/liability 515 287 170 (230) 67 390 1,199
Floating interest:
Bank loans 113–––2 16
Overdrafts 56––––– 56
Other loans 6–––––6
Total floating interest 733–––2 78
Cash flow swaps (floating leg) (535) (287) –––– (822)
Fair value swaps (floating leg) 52 4 424 454 5 432 1,371
Floating interest (asset)/liability (410) (280) 424 454 5 434 627
Other:
Finance lease obligations 15 14 10639 57
Fair value adjustments to borrowings – – (10) – – 29 19
Swap monetisation – – 22 4 – 25 51
Foreign currency and cross currency swaps (1) ––––21
Other (asset)/liability 14 14 22 10 3 65 128
Gross debt excluding derivatives 119 21 616 234 75 889 1,954
Derivative financial instruments:
Derivative financial instruments (7) – 11 (18) – 3 (11)
Gross debt 112 21 627 216 75 892 1,943
21 Trade and other payables
2007 2006
Current Non-current Current Non-current
Trade and other payables £m £m £m £m
Trade payables 660 4 777 4
Amounts owed to associates –– ––
Social security and other taxes 190 – 176 –
Other payables 169 18 210 28
Deferred consideration on acquisitions 33 20 3
Liability on put options held by minority equity partners –8 98
Accruals and deferred income 811 3 798 3
Trade and other payables 1,833 36 1,990 46
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value. 
Trade payable days for the continuing business at 30 September 2007 were 48 days (2006: 48 days for the continuing business). 22 Provisions
Provisions in
respect of
disposed Onerous Legal and
Insurance businesses contracts other claims Environmental T otal
Provisions £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2005 59 – 24 59 11 153
Reclassified 67–14(10)(1)70
Expenditure in the year (40) (1) (1) (5) – (47)
Charged to income statement 45 1098–– 162
Credited to income statement – – (1) (5) – (6)
Transferred to post-employment benefit obligations (20) –––– (20)
Currency adjustment (4) – – (1) – (5)
At 30 September 2006 107 108 44 38 10 307
At 1 October 2006 107 108 44 38 10 307
Reclassified ––34 (4) 3
Expenditure in the year (7) (14) (6) – (1) (28)
Charged to income statement 19 108 5 30 3 165
Credited to income statement – (2) – – – (2)
Transferred to post-employment benefit obligations ––––––
Currency adjustment (7) – – (1) – (8)
At 30 September 2007 112 200 46 71 8 437
2007 2006
Provisions £m £m
Non-current 351 242
Current 86 65
Total provisions 437 307
Insurance relates to the costs of self-funded insurance schemes and is essentially long term in nature. 
Provisions in respect of discontinued and disposed businesses relate to estimated amounts payable in connection with onerous contracts and claims
arising from disposals. The final amount payable remains uncertain as, at the date of approval of these financial statements, there remains a
further period during which claims may be received. The timing of any settlement will depend upon the nature and extent of claims received. 
Onerous contracts represent the liabilities in respect of short-term and long-term leases on unoccupied properties and other contracts lasting
under five years. 
Legal and other claims relate principally to provisions for the estimated cost of litigation and sundry other claims. The timing of the settlement 
of these claims is uncertain.
Environmental provisions are in respect of potential liabilities relating to the Group’s responsibility for maintaining its operating sites in accordance
with statutory requirements and the Group’s aim to have a low impact on the environment. These provisions are expected to be utilised as
operating sites are disposed of or as environmental matters are resolved.
23 Post-employment beneﬁt obligations
Pension schemes operated
The Group operates a number of pension arrangements throughout the world which have been developed in accordance with statutory
requirements and local customs and practices. The majority of schemes are self administered and the schemes’ assets are held independently of
the Group’s finances. Pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified actuaries. The Group makes
employer contributions to the various schemes in existence within the range of 6% to 30% of pensionable salaries.
The contributions payable for defined contribution schemes of £36 million (2006: £33 million) have been fully expensed against profits in the
current year.
UK schemes
Within the UK there are three main arrangements:
(i) Compass Group Pension Plan, ‘the Plan’
(ii) Compass Pension Scheme, ‘the Scheme’
(iii) Compass Retirement Income Savings Plan, ‘CRISP’
70 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 23 Post-employment beneﬁt obligations continued
CRISP was launched on 1 February 2003. This is the main vehicle for pension provision for new joiners in the UK but existing members of the
Plan and the Scheme will continue to accrue benefits under those arrangements. CRISP is a contracted-in money purchase arrangement whereby
the Group will match employee contributions up to 6% of pay (minimum 3%). Within CRISP there has been a new defined contribution section
established from April 2006 known as the Compass Higher Income Plan, ‘CHIP’. Senior employees who contribute to CRISP or to the Plan or
Scheme will receive an additional employer-only contribution into CHIP . The amount of contribution and eligibility for CHIP are decided
annually at the Company's discretion. The payment towards CHIP may be taken as a cash supplement instead of a pension contribution.
The Plan and the Scheme are defined benefit arrangements that are closed to new entrants other than for transfers under public sector contracts
where the Group is obliged to provide final salary benefits to transferring employees. Such transferees enter into special sections of the Plan, known
collectively as ‘the GAD sections’, which have been certified by the Government Actuary’s Department as ‘broadly comparable’ to the relevant
public sector scheme. After a thorough review by the Group, the pensions accruing under the Plan and Scheme for service accruing after 6 April
2006 (other than for the protected members in the GAD sections) were reduced so that all members now accrue benefits on an 80ths of final
pensionable salary basis. In addition the link between pensionable pay and salary was removed so that pensionable pay from 6 April 2006 will 
only increase in line with salary up to a maximum of 5% per annum or the increase in the Retail Price Index if lower. This change, together with
additional funding (including a lump sum of £280 million in 2005/06 and a further £45 million in 2006/07 from the proceeds of the Selecta
disposal) and a reduction in the risk profile of investments means that the Group has taken action to substantially reduce the funding deficits in the
UK over the last two years. 
The Plan and the Scheme are operated on a prefunded basis. The funding policy is to contribute such variable amounts, on the advice of the
Actuary , as achieves a 100% funding level on a projected salary basis. The actuarial assessments covering expense and contributions are carried 
out by independent qualified actuaries. Formal actuarial valuations of the Plan and the Scheme are carried out every three years. The most recent
valuations were as at 5 April 2004. The valuation due as at 5 April 2007 is under way and at an advanced stage, but the final results were not
available at the time of the completion of this report. However, a significant improvement in the funding positions is expected, even allowing for
the updated mortality assumptions. The Plan and the Scheme are reappraised annually by independent actuaries in accordance with IAS 19
requirements.
CRISP has a corporate trustee. The Chairman, Tony Allen, is independent. The other five trustee directors are UK-based employees or former
employees of the Group, four of whom have been member-nominated. The Plan has a corporate trustee with two independent directors, including
the Chairman, Peter Morriss. The other eight trustee directors are UK-based employees or former employees of the Group, four of whom have
been member-nominated. The Scheme is a closed defined benefit arrangement and also has a corporate trustee. The Chairman, David Bishop, 
is independent. The remaining seven trustee directors are UK-based employees or former employees of the Group, three of whom have been
member-nominated.
Overseas schemes
In the USA, the main plan is a defined benefit plan. The funding policy , in accordance with government guidelines, is to contribute such variable
amounts, on the advice of the actuary , as achieves a 100% funding level on a projected salary basis. In the Netherlands the Group operated insured
defined benefit pension plans where the Group contributions represent the insurance companies’ assessment of the annual cost of the benefits
earned in that year. During the year the arrangements in the Netherlands have been closed and replaced with defined contribution arrangements.
The accrued liabilities arising from the defined benefit plans were transferred to the respective insurance companies. In Canada, Norway and
Switzerland the Group also participates in funded defined benefit arrangements.
In other countries Group employees participate primarily in state arrangements to which the Group makes the appropriate contributions.
The defined benefit schemes are closed to new entrants. For these schemes the current service cost will increase under the projected unit credit
method as the members of the schemes approach retirement.
Disclosures showing the assets and liabilities of the schemes are set out below . These have been calculated on the following assumptions:
UK schemes USA schemes Other schemes
At 30 At 30 At 30 At 30 At 30 At 30 At 30 At 30 At 30
September September September September September September September September September
Assumptions 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005
Rate of increase in salaries 3.2%/4.2%
1
2.8%/3.3%
1
3.2% 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 2.9% 2.7% 2.6%
Rate of increase for pensions 
in payment 3.2%/3.5%
1
2.8% 3.0% 2.2% 2.5% 2.4% 0.9% 0.7% 0.8%
Rate of increase for deferred pensions 3.2% 2.8%/3.0%
1
2.7% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.6% 0.7% 0.8%
Discount rate 5.8% 5.0% 5.0% 6.1% 5.8% 5.5% 4.9% 3.9% 3.8%
Inflation assumption 3.2% 2.8% 2.7% 2.2% 2.5% 2.4% 2.1% 1.8% 1.8%
1. Varies according to the beneﬁt structure.
71 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 72 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
23 Post-employment beneﬁt obligations continued
The mortality tables used in the actuarial valuation imply life expectancy at age 65 in years for typical members as follows:
UK schemes Male non-pensioner Male pensioner Female non-pensioner Female pensioner
At 30 September 2007 21.8 years 20.5 years 24.7 years 23.5 years
At 30 September 2006 20.9 years 19.7 years 23.7 years 22.6 years
USA schemes Male Female
At 30 September 2007 18.1 years 20.4 years
At 30 September 2006 18.1 years 20.4 years
UK schemes USA schemes Other schemes
Expected Expected Expected Total
30 September 2007 return £m return £m return £m £m
Equity instruments 8.0% 383 8.8% 46 6.6% 25 454
Debt instruments 5.3% 838 5.9% 19 4.7% 33 890
Other 6.0% 69 3.8% 4 5.2% 25 98
Total plan assets 6.1% 1,290 7.7% 69 5.7% 83 1,442
Present value of funded obligations (1,199) (81) (98) (1,378)
Present value of unfunded obligations (29) (48) (57) (134)
Surplus not recognised in accordance with IFRIC 14 (91) – (1) (92)
Liability in the balance sheet (29) (60) (73) (162)
UK schemes USA schemes Other schemes
Expected Expected Expected Total
30 September 2006 return £m return £m return £m £m
Equity instruments 7.7% 401 8.7% 47 6.4% 45 493
Debt instruments 4.7% 764 5.6% 20 3.5% 81 865
Other 4.5% 9 4.4% 1 4.1% 40 50
Total plan assets 5.7% 1,174 7.8% 68 4.5% 166 1,408
Present value of funded obligations (1,241) (91) (187) (1,519)
Present value of unfunded obligations (28) (64) (79) (171)
Liability in the balance sheet (95) (87) (100) (282)
UK schemes USA schemes Other schemes
Expected Expected Expected Total
30 September 2005 return £m return £m return £m £m
Equity instruments 7.5% 489 8.3% 53 6.2% 44 586
Debt instruments 4.5% 305 5.0% 17 3.4% 65 387
Other 4.0% 18 3.9% 1 3.0% 48 67
Total plan assets 6.3% 812 7.4% 71 4.0% 157 1,040
Present value of funded obligations (1,155) (96) (176) (1,427)
Present value of unfunded obligations (24) (70) (74) (168)
Liability in the balance sheet (367) (95) (93) (555)
The expected rates of return on individual categories of plan assets are determined after taking advice from external experts and using available
market data, for example, by reference to relevant equity and bond indices published by Stock Exchanges. The overall rate of return is calculated
by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the respective investment portfolio of each plan.
2007 2006
T otal pension costs/(credits) 
UK USA Other Total UK USA Other Total
recognised in the income statement £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current service cost 12 31227 19 31638
Past service credit – (1) – (1) – (2) – (2)
Curtailment credit – – (6) (6) (6) (6) – (12)
Charged/(credited) to operating expenses 1226 20 13 (5) 16 24
Amount charged to plan liabilities 6488 80 5998 76
Expected return on plan assets (67) (5) (6) (78) (54) (5) (6) (65)
(Credited)/charged to finance costs (3) 3 2 2 542 11
Total pension costs/(credits) 958 22 18 (1) 18 35
The total pension costs/(credits) shown above relate to both the continuing and discontinued business.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 23 Post-employment beneﬁt obligations continued
2007 2006
Fair value of pension plan assets 
UK USA Other Total UK USA Other Total
recognised in the balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 1,174 68 166 1,408 812 71 157 1,040
Currency adjustment – (6) 1 (5) – (4) (8) (12)
Expected return on plan assets 6756 78 5456 65
Actuarial gain
*
1453 22 27 –1239
Employee contributions 4–48 5–49
Employer contributions 68 17 25 110 314 5 10 329
Asset transfer from Granada scheme –––– 3––3
Benefits paid (47) (20) (13) (80) (41) (9) (6) (56)
Merger of V endepac Scheme into the UK Scheme 10 – (10) – ––––
Disposals & plan settlements – – (99) (99) – – (9) (9)
At 30 September 1,290 69 83 1,442 1,174 68 166 1,408
2007 2006
Present value of defined benefit 
UK USA Other Total UK USA Other Total
obligations recognised in the balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 1,269 155 266 1,690 1,179 166 250 1,595
Currency adjustment – (11) 2 (9) – (9) (9) (18)
Current service cost 12 31227 19 31638
Past service credit – (1) – (1) – (2) – (2)
Curtailment credit – – (6) (6) (6) (6) – (12)
Amount charged to plan liabilities 6488 80 5998 76
Actuarial (gain)/loss
*
(84) (5) (19) (108) 55 51676
Employee contributions 4–48 5–49
Benefits paid (47) (20) (13) (80) (41) (9) (6) (56)
Benefits paid by the Group –––– (1) – (6) (7)
Merger of V endepac Scheme into the UK Scheme 10 – (10) – ––––
Disposals and plan settlements – – (103) (103) – – (23) (23)
Other balance sheet transfers – – 14 14 – – 20 20
Reclassified –––– – (2) (4) (6)
At 30 September 1,228 129 155 1,512 1,269 155 266 1,690
The history of experience adjustments is as follows. In accordance with the transitional provisions for the amendments to IAS 19 ‘Employee
Benefits’ issued on 16 December 2004, the disclosures below are determined prospectively from the 2005 reporting period.
2007 2006 2005
Experience adjustments £m £m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligations 1,512 1,690 1,595
Fair value of plan assets (1,442) (1,408) (1,040)
Surplus not recognised in accordance with IFRIC 14
*
92 ––
Net deficit reported 162 282 555
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities – (loss) (15) (14) (8)
Experience adjustments on plan assets – gain 22 39 75
* The actuarial gain/loss reported in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense is the sum of the items marked with an asterisk.
The Group made total contributions of £110 million in the year (2006: £329 million) including special contributions of disposal proceeds 
to pension plans of £45 million (2006: £280 million) and expects to make regular ongoing contributions of £38 million in 2008.
The expected return on plan assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the period. The actual return on assets was £100 million
(2006: £104 million).
The cumulative actuarial loss recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense was £156 million (2006: £194 million). An actuarial
gain of £38 million (2006: actuarial loss £37 million) was recognised during the year.
The deficit would have reduced to £70 million if the full surplus on certain schemes had been fully recognised. IFRIC 14 only permits the
recognition of a pension fund surplus where a company can clearly demonstrate that it can access the surplus through, for example, reduced 
future contributions. The Group has taken the prudent view that it will not be able to access these surpluses, totalling £92 million, in the 
foreseeable future.
73 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 74 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
24 Called up share capital
During the year 4,463,879 options were granted under the Compass Group Management Share Option Plan. All options were granted over the
Company’s ordinary shares and the grant price was equivalent to the market value of the Company’s shares at the date of grant. No options were
granted under any of the Company’s other share option plans.
The Company commenced an on market share buy-back programme following the disposal of Select Service Partner in June 2006. This
programme was extended following the disposal of Selecta in July 2007. During the year, a total of 181,407,434 ordinary shares of 10p each 
were repurchased for a consideration of £575 million and cancelled.
2007 2006
Number of Number of
Authorised and allotted share capital shares £m shares £m
Authorised:
Ordinary shares of 10p each 3,000,010,000 300 3,000,010,000 300
Allotted and fully paid:
Ordinary shares of 10p each 1,926,996,323 193 2,098,723,901 210
2007 2006
Number of Number of
Allotted share capital shares shares
Ordinary shares of 10p each allotted as at 1 October 2,098,723,901 2,155,661,135
Ordinary shares allotted during the year on exercise of share options 9,679,856 743,766
Repurchase of ordinary share capital (181,407,434) (57,681,000)
Ordinary shares of 10p each allotted as at 30 September 1,926,996,323 2,098,723,901
At 30 September 2007, employees held options over a total of 122,169,742 ordinary shares under all of the Group’s share option plans as follows:
Executive and Management Share Option Plans Number of shares Option price per share (pence)
Exercisable:
17 December 2000 – 16 December 2007 141,106 324.91
11 December 2001 – 10 December 2008 166,186 338.27
17 June 2002 – 16 June 2009 69,244 444.76
16 September 2002 – 15 September 2009 4,858,287 312.80
1
29 September 2002 – 28 September 2009 1,325,788 316.10
1
25 November 2002 – 24 November 2009 497,781 391.70
22 December 2002 – 21 December 2009 13,849 431.40
3 February 2003 – 2 February 2010 285,342 394.00
1
13 September 2003 – 12 September 2010 12,497,735 371.60
28 May 2004 – 27 May 2011 430,000 524.50
19 September 2004 – 18 September 2011 9,426,450 430.00
23 May 2005 – 22 May 2012 10,430,150 422.00
30 September 2005 – 29 September 2012 3,580,376 292.50
4 December 2005 – 3 December 2012 1,073,900 313.75
28 May 2006 – 27 May 2013 14,305,550 320.00
3 December 2006 – 2 December 2013 85,500 356.00
3 December 2006 – 2 December 2013 2,053,300 356.00
7 June 2007 – 6 June 2014 1,200,000 333.50
3 August 2007 – 2 August 2014 1,300,000 316.25
3 August 2007 – 2 August 2014 13,260,610 316.25
1 December 2007 – 30 November 2014 3,290,000 229.25
1 December 2007 – 30 November 2014 18,437,823 229.25
14 December 2008 – 13 December 2015 6,867,800 210.00
12 June 2009 – 11 June 2016 215,000 234.50
30 March 2010 – 29 March 2017 4,177,304 335.75
28 September 2010 – 27 September 2017 265,354 310.75
110,254,435
1. Options granted over ordinary shares in Compass Group Holdings PLC (‘CGH’). Under its articles of association, any CGH ordinary shares which are issued on exercise are automatically transferred 
to the Company in consideration of the issue of Compass Group PLC ordinary shares on the basis of 1.835 Compass Group PLC shares for every CGH share. Numbers and prices given are relative to
Compass Group PLC.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 75 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
24 Called up share capital continued
UK and International Sharesave Plans Number of shares Option price per share (pence)
Exercisable:
1 September 2008 – 28 February 2009 89,086 436.00
1 September 2008 – 28 February 2009 1,814
1
436.00
1 September 2007 – 28 February 2010 415,509 336.00
1 September 2007 – 28 February 2008 256,821
1
336.00
1 September 2008 – 28 February 2011 192,961 290.20
1 September 2008 – 28 February 2009 210,085
1
290.20
1 September 2007 – 28 February 2012 623,332 266.80
1 September 2007 – 28 February 2012 815,742
1
266.80
1 September 2007 1,466,372
1
266.80
4 September 2007 48,932
1
266.80
1 September 2008 – 28 February 2013 3,750,761 179.20
1 September 2008 – 28 February 2011 1,327,843
1
179.20
1 September 2008 2,543,830
1
179.20
1 September 2008 172,219
1
179.20
11,915,307
1. Options granted under the international sharesave plan represent appreciation rights over the number of shares shown. In the event of exercise, holders will receive a number of shares calculated by
reference to the increase in the market price at the time of exercise over the option price.
25 Reconciliation of movements in equity
Attributable to equity shareholders of the Company
Share Capital
Share premium redemption Own Other Retained Minority
capital account reserve shares reserves earnings interests Total
Reconciliation of movements in equity £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2005 216 94 9 (1) 4,137 (2,204) 27 2,278
Total recognised income and expense –––– (12) 260 6 254
Issue of shares –2–––––2
Fair value of share-based payments (net) –––– 25–– 25
Share buy-back (6) –6–– (149) – (149)
Transfer on exercise of put options –––– 138 3 (10) 131
Other changes –––1–– (6) (5)
210 96 15 – 4,288 (2,090) 17 2,536
Dividends paid to Compass shareholders (note 9) ––––– (213) – (213)
Dividends paid to minority interests –––––– (11) (11)
At 30 September 2006 210 96 15 – 4,288 (2,303) 6 2,312
At 1 October 2006 210 96 15 – 4,288 (2,303) 6 2,312
Total recognised income and expense ––––1 575 19 595
Issue of shares 1 26––––– 27
Fair value of share-based payments (net) –––– 14–– 14
Share buy-back (18) – 18 – – (575) – (575)
Transfer on exercise of put options ––––9––9
Other changes ––– (1) ––– (1)
193 122 33 (1) 4,312 (2,303) 25 2,381
Dividends paid to Compass shareholders (note 9) ––––– (208) – (208)
Dividends paid to minority interests –––––– (3) (3)
At 30 September 2007 193 122 33 (1) 4,312 (2,511) 22 2,170
Own shares held by the Group represent 271,960 shares in Compass Group PLC (2006: 161,600 shares). 161,012 shares are held by the Compass
Group Employee Share Trust (‘ESOP’) and 110,948 shares by the Compass Group Employee Trust Number 2 (‘CGET2’). These shares are listed
on a recognised stock exchange and their market value at 30 September 2007 was £0.8 million (2006: £0.4 million). The nominal value held at 
30 September 2007 was £27,196 (2006: £16,160).
ESOP and CGET2 are discretionary trusts for the benefit of employees and the shares held are used to satisfy some of the Group’s liabilities to
employees for share options, share bonus and long-term incentive plans. All of the shares held by the ESOP and CGET2 are required to be made
available in this way . 76 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
25 Reconciliation of movements in equity continued
The analysis of other reserves is shown below:
Equity
Share-based adjustment
payment Merger T ranslation Hedging for put T otal other
reserve reserve reserve reserve options reserves
Other reserves £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2005 105 4,170 16 1 (155) 4,137
Total recognised income and expense – – (11) (1) – (12)
Fair value of share-based payments 25–––– 25
Settled in cash or existing shares (purchased in market) ––––––
Transfer on exercise of put options –––– 138 138
At 30 September 2006 130 4,170 5 – (17) 4,288
At 30 September 2006 130 4,170 5 – (17) 4,288
Total recognised income and expense ––1––1
Fair value of share-based payments 25–––– 25
Settled in cash or existing shares (purchased in market) (11) –––– (11)
Transfer on exercise of put options ––––99
At 30 September 2007 144 4,170 6 – (8) 4,312
The merger reserve arose in 2000 following the demerger from Granada Compass plc. The equity adjustment for put options arose on accounting
for the options held by the Group’s minority partners requiring the Group to purchase those minority interests.
26 Share-based payments
Share options
Full details of the Compass Group Share Option Plan (‘Option Plan’), the Management Share Option Plan (‘Management Plan’) and the Savings-
related Share Option Scheme can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report.
The following tables illustrate the number and weighted average exercise prices of, and movements in, share options during the year.
2007 2006
Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 
of share exercise price of share exercise price 
Executive and management schemes options (pence) options (pence)
Outstanding at 1 October 129,018,281 321.25 140,634,118 330.33
Granted 4,463,879 334.26 7,813,300 210.67
Exercised (8,946,120) 283.31 (600,725) 229.09
Forfeited (14,036,513) 350.13 (18,759,168) 346.29
Expired (245,092) 379.22 (69,244) 310.29
Outstanding at 30 September 110,254,435 321.05 129,018,281 321.25
Exercisable at 30 September 62,610,104 364.63 55,215,845 380.21
The balance above includes options over 29,711,766 shares (2006: 36,367,195 shares) that were granted on or before 7 November 2002 and 
had vested by 1 October 2004. These options have not been subsequently modified and therefore do not need to be accounted for in accordance
with IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’.
2007 2006
Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 
of share exercise price of share exercise price 
Employee savings-related schemes – options options (pence) options (pence)
Outstanding at 1 October 8,463,978 236.51 12,191,328 242.24
Granted –– ––
Exercised (639,141) 236.82 (48,937) 179.20
Forfeited (1,741,974) 227.34 (2,797,940) 231.14
Expired (1,011,214) 377.34 (880,473) 336.00
Outstanding at 30 September 5,071,649 211.55 8,463,978 236.51
Exercisable at 30 September 614,111 305.45 1,023,142 376.32
The balance above includes options over 89,086 shares (2006: 744,709 shares) that were granted on or before 7 November 2002 and had vested by
1 October 2004. These options have not been subsequently modified and therefore do not need to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 77 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
26 Share-based payments continued
2007 2006
Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 
of share exercise price of share exercise price 
Employee savings-related schemes – share appreciation rights options (pence) options (pence)
Outstanding at 1 October 9,595,916 220.56 15,140,626 235.29
Granted –– ––
Exercised (56,267) 191.27 (3,354) 179.20
Forfeited (2,613,234) 220.02 (3,545,071) 244.30
Expired (82,757) 436.00 (1,996,285) 290.20
Outstanding at 30 September 6,843,658 218.40 9,595,916 220.56
Exercisable at 30 September 2,196,771 274.89 84,571 436.00
Options granted under the international savings-related schemes represent appreciation rights over the number of shares shown. When exercised,
holders receive a number of shares calculated by reference to the increase in the market price at that time over the option price (as shown in the
table above). Any remaining share appreciation rights are shown in the table above as expired. 
Information relating to all option schemes
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 345.64 pence (2006: 263.80 pence).
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 5.5 years (2006: 6.4 years) for executive 
and management schemes and 1.5 years (2006: 2.5 years) for employee schemes.
For 2007, options were granted on 30 March 2007 and 28 September 2007. The estimated fair value of options granted on those dates was 
90.97 pence and 62.10 pence respectively . For 2006, options were granted on 14 December 2005 and 12 June 2006. The estimated average fair 
value of these options was 41.97 pence and 45.88 pence respectively .
Fair values for the executive and management schemes were calculated using a binomial distribution option pricing model so that proper allowance
is made for the presence of performance conditions and the possibility of early exercise. In addition, a Monte Carlo simulation model was used to
estimate the probability of performance conditions being met. Fair values for options granted under employee savings-related schemes were
calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The inputs to the option pricing models are reassessed for each grant.
The historical volatility is calculated with reference to weekly movements in the Compass share price over the three years prior to the grant date.
The following assumptions were used in calculating the fair value of options granted under executive schemes:
Assumptions – options 2007 2006
Historical volatility 28.0% 31.6%
Risk free interest rate 5.2% 4.3%
Dividend yield 3.0% 4.6%
Expected life 6.0 years 7.0 years
Weighted average share price at date of grant 337.74p 211.59p
Weighted average option exercise price 334.26p 210.67p
Long-term incentive plan
Full details of the Compass Group Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report. 
The following table shows the movement in share awards during the year.
2007 2006
Number Number
Long-term incentive plan of shares of shares
Outstanding at 1 October 6,183,127 5,669,951
Awarded 2,041,940 3,189,460
Exercised (253,526) (90,750)
Forfeited or waived (1,486,193) (1,629,107)
Lapsed (925,349) (956,427)
Outstanding at 30 September 5,559,999 6,183,127
Exercisable at 30 September – 253,626
V esting of LTIP awards made before September 2005 and 50% of LTIP awards made in the years to 30 September 2006 and 2007 are dependent
on the Group’s performance relative to a comparator group of companies comprising the FTSE 100 Index. This is treated as a market-based
condition for valuation purposes and an assessment of the vesting probability was built into the grant date fair value calculations. This assessment
was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model.  78 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
26 Share-based payments continued
The remaining 50% of awards made in the year to 30 September 2007 depend on the achievement of the Group Free Cash Flow (‘GFCF’) target
for the three years from 1 October 2006 to 30 September 2009. 25% of the award will vest if GFCF of at least £859 million is achieved over the
period and the full award will vest if GFCF of £959 million is achieved. 50% of awards made in the year to 30 September 2006 depend on the
achievement of the GFCF target for the three years from 1 October 2005 to 30 September 2008. 25% of the award will vest if GFCF of at least
£768 million is achieved over the period and the full award will vest if GFCF of £843 million is achieved. Awards will vest on a straight-line basis
between these two points.
The fair value of these awards was calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, the vesting probability being assessed based on 
a simulation model of the GFCF forecast.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for LTIP awards exercised during the year was 324.41 pence (2006: 225.47 pence). 
The LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.5 years (2006: 1.6 years). 
In 2007, LTIP awards were made on 8 March 2007 and 1 June 2007. The estimated fair value of awards granted on these dates was 251.88 pence. 
In 2006, LTIP awards were made on 14 June 2006. The estimated average fair value of these awards was 120.00 pence.
The inputs to the option pricing models are reassessed for each award. The following assumptions were used in calculating the fair value of LTIP
awards made during the year:
Assumptions – long-term incentive plan 2007 2006
Historical volatility 28.1% 28.2%
Risk free interest rate 5.2% 4.7%
Dividend yield 3.2% 4.3%
Expected life 2.5 years 2.3 years
Weighted average share price at date of grant 317.70p 206.25p
Long-term bonus plan
Certain executives participating in the Long-Term Bonus Plan in prior years received an award of deferred Compass Group PLC shares. 
The award of bonus shares is subject to performance conditions and matching shares may be released by the Company following completion 
of a further period of service.
The following table illustrates the movement in the number of awards during the year.
2007 2006
Number Number
Long-term bonus plan of shares of shares
Outstanding at 1 October 6,514,317 9,984,014
Awarded 222,932 174,628
Adjustment of awards following acquisition of minority interests 295,984 –
Vested (2,079,432) (958,590)
Lapsed (cash settled) (1,020,400) (1,947,501)
Forfeited (470,875) (738,234)
Outstanding at 30 September 3,462,526 6,514,317
Fair values for bonus shares awarded during the year were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The inputs to the option
pricing model are reassessed for each grant. The following assumptions were used in calculating the fair value of awards granted:
Assumptions – long-term bonus plan 2007 2006
Historical volatility 31.0% 35.9%
Risk free interest rate 4.3% 4.8%
Dividend yield 4.3% 4.0%
Expected life 3.0 years 3.0 years
Weighted average share price at date of grant 222.28p 220.32p
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share bonus awards vesting during 2007 was 305.07 pence (2006: 211.54 pence). 
The share bonus awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.1 years (2006: 0.6 years). 
The estimated average fair value of share bonus awards made during the year was 280.56 pence (2006: 265.70 pence).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 79 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
26 Share-based payments continued
Income statement expense and carrying value
The Group recognised expenses of £24 million (2006: £21 million) for continuing operations and £1 million (2006: £4 million) for discontinued
operations in respect of equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
Cash-settled share-based payments
The Group has granted phantom share options to certain employees under the terms of the Management Equity Bonus Plan which mirror 
grants made under the Management Plan. These require the Group to pay the intrinsic value of the option to the employee at the date of exercise. 
At 30 September 2007, the Group has recorded liabilities of £1 million (2006: £2 million). The fair value of the phantom options is determined
using the binomial distribution option pricing model using the assumptions shown above. The Group recorded a total credit of £1 million 
(2006: expense £1 million) during the year in respect of cash-settled phantom share options.
27 Business combinations
Acquisitions in the year included the purchase of the final 5% minority interest in Onama S.p.A. for a consideration of £7 million and a number
of smaller infill acquisitions for a consideration of £7 million. Total £14 million. 
£12 million goodwill was recognised in respect of these acquisitions. This included a fair value adjustment of £2 million which increased 
liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year is attributable to the anticipated profitability that will be generated from an extension to the 
Group’s operations.
Onama was previously accounted for as a subsidiary and therefore there is no impact on the Group’s consolidated revenue or operating profits 
in acquiring the final 5%. The impact on the Group’s consolidated revenue and operating profits had the other investments been owned for 
the full year would have been minimal.  
The Group also paid deferred consideration relating to prior year acquisitions of £17 million, leaving £6 million deferred consideration outstanding.
The total amount of cash paid in the year was £31 million.
28 Reconciliation of operating proﬁt to cash generated by operations
2007 2006
Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated by operations £m £m
Operating profit from continuing operations 525 455
Adjustments for: 
Depreciation of property , plant and equipment 142 151
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets 31 37
Loss on disposal of property , plant and equipment 5 5
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 43 (3)
Decrease in pensions liability (42) (35)
Share-based payments – charged to profits
1
23 21
Share-based payments – settled in cash or existing shares
2
(11) –
Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 716 631
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (7) (4)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables 8 (33)
Increase/(decrease) in payables 36 57
Cash generated by operations 753 651
1. £24 million share based payments charge – £1 million credit in respect of cash-settled phantom share options (credited back to the income statement).
2. It was originally anticipated that these payments would be satisﬁed by the issue of new shares. 80 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
29 Cash ﬂow from discontinued operations
2007 2006
Cash flow from discontinued operations £m £m
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities of discontinued operations
Cash generated from discontinued operations (11) 193
Tax paid (7) (15)
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities of discontinued operations (18) 178
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities by discontinued operations
Purchase of property , plant and equipment (34) (116)
Proceeds from sale of property , plant and equipment 4 11
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities by discontinued operations (30) (105)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities by discontinued operations
Dividends paid to minority interests – –
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities by discontinued operations – –
30 Analysis of net debt
This table is presented as additional information to show movement in net debt, defined as overdrafts, bank and other borrowings, finance leases
and derivative financial instruments, net of cash and cash equivalents.
Total
Cash Bankoverdrafts Derivative
and cash Bank and other and Finance ﬁnancial Gross Net
equivalents overdrafts borrowings borrowings leases instruments debt debt
Net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2005 281 (33) (2,637) (2,670) (60) 24 (2,706) (2,425)
Cash flow 574 (27) 674 647 15 – 662 1,236
Exchange movements  (7) 3 71 74 2 – 76 69
Acquisitions and disposals 
(excluding cash and overdrafts) – 1 (1) –1–11
Other non-cash movements – – 52 52 (15) (13) 24 24
At 30 September 2006 848 (56) (1,841) (1,897) (57) 11 (1,943) (1,095)
At 1 October 2006 848 (56) (1,841) (1,897) (57) 11 (1,943) (1,095)
Cash flow (11) (66) 305 239 15 – 254 243
Exchange movements  2 3 68 71 1 – 72 74
Acquisitions and disposals 
(excluding cash and overdrafts) –1–16–77
Other non-cash movements – – 33 33 (15) (11) 7 7
At 30 September 2007 839 (118) (1,435) (1,553) (50) – (1,603) (764)
Other non-cash movements includes amortisation of the fair value adjustment in respect of the £250 million sterling Eurobond redeemable in 2014 of £4 million, fair value debt adjustment of £4 million and swap
monetisation credit of £25 million.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 81 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
31 Contingent liabilities
2007 2006
Contingent liabilities £m £m
Performance bonds, guarantees and indemnities (including those of associated undertakings) 227 203
On 21 October 2005, the Company announced that it had instructed Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer to conduct an investigation into the
relationships between Eurest Support Services (‘ESS’) (a member of the Group), IHC Services Inc. (‘IHC’) and the United Nations (‘UN’). Ernst 
& Y oung assisted Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer in this investigation. On 1 February 2006, it was announced that the investigation had concluded.
The investigation established serious irregularities in connection with contracts awarded to ESS by the UN. The work undertaken by Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer and Ernst & Y oung gave no reason to believe that these issues extended beyond a few individuals within ESS to other parts 
of ESS or the wider Compass Group of companies.
The Group settled all outstanding civil litigation against it, in relation to this matter, in October 2006 but litigation continues between competitors
of ESS, IHC and other parties involved in UN procurement.  
IHC’s relationship with the UN and ESS was part of a wider investigation into UN procurement activity being conducted by the United States
Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New Y ork, and with which the Group cooperated fully . The current status of that investigation is
uncertain and a matter for the US authorities. Those investigators could have had access to sources unavailable to the Group, Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer or Ernst & Y oung, and further information may yet emerge which is inconsistent with, or additional to, the findings of the
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer investigation, which could have an adverse impact on the Group. The Group has however not been contacted by ,
or received further requests for information from, the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New Y ork in connection with
these matters since January 2006. The Group has cooperated fully with the UN throughout.
In February 2007, the Group’s Portuguese business, Eurest (Portugal) Sociedade Europeia Restaurantes LDA, was visited by the Portuguese
Competition Authority (‘PCA ’) as part of an investigation into possible past breaches of competition law by the Group and other caterers in the
sector. The PCA investigation relates to a part of the Portuguese catering business which services mainly public sector contracts. The Group 
is cooperating fully with the PCA ’s ongoing investigation. Revenues of the Portuguese business for the year ended 30 September 2007 were 
£90 million (r134 million). It is likely that the investigation will take several months to complete and its outcome cannot be predicted at this point. 
It is not currently possible to quantify any potential liability which may arise in respect of these matters. The directors currently have no reason 
to believe that any potential liability that may arise would be material to the financial position of the Group.
The Group, through a number of its subsidiary undertakings, is, from time to time, party to various other legal proceedings or claims arising from
its normal business. Provisions are made as appropriate. None of these proceedings is regarded as material litigation.
The Group has provided a guarantee to one of its joint venture partners over the level of profits which will accrue to them in future periods. 
The maximum amount payable under this guarantee is £35 million, which would be payable in respect of the period from 1 July 2007 to 
31 December 2010. Based on the latest management projections, no liability is expected to arise in relation to this guarantee and accordingly , 
no provision has been recorded at 30 September 2007 (2006: £nil).
32 Capital commitments
2007 2006
Capital commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided for 23 30
33 Operating lease and concessions commitments
The Group leases offices and other premises under non-cancellable operating leases. The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation
clauses and renewal rights. The Group has some leases that include revenue-related rental payments that are contingent on future levels of revenue.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases and concessions agreements are as follows:
2007 2006
Operating leases
Other
Operating leases
Other
Land and Other occupancy Land and Other occupancy
buildings assets rentals buildings assets rentals
Operating lease and concessions commitments £m £m £m £m £m £m
Falling due within 1 year 40 41 26 47 46 43
Falling due between 2 and 5 years 111 54 61 111 51 104
Falling due in more than 5 years 71 5 33 106 6 71
Total 222 100 120 264 103 218 82 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
34 Related party transactions
The following transactions were carried out with related parties of Compass Group PLC:
Subsidiaries
Transactions between the ultimate parent company and its subsidiaries, and between subsidiaries, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Joint ventures
There were no significant transactions between joint ventures and the rest of the Group during the year.
Associates
The balances with associated undertakings are shown in notes 16 and 21. There were no significant transactions with associated undertakings
during the year.
Key management personnel
The remuneration of key management personnel is shown in note 3. During the year there were no material transactions or balances between the
Group and its key management personnel or members of their close family .
35 Post balance sheet events
On 1 October 2007 the Group acquired Propoco Inc (‘Professional Services’), a leading regional provider of facilities management services to 
the US healthcare market, for a total consideration of £38 million. £36 million was paid at closing, with the remaining £2 million being deferred
for 12 months.
The Group’s share buy-back programme continued after the balance sheet date. Between 1 October 2007 and 23 November 2007, the Group
repurchased for cancellation 34 million ordinary shares for a total consideration of £105 million, bringing the total number of shares repurchased
since the buy-back programme began to 273 million shares for a total consideration of £825 million (before brokers commission and stamp duty).
36 Exchange rates
Exchange rates 2007 2006
Average exchange rate for year
Australian Dollar 2.44 2.41
Brazilian Real 4.02 3.97
Canadian Dollar 2.19 2.06
Euro 1.48 1.46
Japanese Y en 234.05 209.07
Norwegian Krone 11.98 11.66
South African Rand 14.18 11.95
Swedish Krona 13.63 13.67
Swiss Franc 2.40 2.29
US Dollar 1.97 1.80
Closing exchange rate as at 30 September
Australian Dollar 2.30 2.53
Brazilian Real 3.75 4.22
Canadian Dollar 2.02 2.13
Euro 1.43 1.48
Japanese Y en 234.33 220.54
Norwegian Krone 11.05 12.47
South African Rand 14.05 14.52
Swedish Krona 13.18 13.80
Swiss Franc 2.38 2.34
US Dollar 2.04 1.87
Average rates are used to translate the income statement and cash ﬂow. Closing rates are used to translate the balance sheet. Only the most signiﬁcant currencies are shown.    
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 83 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
37 Details of principal subsidiary companies
Company Country of incorporation Principal activities
North America
Compass Group Canada Ltd Canada Trading company providing foodservice
Bon Appétit Management Co USA Trading company providing foodservice
Compass Group USA Investments, Inc USA Holding company 
Compass Group USA, Inc USA Trading company providing foodservice
Crothall Services Group USA Trading company providing support services to the healthcare market
Flik International Corp USA Trading company providing fine dining facilities
Foodbuy LLC (64%) USA Provision of purchasing services in North America
Levy Restaurants LP USA Trading company providing fine dining and foodservice at sports and entertainment facilities
Morrison Management Specialists, Inc USA Trading company providing foodservice to the healthcare market
Restaurant Associates Corp USA Trading company providing fine dining facilities
Wolfgang Puck Catering & Events, LLC (49%)
1
USA Trading company providing fine dining facilities
Continental Europe
Compass Group France Holdings SAS France Holding company 
Compass Group France France Trading company providing foodservice
Compass Group Deutschland GmbH Germany Holding company 
Clinic Catering Service GmbH & Co. OHG Germany Trading company providing foodservice to the healthcare and retirement market
Eurest Deutschland GmbH Germany Trading company providing foodservice to business and industry
Eurest Sports & Food GmbH Germany Trading company providing foodservice to the sports and leisure market
Onama S.p.A. Italy Trading company providing foodservice
Palmar S.p.A. (90%) Italy Trading company providing support services
Ristomat S.p.A. Italy Trading company providing prepaid meal vouchers
Compass Group International BV Netherlands Holding company 
Compass Group Nederland BV Netherlands Trading company providing foodservice
Compass Group Nederland Holding BV Netherlands Holding company 
Eurest Support Services BV Netherlands Trading company providing support services
Compass Group Holdings Spain, S.L. Spain Holding company 
Eurest Colectividades S.L. Spain Trading company providing foodservice
Compass Group (Schweiz) AG Switzerland Trading company providing foodservice
Restorama AG Switzerland Trading company providing foodservice
United Kingdom
Compass Contract Services (UK) Ltd England & Wales Trading company providing foodservice
Compass Group Holdings PLC England & Wales Holding company and corporate activities
Compass Group, UK & Ireland Ltd England & Wales Holding company 
Compass International Purchasing Ltd England & Wales Provision of purchasing services throughout the world
Compass Purchasing Ltd England & Wales Provision of purchasing services in the UK and Ireland
Hospitality Holdings Ltd
2
England & Wales Intermediate holding company
Letheby & Christopher Ltd England & Wales Trading company for the UK sports and events foodservice business
Scolarest Ltd England & Wales Trading company providing foodservice to the UK education market
Rest of the World
Compass Group (Australia) Pty Ltd Australia Trading company providing foodservice 
Seiyo Food – Compass Group, Inc (86%) Japan Trading company providing foodservice 
Compass Group Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd (70%) South Africa Trading company providing foodservice 
1. The Group exercises control of this entity and accounts for it as a subsidiary. 
2. Held directly by the parent company.
All companies listed above are wholly owned by the Group, except where otherwise indicated. All interests are in the ordinary share capital. 
All companies operate principally in their country of incorporation, except for Compass International Purchasing Ltd which operates throughout
the world. A full list of the Group’s operating subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the next annual return. 84 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Directors’ responsibilities
The directors are required by law to prepare
separate financial statements for the
Company in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985. The directors have chosen to
prepare these financial statements for 
the Company in accordance with 
United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice.
Company law requires the directors to
prepare financial statements for each financial
year which give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the Company as at the end
of the financial year and of the profit or loss
of the Company for that period. In preparing
those financial statements, the directors are
required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then
apply them consistently;
make judgements and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent;
state whether applicable accounting
standards have been followed, subject to
any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements; and
prepare the financial statements on the
going concern basis, unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records which disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and to enable them
to ensure that the financial statements comply
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of
the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible
for safeguarding the assets of the Company
and hence for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the Company
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom
governing the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Parent Company financial statements Compass Group PLC 85 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Compass Group PLC
Introduction
We have audited the parent company financial
statements of Compass Group PLC for the
year ended 30 September 2007 which
comprise the parent company balance sheet,
accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 9.
These parent company financial statements
have been prepared under the accounting
policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Group
financial statements of Compass Group PLC
for the year ended 30 September 2007 and 
on the information in the Directors’
remuneration report that is described as
having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s
members, as a body , in accordance with
section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that
we might state to the Company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them
in an auditors’ report and for no other
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by
law , we do not accept or assume responsibility
to anyone other than the Company and the
Company’s members as a body , for our audit
work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors
and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing
the Annual Report, the Directors’
remuneration report and the parent company
financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) 
are set out in the statement of directors’
responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent
company financial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ remuneration report to be
audited in accordance with relevant legal and
regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether
the parent company financial statements give
a true and fair view and whether the parent
company financial statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985. We also report to you
whether in our opinion the Directors’ Report
is consistent with the parent company
financial statements. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion,
the Company has not kept proper accounting
records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for
our audit, or if information specified by law
regarding directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained 
in the Annual Report as described in the
contents section and consider whether it is
consistent with the audited parent company
financial statements. We consider the
implications for our report if we become
aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the parent
company financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any further
information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on a
test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the parent company
financial statements. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and
judgements made by the directors in the
preparation of the parent company financial
statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the Company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to
obtain all the information and explanations
which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the parent
company financial statements are free from
material misstatement, whether caused by
fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming
our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information
in the parent company financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
the parent company financial statements
give a true and fair view , in accordance with
United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the
Company’s affairs as at 30 September 2007;
the parent company financial statements
have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985; and
the information given in the Directors’
Report is consistent with the parent
company financial statements.
Deloitte & T ouche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London
28 November 2007 86 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
2007 2006
Compass Group PLC Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments 2 933 915
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 3 4,828 3,311
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 3 13 22
Cash at bank and in hand 678 695
Current assets 5,519 4,028
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 4 (3,757) (1,668)
Net current assets
Net current assets 1,762 2,360
Total assets less current liabilities
Total assets less current liabilities 2,695 3,275
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 4 (1,403) (1,878)
Net assets
Net assets 1,292 1,397
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 7, 8 193 210
Share premium account 8 122 96
Capital redemption reserve 8 33 15
Share-based payment reserve 8 144 130
Profit and loss account 8 800 946
Total equity 1,292 1,397
Approved by the Board of directors on 28 November 2007 and signed on their behalf by
Richard J Cousins, Director
Andrew D Martin, Director
Parent Company balance sheet
as at 30 September 2007 87 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Parent Company accounting policies
for the year ended 30 September 2007
Introduction
The significant accounting policies adopted 
in the preparation of the separate financial
statements of the Company are set out below:
A   Accounting convention and basis 
of preparation
These financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with applicable UK
generally accepted accounting principles (UK
GAAP) and the Companies Act 1985 using
the historical cost convention modified for the
revaluation of certain financial instruments.
B   Exemptions
The Company’s financial statements are
included in the Compass Group PLC
consolidated financial statements for the year
ended 30 September 2007. As permitted by
section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the
Company has not presented its own profit and
loss account. The Company has also taken
advantage of the exemption from presenting
a cash flow statement under the terms of
FRS 1 ‘Cash Flow Statements’. The Company
is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8
‘Related Party Disclosures’ from disclosing
transactions with other members of
Compass Group.
The Compass Group PLC consolidated
financial statements for the year ended 
30 September 2007 contain financial
instrument disclosures which comply with
FRS 25 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure 
and Presentation’. Consequently , the
Company has taken advantage of the
exemption in FRS 25 not to present 
separate financial instrument disclosures 
for the Company .
C   Change in accounting policies
The Company has not applied any
accounting standards for the first time in 
the year ended 30 September 2007.
D   Investments in subsidiary
undertakings
Investments are stated at cost less provision 
for any impairment. In the opinion of the
directors the value of such investments are
not less than shown at the balance sheet date. 
E   Foreign currency
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies 
are translated into sterling at the rates of
exchange ruling at the year end.
F   Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair
value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at
amortised cost unless they are part of
a fair value hedge accounting relationship.
Borrowings that are part of a fair value hedge
accounting relationship are measured at
amortised cost plus or minus the fair value
attributable to the risk being hedged.
G   Derivatives and other ﬁnancial
instruments
The Company uses derivative financial
instruments to manage its exposure to
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and
interest rates. Derivative instruments utilised
include interest rate swaps, cross currency
swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Company and Group policy is disclosed
in the accounting policies to the consolidated
financial statements.
H   Dividends
Dividends are recognised in the Company’s
financial statements in the year in which they
are approved in general meeting by the
Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends
are recognised when paid.
I   Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided at the anticipated
rates on timing differences arising from the
inclusion of items of income and expenditure
in tax computations in periods different from
those in which they are included in the
financial statements. Deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent that it is regarded 
as more likely than not that they will 
be recovered.
J   Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled and cash-
settled share-based payments to certain
employees. Equity-settled share-based
payments are measured at fair value
(excluding the effect of non market-based
vesting conditions) at the date of grant. 
The fair value determined at the grant date 
of the equity-settled share-based payments 
is expensed on a straight-line basis over the
vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate
of the shares that will eventually vest and
adjusted for the effect of non market-based
vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the
binomial distribution or Black-Scholes pricing
models as is most appropriate for each
scheme. The expected life used in the models
has been adjusted, based on management’s
best estimate, for the effects of exercise
restrictions and behavioural considerations.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a
liability equal to the portion of the goods or
services received is recognised at the current
fair value determined at each balance 
sheet date.
The issue of share incentives by the Company
to employees of its subsidiaries represents
additional capital contributions. An addition
to the Company’s investment in Group
undertakings is reported with a corresponding
increase in shareholders’ funds. For details of
the charge see note 26 to the consolidated
financial statements. 88 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
1 Proﬁt and loss account disclosures
The Company profit on ordinary activities after tax was £637 million (2006: £699 million).
The fee for the audit of the Company’s annual financial statements was £0.4 million (2006: £0.4 million).
The Company had no direct employees in the course of the year (2006: none).
2 Investments in subsidiary undertakings
2007 2006
Investments in subsidiary undertakings £m £m
Cost and net book value
At 1 October 915 890
Share-based payments to employees of subsidiaries 29 25
Settlement of share-based payments by subsidiaries (11) –
At 30 September 933 915
The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed in note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
3 Debtors
2007 2006
Debtors £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 4,821 3,217
Deferred consideration receivable – 14
Group relief receivable – 39
Derivative financial instruments 7 9
Other debtors – 32
Amounts falling due within one year 4,828 3,311
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Derivative financial instruments 13 22
Amounts falling due after more than one year 13 22
4 Creditors
2007 2006
Creditors £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Loan notes – 26
Bank loans 4 4
Bank overdrafts 278 300
Group relief payable 4 –
Derivative financial instruments – 2
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3,415 1,230
Accruals and deferred income 56 106
Amounts falling due within one year 3,757 1,668
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Bonds 993 1,323
Loan notes 384 426
Bank loans 11 109
Derivative financial instruments 15 18
Deferred tax liability – 2
Amounts falling due after more than one year 1,403 1,878
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 89 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
4 Creditors continued
Bonds are unsecured and are comprised as follows:
Bonds Nominal value Redeemable Interest
Euro Eurobond r300m 2009 6.0%
Sterling Eurobond £200m 2010 7.125%
Sterling Eurobond £325m 2012 6.375%
Sterling Eurobond £250m 2014 7.0%
Euro Eurobonds with nominal value r450 million redeemable in 2009 were repurchased during the current year leaving r300 million outstanding.
The Company has fixed term, fixed interest private placements totalling US$769 million (£377 million) at interest rates between 5.11% and
7.955%. US$15 million (£7 million) is repayable in 5 to 10 years.
The deferred tax liability arose on marking to market interest rate swaps.
5 Maturity of ﬁnancial liabilities, other creditors and derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The maturity of financial liabilities, other creditors and derivative financial instruments as at 30 September 2007 is as follows:
2007 2006
Bonds and Loans and Bonds and Loans and
loan notes overdrafts Other T otal loan notes overdrafts Other T otal
Maturity £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
In more than 1 year but not more than 2 years 285 4 3 292 – 98 2 100
In more than 2 years but not more than 5 years 832 7 (1) 838 894 11 (7) 898
In more than 5 years 260 – – 260 855 – 3 858
In more than 1 year  1,377 11 2 1,390 1,749 109 (2) 1,856
In 1 year or less, or on demand – 282 (7) 275 26 304 (7) 323
Total 1,377 293 (5) 1,665 1,775 413 (9) 2,179
Other includes the debtor and creditor amounts associated with derivative ﬁnancial instruments and the associated deferred tax liability.
2007 2006
Bank loans £m £m
Amounts repayable by instalments falling due between 1 and 5 years 12 17
Amounts repayable by instalments falling due within 1 year 4 4
Amounts repayable by instalments falling due within 5 years 16 21
Amounts repayable otherwise than by instalments falling due between 1 and 5 years 4 92
Amounts repayable otherwise than by instalments falling due within 1 year – –
Amounts repayable otherwise than by instalments falling due within 5 years 4 92
6 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
2007 2006
Financial Financial Financial Financial
assets liabilities assets liabilities
Derivative financial instruments £m £m £m £m
Interest rate swaps:
Fair value hedges 13 (15) 22 (18)
Cash flow hedges –– ––
Not in a hedging relationship 2– 9 (1)
Currency swaps:
Cross currency swaps –– – (1)
Other:
Forward foreign exchange contracts 5– ––
Derivative financial instruments 20 (15) 31 (20) 90 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
7 Share capital
Details of the share capital, share option schemes and share-based payments of Compass Group PLC are shown in notes 24 and 26 to the
consolidated financial statements.
8 Capital and reserves
Share Capital Share-based Proﬁt
Share premium redemption payment Hedging and loss
capital account reserve reserve reserves reserve Total
Capital and reserves £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2005 216 94 9 105 1 609 1,034
Fair value movement on cash flow hedges
1
––––3–3
Transfer to profit and loss from equity on cash flow hedges
1
–––– (4) – (4)
Issue of shares –2––––2
Repurchase of ordinary share capital (6) –6–– (149) (149)
Fair value of share-based payments – – – 25 – – 25
Settled in cash or existing shares (purchased in market) –––––––
Dividends paid to Compass shareholders ––––– (213) (213)
Profit for the financial year ––––– 699 699
At 30 September 2006 210 96 15 130 – 946 1,397
At 1 October 2006 210 96 15 130 – 946 1,397
Issue of shares 1 26–––– 27
Repurchase of ordinary share capital (18) – 18 – – (575) (575)
Fair value of share-based payments ––– 25–– 25
Settled in cash or existing shares (purchased in market) – – – (11) – – (11)
Dividends paid to Compass shareholders ––––– (208) (208)
Profit for the financial year ––––– 637 637
At 30 September 2007 193 122 33 144 – 800 1,292
1. Net of deferred tax.
9 Contingent liabilities
2007 2006
Contingent liabilities £m £m
Guarantees and indemnities (including subsidiary undertakings’ overdrafts) 268 288
Details regarding certain contingent liabilities which involve the Company are set out in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
Notes to the Parent Company financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 91 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Shareholder information
Registrars and transfer ofﬁce
All matters relating to the administration of
shareholdings should be directed to Capita
Registrars, The Registry , 34 Beckenham
Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, telephone
within the UK: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 
10 pence per minute plus network extras) and
from overseas: +44 20 8639 2157; email:
ssd@capitaregistrars.com. 
Shareholders can register online to view 
their Compass Group PLC shareholding
details using the Share Portal, a service offered
by Capita Registrars. This service can be
accessed at www .capitashareportal.com.
Shareholders registering for the Share Portal
will require their investor code which is shown
on share certificates and on the form of proxy
accompanying this Report. The service
enables shareholders to do all of the following:
check their shareholdings in Compass
Group PLC 24 hours a day;
register their email and mailing preference
(post or electronic) for future shareholder
mailings;
gain easy access to a variety of shareholder
information including indicative valuation
and payment instruction details; and
use the Internet to appoint a proxy to
attend general meetings of Compass 
Group PLC.
Electronic communications
The Company can, at shareholders’ request,
send shareholders an email notification each
time a new shareholder report or other
shareholder communication is placed on its
website. This enables shareholders to read
and/or download the information at their
leisure. Shareholders can still request paper
copies of the documents if they so wish.
To encourage shareholders to convert to 
e-communications, the Company will arrange
for a sapling tree to be planted in the UK for
each shareholder who chooses to receive all
future communications electronically . The
next opportunity for the Company to notify
shareholders electronically will be for the
Interim Report, to be published in June 2008.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)
The Company has introduced a DRIP
service, provided by Capita IRG Trustees
Limited. The DRIP allows eligible
shareholders to use the whole of their cash
dividend to buy additional shares in the
Company , increasing their shareholding.
Additional information, including details of
how to sign up, can be obtained from Capita
IRG Trustees Limited, telephone within the
UK: 0871 664 0381 (calls cost 10 pence per
minute plus network extras) and from
overseas: +44 20 8639 3402; email:
shares@capitaregistrars.com.
Share price information
The current price of the Company’s shares is
available on Ceefax, Teletext, FTCityline
(operated by the Financial Times), telephone
within the UK: 0906 843 3250 and on the
Company’s website: www .compass-group.com.
ShareGift
ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme,
is a free service for shareholders wishing to give
shares to charitable causes. It is particularly
useful for those shareholders who may wish to
dispose of a small quantity of shares where the
market value makes it uneconomic to sell on a
commission basis. Further information can be
obtained from ShareGift (telephone within the
UK: 020 7930 3737 and from overseas 
+44 20 7930 3737 or www .sharegift.org) 
or from the Registrars.
American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
The Company operates an ADR programme.
Each ADR is equivalent to one Compass
Group PLC ordinary share and trades under
the symbol CMPGY . Further information can
be obtained from The Bank of New Y ork
Mellon, Investor Relations, PO Box 11258,
Church Street Station, New Y ork, NY 10286-
1258, telephone: within the US toll free 1-888
BNY-ADRs and from overseas +1 212 815
3700; email: shareowners@bankofny .com and
from websites: www .adrbny .com and
www.stockbny .com.
Warning about unsolicited 
investment contacts 
Many companies have become aware that
their shareholders have received unsolicited
telephone calls or correspondence concerning
investment matters. These are typically from
overseas based ‘brokers’ who target UK
shareholders offering to sell them what often
turns out to be worthless or high risk shares in
US or UK investments. Shareholders are
advised to be very wary of any unsolicited
advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or
offers of free company reports. 
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
Make sure you get the correct name of the
person and organisation.
Check that they are properly authorised 
by the Financial Services Authority before
getting involved. Y ou can check at
www.fsa.gov.uk/register.
The FSA also maintains on its website a list
of unauthorised overseas firms who are
targeting, or have targeted, UK investors
and any approach from such organisations
should be reported to the FSA so that this
list can be kept up to date and any other
appropriate action can be considered. If
you deal with an unauthorised firm, you
would not be eligible to receive payment
under the Financial Services Compensation
Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by
completing an online form at
www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk.
Inform our Registrars by telephone within
the UK: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10 pence
per minute plus network extras) and from
overseas: +44 20 8639 2157; email:
ssd@capitaregistrars.com. 
More detailed information on this or similar
activity can be found on the FSA website
www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk.
Unsolicited mail 
The Company is legally obliged to make its
register of members available to the public.
As a consequence of this some shareholders
might have received unsolicited mail. UK
shareholders wishing to limit the amount 
of such mail should write to the Mailing
Preference Service, FREEPOST 29
LON20771, London W1E 0ZT . Alternatively ,
UK shareholders may register online at
www .mpsonline.org.uk or request an
application form by calling from within 
the UK: 0845 703 4599.
Identity theft – protecting an
investment
Criminals may steal shareholders’ personal
information putting a holding at risk.
Advice on protecting a shareholding:
Ensure certificates are kept in a safe place
or hold shares electronically in CREST 
via a nominee.
Keep all correspondence from the
Registrars which shows a shareholder
investor code in a safe place, or destroy
correspondence by shredding.
When changing address, inform the
Registrars. If a letter from the Registrars is
received regarding a change of address and
there has been no recent move, contact the
Registrars immediately . The shareholder
concerned may be a victim of identity theft.
Know when the dividends are paid.
Shareholders may wish to consider having
their dividends paid directly into their bank
or building society account, both for the
convenience and the resulting reduction in
the risk of the cheque being intercepted or
lost in the post. To take advantage of this
dividend mandate facility , contact the
Registrars, telephone within the UK: 
0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10 pence per
minute plus network extras) and from
overseas: +44 20 8639 2157; or
alternatively complete a form online at
www.capitaregistrars.com/shareholders
using the Share Portal service.
On changing bank or building society
account, inform the Registrars of the
details of the new account and respond to
any letters the Registrars send about this.
When buying or selling shares, shareholders
should seek to only deal with brokers
registered in their country of residence 
or the UK.
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting:
8 February 2008
Results announcements:
Half year – May
Full year – late November/early December
Dividend payments:
Interim – August
Final – March 92 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Shareholder information
continued
Number of Shares
Number of Holders shares held held
Shareholder analysis holders % millions %
T ype of holder:
Individuals 61,918 92.4 87 4.5
Institutional and other investors 5,112 7.6 1,840 95.5
Total 67,030 100.0 1,927 100.0
Size of holding:
1-100 13,402 20.0 1 0.0
101-200 10,979 16.4 2 0.1
201-500 16,454 24.5 5 0.3
501-1,000 10,728 16.0 8 0.4
1,001-2,000 7,797 11.6 11 0.6
2,001-5,000 4,861 7.2 15 0.8
5,001-10,000 1,251 1.9 9 0.5
10,001-50,000 750 1.1 16 0.8
50,001-100,000 174 0.3 12 0.7
100,001-500,000 306 0.5 74 3.8
500,001-1,000,000 99 0.1 70 3.6
1,000,001-5,000,000 159 0.2 361 18.7
5,000,001-10,000,000 36 0.1 256 13.3
10,000,001 and above 34 0.1 1,087 56.4
Total 67,030 100.0 1,927 100.0 Contents
Our vision is to be a world-class provider 
of contract foodservice and support services,
renowned for our great people, our great service
and our great results. T o achieve this everyone 
in Compass Group is committed to consistently
delivering superior service in the most efficient 
way for the shared benefit of our customers,
shareholders and employees.
01 2007 highlights
02 Group at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
Delivering on our commitments
06 Chief Executive’s statement
Driving performance
13 Business review
17 Board of directors
18 Acting responsibly 
24 Directors’ report
24 Report of the directors
27 Corporate governance
33 Directors’ remuneration report
40 Consolidated financial statements
84 Parent Company financial statements
91 Shareholder information
93 Index to the consolidated financial statements
93 Index to the Parent Company financial statements
93 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Forward looking statements
This Report contains forward looking statements within 
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act,
as amended. These statements are subject to a number of
risks and uncertainties and actual results and events could
differ materially from those currently being anticipated as
reflected in such forward looking statements. The terms
‘expect’, ‘should be’, ‘will be’, ‘is likely to’ and similar
expressions identify forward looking statements. Factors
which may cause future outcomes to differ from those
foreseen in forward looking statements include, but are 
not limited to: general economic conditions and business
conditions in Compass Group’s markets; exchange rate
fluctuations; customers’ and clients’ acceptance of its
products and services; the actions of competitors; and
legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments.
Index to the consolidated financial statements
Note Page
Independent auditors’ report 40
Consolidated income statement 41
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 42
Consolidated balance sheet 43
Consolidated cash flow statement 44
Reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations 44
Accounting policies 45
1 Segmental reporting 49
2 Operating costs 52
3 Employees 53
4 Finance income and costs 54
5Tax 54
6 Discontinued operations 56
7 Exceptional items 58
8 Earnings per share 59
9 Dividends 59
10 Goodwill 60
11 Other intangible assets 61
12 Property , plant and equipment 62
13 Interests in associates 63
14 Other investments 63
15 Joint ventures 64
16 Trade and other receivables 64
17 Inventories 64
18 Cash and cash equivalents 65
19 Short-term and long-term borrowings 65
20 Derivative financial instruments 66
21 Trade and other payables 69
22 Provisions 70
23 Post-employment benefit obligations 70
24 Called up share capital 74
25 Reconciliation of movements in equity 75
26 Share-based payments 76
27 Business combinations 79
28 Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated by operations 79
29 Cash flow from discontinued operations 80
30 Analysis of net debt 80
31 Contingent liabilities 81
32 Capital commitments 81
33 Operating lease and concessions commitments 81
34 Related party transactions 82
35 Post balance sheet events 82
36 Exchange rates 82
37 Details of principal subsidiary companies 83
Index to the Parent Company financial statements 
Note Page
Directors’ responsibilities 84
Independent auditors’ report 85
Parent Company balance sheet 86
Parent Company accounting policies 87
1 Profit and loss account disclosures 88
2 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 88
3 Debtors 88
4 Creditors 88
5 Maturity of financial liabilities, other creditors and 
derivative financial instruments 89
6 Derivative financial instruments 89
7 Share capital 90
8 Capital and reserves 90
9 Contingent liabilities 90 Registered office
Compass Group PLC
Compass House
Guildford Street
Chertsey
Surrey KT16 9BQ
United Kingdom
Registered No: 4083914
Tel +44 (0)1932 573 000
Fax +44 (0)1932 569 956
www.compass-group.com
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Hill House
1 Little New Street
London EC4A 3TR
Financial advisors
Citigroup Global Markets Ltd
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 5LB
Legal advisors
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Stockbrokers
Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited
25 Cabot Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 4QA
Merrill Lynch International
Merrill Lynch Financial Centre
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
Delivering
proﬁtable 
growth
Annual Report 2007
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007
Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr +44 (0)20 7610 6140. Printed in the UK by CTD.
This report is printed on Look, which is 100% ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) pulp and is 100% recyclable and sourced from carefully 
managed and renewed commercial forests, certified in accordance with the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council). The mill is ISO 14001 certified.
Our printers are fully accredited to the ISO 14001 environmental management system. They utilise vegetable based inks and operate a direct
computer to plate repro system, eliminating the need for film with its chemicals such as developer and acid fixers. Registered office
Compass Group PLC
Compass House
Guildford Street
Chertsey
Surrey KT16 9BQ
United Kingdom
Registered No: 4083914
Tel +44 (0)1932 573 000
Fax +44 (0)1932 569 956
www.compass-group.com
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Hill House
1 Little New Street
London EC4A 3TR
Financial advisors
Citigroup Global Markets Ltd
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 5LB
Legal advisors
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Stockbrokers
Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited
25 Cabot Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 4QA
Merrill Lynch International
Merrill Lynch Financial Centre
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr +44 (0)20 7610 6140. Printed in the UK by CTD.
This report is printed on Look, which is 100% ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) pulp and is 100% recyclable and sourced from carefully 
managed and renewed commercial forests, certified in accordance with the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council). The mill is ISO 14001 certified.
Our printers are fully accredited to the ISO 14001 environmental management system. They utilise vegetable based inks and operate a direct
computer to plate repro system, eliminating the need for film with its chemicals such as developer and acid fixers.
Our vision is to be a world-class provider 
of contract foodservice and support services,
renowned for our great people, our great service
and our great results. T o achieve this everyone 
in Compass Group is committed to consistently
delivering superior service in the most efficient 
way for the shared benefit of our customers,
shareholders and employees.
01 2007 highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
Delivering on our commitments
04 Chief Executive’s statement
Driving performance
11 Summary business review
14 Board of directors
15 Acting responsibly 
20 Summary directors’ report
20 Summary report of the directors
21 Summary directors’ remuneration report
28 Summary consolidated financial statements
40 Shareholder information
41 Index to the summary financial statements
Contents
Delivering
proﬁtable 
growth
Annual Review 2007 Registered office
Compass Group PLC
Compass House
Guildford Street
Chertsey
Surrey KT16 9BQ
United Kingdom
Registered No: 4083914
Tel +44 (0)1932 573 000
Fax +44 (0)1932 569 956
www.compass-group.com
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Hill House
1 Little New Street
London EC4A 3TR
Financial advisors
Citigroup Global Markets Ltd
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 5LB
Legal advisors
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Stockbrokers
Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited
25 Cabot Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 4QA
Merrill Lynch International
Merrill Lynch Financial Centre
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr +44 (0)20 7610 6140. Printed in the UK by CTD.
This report is printed on Look, which is 100% ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) pulp and is 100% recyclable and sourced from carefully 
managed and renewed commercial forests, certified in accordance with the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council). The mill is ISO 14001 certified.
Our printers are fully accredited to the ISO 14001 environmental management system. They utilise vegetable based inks and operate a direct
computer to plate repro system, eliminating the need for film with its chemicals such as developer and acid fixers.
Our vision is to be a world-class provider 
of contract foodservice and support services,
renowned for our great people, our great service
and our great results. T o achieve this everyone 
in Compass Group is committed to consistently
delivering superior service in the most efficient 
way for the shared benefit of our customers,
shareholders and employees.
01 2007 highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
Delivering on our commitments
04 Chief Executive’s statement
Driving performance
11 Summary business review
14 Board of directors
15 Acting responsibly 
20 Summary directors’ report
20 Summary report of the directors
21 Summary directors’ remuneration report
28 Summary consolidated financial statements
40 Shareholder information
41 Index to the summary financial statements
Contents
Delivering
proﬁtable 
growth
Annual Review 2007 Number of Shares
Number of Holders shares held held
Shareholder analysis holders % millions %
T ype of holder:
Individuals 61,918 92.4 87 4.5
Institutional and other investors 5,112 7.6 1,840 95.5
Total 67,030 100.0 1,927 100.0
Size of holding:
1-100 13,402 20.0 1 0.0
101-200 10,979 16.4 2 0.1
201-500 16,454 24.5 5 0.3
501-1,000 10,728 16.0 8 0.4
1,001-2,000 7,797 11.6 11 0.6
2,001-5,000 4,861 7.2 15 0.8
5,001-10,000 1,251 1.9 9 0.5
10,001-50,000 750 1.1 16 0.8
50,001-100,000 174 0.3 12 0.7
100,001-500,000 306 0.5 74 3.8
500,001-1,000,000 99 0.1 70 3.6
1,000,001-5,000,000 159 0.2 361 18.7
5,000,001-10,000,000 36 0.1 256 13.3
10,000,001 and above 34 0.1 1,087 56.4
Total 67,030 100.0 1,927 100.0
41 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Index to the summary consolidated ﬁnancial statements
Note Page
Independent auditors’ statement 28
Consolidated income statement 29
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 30
Consolidated balance sheet 31
Consolidated cash flow statement 32
Reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations 32
1 Segmental reporting 33
2 Discontinued operations 34
3 Exceptional items 36
4 Earnings per share 37
5 Dividends 37
6 Reconciliation of movements in equity 38
7 Contingent liabilities 39
Forward looking statements
This Review contains forward looking statements within 
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act,
as amended.These statements are subject to a number of
risks and uncertainties and actual results and events could
differ materially from those currently being anticipated as
reflected in such forward looking statements. The terms
‘expect’, ‘should be’, ‘will be’, ‘is likely to’ and similar
expressions identify forward looking statements. Factors
which may cause future outcomes to differ from those
foreseen in forward looking statements include, but are not
limited to: general economic conditions and business
conditions in Compass Group’s markets; exchange rate
fluctuations; customers’ and clients’ acceptance of its
products and services; the actions of competitors; and
legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments.
For the 13th consecutive year Master Chef Wolfgang 
Puck was selected to create the menu for The Academy
of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences post-Oscar event, 
the Governor’ s Ball. In the same month Compass’
foodservice excellence was on show at the 49th 
Annual Grammy Awards and for the Players’ Party 
and Super Bowl Host Committee VIP Party at this 
year’ s Super Bowl.
£4,162m
Revenue
2006: £4,290m
North America
£261m
Operating profit
3
2006: £245m
Regional highlights
Continued excellent progress
delivering 6% organic revenue growth.
Operating profit from continuing
operations increased by £39 million 
on a constant currency basis to 
£261 million (2006: £222 million), 
a 60 basis point margin improvement. 
The Business & Industry sector has
been driven by innovation in our offer,
delivering 4% like for like revenue
growth. 
In Healthcare, 7% organic growth 
from increased cross-selling between
Morrison, our foodservice business,
and Crothall, our support services
business. 
Healthy eating programmes and 
the strength of the Chartwells brand
contributed to 9% organic revenue
growth in the Education sector. 
Good growth in Levy, our Sports 
& Leisure business.
Continued good progress with 
our business in Canada.
Our pipeline for 2008 looks healthy .
The newly branded Restaurant Associates was launched 
in May 2007 to respond to a growing demand for a leading
provider of executive hospitality , dining and business
support services to its prestigious blue-chip clients;
including 17 out of the top 20 investment banks in 
London, law firms and leading organisations. The move
consolidated our previous brand operations under one
strong identity and management structure. Our new
business goals reflect a commitment to innovation, 
service, lifestyle and simplicity .
£1,931m
Revenue
2006: £1,882m
Percentage of 
Group revenue
19%
2006: 18%
United Kingdom
£107m
Operating profit
3
2006: £107m
Regional highlights
Revenue in the UK was £1,931 million
(2006: £1,882 million), growth of 
2% on an organic basis.
A solid result with, as expected,
operating profits in line with last year.
Largely completed the turnaround or
exit of poor performing contracts.
The Education sector has stabilised
following a difficult period.
We have continued to reorganise the
business to drive further efficiencies.
We expect a broadly similar
performance in 2008.
Our business in Spain is capitalising on the rapid
expansion of the senior-living market. Building on our
experience of providing foodservice in the residential
care homes market, we have developed a delivered
meals service for senior and handicapped people 
at home; a model for other countries with ageing
populations looking for an alternative to moving 
people into rest homes. In the last year we have 
delivered over 1.2 million meals to people in-home
providing a varied, healthy diet.
£2,553m
Revenue
2006: £2,484m
Percentage of 
Group revenue
25%
2006: 24%
Continental Europe
£151m
Operating profit
3
2006: £122m
Regional highlights
Organic revenue growth has doubled 
to 4%, with good growth opportunities
for the future. 
On a constant currency basis, growth 
of £31 million operating profit from
continuing operations to £151 million
(2006: £120 million) represents a margin
improvement of 100 basis points.
In Spain, like for like growth, driven 
by new offerings and an increase in
consumer numbers, together with 
new business in the Healthcare and
Education sectors, have driven 
organic revenue growth of 13%. 
Continued high activity in the oil 
and gas industry in the Nordic region
contributed to 14% organic revenue
growth, while the focus on healthy
eating continues to drive volumes
through much of the region. 
Good turnaround in previously 
underperforming countries such 
as France and the Netherlands.
We are becoming more established 
in the Eastern European market, 
which is growing well.
T engizchevroil (TCO), a Chevron managed joint venture 
in Kazakhstan, renewed their contract for support
services at their Atyrau and T engiz facilities after a
competitive re-tendering process. This is one of our
largest remote site contracts, with over 3,200 of our
people providing a range of services, including full 
daily catering services and the full maintenance of
offices, accommodation rooms and town homes.
£1,622m
Revenue
2006: £1,611m
Percentage of 
Group revenue
16%
2006: 16%
Rest of the World
£64m
Operating profit
3
2006: £47m
Regional highlights
Another very strong year, delivering
£64 million operating profit from
continuing operations (2006: 
£43 million on a constant currency
basis), an increase of £21 million.
Australia continues to deliver strong
organic revenue growth driven 
by the ongoing buoyancy of the
extraction industries.
Encouraging progress in Japan, where
the focus on driving efficiency and 
restructuring the business has resulted
in good margin improvement.
Our businesses in Abu Dhabi and
Dubai have seen good revenue and
margin growth.
Good revenue growth with some
margin improvement in Latin America.
Looking forward there remains
significant opportunity to further
develop our businesses in the 
Rest of the World both in size and
operating performance.
Regional review at a glance
Percentage of 
Group revenue
40%
2006: 42%
See footnotes on page 1.
Business & Industry
Fine Dining
Healthcare & Seniors
Education
Sports & Leisure
Defence, Offshore
Vending
North America
Continental Europe
United Kingdom
Rest of the World
Our marketplace
Our strategy focuses on the
outsourced foodservice and
support services markets,
building on the existing
expertise and strengths we 
have as a Group. 
We estimate that outsourcing growth in 
the foodservice market (which we estimate 
is £150 billion) is at least 5% per annum. 
As market leader, we will strive for more 
and faster penetration of the foodservice
market that is still self operated. The support
services market is significantly larger than 
the foodservice market and growing at a 
faster rate.
Market sectors and operating companies
North America Continental Europe United Kingdom Rest of the World
Group at a glance
Business & Industry
No-one understands food at work quite like we do, 
whether it is in offices, distribution, factories or any 
other work environment. Our consumer focus drives 
the development and innovation in our food offers, 
brands and service to deliver the optimum solution 
from restaurants and café style outlets to coffee bars
and vending. We also provide a selected range of
support services that complement our foodservice
offer. This includes cleaning, grounds maintenance,
hospitality and reception services.
Fine Dining
Food is at the heart of what we do and, often working 
with world-renowned chefs, we bring exceptional
gastronomic creativity and flair, style and hospitality to
executive dining rooms, prestigious social and cultural
events and world famous venues. 
Healthcare & Seniors
One of the most demanding markets in which we 
operate. The very highest standards of food safety and
hygiene, working with clinical staff and having a detailed
understanding of the nutritional needs of those we care
for have made us a leader in this market. Our offer is
broader than simply foodservice for patients, staff and
visitors, and includes a range of complementary
support services including services such as cleaning
and housekeeping.
Education
From primary schools to some of the world’ s most
renowned universities, we provide a nutritious, well-
balanced diet to fuel the development of young minds
and bodies. 
Sports & Leisure
We have unparalleled experience in providing high 
quality foodservice for some of the world’ s most 
prestigious sporting and leisure venues, visitor
attractions and social events. In addition we have 
the specialist in-house expertise and resources to
provide a single source for the complete marketing 
and management of corporate hospitality packages.
Defence, Offshore & Remote Sites
We provide vital workplace support for people working 
in some of the most hostile and demanding terrains in 
the world from oil and gas to major construction sites 
and remote mining locations. Our technical and
logistical competence, commitment to health and
safety and ability to effectively mobilise contracts have
earned us an enviable reputation for providing fully
integrated food and support services for global clients
with workers around the world. 
Vending
Vending is an integral part of our foodservice offer and
we are able to deliver high quality, innovative solutions 
to our customers. In North America this is through
Canteen, our specialist vending operation.
We have unparalleled experience in providing these
services to people in a whole range of environments –
at work, at school or university, in hospital, at sporting
or cultural events, or in remote environments. Our
proven capability in each of these markets results 
from our sector focus, with dedicated operating
businesses in each sector in our main geographies.
This in-depth understanding of the demands of 
these markets and the needs of our customers 
drives our market-leading innovation, our operating
efficiency and ultimately the quality of the service our
customers experience.
Leading sector expertise
Our marketplace
Our aim is to achieve market leadership 
in the sectors and countries that we have
identified as having real prospects for strong
long-term organic growth and provide the
global capability necessary to grow our
international client base.
Our guiding principles form the basis of
our approach to delivering this strategy:
Health, safety and environment first
Never to compromise on the health and 
safety of our customers and our people, 
and to manage responsibly the impact 
that our business has on the environment.
Delivering for clients and consumers
To earn the continued loyalty of our
customers by consistently demonstrating 
why we are the first choice for quality , service,
value and innovation.
Developing our people 
and valuing diversity
To value and recognise the diversity and
contribution of our people. We create a work
environment that is challenging and provides
the opportunities and support for everyone 
to develop, learn and succeed.
Profitable growth
To deliver shareholder value through
disciplined, sustainable growth, underpinned
by strong governance, that contributes to and
leverages the benefits of our global scale.
Constant focus on 
performance and efficiency 
To deliver the highest quality and
performance, whilst relentlessly driving to 
be the lowest cost, most efficient provider.
We are a world leading provider
of food and support services.
Every day we serve literally
millions of people around the
world, whether it is to provide
them with a meal, a cup of
coffee, a clean office or helping 
to keep the entire workspace
around them working at its best. 
In a number of countries we have a single operating company providing
multi-sector solutions. For example, Onama in Italy and Seiyo in Japan. Number of Shares
Number of Holders shares held held
Shareholder analysis holders % millions %
T ype of holder:
Individuals 61,918 92.4 87 4.5
Institutional and other investors 5,112 7.6 1,840 95.5
Total 67,030 100.0 1,927 100.0
Size of holding:
1-100 13,402 20.0 1 0.0
101-200 10,979 16.4 2 0.1
201-500 16,454 24.5 5 0.3
501-1,000 10,728 16.0 8 0.4
1,001-2,000 7,797 11.6 11 0.6
2,001-5,000 4,861 7.2 15 0.8
5,001-10,000 1,251 1.9 9 0.5
10,001-50,000 750 1.1 16 0.8
50,001-100,000 174 0.3 12 0.7
100,001-500,000 306 0.5 74 3.8
500,001-1,000,000 99 0.1 70 3.6
1,000,001-5,000,000 159 0.2 361 18.7
5,000,001-10,000,000 36 0.1 256 13.3
10,000,001 and above 34 0.1 1,087 56.4
Total 67,030 100.0 1,927 100.0
41 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Index to the summary consolidated ﬁnancial statements
Note Page
Independent auditors’ statement 28
Consolidated income statement 29
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 30
Consolidated balance sheet 31
Consolidated cash flow statement 32
Reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations 32
1 Segmental reporting 33
2 Discontinued operations 34
3 Exceptional items 36
4 Earnings per share 37
5 Dividends 37
6 Reconciliation of movements in equity 38
7 Contingent liabilities 39
Forward looking statements
This Review contains forward looking statements within 
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act,
as amended.These statements are subject to a number of
risks and uncertainties and actual results and events could
differ materially from those currently being anticipated as
reflected in such forward looking statements. The terms
‘expect’, ‘should be’, ‘will be’, ‘is likely to’ and similar
expressions identify forward looking statements. Factors
which may cause future outcomes to differ from those
foreseen in forward looking statements include, but are not
limited to: general economic conditions and business
conditions in Compass Group’s markets; exchange rate
fluctuations; customers’ and clients’ acceptance of its
products and services; the actions of competitors; and
legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments.
For the 13th consecutive year Master Chef Wolfgang 
Puck was selected to create the menu for The Academy
of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences post-Oscar event, 
the Governor’ s Ball. In the same month Compass’
foodservice excellence was on show at the 49th 
Annual Grammy Awards and for the Players’ Party 
and Super Bowl Host Committee VIP Party at this 
year’ s Super Bowl.
£4,162m
Revenue
2006: £4,290m
North America
£261m
Operating profit
3
2006: £245m
Regional highlights
Continued excellent progress
delivering 6% organic revenue growth.
Operating profit from continuing
operations increased by £39 million 
on a constant currency basis to 
£261 million (2006: £222 million), 
a 60 basis point margin improvement. 
The Business & Industry sector has
been driven by innovation in our offer,
delivering 4% like for like revenue
growth. 
In Healthcare, 7% organic growth 
from increased cross-selling between
Morrison, our foodservice business,
and Crothall, our support services
business. 
Healthy eating programmes and 
the strength of the Chartwells brand
contributed to 9% organic revenue
growth in the Education sector. 
Good growth in Levy, our Sports 
& Leisure business.
Continued good progress with 
our business in Canada.
Our pipeline for 2008 looks healthy .
The newly branded Restaurant Associates was launched 
in May 2007 to respond to a growing demand for a leading
provider of executive hospitality , dining and business
support services to its prestigious blue-chip clients;
including 17 out of the top 20 investment banks in 
London, law firms and leading organisations. The move
consolidated our previous brand operations under one
strong identity and management structure. Our new
business goals reflect a commitment to innovation, 
service, lifestyle and simplicity .
£1,931m
Revenue
2006: £1,882m
Percentage of 
Group revenue
19%
2006: 18%
United Kingdom
£107m
Operating profit
3
2006: £107m
Regional highlights
Revenue in the UK was £1,931 million
(2006: £1,882 million), growth of 
2% on an organic basis.
A solid result with, as expected,
operating profits in line with last year.
Largely completed the turnaround or
exit of poor performing contracts.
The Education sector has stabilised
following a difficult period.
We have continued to reorganise the
business to drive further efficiencies.
We expect a broadly similar
performance in 2008.
Our business in Spain is capitalising on the rapid
expansion of the senior-living market. Building on our
experience of providing foodservice in the residential
care homes market, we have developed a delivered
meals service for senior and handicapped people 
at home; a model for other countries with ageing
populations looking for an alternative to moving 
people into rest homes. In the last year we have 
delivered over 1.2 million meals to people in-home
providing a varied, healthy diet.
£2,553m
Revenue
2006: £2,484m
Percentage of 
Group revenue
25%
2006: 24%
Continental Europe
£151m
Operating profit
3
2006: £122m
Regional highlights
Organic revenue growth has doubled 
to 4%, with good growth opportunities
for the future. 
On a constant currency basis, growth 
of £31 million operating profit from
continuing operations to £151 million
(2006: £120 million) represents a margin
improvement of 100 basis points.
In Spain, like for like growth, driven 
by new offerings and an increase in
consumer numbers, together with 
new business in the Healthcare and
Education sectors, have driven 
organic revenue growth of 13%. 
Continued high activity in the oil 
and gas industry in the Nordic region
contributed to 14% organic revenue
growth, while the focus on healthy
eating continues to drive volumes
through much of the region. 
Good turnaround in previously 
underperforming countries such 
as France and the Netherlands.
We are becoming more established 
in the Eastern European market, 
which is growing well.
T engizchevroil (TCO), a Chevron managed joint venture 
in Kazakhstan, renewed their contract for support
services at their Atyrau and T engiz facilities after a
competitive re-tendering process. This is one of our
largest remote site contracts, with over 3,200 of our
people providing a range of services, including full 
daily catering services and the full maintenance of
offices, accommodation rooms and town homes.
£1,622m
Revenue
2006: £1,611m
Percentage of 
Group revenue
16%
2006: 16%
Rest of the World
£64m
Operating profit
3
2006: £47m
Regional highlights
Another very strong year, delivering
£64 million operating profit from
continuing operations (2006: 
£43 million on a constant currency
basis), an increase of £21 million.
Australia continues to deliver strong
organic revenue growth driven 
by the ongoing buoyancy of the
extraction industries.
Encouraging progress in Japan, where
the focus on driving efficiency and 
restructuring the business has resulted
in good margin improvement.
Our businesses in Abu Dhabi and
Dubai have seen good revenue and
margin growth.
Good revenue growth with some
margin improvement in Latin America.
Looking forward there remains
significant opportunity to further
develop our businesses in the 
Rest of the World both in size and
operating performance.
Regional review at a glance
Percentage of 
Group revenue
40%
2006: 42%
See footnotes on page 1.
Business & Industry
Fine Dining
Healthcare & Seniors
Education
Sports & Leisure
Defence, Offshore
Vending
North America
Continental Europe
United Kingdom
Rest of the World
Our marketplace
Our strategy focuses on the
outsourced foodservice and
support services markets,
building on the existing
expertise and strengths we 
have as a Group. 
We estimate that outsourcing growth in 
the foodservice market (which we estimate 
is £150 billion) is at least 5% per annum. 
As market leader, we will strive for more 
and faster penetration of the foodservice
market that is still self operated. The support
services market is significantly larger than 
the foodservice market and growing at a 
faster rate.
Market sectors and operating companies
North America Continental Europe United Kingdom Rest of the World
Group at a glance
Business & Industry
No-one understands food at work quite like we do, 
whether it is in offices, distribution, factories or any 
other work environment. Our consumer focus drives 
the development and innovation in our food offers, 
brands and service to deliver the optimum solution 
from restaurants and café style outlets to coffee bars
and vending. We also provide a selected range of
support services that complement our foodservice
offer. This includes cleaning, grounds maintenance,
hospitality and reception services.
Fine Dining
Food is at the heart of what we do and, often working 
with world-renowned chefs, we bring exceptional
gastronomic creativity and flair, style and hospitality to
executive dining rooms, prestigious social and cultural
events and world famous venues. 
Healthcare & Seniors
One of the most demanding markets in which we 
operate. The very highest standards of food safety and
hygiene, working with clinical staff and having a detailed
understanding of the nutritional needs of those we care
for have made us a leader in this market. Our offer is
broader than simply foodservice for patients, staff and
visitors, and includes a range of complementary
support services including services such as cleaning
and housekeeping.
Education
From primary schools to some of the world’ s most
renowned universities, we provide a nutritious, well-
balanced diet to fuel the development of young minds
and bodies. 
Sports & Leisure
We have unparalleled experience in providing high 
quality foodservice for some of the world’ s most 
prestigious sporting and leisure venues, visitor
attractions and social events. In addition we have 
the specialist in-house expertise and resources to
provide a single source for the complete marketing 
and management of corporate hospitality packages.
Defence, Offshore & Remote Sites
We provide vital workplace support for people working 
in some of the most hostile and demanding terrains in 
the world from oil and gas to major construction sites 
and remote mining locations. Our technical and
logistical competence, commitment to health and
safety and ability to effectively mobilise contracts have
earned us an enviable reputation for providing fully
integrated food and support services for global clients
with workers around the world. 
Vending
Vending is an integral part of our foodservice offer and
we are able to deliver high quality, innovative solutions 
to our customers. In North America this is through
Canteen, our specialist vending operation.
We have unparalleled experience in providing these
services to people in a whole range of environments –
at work, at school or university, in hospital, at sporting
or cultural events, or in remote environments. Our
proven capability in each of these markets results 
from our sector focus, with dedicated operating
businesses in each sector in our main geographies.
This in-depth understanding of the demands of 
these markets and the needs of our customers 
drives our market-leading innovation, our operating
efficiency and ultimately the quality of the service our
customers experience.
Leading sector expertise
Our marketplace
Our aim is to achieve market leadership 
in the sectors and countries that we have
identified as having real prospects for strong
long-term organic growth and provide the
global capability necessary to grow our
international client base.
Our guiding principles form the basis of
our approach to delivering this strategy:
Health, safety and environment first
Never to compromise on the health and 
safety of our customers and our people, 
and to manage responsibly the impact 
that our business has on the environment.
Delivering for clients and consumers
To earn the continued loyalty of our
customers by consistently demonstrating 
why we are the first choice for quality , service,
value and innovation.
Developing our people 
and valuing diversity
To value and recognise the diversity and
contribution of our people. We create a work
environment that is challenging and provides
the opportunities and support for everyone 
to develop, learn and succeed.
Profitable growth
To deliver shareholder value through
disciplined, sustainable growth, underpinned
by strong governance, that contributes to and
leverages the benefits of our global scale.
Constant focus on 
performance and efficiency 
To deliver the highest quality and
performance, whilst relentlessly driving to 
be the lowest cost, most efficient provider.
We are a world leading provider
of food and support services.
Every day we serve literally
millions of people around the
world, whether it is to provide
them with a meal, a cup of
coffee, a clean office or helping 
to keep the entire workspace
around them working at its best. 
In a number of countries we have a single operating company providing
multi-sector solutions. For example, Onama in Italy and Seiyo in Japan. 01 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
2007 highlights
Group revenue
5% organic revenue growth on a constant 
currency basis.
1,5
Through the MAP process we have
transformed the performance of the business
with good quality organic revenue growth,
greater focus on like for like growth and cost
efficiencies together delivering £101 million
of operating profit growth at constant
currency and driving the operating margin
forward by 70 basis points. Our focus on
capital expenditure and working capital has
resulted in a step change in the delivery of
free cash flow , up 68% to £357 million.
The three main drivers of our £101 million of
operating profit growth this year have been:
Net new business achieved through new
clients, new services to existing clients and
managing retention of existing business 
has delivered £30 million of profit.
Base estate growth resulting from like for 
like price and volume growth and the
management of cost inflation has delivered
£35 million of profit.
Reducing above unit costs by a net 
£36 million.
5%
Organic revenue growth
5
2006: 7%
1.9%
Capital expenditure as a % of revenue
2006: 1.9%
12.5%
Return on capital employed
2006: 11.3%
10.8p
Full year dividend
2006: 10.1p
Total operating profit
A 24% increase in operating profit on a constant
currency basis.
1,2
Basic earnings per share
An underlying earnings per share increase of 62%.
4
Margin
A margin increase of 70 basis points.
1,6
Free cash flow
A step change in the delivery of free cash flow, up 68%.
All figures shown relate to continuing operations.
1. Constant currency restates the prior year results to 2007
average exchange rates.
2. Includes share of profit of associates. UK £3 million (2006: 
£1 million) and North America £1 million (2006: £1 million).
3. Excludes share of profit of associates.
4. Underlying profit before tax excludes revaluation gains and
losses on swaps and hedging instruments (hedge
accounting ineffectiveness) of £(6) million (2006: £11
million). Underlying basic earnings per share excludes these
items net of tax.
5. Organic growth is calculated by adjusting for acquisitions
(excluding current year acquisitions and including a full year
in respect of prior year acquisitions), disposals (excluded
from both years) and exchange rate movements (translating
the prior years at current year exchange rates) and
compares the results against 2006.
6. Operating margin is based on revenue and operating profit
excluding share of profit of associates.
Find out more online
More information on Compass Group can be found on
our website: www.compass-group.com.
For our Annual Report, go to our Investor Centre at
www.compass-group.com.
You can also go to our website to register to receive
future Annual Reviews and Reports and other
shareholder information electronically.
Our strong operating performance 
is being driven by concentrating on
the five key profit drivers of MAP , 
our Group-wide Management and
Performance framework, which is
now embedded within our business.
Cost of food
Buying the optimal
quality and range 
of food to meet 
the needs of our
customers at the
lowest cost, with
the most efficient
distribution and 
in-unit production.
Consumer
sales and
marketing
Driving growth in
consumer volume
and spending
through innovation
in our offer, the 
right pricing and 
the right retail skills.
Client 
sales and
marketing
Delivering profitable
growth from existing
and new clients, 
and developing our
penetration in our
chosen markets.
Unit costs
Delivering the right
level of service in 
the most efficient
way, focusing on
labour productivity
and controlling
labour and other 
in-unit costs.
Above unit
overheads
Creating a simpler
organisational
model, with 
fewer layers of
management and
less bureaucracy.
£9,768m
£10,268m
2006 2007
£428m
£529m
2006 2007
4.4%
5.1%
2006 2007
9.4p
15.2p
2006 2007
£212m
£357m
2006 2007 02 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
I am delighted to report a year of outstanding
progress against the commitments we have
given to improve returns to shareholders. 
The objective of the strategy we communicated
last year is to grow our business in a disciplined
way to deliver sustainable profit and growth.
This year represents an important first step in
delivering this strategy .
We remain firmly focused on developing 
our core foodservice business, in which we 
see continued strong long-term growth
opportunities in our chosen market sectors. 
Alongside this we are developing a range of
complementary support services, which we are
progressively bringing to market, prioritising
those sectors and countries where our ability
to provide both food and support services will
help us to develop our market. In particular,
we see a growing number of international
clients who are looking for a service partner
such as us who can deliver these services to
consistently high standards, globally .
The successful implementation of MAP
has given us the framework to manage the
business with the intensity necessary to drive
improved performance. MAP is now well-
established in the businesses. In the coming
year we will be taking further steps to embed
MAP even deeper into the organisation.
Our Group Chief Executive, Richard
Cousins, in his first full year in the role, 
has put in place a strong leadership team 
to lead the continued development and
implementation of our strategy , bringing in
competencies in areas such as marketing and
international clients to support the delivery 
of our objectives and to help drive value from
the combined strength of our global Group. 
Chairman’s statement
Delivering on our commitments
Our performance reflects a clear, well-executed strategy , which 
is starting to deliver increased value to our shareholders.
The introduction of MAP , our Management and Performance
framework, has given us a common language and agenda resulting 
in greater focus and visibility across the whole business. We have
delivered a step change in profit and free cash flow generation 
as new processes begin to embed throughout the organisation. 
Looking ahead, we believe we are entering a new phase of
sustainable value creation, with exciting opportunities to grow
revenues, improve margins and generate significant cash flow .
Sir Roy Gardner
Chairman 03 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
I have continued the programme I initiated 
to improve corporate governance and
controls. Building on the progress we have
already made, our aim this year has been
reviewing and re-communicating Group
policies and practices, with processes and
training to ensure that these are received 
and understood. 
Over the last year we have further reviewed
our corporate social responsibility strategy
(‘CSR’) to ensure that we are addressing the
broader social and environmental issues in 
the way that we run our business. This
commitment is very much in evidence in 
our day-to-day operations, forming a firm
foundation to build on as we strive to
continuously improve our CSR journey . 
We have made good progress in the last year
and, going forward, I will continue to take 
the necessary steps to ensure that we set the
highest standards for corporate governance
and responsible business practice.
Returns to shareholders
The Board is proposing a final dividend 
of 7.2 pence per share for payment in 
March 2008. This brings our full year
dividend to 10.8 pence, a year on year
increase of 7%.
In July this year we completed the sale of
Selecta, the European vending business, 
for £772 million before transaction costs. 
Of these proceeds we are using £500 million
to extend our share buy-back programme.
This is in addition to the return of
£500 million to shareholders following 
the sale of SSP in 2006, taking the total share
buy-back programme to £1 billion. As of
30 September 2007 we had bought back shares
for cancellation to the value of £720 million.
A further £45 million of the Selecta proceeds
have been contributed to Compass’ UK
closed defined benefit pension plans, taking
the total amount of special contributions 
to these plans over the past 15 months to
£325 million, significantly reducing the
pension deficit in these schemes.
The balance of the proceeds has been used 
to further reduce net debt. 
Management
On becoming Chairman I began the process
of reinvigorating the Board to achieve the
right blend of expertise, experience and
strong independent scrutiny to guide the
decisions of the Board over managing and
growing the business in the best interests of
our shareholders.
This has been achieved through an orderly
succession plan and without compromising
the effectiveness of the Board and its
committees.
Peter Blackburn, Peter Cawdron and Val
Gooding have all stepped down from the
Board in the last year and I would like to
thank each of them for the contribution 
they have made to the Group.
I am delighted that Sir Ian Robinson, Tim
Parker, Sir James Crosby and Susan Murray
joined the Board as non-executive directors
during the last 12 months, with Sir James
Crosby becoming the senior independent
non-executive director. Together with my
other colleagues on the Board, I look forward
to our new directors’ continued contribution
to the deliberations of the Board.
In June we appointed Mark White as the
Group’s General Counsel and Company
Secretary , a new role within the Group. 
Mark, a qualified solicitor, has extensive
international legal and business experience
and joined us from Wolseley plc. 
Our people
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank
all of our people around the world for their
commitment and efforts in achieving these
results and for the excellent service they
deliver daily; service that continues to earn
the loyalty of our clients and consumers and
reinforces our position as a leader in our
chosen markets.
Outlook 
The results that we have reported for 2007
demonstrate that we have the right strategy ,
the right leadership and, through MAP , the
right focus to capitalise on the considerable
opportunities that exist in our chosen markets.
I believe that these results and the actions 
we are taking give us a solid foundation on
which to base sustainable performance
improvements and deliver increasing value 
to our shareholders.
Sir Roy Gardner 
Chairman
28 November 2007 
Full year dividend
10.8p( +7%)
Focus on our contract 
foodservice business
Grow our support
services business
Committed to giving
our customers 
superior levels 
of service
Focus on driving 
cost efficiencies
Our strategy
We have a very clear and focused strategy , 
a significant market opportunity and a tight
operating model with much improved
controls and governance.
The FTSE 100 Index has been rebased to the
Compass Group share price on 29 September 2006
(268.25 pence)
Compass Group 
share price performance
vs FTSE 100 Index 2007
250
275
300
325
350
375
400
29/09
2006
Compass Group
FTSE 100 Index
28/09
2007
29/11
2006
29/01
2007
29/03
2007
29/05
2007
30/07
2007
Pence 04 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Over the last 18 months we have tightened
our strategy , simplified the business to focus 
on our core food and support services offer 
by selling non-core businesses and have
considerably reduced our risk profile by
exiting high risk or volatile businesses. 
Our strong operating performance is being
driven by concentrating on the five key profit
drivers of MAP , our operating framework,
which is now embedded within our business.
Each MAP component has its own set of key
performance indicators. Performance is
reviewed with country management teams
both monthly and in our detailed business
reviews. Together these give greater visibility
of country performance, enable us to respond
more quickly to opportunities and changes in
our markets and ensure that our businesses
are constantly focused on profitable organic
growth. 
MAP has enabled us to deliver £101 million
of constant currency operating profit growth
through:
£30 million of net new business
growth driven by better quality new
business and retention
MAP 1 – Client sales and marketing: 
achieved through better targeted businesses,
tighter contracts and sharper contract
evaluation. Included among our new business
wins: Asda in the UK; The House of
Representatives, Dell and DreamWorks in the
US; Continental in Germany; and Shell
across Europe. 
£35 million of base estate profit
growth driven by like for like revenue
growth and cost efficiencies
Driving like for like revenue growth:
MAP 1 – Client sales and marketing: 
addresses driving like for like revenue through
client pricing strategies and growing client
volumes, for example: through additional
services, such as: cleaning, portering, reception
and concierge.
Chief Executive’s statement
Driving performance
Through the MAP process we have delivered good quality 
organic revenue growth, driven the operating margin forward 
and significantly increased operating profit. We have achieved this 
through better quality new business and retention, a greater focus 
on like for like growth and improved cost efficiencies. Our focus 
on capital expenditure and working capital has resulted in a step 
change in the delivery of free cash flow .
Richard Cousins
Group Chief Executive  05 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
MAP 2 – Consumer sales and marketing: 
focuses on developing our retail philosophy in
order to increase participation and spend per
head, for example: extending our offer to
include breakfast and ‘Grab & Go’ concepts.
Driving cost efficiencies:
MAP 3 – Cost of food: addresses cost
efficiencies through a systematic approach to
menu planning, purchasing and supply chain,
and unit processes.
MAP 4 – Unit costs: we spend nearly £5.5
billion per year on unit costs and we have been
managing this through: labour productivity
and scheduling; control of labour costs; and 
in-unit overhead opportunities.
£36 million of above unit overhead
savings after allowing for inflation
MAP 5 – Above unit overheads: we spend
£0.8 billion on above unit overheads per year .
The savings have been achieved through:
management reorganisation; consolidated
back office functions; change management
processes; and tightened control of
discretionary spend.
Food cost inflation
We spend around £3.5 billion a year on food.
We estimate that for last year we have seen
about a one percentage point increase in the
rate of inflation. To put this into context each
one percentage point of food cost inflation
adds about £35 million to the total cost base
of £9.7 billion. This is before taking into
account that around one third of our
contracts are cost plus. We believe that our
basket of goods is currently experiencing
market increases of some 4% to 5%.
In terms of its impact, most of the
geographies in which we operate and most
food categories have seen some inflation.
However, the larger double digit inflationary
increases have been in dairy , rice and pasta.
Together these categories account for only
about 10% of the Group’s spend on food.
Food price inflation is not a new phenomenon.
We have managed it well for many years and
continue to do so, but now , through the MAP
framework, with greater intensity . The specific
actions we are taking to address food inflation
fall into three categories: purchasing and
supply chain efficiencies; unit cost efficiencies
including menu re-engineering; client and
consumer price increases.
So, in conclusion, food price inflation is well
understood and being acted upon. Crucially ,
despite the inflation we have seen this year, 
we have been able to hold our gross margins
steady through the combination of cost
efficiencies and price increases.
Processes and people
Our new monthly reporting processes and
regular business reviews with country
management teams ensure that we are all
constantly focused on the management and
performance of the five MAP value drivers.
Our country managing directors are now fully
empowered to run their businesses, operating
within a clearly defined MAP operating
framework. 
The new measures have also led to tighter
discipline and sounder governance. Approval
processes have been strengthened and
remuneration policies reviewed. The
Corporate Responsibility Committee, a 
subcommittee of the Board, continues 
to oversee all aspects of health and food
safety , environmental impacts, governance
and its reporting. 
Over the past 18 months we have made
significant management changes at a Board,
Executive Committee, Group head office and
country leadership level. We have put in place
succession planning and are focusing on
management development to ensure that 
we are developing our leadership strength 
for the future.
The introduction of MAP and the removal 
of divisional management structures have
resulted in greater transparency across 
the organisation. We now have greater
management strength at both country 
and head office level and this new global
leadership team has been central to driving
the improved performance.
Strategy and the future
Looking back over the achievements of the
last 18 months, strategically , we have defined 
a clearer focused strategy and launched MAP .
We have made good progress in developing
our support services business and we have
simplified the business by exiting non-core
businesses such as SSP , Selecta, Hotels and
other non-core assets. We have also reduced
the number of countries in which we operate
and considerably reduced our risk profile.
We believe we now have a focused and
transparent business model which will
generate significant opportunities to grow 
the top line organically , improve margins 
and grow profitability and generate significant
cash flow . We believe we are entering a new
phase of sustainable value creation.
There will be no change in our core 
strategy as we enter the next phase of our
development. We remain very excited by 
the prospects for growth with significant
outsourcing potential in our core food and
support service markets. We estimate that
outsourcing growth in the foodservice market
(valued at £150 billion) is at least 5% per
annum. The support services market is larger
than the foodservices market and growing 
at a faster rate. Operationally we will stay
focused on MAP and embed it deeper into 
the organisation. The drive for like for like
growth and increased operational efficiencies
will also continue. From this we will expect
further significant cash flow generation.
Richard Cousins
Group Chief Executive
28 November 2007 
New business
Base estate
Client sales 
and marketing
Consumer
sales and
marketing
Cost of food
Unit costs
Above unit
overheads
Above unit
overheads
Cost efficiencies – purchasing, menu planning,
supply chain and in-unit processes
Labour productivity, labour and in-unit 
cost control
Like for like price and volume growth – more
services, retention, and innovative offers
Market development, good quality 
new business
Simplified organisation, control of 
discretionary spend
Map – Driving profitable growth 06 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Growing our markets
We continue to see growth in our core
contract foodservice market. We see exciting
growth in every sector, especially Healthcare
and Education, driven by innovations such 
as ‘Steamplicity’, and in a growing Sports 
& Leisure market where we have had 
great success in winning contracts for 
prestigious events and major venues, such 
as The O2 in London, the largest sports and
entertainment complex in Europe, Kruger
National Park in South Africa and the 
Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Centre
(ADNEC) in the United Arab Emirates.
Our country MAP plans detail our approach
to developing each market. Our global 
sector forums, supported by our new market
development function, provide the means 
to identify and respond to emerging market
trends, facilitate the rapid transfer of
best practices from one part of the Group 
to another and drive innovation in our 
client offer. 
Last year we identified the support services
market as an attractive opportunity for a
number of reasons:
We have an existing capability to build 
on, with some industry leading expertise 
in certain services and sectors; 
It enables us to respond to an increasing
number of clients who are looking to
bundle services, including foodservice; and 
It complements the service and health 
and safety ethos that has gained us 
our reputation for excellence in the
foodservice market.
Our strategy is to develop the support services
market in a disciplined way by focusing on
selected services, sectors and countries. 
To give us real competitive advantage in 
this market we have developed the Compass
Service Framework, using the very best
knowledge that we can find in the world to
ensure that we can deliver the world-class,
consistent capability that clients demand.
Driving like for like revenue
The size and depth of our client base and the
loyalty of our clients reflect the quality and
scope of the services we provide, and we are
proud to count organisations that are leaders
in their markets as our clients. 
The focus over the last 12 months and going
forward is to improve the discipline with
which we manage our existing client
relationships and improve the performance 
of our contract base. To achieve this we have
focused on the following areas:
Ensuring that we have the right contract
terms in place that accurately reflect 
the services we are being paid to provide
and that we have the appropriate review
processes and controls in place to monitor
service levels, client satisfaction and 
price indexation, the latter being vitally
important in managing through
inflationary cost increases;
Extending the services we provide, 
for example, adding vending or cleaning 
to a foodservice-only site, or increasing the
number of sites we support, and driving
like for like volume and average spend
increases in our existing operations; and
Proactively reviewing contracts where the
financial and operational performance 
does not meet expectations and taking the
opportunity to renegotiate these to put
them on the right basis going forward. 
More disciplined new business
As we develop our core markets it is vital that
we maintain a healthy new business pipeline,
supported by the necessary disciplines to
ensure that we take on the right business 
on the right terms. We have been putting in
place across all our businesses clear guidelines
and training for our sales teams on our key
contract terms. This is supported by a robust
approvals process for new business bids at a
country level and, dependent on the scale 
of the opportunity or the level of capital
investment required, review and approval 
at a Group level.
In response to our clients’ 
needs we have developed a
strong capability in a selected
range of support services 
that complement our core
foodservice offer.
MAP 1 – Client sales and marketing
MAP 1 focuses on delivering
profitable growth from existing
and new clients and developing
our penetration in our chosen
markets.
Chief Executive’s statement 
continued
International clients management 
Through our international clients programme we 
are developing closer relationships with multinational
organisations. They recognise that we have the
geographical coverage and capability to deliver
outsourced food and support services to the same
world-class standards, globally and enable them to
achieve their own global objectives.
Steamplicity – market-leading innovation
Market-leading innovations like ‘Steamplicity’ are
helping us to open up new segments of our core 
market sectors. Already being enjoyed by consumers 
in the UK and Europe, ‘Steamplicity’, uses patented
valve technology to healthily steam-cook meals within
minutes, retaining nutritional content and promoting
wellness and vitality. Ideal for providing hot meals
‘cooked to order’ for hospital patients, schools 
and environments where traditional kitchen space 
is often restricted.  07 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Our consumer focus 
is driving continued
innovation in our brands 
and foodservice offers.
Understanding consumer trends 
to drive innovation
Whilst we may be feeding people either in
their workplace, at college or in a hospital
restaurant, their demand for quality , choice
and value are equally as discerning as you
would find on the high street. Our focus on
understanding consumer needs and future
trends is driving the development and
innovation in our food offers, brands and
services. In Healthcare, for example, we have
led the market with the introduction of
patient personalised meal ordering, such as
our ‘Catering to Y ou’ service, which provides
greater flexibility , choice and individual
dietary control. Developed in the USA,
‘Catering to Y ou’ has already successfully
transferred to other countries.
Health, wellbeing and sustainability are
important topics that matter to our consumers
in every sector. As a global foodservice
company we fully understand the
responsibility we have in helping consumers
make informed choices about diet and
nutrition. Our in-house dieticians work with
our culinary , product development and
purchasing teams to create menu programmes
that combine menu planning, labelling and
promotion, and educational training for our
people to deliver food choices that are safe,
nutritious and balanced, and suit the lifestyle
and tastes of our consumers. For example, in
our US Education business, ‘Eat, Learn, Live’
is a market leading commitment to the health
and wellbeing of children and students from
primary schools to college. This holistic
approach drives innovations such as ‘Brake for
Breakfast’ and ‘Morning Editions’ providing 
a healthier start to the day . In addition we
help educate students to recognise and 
choose healthier options, provide a nutrition
and physical activity for the curriculum
‘Healthsmart’ and support health related 
in-classroom and outreach programmes.
Improved pricing management
In an increasingly ‘retail’ market we are
taking a more thorough approach to pricing
and are deploying pricing tools and processes
to enable our managers to undertake 
‘local market basket’ benchmarking which,
combined with national benchmarking,
enables a regular, fact-based pricing review
with our clients. For example, in our UK
business our units receive a regular ‘Price
Watch’ update providing information, based
on ‘high-street’ benchmarking research. 
Driving volume and spend
A greater understanding of our consumers
enables us to more effectively target offers that
entice consumers into more repeat visits and
encourage them to spend more per visit. To
achieve this we are developing a more retail-
focused approach to promotions, selling skills
and merchandising. In our Business &
Industry sector this might mean extending 
the use of the restaurant through different 
day-part offers, for example, broadening 
out from a lunch time only service to include
breakfast. In Germany , in response to
consumer research we have developed a
‘Grab and Go’ offer as an additional service
which is now generating a like for like volume
increase of 4%.
Controlling the cash
Learning from the retail sector, at the same
time as driving increased sales, we have
focused on ensuring that we are not losing this
cash to poor cash handling disciplines, stock
shrinkage or even theft. The experience of
a considerable number of trial sites for our
‘Profit Protection’ programme in the UK 
has shown that a focus on this area (putting
training and processes in place, supported 
by the right technology) can lead to sales
increases of up to 7%, cash reconciliation
improvements of up to 3% and a significant
reduction in cash ‘loss’. 
MAP 2 – Consumer sales and marketing
MAP 2 reflects the importance 
of having the right offers and
retail skills to drive growth in
consumer volume and spending.
Selling more beverages
In the Czech Republic we have doubled like for like
beverage sales in our 350 Business & Industry units.
Through understanding consumer behaviours 
we identified a significant opportunity to capture
incremental beverage sales by focusing on ‘hydrating’
people better in the workplace. Key initiatives were
based around expanding day-parts, increasing variety
and choice and educating the consumer on the
importance of hydration. Solutions were to increase
range and package types, introduce larger pack sizes,
install incremental equipment (coolers and racks),
improve merchandising and place hydration messages
at point of sale.
Improved pricing through ‘Value Planning’
2,000 of our operating units in the USA are using 
the ‘Value Plan’, a simple but highly effective price
management and benchmarking tool which 
provides the framework for setting pricing strategies.
Through the ‘Value Plan’ we compare unit pricing
information against national and local ‘market basket’
benchmarks and inflation forecasts, to set our target
price points for each of our major categories. This
provides our Unit Managers with credible data to
develop their own unit pricing plan and set regular
pricing reviews with our clients. Performance is 
now being tracked through weekly ‘owners reports’
from each unit, comparing the actual price achieved
against our target price for the top selling categories.
Recently developed supporting tools such as ‘mapping
the servery’ and ‘station profitability’ enable managers
to analyse the performance of individual areas of the
restaurant. The impact of the ‘Value Plan’ is evidenced 
in like for like sales growth of 5% and an increase of up
to 10% in average spend per transaction. 08 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Managing food cost inflation
We have held our cost of sales flat throughout
a year in which we have seen food cost
inflation affect most food categories in most 
of the countries in which we operate. The
drivers of inflationary pressures stem from
growth in demand, such as population and
economic growth, changes in eating habits
and the increased use of staple crops for 
bio-fuels, combined with pressure on the
supply side brought about by reduced
harvests, often caused by extreme weather, 
or the impact of food scares.
Our ability to manage these inflationary
pressures is a result of:
The work we have done to include food
cost indexation in our contracts, giving 
us the contractual right to review pricing
with our clients;
Re-engineering our menus to switch food
items in response to forecast shortages 
and cost increases; and
Continuing to drive greater purchasing
efficiencies through supplier rationalisation
and compliance.
Leveraging our scale
Our approach to purchasing reflects the need
to have the right supplier relationships and
partnerships in place at a local, regional,
national and international level. We now 
have country purchasing teams in place to
drive purchasing efficiencies in support of
individual country business plans. For
example, in the UK we have a programme
called ‘85:10:5’, the purpose of which has 
been to move all of our purchasing spend 
into the following categories: 
85% spend or greater through approved
suppliers; 
10% spend or less through suppliers of
unique products or services; and
5% spend or less through suppliers who 
meet specific, local contract requirements.
‘85:10:5’ provides the right levels of control
and compliance combined with the flexibility
to meet individual contract or service specific
needs. At the same time we are better
leveraging our purchasing volumes by 
moving to a smaller group of suppliers and 
a narrower product range, as we have done 
in countries like Germany where we have
consolidated 80% of our purchasing volume
with 11 suppliers and decreased the number
of products from 40,000 to 7,000.
We are also seeing significant benefits in
compliance, cost control and forecasting
through more effective menu planning. 
In Brazil, for example, our units have 
online access to a centralised menu planning
database and have reduced average meal 
costs by up to 10%. 
Reducing in-unit production costs
Another focus area under MAP 3 is reducing
the cost of in-unit meal production. A key
component of this is reducing food waste,
targeting wastage in the production process
itself, overproduction or incorrectly ordered
or out-of-date stock. Programmes such as
‘Trim Trax’, which has been trialled in the 
US Business & Industry and Education
sectors, are providing simple, high impact
tools to raise awareness of the issue of
wastage with our in-unit teams and embed 
the disciplines necessary to reduce it.
We are addressing food 
cost efficiencies through 
a systematic approach to
menu planning, purchasing
and in-unit processes.
Chief Executive’s statement 
continued
Trim Trax – reducing wastage
The ‘Trim Trax’ programme has been developed in the
US Business & Industry sector to help reduce in-unit
food wastage, focusing on the most frequent reasons
we have identified for production loss – overproduction,
out-of-date inventory and wastage in the food
preparation itself. The programme provides some 
very simple, very visible ways to reinforce the message
about reducing waste for our in-unit teams. One simple,
but effective way is giving each member of the food
production team their own individual ‘Trim Trax’ food
waste bin, which has the volume of waste recorded,
categorised and assigned a value each day. Results are
then tracked, with the team identifying actions to reduce
wastage and recognition going to the best performers. 
Reducing supply chain costs
Our newly created European Consolidation Centre 
in Southern Spain has reduced supply chain costs 
by having fresh produce delivered directly to this facility
from our own nominated growers, which we then quality
assure and consolidate for dispatch to our distributors 
in 12 European countries. By consolidating our spend
and buying at source we have significantly improved 
our buying price, quality and traceability, reduced
distribution costs, and reduced the number of lorries 
on the road. We received the UK Institute of Grocery
Distribution’ s 2007 Food Industry Award for Supply
Chain Excellence in recognition of our fresh produce
buying strategy.
MAP 3 – Cost of food
We spend over £3.5 billion a
year on food alone. Our MAP 3
objective is to buy the optimal
quality and range of food and
products to meet the needs of
our customers at the lowest
cost, whilst having the most
efficient distribution and 
in-unit production. 09 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Improving efficiency and
costs in our units is a real
opportunity that we are
starting to address.
Improving labour productivity
Our objective is always to deliver the right
level of service in the most efficient way
possible, by ensuring that we have the right
number of trained people, performing the
right activities in the right place at the right
time, and have the flexibility to absorb
increases in volume.
With the focus on labour productivity 
through MAP we have been deploying tools
and processes across our business to improve
our labour optimisation. These are scalable 
to suit the differing sizes of our operations
and range from simple unit-based labour
scheduling tools that track and forecast labour
hours against sales, through to intensive 
on-site reviews by productivity specialists 
in our major sites. These programmes, such 
as ‘Performance Plus’ in our US Healthcare
business, involve detailed time and motion
studies to analyse labour scheduling and
efficiency in all areas of the operation, from
food production to mapping front of house
service needs against consumer footfall. 
This gives a clear picture of the optimal
labour hour requirements on a unit level,
allowing us to adjust rostering and employee
hours accordingly . 
With the work that we have been doing 
in this area we continue to deepen our
understanding of the key drivers of
productivity and how to measure, report 
and manage it more effectively .
Effectively managing labour and
ancillary costs
Through MAP we are also exercising better
control over other labour costs such as
absenteeism, overtime and third party 
agency spend.
We have put in place processes and disciplines
to improve our management of salary and
benefit costs and control labour cost inflation.
These include local sector benchmarking, 
a robust process for managing national or
sector wage agreements and reviewing
benefits to ensure that those we provide 
are competitive with local market practices,
are valued by our people and that, where 
we use external providers for benefits such 
as health insurance, we are leveraging our
scale effectively .
Along with food costs, we are now including
labour costs as part of our pricing indexation
models, which drive our pricing strategy ,
product tariffs and which we use in our
contract pricing review process.
Reducing unit overheads
Unit overheads are all the remaining 
non-food and non-labour costs associated
with managing our units such as uniforms,
linen, crockery , laundry/cleaning, utilities 
and occupancy costs where we have them.
Through good local initiatives and more
thorough analysis and measurement we 
have made solid progress in the last year,
resulting in a reduction in unit overheads 
as a percentage of revenue, which we aim 
to continue. 
MAP 4 – Unit costs
MAP 4 focuses on driving 
cost efficiencies from our 
£5.5 billion of unit labour and 
other in-unit, non-food costs.
Improving efficiency
Good progress is being made to further reduce costs 
in the UK business. Unit labour scheduling is now
receiving intensive focus, following the creation of a
dedicated business efficiency team. This team is directly
supporting our operations in embedding processes 
and disciplines to more effectively manage labour
scheduling, temporary labour, the management of
payroll, sickness and holiday in our units and the better
usage of reporting tools. Integral to this is the roll-out of a
communication and training programme for all our Unit
Managers focusing attention on getting the right people
in the right place at the right time in order to maximise
sales and improve customer service and productivity. 
Effective labour cost management
Based on the work done in Australia we have developed
tools which are now being used as a global template to
more effectively measure and cost labour turnover and
the use of agency staff at a country and operating unit
level, identifying previous hidden labour costs. In
Australia we have seen a 1.6% reduction in direct labour
costs as a result of accurate KPI measurement and the
implementation of tailored retention strategies, improved
absence management and reduction in agency spend. 10 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Simplifying management structures
We have made significant inroads in reducing
duplicate layers of management and putting
in place simpler, affordable structures 
that give greater transparency through 
the business and improve the speed of
decision making.
To achieve this we have dismantled the
previous divisional structure creating a clear
line of sight between the businesses and 
the Group. This is supported by our new
Group financial and non-financial reporting
framework which, combined with regular
business reviews of country MAP plans, 
gives us greater visibility and understanding 
of the underlying performance of each
business and makes us better placed to
respond to opportunities and risks.
The management teams in our countries 
are empowered to run and develop their
businesses within a ‘light’, non-bureaucratic
Group framework. This relies on a culture 
of openness, honesty and transparency ,
supported by good communication and the
disciplines and good governance expected 
of a major international group. 
We have taken a similar approach within 
the countries themselves, focusing first 
on businesses like France, Japan and the
Netherlands, and reorganised how we manage
the business to create much leaner, more
effective structures.
In developing countries or those where 
we don’t have density we have developed
successful zone management structures, 
with a single management team overseeing 
a cluster of countries within a specific region,
for example, Central and Eastern Europe, 
our Central Asia, Middle East and Africa
(CAMEA) remote site businesses and the
Nordic region.
Consolidated back office functions
As part of reducing overlap and duplication
we have consolidated common back office
functions, retaining separate functions only
where they are genuinely sector specific. 
The UK and the USA are good examples 
of where we have created a more streamlined,
shared services model for HR, reducing cost
and improving service to our front-line teams. 
We are improving overhead
efficiency by simplifying 
the way we run the business
and tighter control of
discretionary spend.
MAP 5 – Above unit overheads
As a Group we have £800
million of above unit costs
associated with managing 
the business. MAP 5 focuses 
on how we create a simpler
organisational model with 
fewer layers of management
and less bureaucracy. 
Chief Executive’s statement 
continued
HR shared services
T o reduce overlap and duplication in its HR support
functions our US business has created a central Human
Resources Service Centre, as a single point of contact
on HR related issues for over 85,000 employees. 
This has reduced HR overhead costs by 5% and 
led to speedier and more effective issue resolution,
reduced management intervention and improved
employee satisfaction. 11 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Summary business review
Finance cost
Underlying net finance cost, excluding
revaluation gains and losses on swaps and
hedging instruments (hedge accounting
ineffectiveness), was £87 million 
(2006: £145 million). With the full year 
benefit of the Selecta disposal proceeds 
going forward, we expect the 2008 underlying
finance charge to be around £70 million.
Profit before tax
Profit before tax from continuing operations
was £436 million (2006: £323 million). 
On an underlying basis, excluding 
revaluation gains and losses on swaps and
hedging instruments (hedge accounting
ineffectiveness), profit before tax from
continuing operations increased by 42% 
to £442 million (2006: £312 million).
Income tax expense
On an underlying basis, excluding revaluation
gains and losses on swaps and hedging
instruments (hedge accounting ineffectiveness),
the tax charge from continuing operations and
before exceptional items was £126 million
(2006: £101 million), an effective tax rate of
29% (2006: 32%). Against the background 
of reducing corporate tax rates in a number 
of territories, we now expect the Group’s
effective tax rate to average out at around 
the 29% level for the short-term. 
Group trading review
The Group’s financial summary for the year
ended 30 September 2007 is set out below . 
Financial summary
For the year ended 
30 September 2007 2006 Increase
Continuing operations 
Revenue
– constant currency
1
£10,268m £9,768m 5.1%
– reported £10,268m £10,267m –
Operating profit
2
– constant currency
1
£529m £428m 23.6%
– reported £529m £457m 15.8%
Operating margin
6
5.1% 4.4% 70bps
Profit before tax 
– underlying
4
£442m £312m 41.7%
– reported £436m £323m 35.0%
Free cash flow £357m £212m 68.4%
Basic earnings per share 
– underlying
4
15.2p 9.4p 61.7%
– reported
5
15.0p 9.7p 54.6%
Total Group including discontinued operations
Basic earnings per share 25.6p 13.3p 92.5%
T otal dividend per ordinary share 10.8p 10.1p 6.9%
1. Constant currency restates the prior year results to 2007
average exchange rates.
2. Includes share of profit of associates.
3. Excludes share of profit of associates.
4. Underlying profit before tax excludes revaluation gains and
losses on swaps and hedging instruments (hedge accounting
ineffectiveness) of £(6) million (2006: £11 million). Underlying
basic earnings per share excludes these items net of tax.
5. Reported basic earnings per share before exceptional items.
6. Operating margin is based on revenue and operating profit
excluding share of profit of associates.
Revenue
Overall, organic revenue growth was 5%,
comprising new business of 8%, retention 
of around 94%, about one percentage point
lower than in previous years due to the work
we have been doing to address loss-making
contracts, and like for like growth of just
under 3%. The significant strengthening 
of Sterling, in particular against the US
Dollar, impacted revenues by 5%, resulting 
in reported revenues remaining flat. 
Organic growth is calculated by adjusting 
for acquisitions (excluding current year
acquisitions and including a full year in
respect of prior year acquisitions), disposals
(excluded from both years) and exchange 
rate movements (translating the prior year at
current year exchange rates), and compares
the results against 2006.
Operating profit
Operating profit from continuing operations,
including associates, was £529 million 
(2006: £457 million), an increase of 16% 
on a reported basis. The operating profit
increased by £101 million on a constant
currency basis, up 24%. This represents 
a 70 basis point improvement in margin. 
The Group achieved 5% organic
revenue growth in 2007 with excellent
performances in the North America
and the Rest of the World regions, a
stronger performance in Continental
Europe and continuing difficult
trading in the UK. The MAP
programme and resulting actions
have led to improvements in financial
performance, in particular, strong
free cash flow generation, and good
progress has been made in the year
towards the achievement of the
Group’s 2006 – 2008 targets to
increase ROCE by 100 basis points
and to deliver £800 – £850 million 
of free cash flow over the period.
Andrew Martin
Group Finance Director 12 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Discontinued operations
On 2 July 2007, the Group completed the sale
of its European vending business, Selecta, for a
consideration of £772 million on a debt and
cash free basis. The Group has also completed
the sale and closure of a number of other
small businesses during the year as part of
its exit from the travel concessions business.
The 2006 revenue and operating profits of
all of these businesses closed in the year were
£548 million and £51 million respectively .
The results of these businesses are treated 
as discontinued operations and are therefore
excluded from the results of continuing
operations in 2007. The 2006 results have
been restated on a consistent basis.
The profit after tax from discontinued operations
was £212 million (2006: £33 million). 
Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 25.6 pence
(2006: 13.3 pence). Excluding the results 
of discontinued operations and exceptional
items, basic earnings per share on an
underlying basis, excluding revaluation gains
and losses on swaps and hedging instruments
(hedge accounting ineffectiveness), were 
15.2 pence (2006: 9.4 pence).
Attributable Basic earnings
Profit per share
2007 2006 2007 2006 Change
£m £m Pence Pence %
Reported 515 285 25.6 13.3 92.5
Discontinued 
operations and 
exceptional items (212) (77) (10.6) (3.6)
Hedge accounting 
ineffectiveness 
(net of tax) 4 (7) 0.2 (0.3)
Underlying 307 201 15.2 9.4 61.7
Dividends
A final dividend of 7.2 pence per share will
be proposed (to be paid on 3 March 2008 
to shareholders on the register on 
1 February 2008) and will result in a total
dividend for the year of 10.8 pence per share
(2006: 10.1 pence per share), a year on year
increase of 7%. Dividend cover for 2007 
was 2.5 times reported earnings. On an
underlying basis the dividend was covered 
1.5 times on an earnings basis and 1.7 times
on a free cash basis.
Free cash flow
Free cash flow from the continuing business
totalled £357 million (2006: £212 million).
The major factors contributing to the
increase were: £70 million increase in
operating profit before associates, £56 million
improvement in working capital and £47
million lower net interest payments, offset in
part by £24 million higher net tax payments.
Gross capital expenditure of £192 million
(2006: £198 million), including amounts
purchased by finance lease of £15 million
(2006: £15 million), represents 1.9% of
revenue (2006: 1.9% of revenue). We
continue to expect the level of gross capital
expenditure to remain at around 2% of
revenue going forward. Proceeds from the
sale of assets were £22 million and we would
expect this to be around £12 million lower 
in 2008.
We have seen a step change in the
management of working capital. There has
been a focus in all areas, but we have achieved
an overall £38 million working capital inflow
in the year. We believe there are further
improvements possible and expect to achieve
an average sustainable inflow of £20 to £30
million a year for the foreseeable future, but
with better improvement in the next couple 
of years.The cash tax rate for the year was
26% (2006: 30%), based on underlying profit
before tax for the continuing operations, and
we continue to expect the cash tax rate to
average out at the mid to high 20s level over
the short-term.
The net interest outflow of £127 million
(2006: £174 million) continues to reflect the
impact of the 2004 swap monetisation, which
will be substantially unwound by the end 
of 2009. 
Acquisition payments
The acquisition of the remaining 5% 
interest in Onama, our Italian business, was
completed in December 2006 for £7 million.
A further £17 million was spent on deferred
consideration relating to prior year acquisitions
and £7 million on new acquisitions.
Disposal proceeds
The sale of the European vending business,
Selecta, was completed in July 2007 for 
gross consideration of £772 million, 
£725 million net of transaction costs 
and completion accounting adjustments. 
A further £37 million of deferred
consideration relating to prior year disposals
was received in the year and £56 million 
was received from the disposal of other
operations in the year.
Return on capital employed 
Return on capital employed (ROCE) was
12.5% (2006: 11.3%) based on the continuing
business before exceptional items, excluding
the Group’s minority partner’s share of total
operating profit, net of tax at 30% and using
an average capital employed for the year of
£2,914 million (2006: £2,751 million)
calculated from the IFRS balance sheet.
Under UK GAAP , included within average
capital employed was goodwill previously
written off to reserves, now extinguished
under IFRS, and goodwill amortised prior 
to 30 September 2004, the date at which the
net book value of goodwill was frozen under
IFRS. Including these adjustments, average
capital employed for the year (for the
continuing businesses) would have been
£5,899 million (2006: £5,736 million) and
return on capital employed for the continuing
business would have been 6.5% (2006: 5.8%).
Financial targets
The Group’s three year targets for the
continuing business for 2006 to 2008 remain
unchanged at:
100 basis points improvement in ROCE; and
free cash flow from continuing operations
of £800 million to £850 million.
Pensions 
The Group has continued to review and
monitor its pension obligations throughout
the year working closely with the Trustees and
members of schemes around the Group to
ensure proper prudent assumptions are used
and adequate provision is made. 
Particularly good progress has been made in
respect of the Group’s UK defined benefit
pension schemes where a further £45 million
special contribution was paid in during the
year following completion of the sale of the
Selecta vending operation. This follows special
contributions in 2006 totalling £280 million to
the UK defined benefit schemes following the
sale of the SSP travel concessions business and
the Strand Palace Hotel. 
In the UK defined benefit pension schemes we
have again increased our longevity assumptions
so that, for example, a female non-pensioner is
now assumed to survive 24.7 years following
retirement (2006: 23.7 years). The Group’s total
pension deficit was reduced significantly in 
the year, despite the adoption of the more
prudent assumptions, to £162 million 
(2006: £282 million). The deficit would have
reduced to only £70 million if the surplus on
certain schemes had been fully recognised.
IFRIC 14 only permits the recognition of a
pension fund surplus where a company can
clearly demonstrate that it can access the
surplus through, for example, reduced future
contributions. The Group has taken the
prudent view that it will not be able to access
these surpluses, totalling £92 million, in the
foreseeable future. 
The total pensions charge for defined
contribution schemes in the year was 
£36 million (2006: £33 million) and £22 million
(2006: £35 million) for defined benefit
schemes. Of the defined benefit scheme costs,
£2 million (2006: £11 million) was charged to
net finance cost.
Gearing
The ratio of net debt to market capitalisation
of £5,820 million as at 30 September 2007
was 13% (2006: 19%).
Summary business review
continued 13 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Financial instruments
The Group continues to manage its interest
rate and foreign currency exposure in
accordance with the policies set out below .
The Group’s financial instruments comprise
cash, borrowings, trade receivables and
payables that are used to finance the Group’s
operations. The Group also uses derivatives,
principally interest rate and cross currency
swaps and forward currency contracts, to
manage interest rate and currency risks arising
from the Group’s operations. The Group does
not trade in financial instruments. The
Group’s treasury policies are designed to
mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest
rates and exchange rates and to manage the
Group’s financial risks. The Board approves
any changes to the policies.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board has a proactive approach to risk
management with the aim of protecting its
employees and customers and safeguarding
the interests of the Company and its
shareholders.
Compass Group has specific policies in place
to ensure that risks are properly evaluated 
and managed at the appropriate level within
the business. A risk assessment exercise is
carried out across the Group each year and the
outcome is reviewed by the Board bi-annually .
Outlined below is a summary of what the
Board considers to be the key risks and
uncertainties to successful delivery of its
corporate objectives and the activities the
Group undertakes to mitigate against these
key risks and uncertainties:
Description Mitigating activities
Food safety The Group has in place policies,
processes and training procedures 
to ensure compliance with its legal
obligations in relation to food hygiene 
and safety.
Client retention Our business model is structured so that
we are not reliant on one particular
sector, geography or client.
People retention Training and development programmes, 
and motivation succession planning and performance
management are designed to align
rewards with our corporate objectives
and to retain and motivate our 
best people.
Health, safety Our Health, Safety and Environment 
and environment Forum promotes policy, sets standards
and monitors best practice and reports 
to the Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee.
Purchasing To reduce risk we are focusing on
traceability, clear specification of our
requirements to nominated suppliers 
and the improvement of purchasing
compliance by Unit Managers.
Litigation Though we do not operate in a litigious
industry we have in place policies and
processes in our major countries to
mitigate against third-party litigation.
Reputation The Group’s zero tolerance based 
Code of Ethics governs all aspects of 
our relationship with our stakeholders. 
The Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee investigates any alleged
breaches.
Liquidity risk
The Group finances its borrowings from 
a number of sources including banks, 
the public markets and the US private
placement markets.
The maturity profile of the Group’s principal
borrowings at 30 September 2007 shows the
average period to maturity is 4.1 years. The
Group’s undrawn committed bank facilities 
at 30 September 2007 were £630 million.
Maturity profile of principal borrowings
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s policy is to match as far as
possible its principal projected cash flows by
currency to actual or effective borrowings in
the same currency . As currency earnings are
generated, they are used to service and repay
debt in the same currency . To implement this
policy , forward currency contracts or cross
currency swaps are taken out which, when
applied to the actual currency liabilities,
convert these to the required currency . A
reconciliation of the 30 September 2007
actual currency liabilities to the effective
currency borrowed is set out below .
Forwards
and cross Effective 
Gross currency currency of 
borrowings swaps borrowings
Currency £m £m £m
Sterling 837 (318) 519
US Dollar 476 247 723
Euro 258 (98) 160
Japanese Yen 16 59 75
Other currencies 21 105 126
Total 1,608 (5) 1,603
Analysed as:
Non-
Current current
liabilities liabilities Total
Liability £m £m £m
Finance leases 14 36 50
Bank overdrafts 118 – 118
Bank loans 19 17 36
Loan notes – 380 380
Bonds – 1,019 1,019
Total 151 1,452 1,603
The borrowings in each currency give rise to
foreign exchange differences on translation
into Sterling. Where the borrowings are either
less than, or equate to, the net investment in
overseas operations, these exchange rate
movements are treated as movements on
reserves and recorded in the statement of
recognised income and expense rather than
in the income statement.
Non-Sterling earnings streams are translated
at the average rate of exchange for the year.
This results in differences in the Sterling 
value of currency earnings from year to year.
The table below sets out the exchange rates
used for major currencies for translating the
2007 and 2006 income statements and
balance sheets.
Average rate Closing rate
Currency 2007 2006 2007 2006
Australian Dollar 2.44 2.41 2.30 2.53
Brazilian Real 4.02 3.97 3.75 4.22
Canadian Dollar 2.19 2.06 2.02 2.13
Euro 1.48 1.46 1.43 1.48
Japanese Yen 234.05 209.07 234.33 220.54
Norwegian Krone 11.98 11.66 11.05 12.47
South African Rand 14.18 11.95 14.05 14.52
Swedish Krona 13.63 13.67 13.18 13.80
Swiss Franc 2.40 2.29 2.38 2.34
US Dollar 1.97 1.80 2.04 1.87
Interest rate risk
As detailed above, the Group has effective
borrowings in a number of currencies and 
its policy is to ensure that, in the short-term, 
it is not materially exposed to fluctuations 
in interest rates in its principal currencies.
The Group implements this policy either 
by borrowing fixed rate debt or by using
interest rate swaps so that at least 80% of
its projected net debt is fixed for one year,
reducing to 60% fixed for the second year
and 40% fixed for the third year.
Shareholder return
The market price of the Group’s ordinary
shares at the close of the financial year was
302 pence per share (2006: 268 pence).
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors have a
reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.
Conclusion
The successful disposal of the European
vending business, Selecta, and the exit from
other remaining non-core assets has resulted
in a focused Group with a strong financial
position. In the coming year the focus will
continue to be on embedding MAP deeper
into the organisation and on improving
business performance.
Andrew Martin
Group Finance Director
28 November 2007 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
£ Bonds
£m
€ Bonds US$ Private Placement Bank 14 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
01 Sir Roy Gardner
1
Chairman Age 62
Appointed Chairman in July 2006 having been
appointed to the Board as senior independent non-
executive director in October 2005. He is a senior
advisor to Credit Suisse, a non-executive director 
of Willis Group Holdings Limited, President of the
Energy Institute, Chairman of the Advisory Board of
the Energy Futures Lab of Imperial College London,
a member of the International Advisory Board of the
IESE Business School at the University of Navarra,
President of Carers UK, Chairman of the British
Olympics Appeal Committee for the Beijing Games
and Chairman of the Apprenticeship Ambassadors
Network. He is a former Chief Executive of Centrica
plc, Chairman of Manchester United plc, Finance
Director of British Gas plc, Managing Director of
GEC-Marconi Ltd and a Director of GEC plc and 
a former non-executive director of Laporte plc. 
Sir Roy received his Knighthood in 2002 for services
to the gas and electricity industries. 
02 Richard Cousins
2, 8
Group Chief Executive Age 48
Appointed to the Board in May 2006 and appointed
Group Chief Executive in June 2006. He is a 
non-executive director of HBOS plc. Richard was
until December 2005 Chief Executive Officer of 
BPB plc, having held a number of positions with 
that company since joining it in1990 and is a former
non-executive director of P&O. His earlier career
was with Cadbury Schweppes plc and BTR plc. 
03 Andrew Martin
2, 8
Group Finance Director Age 47
Appointed to the Board in March 2004. He was
previously a partner with Arthur Andersen and 
held senior financial positions with Forte Plc and
Granada Group PLC. Following the disposal of 
the Hotels Division in 2001, Andrew joined First
Choice Holidays PLC as Finance Director. He is an
Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants
in England and Wales and an Associate of the
Chartered Institute of T axation. 
04 Gary Green
8
Group Managing Director – USA, 
Canada and Mexico Age 50
Appointed to the Board in January 2007. 
Joined the Group in 1986 in a senior finance role 
in the UK and became a UK director in 1992. 
Gary relocated to the USA in 1994 as Chief 
Finance Officer of the Group’ s North American
business and in 1999 became Chief Executive
Officer. He is a chartered accountant and in 
2001 received an honorary doctorate from
Johnson & Wales University in the USA.
05 Sir James Crosby
3, 5
Senior independent non-executive 
director Age 51
Appointed to the Board in February 2007. He is 
a non-executive director of ITV plc and is Deputy
Chairman of the Financial Services Authority and 
is a former Chief Executive of HBOS plc. He is a
Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries.
06 Sven Kado
4, 6
Non-executive director Age 63
Appointed to the Board in April 2002. He is
Chairman of Marsh & McLennan Holdings GmbH
and was previously Chief Financial Officer of Nixdorf
Computer AG, Chief Financial Officer of Dyckerhoff
AG and senior advisor of Principal Finance
Group/Nomura International. 
07 Steve Lucas
2, 6, 7
Non-executive director Age 53
Appointed to the Board in July 2004. He is Finance
Director of National Grid plc having been previously
Executive Director, Finance of Lattice Group plc. 
He is a chartered accountant and has held a number
of senior finance positions with Shell International
Petroleum Company and British Gas. More recently
he was Treasurer at BG Group.
08 Susan Murray
Non-executive director Age 50
Appointed to the Board in October 2007. She is
non-executive Chairman of Farrow & Ball and a 
non-executive director of Enterprise Inns Plc, SSL
International PLC, Wm Morrison Supermarkets 
PLC and Imperial T obacco PLC. She is a former
non-executive director of Aberdeen Asset
Management PLC, a former Chief Executive of
Littlewoods Stores Limited and former Worldwide
President and Chief Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff
Company, part of Diageo plc. Susan is a Fellow of
the Royal Society of Arts and a council member of
the Advertising Standards Authority.
09 Tim Parker
4, 6
Non-executive director Age 52
Appointed to the Board in February 2007. He is 
a former Chief Executive of the AA and a former 
non-executive director of Alliance Boots Plc.
10 Sir Ian Robinson
3, 4
Non-executive director Age 65
Appointed to the Board in December 2006. 
He is Chairman of Ladbrokes plc (formerly Hilton
Group plc), a non-executive director of Scottish &
Newcastle plc and Siemens Holdings plc. He is a
former Chairman of Amey plc, Chief Executive of
Scottish Power plc and non-executive director of
ASDA plc and RMC plc. He is a Fellow of the Royal
Academy of Engineers, a Fellow of the Institution of
Chemical Engineers and a member of the T akeover
Panel. Sir Ian received his Knighthood in 2000 for
services to the electricity industry.
11 Mark White
2, 8, 9
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Age 47
A solicitor who joined Compass Group on 1June 2007.
He is secretary to the Audit, Disclosure, General
Business, Nomination and Remuneration
Committees. Mark was previously Group Company
Secretary and Counsel of Wolseley plc and Company
Secretary of Enterprise Oil plc and Rotork plc.
1. Chairman of the Nomination and Corporate 
Responsibility Committees
2. Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
3. Member of the Nomination Committee
4. Member of the Audit Committee
5. Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
6. Member of the Remuneration Committee
7. Chairman of the Audit Committee
8. Member of the Executive Committee
9. Trustee of the Compass Pension Scheme
Board of directors
01
07
02
08
03
09
04
10
05
11
06 15 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Over the past year, we have further reviewed
and continued to build on our Corporate 
Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) strategy against
the increasingly complex environment in
which we operate. As a result, we have
renewed and strengthened our determination
that Compass should continue to improve its
CSR journey .
We regard CSR as a sustainable approach 
to business that seeks benefits for all our
stakeholders, be they customers, employees,
communities, the environment or the
Company and its shareholders. We support
sound CSR policies and practices for good
business reasons. Our commitment to 
CSR is not simply a response to increased
market attention to this area, but acts as a
reinforcement of the way that our business
operates on a daily basis. The Board believes
that the progressive integration of CSR across
the Group and the inclusion of broader social
and environmental issues into our decision
making will help us achieve our business goals
and act as an essential building block for
growth in shareholder value.
Corporate culture
Our values
Our vision is detailed on the inside front cover
of the Annual Review . Our strong set of
values is key to achieving this; defining what,
collectively , we believe in and the basis of
everything we do:
Openness, trust and integrity
We have a commitment to open dialogue and
transparency with all of our stakeholders.
We set the highest ethical and professional
standards at all times. We want all our
relationships to be based on honesty , respect
and fairness. 
Passion for quality
We are passionate about delivering superior
food and service to our customers and take
pride in achieving this. We look to replicate
success, learn from mistakes and develop
ideas, innovation and practices that will help
us improve and be leaders in our marketplace.
Win through teamwork
We encourage individual ownership but 
work as a team. We value the expertise,
individuality and contribution of all our
employees, working in support of each other
and sharing good practice, in pursuit of
shared goals.
Can-do
We take a positive and commercially 
aware ‘can-do’ approach to the day-to-day
opportunities and challenges we face.
Responsibility
We take responsibility for our actions,
individually and as a Group. Everyday ,
everywhere we look to make a positive
contribution to the health and wellbeing 
of our customers, the communities we 
work in and the world we live in.
Code of ethics
The Compass Code of Ethics sets out our
social, ethical and environmental commitment
towards each of our stakeholders and the
communities in which we operate. The Code
underpins our CSR programme and supports
our business integrity . During 2007, we
launched a specific ethical business training
programme for our European buying team
which supports an ethical approach to
business practice, the protection of human
rights and clearly sets out the behaviour 
we expect from buyers when dealing with 
our supply partners across Europe. 
This successful programme will be further
extended to include our buying colleagues 
in North America early in 2008.
We operate a ‘Speak Up’ programme so that
our employees can raise, on a confidential
basis, any concerns about how we conduct our
business. Our ‘whistle-blowing’ programme 
is available to 99% of our employees and we
will complete the roll-out to the balance of our
employees in the remaining countries during
the course of 2008. Ongoing work continues 
to be undertaken throughout the business to
raise employee awareness and regular reports
are also provided to the Audit Committee 
of the Board.
Corporate Responsibility Committee 
We have established a Corporate
Responsibility Committee of the Board, to
provide direction and guidance on all aspects
of business practice and responsibility ensuring
consistent application everywhere we operate.
The committee’s primary responsibilities
include: overseeing health, safety and
environmental practices, business conduct, the
positive promotion of employee engagement
as well as diversity and community
investment. The committee comprises 
Sir Roy Gardner (Chairman), Richard
Cousins, Andrew Martin, Steve Lucas, 
Jane Kingston (Group Human Resources
Director), and Mark White.
A commitment to develop 
performance indicators
We want to track our progress along our CSR
journey and to update our stakeholders on the
progress we are making. We are developing and
refining a common set of key performance
indicators (‘KPIs’) and targets to measure our
CSR success. These will provide us with a
means to monitor and manage performance
at a Group level, complementing existing
measures at a business level. For example, 
we are working to assess our environmental
performance using the model recommended
by the UK Government Agency DEFRA, and
are selecting future KPIs that are relevant to
our sector. We have identified greenhouse
gases, particularly CO 2 emissions and waste,
as our key environmental impacts. From
October 2007, we implemented a web-based
tracking tool across our ‘Top Ten’ countries
(representing more than 80% of total Group
revenue), to collect the necessary environmental
performance data that we require, the results
of which will form the basis of our reporting
for our 2007/08 CSR review .
Acting responsibly
Speak Up 
Our ‘whistle-blowing’ programme is now available to
99% of our employees globally. Healthcare & Seniors
Business & Industry
Fine Dining
Education
Sports & Leisure
Defence, Offshore
Vending
T op T en countries 
The T op T en countries representing more than 
80% of total Group revenue.
USA
UK
France
Japan
Canada
Germany
Italy
Spain
Netherlands
Switzerland
16 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Our people
We employ over 360,000 people in around 
64 countries. Our success is dependent on the
contribution of our employees. They remain
our most important asset and represent the
face that Compass presents to the world. 
A key objective is to ensure that we provide 
a workplace environment that encourages 
and supports our employees in achieving their
best personal performance. An engaged and
motivated workforce will enable our people 
to achieve their performance goals.
Over the last five years, we have conducted 
a number of employee surveys across the
business. In line with our new HR and
business strategies, we recently evolved the
way we conduct these surveys to help us better
understand how we can maximise employee
commitment, retention and discretionary
effort, in other words ‘engagement’. 
In April 2007, over 150,000 people from 
20 of our largest businesses (representing 
over 90% of total Group revenue) had the
opportunity to participate in our new ‘Y our
V oice’ People Survey . This year we extended
our use of web surveys while also giving many
of our employees the opportunity to share
their views using the telephone. 
Overall, the results from our 2007 survey are
very encouraging and our response rate of
61% was slightly ahead of that seen in our
2005 survey . Employees have a clear line of
sight with our new mission and understand
how they contribute to success. Managers feel
the Group is making the right changes to be
successful, has a clear sense of direction and 
is successfully focusing on both long-term
strategies and short-term results. 
Developing our people
We know from the results of our survey that
we need to do more to help our people
develop their skills and further their careers
within the Company . This is something we 
will continue to focus on in 2008 through 
our global employment brand, talent
management and various learning and
development programmes.
Training and development programmes for
all employees are important both for our
employees to fulfil their potential and to the
ability of the business to achieve its goals. 
The development of leadership skills of
senior managers is also a key objective and
Compass has enabled an increasing number
of participants to attend in-house or external
programmes. Since its inception in 2003, our
current Compass Group Masters Programme
has seen over 60 members of our global
senior management graduate and achieve 
an MSc in Business Leadership. Through 
the programme each ‘student’ applies their
experience and skills to a business challenge
that directly relates to the business priorities 
in their job role and has measurable impact.
The structured programme involves extensive
internal and external research, drawing on
internal and external best practice and theory ,
as well as practical issues such as resources,
budgeting and project planning. 
We continue to devote significant attention
and resources to the training of our
employees. Over 81,500 days of staff training
were provided during the year in our largest
businesses representing more than 80% of
Group revenue.
Equal opportunities
We regard the promotion of equal
opportunities as a long-term commitment. We
expect all of our employees to be treated with
respect and dignity . Our equal opportunity
policy is designed to ensure that both current
and potential employees are offered the same
opportunity to do a job regardless of sex,
race, colour, religion, nationality , ethnic
origin, age, sexual orientation, marital 
status or disability . We value the diversity 
of our people and strongly believe that 
a more diverse workforce is a more creative
workforce, and one better able to adapt to
change. The more our employees reflect the
diversity of our clients and customers, the
better equipped we will be to service their
needs. We believe we have the right policies 
in place to meet or exceed legal requirements
in this area, although we continue to
undertake further work to explore the factors
that are critical to achieving greater diversity . 
Reward 
Our remuneration policy seeks to deliver
improved performance throughout the
business, balancing short-term success with
the attainment of our longer-term business
goals and shareholder return. We work to
attract and retain people of proven ability ,
experience and skills. Under our pay and
Acting responsibly
continued
Our positive ‘can-do’ attitude means 
people are motivated to go the extra mile 
and the results show that our new Guiding
Principles are fast becoming part of everyday
life at Compass.
In addition, three-quarters of employees who
responded agree that we are focused on
delivering excellent service.
We are able to compare some of our 2007
results with those achieved in our 2005 survey .
V ery positively , we see solid improvement in
ratings for health and safety , embracing
diversity and people being treated fairly
regardless of their gender, age, race,
background or beliefs. Moreover, internal
perceptions of the Group being a good
corporate citizen also show improvement. 
Health and safety is at the heart of everything
we do. The survey results support this as
people continue to agree that we place a 
high priority in this area and around 8 in 
10 people feel they are equipped to do their 
job safely and well. 
At the unit/site level, people are delivering
improved service and performance by
working together. Our Unit Managers are 
a real strength and highly regarded by their
teams. They are respectful towards colleagues
and make clear what’s expected in the
workplace. Our employees believe managers
are good communicators – keeping people
informed of changes that may affect 
them, while also providing constructive
performance feedback.
We have also been able to compare our results
with those of other multinational, multi-site
service-oriented businesses. It is pleasing to
note that in certain areas we rank above other
major employers. How our managers give
helpful feedback and how the Company values
ideas and opinions are just two examples.
While the survey gives us the ability to target
our efforts and resources in those areas that
have the greatest influence on engagement,
one of the real successes has been making the
results accessible to all employees, especially
those in our units/sites. People believe in the
survey , and globally more than 6 in 10 expect
positive action to be taken on the results. 
Our next global People Survey is planned 
for early 2009 and will include additional
countries to those participating in the 2007
survey such that we will aim to reach some
160,000 employees.
Our Guiding Principles
– Health, Safety and Environment First
– Delivering for Clients and Consumers
– Developing our People and Valuing Diversity
– Profitable Growth
– Constant Focus on Performance and Efficiency 17 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
reward programme, in the year to 
30 September 2007, the Group paid gross
employee pay of £4,518 million. Within this
figure, social security contributions and
payroll taxes together with pensions and other
employee costs amounted to £638 million
and £76 million respectively .
A safe and healthy workplace
Our number one operational priority remains
health, safety and the environment for the 
20 million daily consumers who eat and drink
with us. 
All management and Board meetings
throughout the Group feature a Health and
Safety update as one of their first agenda
items. The Board reviews the Health and Safety
and Food Safety policies annually to ensure
that they each continue to reflect our aims
and aspirations with a continued alignment
with legislation. Supporting the Board is our
internal Health, Safety and Environment F orum
made up of technical specialists from around
the Compass globe. It has become the key
body responsible for promoting policy , setting
standards, measuring compliance and sharing
best practice in these areas across the Group. 
We believe that each of us at Compass 
has a moral obligation to safeguard each
other, our customers and the environment 
by operating a safe, injury free and healthy
workplace, serving food that is always safe 
to eat and which minimises our impact on 
the environment. To ensure best practice, 
we have developed a set of policies, minimum
operating standards and behaviours to be
rolled out across our ‘Top Ten’ as a minimum,
by December 2008. These standards are
based on the strictest regulatory requirements
and industry best practice. Indeed, world-class
performance continues to be our aim, seeking
over the next five years to set the benchmark
for our industry .
We strive to continuously improve our
performance and from October 2007 started
to measure our performance against a set of
clear KPIs and targets to assure our customers
and others who work with us that we are
operating the safest environment possible.
Specifically , we:
seek to prevent injury to any employee,
customer or contractor;
consider the safety implications of our
procurement decisions;
initiate a full risk assessment programme
upon commencement of a new contract;
ensure that every employee is properly
trained to safely perform their work; and
have in place appropriate consultation
arrangements to enable our employees and
their representatives to communicate and
raise concerns about health and safety
management.
We also expect similarly high standards from
our suppliers and business partners.
Health and safety have always had a special
focus for our offshore and remote site
workplaces, where our customers demand the
very highest operational standards. A good
example of our success is in Denmark, where
our ESS support services team on the South
Arne platform in the North Sea have
completed five years of providing services to
our customer with no lost-time incidents. 
We received further recognition of our success
in this area when our ESS support services
team in Kazakhstan were proud to have
achieved the significant milestone of reaching
2,000,000 man-hours worked without a ‘Day
Away From Work Case’ at the Tengizchevroil
Village. We are responsible for the safe and
efficient running of this remote site serving
approximately 3,000 meals per day , with
difficult working conditions and extreme
temperatures. 
Our UK business reached a health and safety
milestone this year, with the 50,000th
Compass employee gaining the Quality
Through Hygiene and Quality Through
Safety qualifications from the Institution of
Occupational Safety & Health (‘IOSH’). We
have enjoyed a successful partnership with
IOSH for several years, with the training 
body providing food safety and health and
safety training via distance learning to our
customer-facing employees.
From October 2007, we began to measure
and report on the number of days lost across
our ‘Top Ten’, as a result of health and safety
incidents. We will include the results of ‘lost
day injuries’ in our 2008 CSR report and our
aim will be to expand the reporting of days
lost across the Group and to consistently
improve and reduce such numbers. 
Diet and nutrition
As a global foodservice company , we
recognise that we have an enormous impact
on what our 20 million daily consumers
choose to eat and drink. Our contribution 
to their diet and nutrition is our most
significant impact. Our primary concern 
is that the food we serve is prepared to the
very highest standards using quality products
and ingredients and, at the very minimum, 
we comply with all relevant legislation and
approved codes of practice.
Initially developed in our UK and US
businesses, we are progressively implementing
during 2008, a healthy eating framework
called ‘Balanced Choices’, which will 
form the basis of a minimum standard 
for implementation in our ‘Top Ten’. 
The framework is based on sound science,
regulatory requirements and industry best
practice. To become a registered ‘Balanced
Choices’ outlet, the staff must undertake a
detailed training programme. In the UK, 
over 600 units are already qualified to operate
‘Balanced Choices’ and in Belgium, ‘Balanced
Choices’ has recently been officially endorsed
by the Belgian Government. In our US
business, almost 1,500 units offer ‘Balanced
Choices’ to their customers every day .
We are working closely with our customers
(and through them with our consumers) as
well as our suppliers, governments and
regulators across the globe to respond to
public health issues such as those associated
with obesity and diet. We aim to provide a
wide choice of menu items so that consumers
seeking healthier options are well served.
Safety first
Our ESS support services team on the South Arne
Platform in the North Sea achieved five years of service 
to the client with no lost-time incidents.
Healthy eating 
We support schools, parents and pupils to choose 
a healthy, balanced diet. 18 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
In the UK, our Education businesses
(Scolarest in state schools and Chartwells 
for the independent sector) recognise that
teaching children, and increasingly their
parents, about food and getting them
enthused about healthy eating is key . We
promote a whole school approach, supported
by information for parents, extra training for
our teams and also encourage pupils to eat
healthily with a range of initiatives, including
cooking workshops in schools. All Scolarest
school meals meet the UK Government’s
food-based standards and 60% of primary
schools also meet the more strict nutrient
standards which will be introduced in 2008. 
Another innovative example of our
commitment to improving the wellbeing of
children, is the ‘BackPack’ programme in
Atlantic City , USA which helps ensure that
some of the neediest children have enough
nutritious food to eat over the weekend. 
Each Friday , our Chartwells team provide
backpacks filled with healthy , non-perishable
food that are collected by the children in the
programme, providing them with sufficient
food to last the weekend. The children return
the empty backpacks on Monday morning, 
so that they can be filled again. 
Around the world, our consumers are
becoming increasingly mindful and
knowledgeable about the nutritional aspects
of what they choose to eat. We are, therefore,
using frameworks like ‘Balanced Choices’ to
enhance nutritional labelling across our food
product range, providing customers with 
the information that they need to make
informed choices.
Responsible supply chain
The provenance and origin of the food 
we purchase is a key consideration for us. 
We require that food is only purchased from
authorised suppliers and is always prepared
under conditions that do not expose it 
to the risk of contamination. We expect our
suppliers to comply with the social, ethical
and environmental standards specified in 
our V endor Assurance Programme. Across
our ‘Top Ten’, our suppliers are assessed
according to risk assessment criteria, to ensure
that they too adhere to our own exacting
approach. We also recognise the benefits 
of working closely with them, especially in
developing markets, to share knowledge and
expertise that will help both organisations
maintain the standards that our clients and
customers have come to expect. 
Increasingly , we work with local producers 
to improve their skills and capabilities to 
help them develop new markets and support 
the local community . Our ground-breaking
‘Farm to Fork’ programme is one such
example of working with local producers.
This programme, started in 1999 by our Bon
Appétit team in the USA, set a new standard
for how a foodservice company could support
local communities. The Bon Appétit initiative
to purchase from within 150 miles of each
café has grown at an unprecedented rate with
local purchases exceeding US$55 million in 2007. 
In 2007, we have seen the amount of
Fairtrade coffee that we buy increase to 
3.4 million cups per year across Europe,
which represents a 10% increase on last year.
Environment
A key driver towards our success is the 
degree of autonomy which is afforded to 
local management teams, allowing them to
serve local markets in the most appropriate
manner. To support their activities, we have
developed an environmental policy supported
by a minimum operating standard and a set 
of behaviours that are being introduced into
all our operations. The underlying principles
relating to the environment cover: the
integration of environmental management
into our business operations to reduce 
our known impacts; the commitment to
compliance with all relevant environmental
legislation and best practice; a commitment 
to strive for continual improvement; and a
commitment to ensure proper communication
with, and training for, employees to enable
them to meet our standards. We are aiming,
over time, for our behavioural policy to set 
the benchmark for our industry . 
We have set clear environmental objectives 
in the following areas to:
reduce the water and energy used in our
principal office and production units;
reduce the CO
2
emissions of our 
vehicle fleets;
reduce the waste packaging of our supply
chain; and
seek to reduce food miles by increasing the
use of seasonally available products sourced
from the relevant domestic markets.
In October 2007, we introduced a web-based
reporting tool to track and report globally , in
a consistent manner, on our CO
2
emissions. 
We have initially launched the tool with our
‘Top Ten’ countries and will extend the
programme to more countries in 2008. 
The tool will help us to measure such areas as:
petrol and diesel used by company cars 
and fleet vehicles;
directly purchased electricity , which
generates greenhouse gases (including CO
2
emissions) relating to our main office
locations and significant production units
across our ‘Top Ten’ countries; and 
volume of general office waste generated
per annum relating to our main office
locations and significant production units
across our ‘Top Ten’ countries.
These results will act as the baseline data 
for 2007/08 and form the platform for our
environmental reporting in future years. 
In our 2008 CSR Report, we will publish 
our performance and clearly state our
improvement targets for 2009.
As in all other areas, Compass requires
similarly high standards from its suppliers 
and contractors. Additionally , in the majority
of our locations where we are not directly
responsible for the procurement of utilities,
equipment, fuel etc., we are working closely
with our clients to consider how best to
improve the environmental performance 
of our operations. 
During the year, we have made good progress
in logistics efficiencies, such as where our
French colleagues have worked closely 
with their nominated logistics partners to
consolidate the range of products required 
by our business to fewer logistics providers.
Outlets consequently require fewer deliveries
but without negatively impacting on the way
in which they operate. During the last three
years, the streamlining of logistics providers
and the increase in the average weight per
delivery has helped to reduce the total
number of deliveries into our French business
by 350,000 deliveries over the period, thus
reducing the CO
2
emissions.
Our UK business is mindful of running a
large fleet of vehicles with relatively high
mileage and the subsequent effect this may
have on the environment. Consequently , those
drivers who choose company vehicles with
low CO
2
emissions are acknowledged with an
incentive payment for every one unit of CO
2
emission below 170 that their chosen vehicle
emits. This scheme is being evaluated for
potential implementation to our other
countries. 
At unit level, our UK business has for the last
two years organised the collection of used
cooking oil from our units for conversion 
to bio-fuel, with over 80% of used cooking oil
currently diverted to this use. Furthermore,
our logistics partners in the UK have begun
switching their commercial fuel use to 
bio-diesel.
Leith’s café at the British Library was one 
of the first establishments in London to sign
up to the Climate Care programme, which
offsets customers’ carbon footprints. The 
‘Last Word’ was conceived as an enhancement
to the services already provided at the 
British Library and as a response to the
growing trend for ethical and responsible
management. Leith’s pays to offset all its
carbon emissions including the travel costs 
of the staff and supply of food from depot 
to unit, and all on-site energy costs. Where
possible, energy efficient lighting has been
used and all appliances are minimum A rated
for energy efficiency . 
Within our European supply chain, we are
currently trialling the use of re-usable plastic
crates for the transport of our fresh produce
with the aim of maintaining hygiene but
significantly reducing the amount of
cardboard packaging which is currently 
used to transport fresh produce to our units.
Already in use in our business in Switzerland
Acting responsibly
continued 19 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
and the Netherlands, we are now trialling this
initiative in our UK business where, once fully
implemented, we can expect to save at least
2.5m kg of packaging waste per annum. 
We are developing Group-wide guidelines 
on the management of recycling and waste
separation. Our French colleagues have made
good headway already with an initiative
launched in 2006 to segregate their waste for
recycling purposes. In 2007, over 70% of our
French outlets participated in the programme
which represents a 5% increase on the 2006
participation rates. 
Compass In The Community
We have a strong track record in community
engagement and investment. Compass In The
Community , now in its 10th year, recognises
the best community-based initiatives from
across the Compass world. Each year, we 
hold an award ceremony to recognise, 
reward and celebrate our global community
engagement programmes and the teams that
make them happen. Projects promote healthy
lifestyles, tackle social exclusion, improve
employment chances and promote sustainability
and diversity . Whilst it is not possible to list
here all the worthy projects with which
Compass In The Community has been
involved, the following are just a few of
the many good news stories.
We value our membership of Business in 
the Community (‘BITC’), an organisation
which seeks to inspire, engage, support 
and challenge companies to continually
improve the impact they have on society 
and the environment. 
As a major player in our industry , we
recognise our responsibility to bring on and
champion culinary talent and expertise. 
The UK and Ireland business’ work with
Hoxton Apprentice, a highly successful 
social enterprise restaurant in London,
demonstrates our continued commitment.
The venture provides in-work support and
mentoring and is operated by Training for
Life. Their aim is to provide training and
support to individuals from the local
community who have been unemployed on 
a long-term basis and to provide them with 
a chance to re-enter society . We are proud 
to have received a re-accreditation of the
previous ‘Big Tick’ awarded for the restaurant
at the 2007 BITC awards.
In July 2007, our UK and Ireland ESS team
initiative for the rehabilitation of female
prisoners also won a BITC ‘Example of
Excellence’ award. The programme provides
training and support, including the chance 
to gain National V ocational Qualification
catering qualifications, training in customer
service, health and safety and basic food
preparation. Barriers to employment are
effectively removed, helping ex-offenders 
from HM Prison Drake Hall find work and
make a fresh start following their release.
Since 1994, our Chartwells team in the 
US has been in partnership with Pioneer
House in Peabody , providing an advocacy 
and support network to members of the
community with mental health illnesses. 
The programme provides assistance with
employment, housing and education, with 
the transitional and supported employment
programmes offered by Chartwells, helping 
to give these members of the community a
stable and productive work experience.
An innovative approach from our ESS team
in Bogota, Colombia, resulted in a significant
and sustainable improvement to the lives of
the inhabitants of the economically depressed
small town of Pueblo Viejo, Colombia. 
By teaching best practice safety standards 
and handling procedures, our team helped
make the town’s fish-breeding programme
more productive, resulting in increased fish
production and better overall fish quality for
community consumption and external sale. 
Donations
During the year to 30 September 2007
charitable donations were £1,162,000.
We are members of the PerCent Club and
through our Compass In The Community
programme and the fund raising efforts of
our employees, we have donated a total 
of £1.25 million in monetary resource and
donations in kind. 
In addition, a payroll giving initiative in 
our UK business has generated more than
£140,000, supporting over 87 different
charities during the last year.
Achievements
Like many listed companies, Compass’
CSR performance is rated by independent
organisations that assess the extent to 
which companies effectively manage 
social, environmental and ethical matters.
In 2005, we became a member of the UK’s
FTSE4Good Index Series following its Policy
Committee’s decision that we had met the
criteria for inclusion in the Index. The
FTSE4Good Index aims to measure the
performance of companies that meet globally
recognised CSR standards and to facilitate
investment in those companies where such
issues are a deciding factor for investors.
As a signatory to the United Nations Global
Compact, we are also committed to taking
action to support and uphold each of the
principles it describes in relation to business
integrity , human rights and the environment.
A further index, the Dow Jones Sustainability
Index, assesses companies’ corporate
responsibility strategies in terms of corporate
governance, economic performance and
impact on the environment. In 2007, we
scored a creditable 71% overall score for 
our approach to community investment 
(2006: 65%) against a sector maximum score
average of 75%.
Charitable donations
in the year to 30 September 2007:
£1.16m
PerCent Club
through Compass In The Community and the 
fund raising efforts of our employees, total donations 
in monetary resource and donations in kind:
£1.25m
Payroll giving initiative
by the UK business in the last year to:
87 charities
2007 Compass In The Community 
Winners of the 2007 Compass In The Community
Awards, recognised for their community investment 
in health, nutrition and health and safety programmes. 20 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Principal activities and business review
A review of the Group’s principal activities and
business review , results and future development
can be found in the Group at a glance section
at the beginning of this review .
Dividends 
A final dividend is proposed for the year
ended 30 September 2007 of 7.2 pence 
per share payable on 3 March 2008 to
shareholders on the register at the close of
business on 1 February 2008. The shares will
be quoted ex-dividend from 30 January 2008.
This together with the interim dividend 
of 3.6 pence per share paid on 6 August 2007
makes a total for the period of 10.8 pence 
per share. 
Directors 
Biographical details of the current directors
are set out on page 14. Sir Ian Robinson 
and Gary Green were appointed to the Board
on 1 December 2006 and 1 January 2007
respectively . Sir James Crosby and Tim Parker
were appointed to the Board on 17 February
2007 and Susan Murray was appointed to 
the Board on 11 October 2007. Val Gooding,
Peter Cawdron and Peter Blackburn ceased 
to be directors on 31 December 2006, 
16 February 2007 and 31 October 2007
respectively . Details of the directors’
remuneration are set out on pages 21 to 27.
Retirement and re-election of directors
Sir Roy Gardner and Steve Lucas retire 
from the Board by rotation and will stand 
for re-election at the 2008 Annual General
Meeting. Sir James Crosby , Tim Parker 
and Susan Murray are standing for election 
at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at
the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre,
Broad Sanctuary , Westminster, London SW1P
3EE at 11.00a.m. on Friday 8 February 2008.
Following the introduction of the Companies
Act 2006, Resolution 15, which seeks to
amend the Articles of Association, will 
be proposed as a special resolution at the
meeting and further details are set out in 
the Notice of Meeting.
Corporate governance
The Board is committed to the highest
standards of corporate governance set out 
in the Combined Code (‘the Code’) on
Corporate Governance published by the
Financial Reporting Council in June 2006.
The Board is accountable to the Company’s
shareholders for good governance and the full
financial statements describe how the Board
applied the principles of good governance set
out in the Code during the year under review .
The Company applied all the principles set
out in section 1 of the Code for the period
under review and has throughout the year
complied with the detailed provisions set 
out therein. The Company’s auditors,
Deloitte & Touche LLP , are required to
review whether the preceding statement
reflects the Company’s compliance with 
the nine provisions of the Code specified 
for its review by the Listing Rules of the 
UK Listing Authority and to report if it 
does not reflect such compliance. No such
report has been made.
Summary financial statement
This annual review and summary financial
statement does not contain sufficient
information to allow as full an understanding
of the results of the Group and state of
affairs of the Company or the Group and 
of their policies and arrangements concerning
directors’ remuneration as would be provided
by the full annual financial statements 
and reports. 
Shareholders who wish to receive full 
financial statements and reports in place of
the summary financial statements for the year
ended 30 September 2007 and all future years
should write to the Company Secretary at the
Company’s registered office, the address of
which is shown on the back cover.
The independent auditors’ report on the full
financial statements of the Group for the year
ended 30 September 2007 is unqualified and
does not contain any statement concerning
inadequate accounting records or failure to
obtain necessary information or explanations.
Summary directors’ report
Summary report of the directors 21 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Summary directors’ report
Summary directors’ remuneration report
including the statement of remuneration 
policy for the year ended 30 September 2007
This report summarises the remuneration 
report, which has been prepared on the
recommendation of the Remuneration
Committee (‘the committee’) and in
accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 1985. Shareholders will be
invited to approve the report at the Annual
General Meeting on 8 February 2008. 
The report covers the following matters:
executive remuneration policy for the 
year ended 30 September 2007 and the
intended policy for the year ending 
30 September 2008; and
directors’ remuneration, incentive plan
participation and pension provision.
With the exception of the annual
performance-related award, service
agreement details, the first shareholder 
return graph on page 24, disclosure of
remuneration to other senior executives and
external directorships, the information set 
out on pages 21 to 27 of this report represents 
the auditable disclosures referred to in the
Independent auditors’ statement on page 28
as specified by the UK Listing Authority 
and under Schedule 7A of the Companies
Act 1985.
Role of Remuneration Committee
The Board sets the Company’s remuneration
policy and the committee is responsible,
within the authority delegated by the Board,
for determining specific remuneration
packages and the terms and conditions 
of employment for the members of the
Executive Committee, which comprises 
the executive directors and other senior
executives. The committee ensures that the
members of the Executive Committee are
provided with the appropriate incentives to
enhance the Group’s performance and to
reward them for their personal contribution 
to the success of the business. The committee
reviews the remuneration arrangements for
Group employees whose salaries exceed a
specified level and administers the Company’s
share incentive plans. The committee also
determines the Chairman’s remuneration
although the Board itself determines the level
of fees paid to the non-executive directors. 
No directors are involved in deciding their
own remuneration. 
The committee also maintains an active
dialogue with shareholder representatives and
its full terms of reference are set out on the
Company’s website www .compass-group.com.
Membership of the committee
The committee consists entirely of
independent non-executive directors (as
defined in the Code). The committee has
been chaired by Sir James Crosby , senior
independent non-executive director since 
his appointment as a director on 17 February
2007. Sir James Crosby succeeded Peter
Cawdron as Chairman of the committee
upon his retirement as a director of the
Company at the conclusion of the 2007
Annual General Meeting. Other members
who served during the year were Sir Roy
Gardner; Sven Kado; Steve Lucas; Tim Parker,
since his appointment on 17 February 2007;
and V al Gooding until her resignation on 
31 December 2006. Biographical details of
the current members of the committee are 
set out on page 14. The General Counsel and
Company Secretary acts as the secretary to
the committee. The committee met on six
occasions during the year.
Advisors to the committee
The committee has access to detailed external
information and research on market data 
and trends from independent consultants.
During the year KPMG LLP (who also
provide due diligence services and support
some of the Company’s internal audit
projects), PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (who
also provide expatriate assignment advice) 
and the Hay Group were engaged by 
the committee to advise on the design of
incentive arrangements, job evaluation and
remuneration levels as well as general human
resource and compensation related matters.
The committee also engaged Mercer Human
Resource Consulting (who also provided
pensions and actuarial advice to some of
the Group’s pension schemes) to provide
advice on job evaluation, remuneration 
levels and pension issues for employees 
below executive director level, and they 
also provided general actuarial advice. The
committee also sought advice from Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer in its capacity as legal
advisor to the Company . 
In addition, Alithos Limited provided
information for the testing of the total
shareholder return performance conditions
for the Company’s Long-Term Incentive 
Plan (‘LTIP’).
The Chairman and the Group Chief
Executive together with Jane Kingston, 
the Group Human Resources Director, and
David Walker, Director of Group Reward, 
are normally invited to attend each committee
meeting and provide advice and guidance to
the committee (other than in respect of their
own remuneration). 
Summary of activity during the year
During the year the committee conducted its
annual review of remuneration to ensure that
the overall remuneration structure continues
to promote the Company’s business strategy .
In addition the committee sought to
harmonise Executive Committee members’
service contracts in order to expressly require
an executive to seek alternative employment 
in the event of termination and to accept
payments in lieu of notice in monthly
instalments. Further details of the executive
directors’ service contracts are set out on 
page 26. The committee also reviewed the
long-term incentive plans and reconfirmed
that the bonus matching and share option
plans would not be used for new awards to
executive directors without seeking renewed
shareholder approval. The committee also
reviewed the free cash flow targets used 
in the LTIP in light of the disposal of the
Selecta vending business and adjusted the
same for awards made in the years ended 
30 September 2006 and 2007. Details of the
LTIP and the adjustments made to the targets
are set out on pages 23 and 24. 22 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Remuneration policy and components
The committee reviews the Company’s
remuneration philosophy and structure 
each year to ensure that the remuneration
framework remains effective in supporting the
Company’s business objectives, in line with
best practice and fairly rewards individuals 
for the contribution that they make to the
business, having regard to the size and
complexity of the Group’s operations and 
the need to retain, motivate and attract
employees of the highest calibre.
The committee intends that base salary 
and total remuneration of executive 
directors should be in line with the market.
Remuneration is benchmarked annually
against rewards available for equivalent 
roles in a suitable comparator group with 
the aim of paying neither significantly above
nor below the median for each element of
remuneration. The committee also considers
general pay and employment conditions
elsewhere within the Group when assessing
the level of salaries and remuneration
packages.
The total remuneration package links
corporate and individual performance with
an appropriate balance between short- and
long-term elements, and fixed and variable
components. The policy is designed to
incentivise executives to meet the Company’s
key objectives, such that a significant portion
of total remuneration is performance related,
based on a mixture of internal targets linked 
to the Company’s key business drivers (which
can be easily measured, understood and
accepted by both executives and shareholders)
and appropriate external comparator groups.
The committee considers that the targets set
for the different elements of performance
related remuneration are both appropriate
and demanding in the context of the business
environment and the challenges with which
the Group is faced. The following table shows
the average proportions of salary , target (or
par) bonus, pension, benefits and the expected
value of long-term incentives granted to each
of the executive directors during the year
ended 30 September 2007.
Details of each individual element of the
remuneration package are given below . 
Salary 
Base salaries are rigorously benchmarked 
and reflect the role, job size and responsibility
as well as individual performance and
effectiveness. The Group Chief Executive’s
salary is reviewed annually each June by the
committee with any increase taking effect on
1 July of each year. Other executives’ salaries
are subject to annual review each December
with any increases taking effect on 1 January . 
The annual base salaries of the executive
directors are: 
Annual base salaries
Richard Cousins £800,000 (effective 1 July 2007)
Gary Green US$1,000,000 (effective 1 January 2007)
Andrew Martin £500,000 (effective 1 January 2007)
Benefits
These comprise healthcare insurance for
executive directors and their dependants,
limited financial advice, life assurance and 
car benefit.
Pensions
The Group’s policy is not to offer defined
benefit arrangements to new employees at 
any level (save where required by applicable
legislation). Incoming executive directors 
are invited either to join the Company’s
contracted-in money purchase arrangement
or to take a fixed salary supplement, which 
is excluded from any bonus calculation. 
At 30 September 2007 there were no
executive directors actively participating in
any Compass Group defined benefit pension
arrangements and none of the executive
directors is accruing additional entitlement 
to benefit under any arrangements that
existed prior to their appointment as
executive directors. 
Richard Cousins and Gary Green elected 
to receive a salary supplement equal to 35%
of their basic salaries in lieu of pension. 
In the light of the A Day pension legislation,
Andrew Martin also elected to receive a salary
supplement equal to 35% of basic salary with
effect from 6 April 2006 and waived all rights
to his final salary pension, money purchase
pension and unfunded unapproved pension
relating to his employment prior to that date
as reported in 2006.
Annual bonus
The annual bonus is earned by the
achievement of performance targets set by the
committee at the start of each financial year
and is delivered in cash. The target (or par)
award for the year ended 30 September 2007
was 75% of base salary , with a further
maximum of 75% of base salary available for
superior performance. 
For the year ended 30 September 2007, 
the bonus measures for Messrs Cousins and
Martin were Group profit before interest 
and tax (‘PBIT’) (60%), free cash flow (‘FCF’)
(20%) and a personal target (‘PT’) (20%) 
with a supplementary financial underpin 
such that the amount payable pursuant to the
achievement of the FCF and PT measures
would be halved unless the threshold PBIT
measure was achieved. Mr Green’s 60%/20%
PBIT/cash targets are split as to 20%/5%
based on Group PBIT/FCF and 40%/15%
based on PBIT/cash flow for his area of
responsibility in the USA, Canada and Mexico.
The percentages of base salary shown below
were paid to the directors for the year ended
30 September 2007.
Actual bonus paid
(% of base salary)
Richard Cousins 145.5%
Gary Green 127.5%
Andrew Martin 147.0%
The committee continues to be satisfied that
the performance targets are challenging and
promote the Company’s business strategy and
have, accordingly , confirmed that there will 
be no change to the bonus measures for the
year ending 30 September 2008, together 
with the supplementary underpin based on
achievement of the Group’s PBIT target.
Summary directors’ report
Summary directors’ remuneration report
continued
Executive directors’ remuneration package elements 
Year ended 30 September 2007
33% Salary
3% Benefits
12% Pension
25% Annual bonus
27% LTIP 23 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Long-Term Incentive Plan
The Company currently operates an LTIP
under which executives may receive a
conditional award of shares which may vest
after a single three-year performance period,
based on the achievement of stretching
performance conditions. Prior to each year
end the committee agrees the LTIP awards 
to be made on the basis of the share price as
at the year end. Because each LTIP award
also depends on financial information only
available after the year end LTIP grants are
not normally made until some weeks after 
the year end. Both total shareholder return
(‘TSR’) and FCF have been selected since
2006 as the performance conditions which are
considered to most closely align the interests
of participants with those of the shareholders.
The LTIP rewards the achievement of the
Group’s FCF targets (which are key business
targets for the Group) as well as the
Company’s relative TSR outperformance
against a defined list of comparator
companies (which aligns the interests of
participants with those of shareholders).
During the year the committee reviewed the
TSR comparator group and determined that
the financial services constituents of the
FTSE 100 should be excluded for the purpose
of the TSR target for awards made in the
year ending 30 September 2008. For awards
made in the year ended 30 September 2007
the TSR comparator group was the entire
FTSE 100.
50% of any LTIP award is based on the
Group’s FCF over the three-year performance
period and 50% on the Company’s TSR over
the same period relative to the companies
comprising the TSR comparator group at 
the start of the performance period. The
precise FCF target for each award is linked 
to the Group’s wider business targets and 
is set by the committee at the time of grant
based on Group projections and market
expectations. 
No shares vest unless the Group achieves
minimum performance. 25% of the portion
of the award based on FCF vests on the
achievement of minimum performance.
Awards vest on a straight-line basis between
25% and 100% where FCF is between
minimum and maximum performance.
Calculations of the achievement of the 
targets are independently performed and 
are approved by the committee.
Following the sale of the Selecta vending
business in July 2007, the committee agreed 
to adjust the FCF targets for existing awards
made in the years ended 30 September 2006
and 2007. The committee considered the
contribution to the FCF made by the Selecta
vending business and sought to make an
adjustment which maintained the targets
originally set in respect of the remaining
business. The minimum and maximum
targets for awards made in the year 
ended 30 September 2006 were amended
from £825 million and £900 million to 
£768 million and £843 million and the FCF
targets for awards made in the year ended 
30 September 2007 from £950 million and
£1,050 million to £859 million and 
£959 million. 
TSR is the aggregate of share price growth
and dividends paid (assuming reinvestment 
of those dividends in the Company’s shares
during the third-year performance period).
100% of the portion of the award based on
TSR will vest if performance is in the top
quartile and 25% of the award will vest 
if performance is at the median. Where
performance is between the median and top
quartile, awards will vest on a straight-line
basis between the median and top quartile.
No shares will be released if the Company’s
TSR performance is below the median.
Emoluments
The aggregate remuneration of the directors who served during the financial year ended 30 September 2007 was as follows:
Salary Salary Annual 2007 2006
& fees supplement
1
bonus Benefits Total Total
Name of director £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Directors in service at 30 September 2007
Chairman
Sir Roy Gardner 363 – – 38 401 188
Executive directors
Richard Cousins 763 267 1,164 36 2,230 831
Gary Green
2
380 133 484 21 1,018 –
Andrew Martin 494 168 735 57 1,454 1,229
Non-executive directors
Peter Blackburn 60––– 60 50
Sir James Crosby
3
63––– 63 –
Sven Kado
4
67––– 67 53
Steve Lucas 75––– 75 65
Tim Parker
3
38––– 38 –
Sir Ian Robinson
5
50––– 50 –
Former directors
Peter Cawdron
6
38––– 38 90
Val Gooding
7
15––– 15 50
Directors who left during the previous year –––– – 2,282
Total 2,406 568 2,383 152 5,509 4,838
1. A supplement of 35% of basic salary is paid in monthly instalments in lieu of pension participation. 
2. Gary Green was appointed as a director of the Company on 1 January 2007 and the figures shown in the above table are pro-rated for the nine months from that date.
3. Sir James Crosby and Tim Parker were appointed as directors of the Company on 17 February 2007.
4. The figure shown for Sven Kado for 2006 and 2007 includes a fee of m4,000 and m10,000 respectively in respect of his non-executive directorship of Compass Group Deutschland GmbH.
5. Sir Ian Robinson was appointed as a director of the Company on 1 December 2006.
6. Peter Cawdron resigned as a director of the Company on 16 February 2007.
7. Val Gooding resigned as a director of the Company on 31 December 2006. 24 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
The following table sets out the percentage 
of each award which has vested and the
percentage of each extant award, had it
vested on 30 September 2007.
Percentage vested on maturity 
or indicative vesting percentage
Y ear of based on performance Performance
award as at 30 September 2007 conditions
2001/02 0% (ended on 1 October 2006) TSR
2002/03 0% (ended on 1 October 2007 TSR
2003/04 0% (performance after 1st extended 
performance period of 48 months) TSR
2004/05 0% (ended on 1 October 2007) TSR
2005/06 73% (performance after 24 months) TSR/FCF
2006/07 100% (performance after 12 months) TSR/FCF
Awards made since 2004 do not benefit 
from retesting. In addition, for awards made
in the year ended 30 September 2006 and
subsequent years, any vesting of an award 
at the end of the performance period is
conditional upon the committee being
satisfied that the underlying financial
performance of the Group justifies such
vesting. Extant awards remain subject to the
achievement of performance conditions
following a participant’s agreed retirement
date and vesting is determined at the end 
of the performance period.
Awards are discretionary and may be granted
up to an annual maximum of 200% of base
salary . Each year the committee assesses the
balance between fixed and variable pay and
resolved that, exceptionally , any award made
in the year ending 30 September 2008 should
be set at 200% of annual base salary to
recognise exceptional performance achieved
during the year ended 30 September 2007.
Summary directors’ report
Summary directors’ remuneration report
continued
Directors’ interests in the Long-Term Incentive Plan
Details of existing awards as at the date of this report and awards conditionally made to the executive directors in office during the year ended 
30 September 2007 are shown in the table below:
As at
30 Sep 2006 Awarded Lapsed
(or date of during during As at
appointment): the year: the year: 30 Sep 2007: Market price at 
number of number of number of number of date of award: Performance
Name of director shares shares shares shares pence conditions Date of award Vesting date
Richard Cousins 727,272 – – 727,272 206.25 TSR/FCF 14 Jun 2006 1 Oct 2008
– 419,384 – 419,384 312.00 TSR/FCF 8 Mar 2007 1 Oct 2009
727,272 419,384 – 1,146,656
Gary Green
1
70,340 – 70,340 – 482.00 TSR
2
25 Feb 2002 1 Oct 2006
3
135,286 – – 135,286 336.25 TSR
2
3 Jul 2003 1 Oct 2007
3
104,896 – – 104,896 371.75 TSR
2
19 Dec 2003 1 Oct 2008
3
168,461 – – 168,461 243.50 TSR
2
21 Dec 2004 1 Oct 2007
365,938 – – 365,938 206.25 TSR/FCF 14 Jun 2006 1 Oct 2008
– 298,706 – 298,706 312.00 TSR/FCF 8 Mar 2007 1 Oct 2009
844,921 298,706 70,340 1,073,287
Andrew Martin 142,449 – – 142,449 243.50 TSR
2
21 Dec 2004 1 Oct 2007
460,606 – – 460,606 206.25 TSR/FCF 14 Jun 2006 1 Oct 2008
– 279,588 – 279,588 312.00 TSR/FCF 8 Mar 2007 1 Oct 2009
603,055 279,588 – 882,643
1. Gary Green was appointed as a director of the Company on 1 January 2007.
2. 100% of the award is based on growth in the Company’ s TSR relative to the FTSE 100 subject to the achievement of a supplementary financial underpin whereby average increase in 
earnings per share (‘EPS’) must be greater than the increase in the UK Retail Price Index (‘RPI’) over a three year period.
3. Awards made prior to 2004 were subject to retesting. The dates shown are the final vesting dates for these awards. After 2004, all awards have only one vesting date as shown.
All Awards were granted for nil consideration.
The highest mid-market price of the Company’ s ordinary shares during the year was 381.75 pence and the lowest was 264.50 pence. The year end price was 302.00 pence.
Total shareholder return
The performance graphs below show the Company’s TSR performance against the performance of the FTSE 100 over the two and five-year
periods to 30 September 2007. The FTSE 100 Index has been chosen as being a broad equity market index of which the Company has been 
a constituent member throughout each period. 
Compass Group
FTSE 100 Index
Sep 07 Sep 06 Sep 02
0
50
100
150
200
250
Value of a hypothetical £100 holding (£)
Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05
Compass Group
FTSE 100 Index
Sep 07 Mar 07 Jun 07 Dec 06 Sep 05
100
120
140
160
180
200
Value of a hypothetical £100 holding (£)
Dec 05 Jun 06 Mar 06 Sep 06
TSR performance against FTSE 100 
Over two years
TSR performance against FTSE 100 
Over five years 25 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Suspended plans
The LTIP was the only form of equity-based
incentive granted for the year ended 
30 September 2007, and this will continue 
to be the policy for the year ending 
30 September 2008. 
Awards prior to 2005 were made under two
further share incentive plans in previous years:
the Compass Group Bonus Matching Shares
Plan and the Compass Group Share Option
Plan. Existing rights under these plans remain
and may result in the vesting of further shares
in the capital of the Company . Shareholder
approval will be sought should the Company
wish to make any further awards to executive
directors under these suspended plans.
Under the Compass Group Bonus 
Matching Shares Plan, executive directors
were permitted to invest up to 50% of any
pre-tax performance related bonus in the
Company’s shares. If the shares were held 
for three years and the director continued to
be employed by the Group, the participant
would be eligible to receive a proportion of
matching shares based on the Group achieving
underlying earnings per share average growth
in excess of RPI over the period. 
Under the Compass Group Share Option
Plan, executive directors were eligible to
receive awards equating to an annual
maximum of 200% of basic salary , at an
exercise price not lower than the market 
value of the Company’s shares on the day
prior to grant. Options would normally be
exercisable on a sliding scale between the
third and tenth anniversaries of the date 
of grant subject to satisfaction of an 
EPS performance condition, after which 
they lapse. 
The Company also has in place UK and
overseas all-employee plans in which
executive directors may participate. However,
no grants have been made under these plans
since 2005. Further details of the plans may
be found in prior years’ annual reports.
Suspended plans
The tables below show the number of options and awards held by the directors in office during the year under the suspended share incentive plans. 
Directors’ bonus matching share awards 
As at date of As at Market price
appointment: 30 Sep 2007: at date of 
number of number of award:
Name of director shares shares pence Deferral period
Gary Green 103,275 103,275
1
220.50 1 Oct 2004 – 30 Sep 2007
1. These shares can be called for by Mr Green in the 12 months from 1 October 2007.
Directors’ interests in share options 
As at
30 Sep 2006 Exercised Lapsed
(or date of during during As at
appointment): the year: the year: 30 Sep 2007: Exercise Performance
number of number of number of number of price: conditions
Name of director shares shares shares shares pence (see notes below) Normal exercise period 
Gary Green
Share Option Plan 467,925 – – 467,925 316.10 1 29 Sep 2002–28 Sep 2009
458,750 – – 458,750 371.60 2 13 Sep 2003–12 Sep 2010
350,000 – – 350,000 430.00 2 19 Sep 2004–18 Sep 2011
350,000 – – 350,000 422.00 2 23 May 2004–22 May 2012
129,500 – – 129,500 292.50 2 30 Sep 2005–29 Sep 2012
500,000 – – 500,000 320.00 2,4 28 May 2006–27 May 2013
300,000 – – 300,000 316.25 2,3 3 Aug 2007–2 Aug 2014
450,000 – – 450,000 229.25 2,3 1 Dec 2007–30 Nov 2014
US Stock Bonus Plan 11,006 – – 11,006 – 5 1 Sep 2008
3,017,181 – – 3,017,181
Andrew Martin
Share Option Plan 650,000 – – 650,000 333.50 2,3 7 Jun 2007–6 Jun 2014
365,000 – – 365,000 229.25 2,3 1 Dec 2007–30 Nov 2014
Sharesave 3,532 3,532 – – 266.80 5 1 Sep 2007–29 Feb 2008
1,018,532 3,532 – 1,015,000
1.  Options were awarded under the Compass Group 1999 Executive Share Option Plan. The performance targets on these grants ceased to apply following the Granada Compass merger in 2000.
2.  Options were awarded under the Compass Group Share Option Plan. If average earnings per share growth is at least 6% over a three year period between grant and exercise, one third of shares under 
option become exercisable. Options are exercisable in full at 12% growth and on a straight line basis in between. 
3.  Performance is tested once only after a three year period. There is no further opportunity for retesting.
4.  The earnings per share target has not been met. The target may be retested annually for the life of the option. 
5.  Options were awarded under an all-employee plan, and are not subject to satisfaction of a performance target. 
No awards or options were granted or exercised under any of the suspended share incentive plans during the year ended 30 September 2007.
Earnings per share measures have been adjusted for awards made prior to 2005 to achieve consistency between IFRS and UK GAAP reporting.
The highest mid-market price of the Company’ s ordinary shares during the year was 381.75 pence and the lowest was 264.50 pence. The year end price was 302.00 pence. 26 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Share ownership policy
In order that their interests are aligned with
those of shareholders, executive directors are
expected to build up and maintain a personal
shareholding in the Company of at least
100% of gross base salary . New directors 
will undertake to build up their shareholding
within four years of their appointment. 
The committee reviewed and noted that 
these targets were achieved by all executive
directors during the year.
Chairman
The fee for the Chairman is reviewed
annually by the committee each June 
with any increase taking effect on 1 July . 
The Chairman’s fee was set at £400,000 p.a.,
with effect from 1 July 2007. 
The Chairman is not eligible for pension
scheme membership, bonus or incentive
arrangements. He is entitled to the provision
of life and medical insurance for himself and
his spouse, financial planning assistance and
car benefit.
Policy on remuneration of non-
executive directors
The fees for the non-executive directors 
are reviewed and determined by the Board 
each year. The base fee for the year ended 
30 September 2007 was £60,000 p.a., with an
additional fee of £15,000 p.a. payable where
a non-executive director acts as Chairman of
either the Audit or Remuneration Committee
and an additional fee of £25,000 p.a. for the
director nominated as senior independent
non-executive director. Non-executive
directors are not eligible for pension scheme
membership, bonus or incentive
arrangements. 
Non-executive directors have letters of
engagement. They are appointed for an 
initial period of three years, after which the
appointment is renewable at three-year
intervals by mutual consent. Details of their
appointments, which are terminable without
compensation, are set out in the table on 
page 27.
Summary directors’ report
Summary directors’ remuneration report
continued
Plan limits headroom
5% in 10 years 10% in 10 years
3.73% Executive
0.38% LTIP 
0.89% Headroom
2.77% All Employee
3.73% Executive
0.38% LTIP 
3.12% Headroom
Dilution limits
All of the Company’s equity based incentive
plans incorporate the current ABI Guidelines
on headroom which provide that overall
dilution under all plans should not exceed
10% over a 10 year period in relation to the
Company’s issued share capital (or reissue of
treasury shares), with the further limitation of
5% in any 10 year period on executive plans.
The committee regularly monitors the
position and prior to the making of any award
considers the effect of potential vesting of
options or share awards to ensure that the
Company remains within these limits. Any
awards which are required to be satisfied by
market purchased shares are excluded from
such calculations. No treasury shares were
utilised in the year ended 30 September 2007. 
As at 30 September 2007, the Company’s
headroom position, which remains within
current ABI Guidelines, was as shown in the
table to the left.
Service agreements 
It is the Company’s policy that service
contracts for the executive directors have no
fixed term but are capable of termination 
on 12 months notice from the Company 
and six months notice from the director, 
(12 months for Richard Cousins). The
Company also retains the right to terminate
the contract immediately by making a
payment in lieu of notice equal to 12 months
pay , on target bonus, pension supplement and
an amount equal to 10% of basic pay in
respect of benefits to be paid in monthly
instalments, subject to an obligation on the
director to mitigate his loss. The service
contracts outline the components of
remuneration paid to the individual but do
not prescribe how remuneration levels are to
be modified from year to year.
Executive directors’ service
agreements
Date of contract
Richard Cousins 22 November 2007
Gary Green 27 November 2007
Andrew Martin 27 November 2007
External appointments
With the Board’s agreement executive
directors may take up one non-executive
directorship outside of the Group. Richard
Cousins receives a fee of £94,000 p.a., in
respect of his directorship of HBOS plc,
which he is permitted to retain.  27 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Other senior executives and
management
There are a number of senior executives who,
with the executive directors, comprise the
Executive Committee. These key management
roles influence the ability of the Group to
meet its strategic targets. The committee has
regard to the remuneration level and structure
of this group whose total remuneration
including salary and other short-term
benefits, target (or par) bonus and the
expected value of long-term incentives is
summarised below .
T otal remuneration
for the year ended
30 September 2007
£000 Number in band
201 – 500 1
501 – 800 –
801 – 1 ,100 2
1 , 101 – 1 ,400 3
1 ,401 – 1 ,450 1
On behalf of the Board
Sir James Crosby
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
28 November 2007
Non-executive directors’ letters of engagement
T otal length 
Original date of service at
Non-executive director of appointment Letter of engagement 30 September 2007
Sir Roy Gardner 1 Oct 2005 15 Sep 2005 2 years
Peter Blackburn
1
10 Apr 2002 16 May 2002
(renewed 31 Mar 2004) 5 years, 5 months
Sir James Crosby 17 Feb 2007 16 Feb 2007 7 months
Sven Kado 10 Apr 2002 10 Apr 2002
(renewed 31 Mar 2004) 5 years, 5 months
Steve Lucas 7 Jul 2004 17 Jun 2004
(renewed 25 Jun 2007) 3 years, 2 months
Susan Murray 11 Oct 2007 11 Oct 2007 –
Tim Parker 17 Feb 2007 16 Feb 2007 7 months
Sir Ian Robinson 1 Dec 2006 1 Dec 2006 10 months
1. Mr Blackburn retired from the Board on 31 October 2007. 28 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Introduction
We have examined the summary financial
statements which comprises the consolidated
income statement, consolidated statement of
recognised income and expense, consolidated
balance sheet, consolidated cash flow
statement and the related notes 1 to 7
together with the summary Directors’
remuneration report.
This report is made solely to the Company’s
members, as a body , in accordance with
section 251 of the Companies Act 1985. Our
work has been undertaken so that we might
state to the Company’s members those
matters we are required to state to them in an
auditors’ report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law , we do
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the Company and the Company’s
members as a body , for our audit work, for
this report, for our audit report, or for the
opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of 
directors and auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing
the Annual Review in accordance with United
Kingdom law .
Our responsibility is to report to you our
opinion on the consistency of the summary
financial statements within the Annual
Review with the full annual accounts, the
Directors’ Report and the Directors’
remuneration report, and its compliance with
the relevant requirements of section 251 of
the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations
made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained
in the Annual Review as described in the
contents section, and consider the
implications for our report if we become
aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the summary
financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with
bulletin 1999/6 The Auditors’ Statement on
the Summary Financial Statement issued by
the Auditing Practices Board for use in the
United Kingdom. 
Our report on the Company’s full annual
financial statements describes the basis of our
audit opinions on those financial statements
and the Directors’ remuneration report.
Opinion
In our opinion, the summary financial
statements are consistent with the full annual
accounts, the Directors’ Report and the
Directors’ remuneration report of Compass
Group PLC for the year ended 30 September
2007 and complies with the applicable
requirements of section 251 of the
Companies Act 1985, and the regulations
made thereunder.
Deloitte & T ouche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London
28 November 2007
Independent auditors’ statement to 
the members of Compass Group PLC 29 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 30 September 2007
2007 2006
Before Exceptional Before Exceptional
exceptional items exceptional items
items (Note 3) T otal items (Note 3) T otal
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations:
Revenue 1 10,268 – 10,268 10,267 – 10,267
Operating costs (9,743) – (9,743) (9,812) – (9,812)
Operating profit 1 525 – 525 455 – 455
Share of profit of associates 4–4 2–2
Total operating profit 529 – 529 457 – 457
Finance income 28 – 28 15 – 15
Finance costs (115) – (115) (160) – (160)
Hedge accounting ineffectiveness (6) – (6) 11 – 11
Profit before tax 436 – 436 323 – 323
Income tax (expense)/credit (124) – (124) (105) 44 (61)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 1 312 – 312 218 44 262
Discontinued operations:
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 2 15 197 212 60 (27) 33
Continuing and discontinued operations:
Profit for the year 327 197 524 278 17 295
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the Company 318 197 515 268 17 285
Minority interest 9–9 10 – 10
Profit for the year 327 197 524 278 17 295
Basic earnings per share (pence)
From continuing operations 4 15.0p 11.7p
From discontinued operations 4 10.6p 1.6p
From continuing and discontinued operations 4 25.6p 13.3p
Diluted earnings per share (pence)
From continuing operations 4 15.0p 11.7p
From discontinued operations 4 10.4p 1.6p
From continuing and discontinued operations 4 25.4p 13.3p 30 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Net income/(expense) recognised in equity
Fair value movement on cash flow hedges – 4
Currency translation differences (12) (7)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on post-retirement employee benefits 38 (37)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 8 3
Recognition of deferred tax asset relating to currency translation differences in prior years 37 –
Income/(expense) recognised directly in equity 71 (37)
Transfers
Transfer to profit or loss from equity of cumulative translation differences on discontinued activities – 2
Transfer to profit or loss from equity on cash flow hedges – (6)
Net transfer to profit or loss from equity – (4)
Net gain/(loss) recognised directly in equity
Net gain/(loss) recognised directly in equity 71 (41)
Profit for the financial year
Profit for the financial year 524 295
Total recognised income and expense for the year 6 595 254
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the Company 576 248
Minority interests 19 6
Total recognised income and expense for the year 6 595 254
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 30 September 2007 31 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 30 September 2007
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 2,985 3,451
Other intangible assets 142 152
Property , plant and equipment 576 756
Interests in associates 25 39
Other investments 12 9
Deferred tax assets
*
240 237
Trade and other receivables 66 117
Derivative financial instruments
**
13 22
Non-current assets 4,059 4,783
Current assets
Inventories 179 212
Trade and other receivables 1,343 1,424
Tax recoverable
*
10 10
Derivative financial instruments
**
2 9
Cash and cash equivalents
**
839 848
Current assets 2,373 2,503
Total assets 6,432 7,286
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings
**
(151) (119)
Derivative financial instruments
**
– (2)
Current tax liabilities
*
(171) (357)
Trade and other payables (1,833) (1,990)
Provisions (86) (65)
Current liabilities (2,241) (2,533)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings
**
(1,452) (1,835)
Derivative financial instruments
**
(15) (18)
Post-employment benefit obligations (162) (282)
Provisions (351) (242)
Deferred tax liabilities
*
(5) (18)
Other payables (36) (46)
Non-current liabilities (2,021) (2,441)
Total liabilities (4,262) (4,974)
Net assets 2,170 2,312
Equity
Share capital 6 193 210
Share premium account 6 122 96
Capital redemption reserve 6 33 15
Less: own shares 6 (1) –
Other reserves 6 4,312 4,288
Retained earnings 6 (2,511) (2,303)
Total equity shareholders’ funds 2,148 2,306
Minority interests 6 22 6
Total equity 2,170 2,312
* Component of current and deferred taxes ** Component of net debt
Approved by the Board of directors on 28 November 2007 and signed on their behalf by
Richard J Cousins, Director
Andrew D Martin, Director 32 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 753 651
Interest paid (152) (186)
Interest element of finance lease rentals (3) (3)
Tax received 4 4
Tax paid (121) (97)
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities of continuing operations 481 369
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities of discontinued operations (18) 178
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 463 547
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of subsidiary companies and investments in associated undertakings (31) (167)
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary companies and associated undertakings – discontinued activities 2 782 1,807
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary companies and associated undertakings – other activities 32 –
Proceeds from sale of other investments 4 –
Tax on profits from sale of subsidiary companies and associated undertakings (51) (50)
Contribution of disposal proceeds to pension plans (45) (280)
Purchase of property , plant and equipment (156) (153)
Proceeds from sale of property , plant and equipment 22 20
Purchase of intangible assets and investments (21) (30)
Dividends received from associated undertakings 6 2
Interest received 28 15
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities by continuing operations 570 1,164
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities by discontinued operations (30) (105)
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities 540 1,059
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 6 27 2
Purchase of own shares
1
(576) (148)
Net increase/(decrease) in borrowings (239) (647)
Repayment of obligations under finance leases (15) (15)
Equity dividends paid 6 (208) (213)
Dividends paid to minority interests 6 (3) (11)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities by continuing operations (1,014) (1,032)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities by discontinued operations – –
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities (1,014) (1,032)
Cash and cash equivalents
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (11) 574
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 848 281
Exchange gains and losses on cash and cash equivalents 2 (7)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 839 848
1. Share buy-back £575 million. Own shares acquired to satisfy employee share-based payments £1 million.
Reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations
for the year ended 30 September 2007
2007 2006
£m £m
Net cash from operating activities of continuing operations 481 369
Purchase of property , plant and equipment (156) (153)
Proceeds from sale of property , plant and equipment 22 20
Purchase of intangible assets and investments (21) (30)
Dividends received from associated undertakings 6 2
Interest received 28 15
Dividends paid to minority interests (3) (11)
Free cash flow from continuing operations 357 212
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 30 September 2007 33 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Summary notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007
1 Segmental reporting
Geographical segments
North Continental United Rest of Intra
America Europe Kingdom the World Group T otal
Revenues £m £m £m £m £m £m
Y ear ended 30 September 2007
Total revenue 4,162 2,842 1,986 1,654 (18) 10,626
Less: inter-segment revenue – (7) (7) (4) 18 –
External revenue 4,162 2,835 1,979 1,650 – 10,626
Less: discontinued businesses – (282) (48) (28) – (358)
External revenue – continuing 4,162 2,553 1,931 1,622 – 10,268
Y ear ended 30 September 2006
Total revenue 4,437 3,321 2,815 1,730 (39) 12,264
Less: inter-segment revenue – (13) (10) (16) 39 –
External revenue 4,437 3,308 2,805 1,714 – 12,264
Less: discontinued businesses (147) (824) (923) (103) – (1,997)
External revenue – continuing 4,290 2,484 1,882 1,611 – 10,267
Geographical segments
North Continental United Rest of Central
America Europe Kingdom the World activities T otal
Result £m £m £m £m £m £m
Y ear ended 30 September 2007
Total operating profit before associates 261 181 107 57 (58) 548
Less: discontinued businesses – (30) – 7 – (23)
Operating profit before associates – continuing 261 151 107 64 (58) 525
Add: Share of profit of associates 1–3––4
Operating profit – continuing 262 151 110 64 (58) 529
Finance income 28
Finance costs (115)
Hedge accounting ineffectiveness (6)
Profit before tax 436
Income tax expense (124)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 312
Y ear ended 30 September 2006
Total operating profit before associates 247 177 125 46 (66) 529
Less: discontinued businesses (2) (55) (18) 1 – (74)
Operating profit before associates – continuing 245 122 107 47 (66) 455
Add: Share of profit of associates 1–1––2
Operating profit – continuing 246 122 108 47 (66) 457
Finance income 15
Finance costs (160)
Hedge accounting ineffectiveness 11
Profit before tax 323
Income tax expense (61)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 262
Russia and Turkey were transferred from the Rest of the World to the Continental Europe segment during the current reporting period to ensure alignment with the new management reporting structure. 
The 2006 segmental results have been restated on a consistent basis. The combined revenue and operating profit of these businesses was £46 million and £3 million respectively for the year ended 
30 September 2006. 34 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
1 Segmental reporting continued
Business segments
Travel
Contracts Vending Concessions Total
Revenues £m £m £m £m
Y ear Ended 30 September 2007
External revenue 9,843 783 – 10,626
Less: discontinued businesses (33) (325) – (358)
External revenue – continuing 9,810 458 – 10,268
Y ear Ended 30 September 2006
External revenue 9,784 1,009 1,471 12,264
Transfers 77 – (77) –
Less: discontinued businesses (121) (482) (1,394) (1,997)
External revenue – continuing 9,740 527 – 10,267
The Travel Concessions businesses held on 30 September 2006 were transferred to the Contracts segment to ensure alignment with the new management reporting structure.
2 Discontinued operations
Year ended 30 September 2007: 
The Group disposed of its European vending business, Selecta, on 2 July 2007. The Group has also completed the sale and closure of a number 
of other small businesses as part of the exit from the discontinued travel concessions business. The results of all these businesses are classified as
discontinued operations and are therefore excluded from the results of continuing operations in 2007. The 2006 results have been restated 
on a consistent basis. The process was complete by the end of the year and no assets or liabilities are classified as being held for sale as at 
30 September 2007.
Year ended 30 September 2006: 
The Group disposed of its Inflight catering operations, which operated principally in Continental Europe, on 19 December 2005, and disposed 
of its travel concession catering business, Select Service Partner, including Creative Host Services in the US (together ‘SSP’) on 15 June 2006. 
The Group also discontinued its Middle East military catering operations and withdrew from or disposed of various other businesses. The results
of these businesses are classified as discontinued operations and are therefore excluded from the results of continuing operations in 2006. This
process was substantially complete by the end of the year and no assets or liabilities were classified as being held for sale at 30 September 2006.
2007 2006
Selecta Other
1
Total SSP Selecta Other
2
Total
Net assets disposed and disposal proceeds £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Goodwill 411 2 413 798 – 51 849
Other intangible assets ––– 10–– 10
Property , plant and equipment 144 2 146 755 – 125 880
Investments ––– 5–38
Inventories 37 – 37 29–9 38
Trade and other receivables 58 3 61 74 – 49 123
Cash and cash equivalents 53 1 54 94 – 24 118
Gross assets disposed of 703 8 711 1,765 – 261 2,026
Trade and other payables (100) – (100) (208) – (51) (259)
Post-employment benefit obligations – (3) (3) (10) – (4) (14)
Tax (15) – (15) (6) – (6) (12)
Minority interest ––– (1) – (5) (6)
Other liabilities (3) (2) (5) – – (5) (5)
Gross liabilities disposed of (118) (5) (123) (225) – (71) (296)
Net assets disposed of 585 3 588 1,540 – 190 1,730
Liabilities retained 63 45 108 88 – 21 109
Cumulative exchange translation loss recycled on disposals
3
––– 2––2
Profit/(loss) on disposal 130 (27) 103 168 – (54) 114
Consideration, net of costs 778 21 799 1,798 – 157 1,955
Consideration deferred to future periods ––– (37) – (8) (45)
Cash disposed of (53) (1) (54) (94) – (24) (118)
Cash inflow from current year disposals 725 20 745 1,667 – 125 1,792
Deferred consideration relating to previous disposals –3737 – – 15 15
Cash inflow from disposals 725 57 782 1,667 – 140 1,807
Summary notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007 35 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
2 Discontinued operations continued
2007 2006
Selecta Other
1
Total SSP Selecta Other
2
Total
Financial performance of discontinued operations £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trading activities of discontinued operations
External revenue 325 33 358 1,238 483 276 1,997
Inter-segment revenues 14 1 15 –21 – 21
Total revenue 339 34 373 1,238 504 276 2,018
Operating costs (307) (43) (350) (1,209) (456) (279) (1,944)
Trading activities of discontinued operations before exceptional costs 32 (9) 23 29 48 (3) 74
Exceptional operating costs (note 3) ––– – – (47) (47)
Profit before tax 32 (9) 23 29 48 (50) 27
Income tax (expense)/credit (see below) (8) – (8) (7) (8) 1 (14)
Profit after tax 24 (9) 15 22 40 (49) 13
Exceptional items: disposal of net assets and other 
adjustments relating to discontinued operations
Profit on disposal of net assets of discontinued operations 130 18 148 170 – (54) 116
Increase in provisions related to discontinued operations
4
– (45) (45) ––––
Cumulative translation exchange loss recycled on disposals
3
––– (2) – – (2)
Profit on disposal before tax 130 (27) 103 168 – (54) 114
Income tax (expense)/credit (see below) (1) 95 94 (99) – 5 (94)
Total profit after tax 129 68 197 69 – (49) 20
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 153 59 212 91 40 (98) 33
2007 2006
Selecta Other
1
Total SSP Selecta Other
2
Total
Income tax from discontinued operations £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Income tax on trading activities of discontinued operations
Current tax (7) – (7) (9) (12) 1 (20)
Deferred tax (1) – (1) 24–6
Income tax (expense)/credit on discontinued operations (8) – (8) (7) (8) 1 (14)
Exceptional items: income tax on disposal of net assets and 
other adjustments relating to discontinued operations
Current tax (1) 18 17 (117) – 11 (106)
Deferred tax – (2) (2) 18 – (6) 12
Exceptional tax credit (note 3) –7979 ––––
Income tax (expense)/credit on disposal of net assets of
discontinued operations (1) 95 94 (99) – 5 (94)
Total income tax from discontinued operations
Total income tax (expense)/credit from discontinued operations (9) 95 86 (106) (8) 6 (108)
1. Travel concessions and various other non-core businesses and adjustments to prior year disposals.
2. Middle East military catering operations and various other non-core businesses.
3 . The Group manages foreign currency exposures in accordance with the policies set out in note 20 of the Annual Report, matching its principal projected cash flows by currency to actual or effective
borrowings in the same currency. As a result the cumulative exchange translation loss recycled on disposals is £nil (2006: £2 million).
4. Additional provisions established in respect of the prior year disposal of travel concessions catering businesses and in respect of Middle East military catering operations discontinued in the prior year. 36 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Summary notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007
3 Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are disclosed and described separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to clearly explain the financial
performance of the Group. Items reported as exceptional are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the
significance of their nature or amount.
2007 2006
Exceptional items £m £m
Continuing operations
Current year tax – 5
Adjustment in respect of prior year’s tax – 17
Current year tax – 22
Current year deferred tax – 22
Adjustment in respect of prior year’s deferred tax – –
Current year deferred tax – 22
Continuing operations – 44
Discontinued operations
Profit on disposal of net assets and other adjustments relating to discontinued operations net of tax (note 2) 197 20
Settlement of UN contract claims and related expenses – (39)
Middle East military catering business – (8)
Discontinued operations 197 (27)
Continuing and discontinued operations
Total 197 17
Year ended 30 September 2007: 
The Group disposed of its European vending business, Selecta, on 2 July 2007 for a net profit after tax of £129 million. 
The Group also completed the sale and closure of a number of other small businesses as part of the exit from discontinued operations, and
established additional provisions totalling £45 million in respect of prior year disposals in these areas, resulting in a net loss after tax of £11 million
before the net release of tax provisions of £79 million. These provisions were released following the settlement of a number of long-standing issues
connected with prior year discontinued activities. The total net profit after tax arising on disposal of these operations was £68 million.
Overall an exceptional net credit of £197 million was recognised in the period.
Year ended 30 September 2006:
A £44 million exceptional tax credit arose in respect of previously unrecognised tax losses and tax deductions in respect of pension prepayments
in the UK tax group that originated in previous years.
£39 million was charged to complete investigations and to settle lawsuits for lost profits brought by two competitors of the Group, ES-KO
International Inc and Supreme Foodservice AG in relation to contracts awarded to Eurest Support Services by the United Nations.
£8 million was provided to settle claims arising in respect of the discontinued Middle East military catering operations.
A profit of £20 million (net of cumulative translation exchange losses and tax) was recognised in respect of the disposal of the Group’s Inflight
catering services business on 19 December 2005 and its travel concessions catering business (‘SSP’) on 15 June 2006. 37 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
4 Earnings per share
The calculation of earnings per share is based on earnings after tax and the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period. 
The adjusted earnings per share figures have been calculated based on earnings excluding the effect of discontinued activities and exceptional
items; these are disclosed to show the underlying trading performance of the Group.
2007 2006
Attributable Attributable
profit profit
Attributable profit £m £m
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 515 285
Less: profit for the year from discontinued operations (212) (33)
Attributable profit for the year from continuing operations 303 252
Less: profit from exceptional items included in continuing operations (net of tax) – (44)
Attributable profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items 303 208
Add back: loss/(profit) from hedge accounting ineffectiveness (net of tax) 4 (7)
Underlying attributable profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items 307 201
2007 2006
Ordinary Ordinary
shares of shares of
10p each 10p each
Average number of shares (millions of ordinary shares of 10p each) millions millions
Average number of shares for basic earnings per share 2,015 2,147
Dilutive share options 11 3
Average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 2,026 2,150
2007 2006
Earnings Earnings
per share per share
pence pence
Basic earnings per share (pence)
From continuing and discontinued operations 25.6 13.3
From discontinued operations (10.6) (1.6)
From continuing operations 15.0 11.7
Exceptional items included in continuing operations (net of tax) – (2.0)
From continuing operations before exceptional items 15.0 9.7
Hedge accounting ineffectiveness (net of tax) 0.2 (0.3)
From underlying continuing operations before exceptional items 15.2 9.4
Diluted earnings per share (pence)
From continuing and discontinued operations 25.4 13.3
From discontinued operations (10.4) (1.6)
From continuing operations 15.0 11.7
Exceptional items included in continuing operations (net of tax) – (2.0)
From continuing operations before exceptional items 15.0 9.7
Hedge accounting ineffectiveness (net of tax) 0.2 (0.4)
From underlying continuing operations before exceptional items 15.2 9.3
5 Dividends
A final dividend in respect of 2007 of 7.2 pence per share, £139 million in aggregate
1
, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 
8 February 2008 giving a total dividend in respect of 2007 of 10.8 pence per share (2006: 10.1 pence per share). These financial statements 
do not include an accrual for this final dividend.
2007 2006
Dividends Dividends
per share per share
Dividends on ordinary shares of 10p each pence £m pence £m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders during the year:
Final dividend for the prior year 6.7p 136 6.5p 140
Interim dividend for the current year 3.6p 72 3.4p 73
Total dividends 10.3p 208 9.9p 213
1. Based on the number of shares in issue at 30 September 2007. 38 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Summary notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2007
6 Reconciliation of movements in equity
Attributable to equity shareholders of the Company
Share Capital
Share premium redemption Own Other Retained Minority
capital account reserve shares reserves earnings interests Total
Reconciliation of movements in equity £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2005 216 94 9 (1) 4,137 (2,204) 27 2,278
Total recognised income and expense –––– (12) 260 6 254
Issue of shares –2–––––2
Fair value of share-based payments (net) –––– 25–– 25
Share buy-back (6) –6–– (149) – (149)
Transfer on exercise of put options –––– 138 3 (10) 131
Other changes –––1–– (6) (5)
210 96 15 – 4,288 (2,090) 17 2,536
Dividends paid to Compass shareholders (note 5) ––––– (213) – (213)
Dividends paid to minority interests –––––– (11) (11)
At 30 September 2006 210 96 15 – 4,288 (2,303) 6 2,312
At 1 October 2006 210 96 15 – 4,288 (2,303) 6 2,312
Total recognised income and expense ––––1 575 19 595
Issue of shares 1 26––––– 27
Fair value of share-based payments (net) –––– 14–– 14
Share buy-back (18) – 18 – – (575) – (575)
Transfer on exercise of put options ––––9––9
Other changes ––– (1) ––– (1)
193 122 33 (1) 4,312 (2,303) 25 2,381
Dividends paid to Compass shareholders (note 5) ––––– (208) – (208)
Dividends paid to minority interests –––––– (3) (3)
At 30 September 2007 193 122 33 (1) 4,312 (2,511) 22 2,170
Own shares held by the Group represent 271,960 shares in Compass Group PLC (2006: 161,600 shares). 161,012 shares are held by the Compass
Group Employee Share Trust (‘ESOP’) and 110,948 shares by the Compass Group Employee Trust Number 2 (‘CGET2’). These shares are listed
on a recognised stock exchange and their market value at 30 September 2007 was £0.8 million (2006: £0.4 million). The nominal value held at 
30 September 2007 was £27,196 (2006: £16,160).
ESOP and CGET2 are discretionary trusts for the benefit of employees and the shares held are used to satisfy some of the Group’s liabilities to
employees for share options, share bonus and long-term incentive plans. All of the shares held by the ESOP and CGET2 are required to be made
available in this way .
The analysis of other reserves is shown below:
Equity
Share-based adjustment
payment Merger T ranslation Hedging for put T otal other
reserve reserve reserve reserve options reserves
Other reserves £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2005 105 4,170 16 1 (155) 4,137
Total recognised income and expense – – (11) (1) – (12)
Fair value of share-based payments 25–––– 25
Settled in cash or existing shares (purchased in market) ––––––
Transfer on exercise of put options –––– 138 138
At 30 September 2006 130 4,170 5 – (17) 4,288
At 30 September 2006 130 4,170 5 – (17) 4,288
Total recognised income and expense ––1––1
Fair value of share-based payments 25–––– 25
Settled in cash or existing shares (purchased in market) (11) –––– (11)
Transfer on exercise of put options ––––99
At 30 September 2007 144 4,170 6 – (8) 4,312
The merger reserve arose in 2000 following the demerger from Granada Compass plc. The equity adjustment for put options arose on the
accounting for the options held by the Group’s minority partners requiring the Group to purchase those minority interests. 39 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
7 Contingent liabilities
2007 2006
Contingent liabilities £m £m
Performance bonds, guarantees and indemnities (including those of associated undertakings) 227 203
On 21 October 2005, the Company announced that it had instructed Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer to conduct an investigation into the
relationships between Eurest Support Services (‘ESS’) (a member of the Group), IHC Services Inc. (‘IHC’) and the United Nations (‘UN’). Ernst 
& Y oung assisted Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer in this investigation. On 1 February 2006, it was announced that the investigation had concluded.
The investigation established serious irregularities in connection with contracts awarded to ESS by the UN. The work undertaken by Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer and Ernst & Y oung gave no reason to believe that these issues extended beyond a few individuals within ESS to other parts 
of ESS or the wider Compass Group of companies.
The Group settled all outstanding civil litigation against it, in relation to this matter, in October 2006 but litigation continues between competitors
of ESS, IHC and other parties involved in UN procurement. 
IHC’s relationship with the UN and ESS was part of a wider investigation into UN procurement activity being conducted by the United States
Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New Y ork, and with which the Group cooperated fully . The current status of that investigation is
uncertain and a matter for the US authorities. Those investigators could have had access to sources unavailable to the Group, Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer or Ernst & Y oung, and further information may yet emerge which is inconsistent with, or additional to, the findings of the
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer investigation, which could have an adverse impact on the Group. The Group has however not been contacted by ,
or received further requests for information from, the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New Y ork in connection with
these matters since January 2006. The Group has cooperated fully with the UN throughout.
In February 2007, the Group’s Portuguese business, Eurest (Portugal) Sociedade Europeia Restaurantes LDA, was visited by the Portuguese
Competition Authority (‘PCA ’) as part of an investigation into possible past breaches of competition law by the Group and other caterers in the
sector. The PCA investigation relates to a part of the Portuguese catering business which services mainly public sector contracts. The Group 
is cooperating fully with the PCA ’s ongoing investigation. Revenues of the Portuguese business for the year ended 30 September 2007 were 
£90 million (r134 million). It is likely that the investigation will take several months to complete and its outcome cannot be predicted at this point. 
It is not currently possible to quantify any potential liability which may arise in respect of these matters. The directors currently have no reason to
believe that any potential liability that may arise would be material to the financial position of the Group.
The Group, through a number of its subsidiary undertakings, is, from time to time, party to various other legal proceedings or claims arising from
its normal business. Provisions are made as appropriate. None of these proceedings is regarded as material litigation.
The Group has provided a guarantee to one of its joint venture partners over the level of profits which will accrue to them in future periods. 
The maximum amount payable under this guarantee is £35 million, which would be payable in respect of the period from 1 July 2007 to 
31 December 2010. Based on the latest management projections, no liability is expected to arise in relation to this guarantee and accordingly , 
no provision has been recorded at 30 September 2007 (2006: £nil). 40 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Shareholder information
Registrars and transfer office
All matters relating to the administration of
shareholdings should be directed to Capita
Registrars, The Registry , 34 Beckenham
Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, telephone
within the UK: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 
10 pence per minute plus network extras) and
from overseas: +44 20 8639 2157; email:
ssd@capitaregistrars.com. 
Shareholders can register online to view 
their Compass Group PLC shareholding
details using the Share Portal, a service offered
by Capita Registrars. This service can be
accessed at www .capitashareportal.com.
Shareholders registering for the Share Portal
will require their investor code which is shown
on share certificates and on the form of proxy
accompanying this Report. The service
enables shareholders to do all of the following:
check their shareholdings in Compass
Group PLC 24 hours a day;
register their email and mailing preference
(post or electronic) for future shareholder
mailings;
gain easy access to a variety of shareholder
information including indicative valuation
and payment instruction details; and
use the Internet to appoint a proxy to
attend general meetings of Compass 
Group PLC.
Electronic communications
The Company can, at shareholders’ request,
send shareholders an email notification each
time a new shareholder report or other
shareholder communication is placed on its
website. This enables shareholders to read
and/or download the information at their
leisure. Shareholders can still request paper
copies of the documents if they so wish.
To encourage shareholders to convert to 
e-communications, the Company will arrange
for a sapling tree to be planted in the UK for
each shareholder who chooses to receive all
future communications electronically . The
next opportunity for the Company to notify
shareholders electronically will be for the
Interim Report, to be published in June 2008.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)
The Company has introduced a DRIP
service, provided by Capita IRG Trustees
Limited. The DRIP allows eligible
shareholders to use the whole of their cash
dividend to buy additional shares in the
Company , increasing their shareholding.
Additional information, including details of
how to sign up, can be obtained from Capita
IRG Trustees Limited, telephone within the
UK: 0871 664 0381 (calls cost 10 pence per
minute plus network extras) and from
overseas: +44 20 8639 3402; email:
shares@capitaregistrars.com.
Share price information
The current price of the Company’s shares is
available on Ceefax, Teletext, FTCityline
(operated by the Financial Times), telephone
within the UK: 0906 843 3250 and on the
Company’s website: www .compass-group.com.
ShareGift
ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme,
is a free service for shareholders wishing to give
shares to charitable causes. It is particularly
useful for those shareholders who may wish to
dispose of a small quantity of shares where the
market value makes it uneconomic to sell on a
commission basis. Further information can be
obtained from ShareGift (telephone within the
UK: 020 7930 3737 and from overseas 
+44 20 7930 3737 or www .sharegift.org) 
or from the Registrars.
American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
The Company operates an ADR programme.
Each ADR is equivalent to one Compass
Group PLC ordinary share and trades under
the symbol CMPGY . Further information can
be obtained from The Bank of New Y ork
Mellon, Investor Relations, PO Box 11258,
Church Street Station, New Y ork, NY 10286-
1258, telephone: within the US toll free 1-888
BNY-ADRs and from overseas +1 212 815
3700; email: shareowners@bankofny .com and
from websites: www .adrbny .com and
www.stockbny .com.
Warning about unsolicited 
investment contacts 
Many companies have become aware that
their shareholders have received unsolicited
telephone calls or correspondence concerning
investment matters. These are typically from
overseas based ‘brokers’ who target UK
shareholders offering to sell them what often
turns out to be worthless or high risk shares in
US or UK investments. Shareholders are
advised to be very wary of any unsolicited
advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or
offers of free company reports. 
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
Make sure you get the correct name of the
person and organisation.
Check that they are properly authorised 
by the Financial Services Authority before
getting involved. Y ou can check at
www.fsa.gov.uk/register.
The FSA also maintains on its website a list
of unauthorised overseas firms who are
targeting, or have targeted, UK investors
and any approach from such organisations
should be reported to the FSA so that this
list can be kept up to date and any other
appropriate action can be considered. If
you deal with an unauthorised firm, you
would not be eligible to receive payment
under the Financial Services Compensation
Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by
completing an online form at
www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk.
Inform our Registrars by telephone within
the UK: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10 pence
per minute plus network extras) and from
overseas: +44 20 8639 2157; email:
ssd@capitaregistrars.com. 
More detailed information on this or similar
activity can be found on the FSA website
www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk.
Unsolicited mail 
The Company is legally obliged to make its
register of members available to the public.
As a consequence of this some shareholders
might have received unsolicited mail. UK
shareholders wishing to limit the amount 
of such mail should write to the Mailing
Preference Service, FREEPOST 29
LON20771, London W1E 0ZT . Alternatively ,
UK shareholders may register online at
www .mpsonline.org.uk or request an
application form by calling from within 
the UK: 0845 703 4599.
Identity theft – protecting an
investment
Criminals may steal shareholders’ personal
information putting a holding at risk.
Advice on protecting a shareholding:
Ensure certificates are kept in a safe place
or hold shares electronically in CREST 
via a nominee.
Keep all correspondence from the
Registrars which shows a shareholder
investor code in a safe place, or destroy
correspondence by shredding.
When changing address, inform the
Registrars. If a letter from the Registrars is
received regarding a change of address and
there has been no recent move, contact the
Registrars immediately . The shareholder
concerned may be a victim of identity theft.
Know when the dividends are paid.
Shareholders may wish to consider having
their dividends paid directly into their bank
or building society account, both for the
convenience and the resulting reduction in
the risk of the cheque being intercepted or
lost in the post. To take advantage of this
dividend mandate facility , contact the
Registrars, telephone within the UK: 
0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10 pence per
minute plus network extras) and from
overseas: +44 20 8639 2157; or
alternatively complete a form online at
www.capitaregistrars.com/shareholders
using the Share Portal service.
On changing bank or building society
account, inform the Registrars of the
details of the new account and respond to
any letters the Registrars send about this.
When buying or selling shares, shareholders
should seek to only deal with brokers
registered in their country of residence 
or the UK.
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting:
8 February 2008
Results announcements:
Half year – May
Full year – late November/early December
Dividend payments:
Interim – August
Final – March Number of Shares
Number of Holders shares held held
Shareholder analysis holders % millions %
T ype of holder:
Individuals 61,918 92.4 87 4.5
Institutional and other investors 5,112 7.6 1,840 95.5
Total 67,030 100.0 1,927 100.0
Size of holding:
1-100 13,402 20.0 1 0.0
101-200 10,979 16.4 2 0.1
201-500 16,454 24.5 5 0.3
501-1,000 10,728 16.0 8 0.4
1,001-2,000 7,797 11.6 11 0.6
2,001-5,000 4,861 7.2 15 0.8
5,001-10,000 1,251 1.9 9 0.5
10,001-50,000 750 1.1 16 0.8
50,001-100,000 174 0.3 12 0.7
100,001-500,000 306 0.5 74 3.8
500,001-1,000,000 99 0.1 70 3.6
1,000,001-5,000,000 159 0.2 361 18.7
5,000,001-10,000,000 36 0.1 256 13.3
10,000,001 and above 34 0.1 1,087 56.4
Total 67,030 100.0 1,927 100.0
41 Compass Group PLC Annual Review 2007
Index to the summary consolidated ﬁnancial statements
Note Page
Independent auditors’ statement 28
Consolidated income statement 29
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 30
Consolidated balance sheet 31
Consolidated cash flow statement 32
Reconciliation of free cash flow from continuing operations 32
1 Segmental reporting 33
2 Discontinued operations 34
3 Exceptional items 36
4 Earnings per share 37
5 Dividends 37
6 Reconciliation of movements in equity 38
7 Contingent liabilities 39
Forward looking statements
This Review contains forward looking statements within 
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act,
as amended.These statements are subject to a number of
risks and uncertainties and actual results and events could
differ materially from those currently being anticipated as
reflected in such forward looking statements. The terms
‘expect’, ‘should be’, ‘will be’, ‘is likely to’ and similar
expressions identify forward looking statements. Factors
which may cause future outcomes to differ from those
foreseen in forward looking statements include, but are not
limited to: general economic conditions and business
conditions in Compass Group’s markets; exchange rate
fluctuations; customers’ and clients’ acceptance of its
products and services; the actions of competitors; and
legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments.
For the 13th consecutive year Master Chef Wolfgang 
Puck was selected to create the menu for The Academy
of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences post-Oscar event, 
the Governor’ s Ball. In the same month Compass’
foodservice excellence was on show at the 49th 
Annual Grammy Awards and for the Players’ Party 
and Super Bowl Host Committee VIP Party at this 
year’ s Super Bowl.
£4,162m
Revenue
2006: £4,290m
North America
£261m
Operating profit
3
2006: £245m
Regional highlights
Continued excellent progress
delivering 6% organic revenue growth.
Operating profit from continuing
operations increased by £39 million 
on a constant currency basis to 
£261 million (2006: £222 million), 
a 60 basis point margin improvement. 
The Business & Industry sector has
been driven by innovation in our offer,
delivering 4% like for like revenue
growth. 
In Healthcare, 7% organic growth 
from increased cross-selling between
Morrison, our foodservice business,
and Crothall, our support services
business. 
Healthy eating programmes and 
the strength of the Chartwells brand
contributed to 9% organic revenue
growth in the Education sector. 
Good growth in Levy, our Sports 
& Leisure business.
Continued good progress with 
our business in Canada.
Our pipeline for 2008 looks healthy .
The newly branded Restaurant Associates was launched 
in May 2007 to respond to a growing demand for a leading
provider of executive hospitality , dining and business
support services to its prestigious blue-chip clients;
including 17 out of the top 20 investment banks in 
London, law firms and leading organisations. The move
consolidated our previous brand operations under one
strong identity and management structure. Our new
business goals reflect a commitment to innovation, 
service, lifestyle and simplicity .
£1,931m
Revenue
2006: £1,882m
Percentage of 
Group revenue
19%
2006: 18%
United Kingdom
£107m
Operating profit
3
2006: £107m
Regional highlights
Revenue in the UK was £1,931 million
(2006: £1,882 million), growth of 
2% on an organic basis.
A solid result with, as expected,
operating profits in line with last year.
Largely completed the turnaround or
exit of poor performing contracts.
The Education sector has stabilised
following a difficult period.
We have continued to reorganise the
business to drive further efficiencies.
We expect a broadly similar
performance in 2008.
Our business in Spain is capitalising on the rapid
expansion of the senior-living market. Building on our
experience of providing foodservice in the residential
care homes market, we have developed a delivered
meals service for senior and handicapped people 
at home; a model for other countries with ageing
populations looking for an alternative to moving 
people into rest homes. In the last year we have 
delivered over 1.2 million meals to people in-home
providing a varied, healthy diet.
£2,553m
Revenue
2006: £2,484m
Percentage of 
Group revenue
25%
2006: 24%
Continental Europe
£151m
Operating profit
3
2006: £122m
Regional highlights
Organic revenue growth has doubled 
to 4%, with good growth opportunities
for the future. 
On a constant currency basis, growth 
of £31 million operating profit from
continuing operations to £151 million
(2006: £120 million) represents a margin
improvement of 100 basis points.
In Spain, like for like growth, driven 
by new offerings and an increase in
consumer numbers, together with 
new business in the Healthcare and
Education sectors, have driven 
organic revenue growth of 13%. 
Continued high activity in the oil 
and gas industry in the Nordic region
contributed to 14% organic revenue
growth, while the focus on healthy
eating continues to drive volumes
through much of the region. 
Good turnaround in previously 
underperforming countries such 
as France and the Netherlands.
We are becoming more established 
in the Eastern European market, 
which is growing well.
T engizchevroil (TCO), a Chevron managed joint venture 
in Kazakhstan, renewed their contract for support
services at their Atyrau and T engiz facilities after a
competitive re-tendering process. This is one of our
largest remote site contracts, with over 3,200 of our
people providing a range of services, including full 
daily catering services and the full maintenance of
offices, accommodation rooms and town homes.
£1,622m
Revenue
2006: £1,611m
Percentage of 
Group revenue
16%
2006: 16%
Rest of the World
£64m
Operating profit
3
2006: £47m
Regional highlights
Another very strong year, delivering
£64 million operating profit from
continuing operations (2006: 
£43 million on a constant currency
basis), an increase of £21 million.
Australia continues to deliver strong
organic revenue growth driven 
by the ongoing buoyancy of the
extraction industries.
Encouraging progress in Japan, where
the focus on driving efficiency and 
restructuring the business has resulted
in good margin improvement.
Our businesses in Abu Dhabi and
Dubai have seen good revenue and
margin growth.
Good revenue growth with some
margin improvement in Latin America.
Looking forward there remains
significant opportunity to further
develop our businesses in the 
Rest of the World both in size and
operating performance.
Regional review at a glance
Percentage of 
Group revenue
40%
2006: 42%
See footnotes on page 1.
Business & Industry
Fine Dining
Healthcare & Seniors
Education
Sports & Leisure
Defence, Offshore
Vending
North America
Continental Europe
United Kingdom
Rest of the World
Our marketplace
Our strategy focuses on the
outsourced foodservice and
support services markets,
building on the existing
expertise and strengths we 
have as a Group. 
We estimate that outsourcing growth in 
the foodservice market (which we estimate 
is £150 billion) is at least 5% per annum. 
As market leader, we will strive for more 
and faster penetration of the foodservice
market that is still self operated. The support
services market is significantly larger than 
the foodservice market and growing at a 
faster rate.
Market sectors and operating companies
North America Continental Europe United Kingdom Rest of the World
Group at a glance
Business & Industry
No-one understands food at work quite like we do, 
whether it is in offices, distribution, factories or any 
other work environment. Our consumer focus drives 
the development and innovation in our food offers, 
brands and service to deliver the optimum solution 
from restaurants and café style outlets to coffee bars
and vending. We also provide a selected range of
support services that complement our foodservice
offer. This includes cleaning, grounds maintenance,
hospitality and reception services.
Fine Dining
Food is at the heart of what we do and, often working 
with world-renowned chefs, we bring exceptional
gastronomic creativity and flair, style and hospitality to
executive dining rooms, prestigious social and cultural
events and world famous venues. 
Healthcare & Seniors
One of the most demanding markets in which we 
operate. The very highest standards of food safety and
hygiene, working with clinical staff and having a detailed
understanding of the nutritional needs of those we care
for have made us a leader in this market. Our offer is
broader than simply foodservice for patients, staff and
visitors, and includes a range of complementary
support services including services such as cleaning
and housekeeping.
Education
From primary schools to some of the world’ s most
renowned universities, we provide a nutritious, well-
balanced diet to fuel the development of young minds
and bodies. 
Sports & Leisure
We have unparalleled experience in providing high 
quality foodservice for some of the world’ s most 
prestigious sporting and leisure venues, visitor
attractions and social events. In addition we have 
the specialist in-house expertise and resources to
provide a single source for the complete marketing 
and management of corporate hospitality packages.
Defence, Offshore & Remote Sites
We provide vital workplace support for people working 
in some of the most hostile and demanding terrains in 
the world from oil and gas to major construction sites 
and remote mining locations. Our technical and
logistical competence, commitment to health and
safety and ability to effectively mobilise contracts have
earned us an enviable reputation for providing fully
integrated food and support services for global clients
with workers around the world. 
Vending
Vending is an integral part of our foodservice offer and
we are able to deliver high quality, innovative solutions 
to our customers. In North America this is through
Canteen, our specialist vending operation.
We have unparalleled experience in providing these
services to people in a whole range of environments –
at work, at school or university, in hospital, at sporting
or cultural events, or in remote environments. Our
proven capability in each of these markets results 
from our sector focus, with dedicated operating
businesses in each sector in our main geographies.
This in-depth understanding of the demands of 
these markets and the needs of our customers 
drives our market-leading innovation, our operating
efficiency and ultimately the quality of the service our
customers experience.
Leading sector expertise
Our marketplace
Our aim is to achieve market leadership 
in the sectors and countries that we have
identified as having real prospects for strong
long-term organic growth and provide the
global capability necessary to grow our
international client base.
Our guiding principles form the basis of
our approach to delivering this strategy:
Health, safety and environment first
Never to compromise on the health and 
safety of our customers and our people, 
and to manage responsibly the impact 
that our business has on the environment.
Delivering for clients and consumers
To earn the continued loyalty of our
customers by consistently demonstrating 
why we are the first choice for quality , service,
value and innovation.
Developing our people 
and valuing diversity
To value and recognise the diversity and
contribution of our people. We create a work
environment that is challenging and provides
the opportunities and support for everyone 
to develop, learn and succeed.
Profitable growth
To deliver shareholder value through
disciplined, sustainable growth, underpinned
by strong governance, that contributes to and
leverages the benefits of our global scale.
Constant focus on 
performance and efficiency 
To deliver the highest quality and
performance, whilst relentlessly driving to 
be the lowest cost, most efficient provider.
We are a world leading provider
of food and support services.
Every day we serve literally
millions of people around the
world, whether it is to provide
them with a meal, a cup of
coffee, a clean office or helping 
to keep the entire workspace
around them working at its best. 
In a number of countries we have a single operating company providing
multi-sector solutions. For example, Onama in Italy and Seiyo in Japan. Registered office
Compass Group PLC
Compass House
Guildford Street
Chertsey
Surrey KT16 9BQ
United Kingdom
Registered No: 4083914
Tel +44 (0)1932 573 000
Fax +44 (0)1932 569 956
www.compass-group.com
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Hill House
1 Little New Street
London EC4A 3TR
Financial advisors
Citigroup Global Markets Ltd
Citigroup Centre
33 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 5LB
Legal advisors
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Stockbrokers
Morgan Stanley & Co International Limited
25 Cabot Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 4QA
Merrill Lynch International
Merrill Lynch Financial Centre
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr +44 (0)20 7610 6140. Printed in the UK by CTD.
This report is printed on Look, which is 100% ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) pulp and is 100% recyclable and sourced from carefully 
managed and renewed commercial forests, certified in accordance with the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council). The mill is ISO 14001 certified.
Our printers are fully accredited to the ISO 14001 environmental management system. They utilise vegetable based inks and operate a direct
computer to plate repro system, eliminating the need for film with its chemicals such as developer and acid fixers.
Our vision is to be a world-class provider 
of contract foodservice and support services,
renowned for our great people, our great service
and our great results. T o achieve this everyone 
in Compass Group is committed to consistently
delivering superior service in the most efficient 
way for the shared benefit of our customers,
shareholders and employees.
01 2007 highlights
02 Chairman’s statement
Delivering on our commitments
04 Chief Executive’s statement
Driving performance
11 Summary business review
14 Board of directors
15 Acting responsibly 
20 Summary directors’ report
20 Summary report of the directors
21 Summary directors’ remuneration report
28 Summary consolidated financial statements
40 Shareholder information
41 Index to the summary financial statements
Contents
Delivering
proﬁtable 
growth
Annual Review 2007
