 Albania
Afghanistan
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Bosnia & Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Cambodia
Cameron
Canada
Chile
China
Columbia
Congo
Costa Rica
Croatia
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Estonia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Honduras
Hong Kong
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Ivory Coast
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kosovo
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Latvia
Lebanon
Libya
Lithuania
Macedonia
Malaysia
Malta
Mexico
Moldova
Morocco
Mozambique
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palestine
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Romania
Russia
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Slovenia
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
Tunisia
Turkey
UAE
Uganda
UK
Ukraine
Uruguay
USA
Uzbekistan
Venezuela
Vietnam
Yemen
Aegis Group plc 180 Great Portland Street London W1W 5QZ
www.aegisplc.com
Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Carat
Posterscope
Vizeum
Isobar
iProspect
Synovate
STRONG MOMENTUM
for a sustainable future
Also available online…
www.aegisplc.com/annualreport/
AEGIS GROUP IS ONE OF THE WORLD’S
LEADING MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS 
& MARKET RESEARCH GROUPS.
WHO WE ARE…
There are over 16,000 of us working on
six continents in 24 time zones, continually
pioneering the worlds of media
communications and market research.
We have two strong operating businesses, Aegis Media and Synovate. Albania
Afghanistan
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Bosnia & Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Cambodia
Cameron
Canada
Chile
China
Columbia
Congo
Costa Rica
Croatia
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Estonia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Honduras
Hong Kong
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Ivory Coast
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kosovo
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Latvia
Lebanon
Libya
Lithuania
Macedonia
Malaysia
Malta
Mexico
Moldova
Morocco
Mozambique
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palestine
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Romania
Russia
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Slovenia
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
Tunisia
Turkey
UAE
Uganda
UK
Ukraine
Uruguay
USA
Uzbekistan
Venezuela
Vietnam
Yemen
Aegis Group plc 180 Great Portland Street London W1W 5QZ
www.aegisplc.com
Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Carat
Posterscope
Vizeum
Isobar
iProspect
Synovate
STRONG MOMENTUM
for a sustainable future
Also available online…
www.aegisplc.com/annualreport/
AEGIS GROUP IS ONE OF THE WORLD’S
LEADING MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS 
& MARKET RESEARCH GROUPS.
WHO WE ARE…
There are over 16,000 of us working on
six continents in 24 time zones, continually
pioneering the worlds of media
communications and market research.
We have two strong operating businesses, Aegis Media and Synovate. Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
TWO STRONG
OPERATING BUSINESSES…
delivering for clients
and shareholders
Aegis Media…
Our businesses
develop
communications
solutions for clients
in todays converged
media world. 
They employ over
10,000 people in 
80 countries.
>
Synovate…
A leading global custom
market research company
which generates insights to
help clients drive competitive
brand, product and customer
experience strategies. It
employs over 6,000 people 
in 62 countries.
>
Aegis Media
Carat / Isobar / Posterscope / Vizeum / iProspect
All five of Aegis Media’s major brands are world-leading
marketing and communications businesses:
> Carat is the world’s largest independent media
communications business.
> Vizeum, our challenger media brand, pioneering the
art of connection.
> Isobar, a global communications agency with digital at
its heart.
> iProspect, a leading global search marketing business.
> Posterscope is the out-of-home sector leader, and the
only truly global network, constantly pushing the
technological boundaries.
Synovate
Synovate offers clients a broad suite of custom research
solutions across a diverse range of geographies, sectors
and specialisms.
R
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS 2010
RE-FOCUSED STRATEGIC
APPROACH &
STRENGTHENED
MANAGEMENT TEAMS 
AT BOTH BUSINESSES:
SYNOVATE
PERFORMANCE
TOWARDS THE TOP
OF ITS PEER GROUP
> EXCELLENT
PERFORMANCES IN
NORTH AMERICA AND
FASTER-GROWING
REGIONS
ORGANIC REVENUE
GROWTH OF 5.8%
OPERATING PROFIT OF
£192.2M - UP 12.3%*
AEGIS MEDIA
OUTPERFORMED THE
ADVERTISING MARKET
> STRENGTHENED
FINANCIAL POSITION
ENABLED RE-FOCUS 
ON ACQUISITIONS
OPERATING MARGIN TO
13.2% - UP 70 BPS*
MOMENTUM
ACHIEVED AT
AEGIS MEDIA
AND SYNOVATE 
The paper used in this report is produced with FSC mixed sources pulp
which is fully recyclable, biodegradable, pH Neutral, heavy metal absence
and acid-free. It is manufactured within a mill which complies with the
international environmental ISO 14001 standard.
Fulmar Colour is FSC certified, PEFC certified and ISO 14001 certified
showing that it is committed to all round excellence and improving
environmental performance is an important part of this strategy. Fulmar
Colour aim to reduce at source the effect their operations have on the
environment, and are committed to continual improvement, prevention 
of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry standards.
Fulmar Colour is a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
Designed and produced by MAGEE
www.magee.co.uk
Printed by Fulmar Colour
ISO14001REGISTERED
DNVCertificationBV 013
* Underlying performance with percentages representing change at constant currency. Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
TWO STRONG
OPERATING BUSINESSES…
delivering for clients
and shareholders
Aegis Media…
Our businesses
develop
communications
solutions for clients
in todays converged
media world. 
They employ over
10,000 people in 
80 countries.
>
Synovate…
A leading global custom
market research company
which generates insights to
help clients drive competitive
brand, product and customer
experience strategies. It
employs over 6,000 people 
in 62 countries.
>
Aegis Media
Carat / Isobar / Posterscope / Vizeum / iProspect
All five of Aegis Media’s major brands are world-leading
marketing and communications businesses:
> Carat is the world’s largest independent media
communications business.
> Vizeum, our challenger media brand, pioneering the
art of connection.
> Isobar, a global communications agency with digital at
its heart.
> iProspect, a leading global search marketing business.
> Posterscope is the out-of-home sector leader, and the
only truly global network, constantly pushing the
technological boundaries.
Synovate
Synovate offers clients a broad suite of custom research
solutions across a diverse range of geographies, sectors
and specialisms.
R
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS 2010
RE-FOCUSED STRATEGIC
APPROACH &
STRENGTHENED
MANAGEMENT TEAMS 
AT BOTH BUSINESSES:
SYNOVATE
PERFORMANCE
TOWARDS THE TOP
OF ITS PEER GROUP
> EXCELLENT
PERFORMANCES IN
NORTH AMERICA AND
FASTER-GROWING
REGIONS
ORGANIC REVENUE
GROWTH OF 5.8%
OPERATING PROFIT OF
£192.2M - UP 12.3%*
AEGIS MEDIA
OUTPERFORMED THE
ADVERTISING MARKET
> STRENGTHENED
FINANCIAL POSITION
ENABLED RE-FOCUS 
ON ACQUISITIONS
OPERATING MARGIN TO
13.2% - UP 70 BPS*
MOMENTUM
ACHIEVED AT
AEGIS MEDIA
AND SYNOVATE 
The paper used in this report is produced with FSC mixed sources pulp
which is fully recyclable, biodegradable, pH Neutral, heavy metal absence
and acid-free. It is manufactured within a mill which complies with the
international environmental ISO 14001 standard.
Fulmar Colour is FSC certified, PEFC certified and ISO 14001 certified
showing that it is committed to all round excellence and improving
environmental performance is an important part of this strategy. Fulmar
Colour aim to reduce at source the effect their operations have on the
environment, and are committed to continual improvement, prevention 
of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry standards.
Fulmar Colour is a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
Designed and produced by MAGEE
www.magee.co.uk
Printed by Fulmar Colour
ISO14001REGISTERED
DNVCertificationBV 013
* Underlying performance with percentages representing change at constant currency. 01 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
WHAT WE DO…
We help clients communicate 
and build relationships with their
consumers around their products
and brands.
                BUSINESS REVIEW
    01-41    Business review
          01    Contents
          02    Strategy and highlights
          04    Chairman’s statement
          06    Chief Executive’s report
          10    Aegis Media business review
          13    Synovate business review
          16    Case studies
          26    Financial review
          32    Principal risks and uncertainties
          36    Corporate responsibility report
                GOVERNANCE
    42-62    Governance
          42    Board of directors
          44    Report of the directors
          48    Directors’ responsibilities
          49    Corporate governance
          55    Remuneration report
          62    Independent auditor’s report
                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  63-122    Financial statements
          63    Consolidated income statement
          64    Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
          65    Consolidated balance sheet
          66    Consolidated cash flow statement
          67    Consolidated statement of changes in equity
          68    Notes to the consolidated financial statements
        111    Five year summary
        112    Independent auditor’s report – Company only
        113    Company balance sheet
        114    Notes to the Company’s financial statements
                ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
123-124    Additional information
        123    Glossary of terms
        124    Directors and advisors
<
Our Businesses 02 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
STRATEGY AND
HIGHLIGHTS
in a world of change…
SUMMARY TABLE OF RESULTS
Constant 
Change currency
£m 2010 2009* %%
Revenue 1,459.4 1,346.5 8.4 6.4
Underlying results**
– operating profit 192.2 170.3 12.9 12.3
– pre-tax profit 162.4 150.4 8.0 7.0
– diluted eps 10.1p 9.6p 5.2 4.1
Statutory results
– operating profit 101.5 114.6 (11.4) (11.5)
– pre-tax profit 68.0 91.2 (25.4) (25.6)
– diluted eps 3.6 5.5 (34.5) (35.4)
Dividend per share 2.75p 2.5p 10.0 10.0
* 2009 underlying results are restated to exclude imputed interest arising due 
to discounting of deferred consideration.
** Throughout this commentary, results are stated on an underlying basis unless
otherwise indicated. Percentage movements are given at reported exchange
rates unless otherwise stated.
A two speed advertising
world…
BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and
China) economies are key to
global growth, but the US is
still important, due to its share
of global advertising spend.
>
Our aim is to ensure we continue to leverage our high quality
global asset base, in the context of the changing dynamics in
the markets in which we operate. This aim will be realised by
focusing on achieving the strategic priorities of our two core
divisions, Aegis Media and Synovate.
Aegis Media’s strategic priorities are focused on:
> Increasing exposure to faster-growing regions
> Ensuring full service of digital and media propositions
across brands
> Developing international clients and targeting
profitable new business
> Increasing digital profile and capability
> Building on leading positions in top 20 markets,
especially the US
> Broadening service offering across existing and new
clients
Synovate’s strategic priorities are to: 
> Increase traction and build momentum with 
key global clients
> Provide competitive differentiation through 
operational excellence
> Prioritise investment in key gateway markets 
for international research
> Expand existing capabilities in key industrial 
verticals and research methodologies across 
all of our geographies 03 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
BRIC economies are expected to
contribute nearly 50% of global
advertising growth to 2015…
with China alone already 
the world's second largest
advertising market.
>
A TWO SPEED WORLD
2011 ADSPEND GROWTH FORECASTS*
3.9%
13.0%
3.5%
13.2%
15.3%
8.0%
BUSINESS REVIEW
Global 5.7%
* Source: Carat, March 2011 Aegis’s 2010 performance,
together with the successful
management of change 
and continuity, gives us
confidence as we face 
into 2011.
04 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CHAIRMAN’S
STATEMENT
”
“
We continue to deliver 
an improved underlying
operating performance 
in a demanding market
environment.
”
“
2010 was 
a year of
further
progress 05 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Continued progress / I am pleased to report that 2010 was a
year of further progress. We continue to deliver an improved
underlying operating performance in a demanding market
environment with the main achievements including:
– A return to full year revenue growth at our Synovate market
research business with improved sales, profits and margins
following its recovery in the second half of 2009
– Continued strong above market growth from our Media
division with good organic growth, continued new business
wins and increases in underlying operating profit and
margins
– Overall, our underlying results, pre-exceptionals, delivered an
8.4% increase in revenue, a 12.9% increase in operating profit
and a 5.2% increase in earnings per share.
These advances are covered in more detail in the Chief Executive
and Business reviews. A significant additional focus in the year
has been the integration of our diverse and specialised media
and digital services into an improved client-facing suite of
services.
The strategy of strengthening our balance sheet, extending 
our long term debt profile and adding acquisition capability,
announced last year, has worked well with the use of a US
private placement and a successful convertible bond issue. That
put us in a position to renegotiate our previously expiring five
year revolving credit facility of £450 million. We now have in place
a new five year deal, on acceptable terms. These actions have
been reinforced by the continuing benefits of a strengthened
reporting and cash management environment.
The strength of the balance sheet has allowed fuller
development of a much more strategic programme on
acquisitions. At Synovate we announced an agreement to acquire
a majority stake in a leading Russian research provider to
strengthen our position in that market. We have developed our
media market position in China, with the Charm joint venture
and investment, and completed the £229.1 million Mitchell
acquisition in Australia in November. This transaction has
transformed our market position there and increased our digital
profile and is expected to be an earnings enhancing acquisition
in its first full year. It has also allowed us to further strengthen
our Board with the appointment of Harold Mitchell, the founder
of Mitchell with his media market knowledge and experience, 
as an Executive Director.
Your board & management / On the subject of Board matters we
were pleased to appoint Jerry Buhlmann, the experienced Chief
Executive of our Media Division, as CEO of Aegis Group plc
(“Aegis”) as a whole. He took up the post on 1st May 2010 and
brings continuity, energy and expertise. He was selected with the
assistance of an externally led evaluation process, and has made
a strong and effective start allowing me to step back
immediately to a Chairman-only role, whilst maintaining
maximum continuity for the business.
Looking back, your Company has successfully achieved a very
full reorganisation and near replacement of its Board and senior
management over the last two years. At the same time it has
dealt effectively with the downturns in the world economy and 
in many of our major markets from late 2008 through 2009. 
We have significantly raised our operating performance and
strengthened key functions, the benefits of which are reflected 
in our results for 2010. There is still work to do but we now have
in place an effective and settled Board, a strengthened reporting
process and a more cohesive and better directed operational 
and strategic management team under the leadership of a very
capable Chief Executive.
The latest proposals on Corporate Governance recommend that
Boards consider on a “comply or explain” basis the annual
election of all its directors. This is a new initiative and will take
some time to settle and for Boards everywhere to consider fully
the merits and demerits of this recommendation. It is not
without risks. In this year the Board proposes to follow the
previous re-election guidelines by putting up for election those
appointed in 2010, Messrs Harold Mitchell, Executive Director
and Robert Philpott, Executive Director, and the second longest
serving director, Lorraine Trainer who is due for re-election on
the three year rule. 
The Board has also discussed the question of a formal Board
evaluation. Given, however, the significant number of changes
made, recent appointments and the part year period of the new
Chief Executive, the Board decided to defer that process in 2010.
I can confirm all members of the Board have made an effective
and significant contribution to the Board and the Company for
which I thank them.
Summary / The strong performance in 2010 together with the
successful management of change and continuity gives us
confidence as we face into 2011. Markets and the world economy
have improved but there are still significant regional difficulties
and areas of strategic imbalance. We have made strategic
acquisitions and investments in Russia, Australia and in China.
We remain focused on sustainable growth. We expect to continue
to face a demanding and competitive market environment. We
continue to focus on improvements and the development of
quality integrated services which deliver support and solutions
for our clients. We believe that we have the strength and
resource to continue our progress.
Dividend / Given our confidence in the short term outlook for
the Company, the Board has recommended a total dividend of
2.75 per share for 2010. This represents a 10% increase on the
prior year. 
Our people / Over the last three years, our employees have
worked in a demanding market environment. Their success and
efforts have been rewarded by our performance in 2010. Our
future success depends on their continued efforts. On behalf of
the Board I would like to thank them for the progress they have
made and their continuous endeavours to further transform and
improve our Company and its services.
John Napier
Chairman
BUSINESS REVIEW 06 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
REPORT
Aegis delivered robust
results in 2010, during which
we saw a return to growth 
in advertising and market
research.
“
A year of
outperformance
ensuring good
forward momentum
The positive momentum 
from 2010 at both Aegis
Media and Synovate has
continued into 2011.
”
“
” 07 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Aegis delivered a robust set of financial results in 2010, during
which we saw a return to growth in advertising and market
research, with both Aegis Media and Synovate outperforming
their respective markets. 
We took significant steps in delivering on our objectives for our
two businesses: positioning Aegis Media for a more convergent
media environment and consolidating Synovate’s position in a
changing market dynamic. We made good progress in increasing
our exposure to both faster-growing regions and digital media
platforms and we aim to increase this exposure further in the
future, supported by the delivery of continued organic revenue
growth and an on-going focus on acquisitions in these areas.
Our strong operational and financial performance in 2010 was
testament to the hard work and commitment of our people and,
in my first year as Aegis’s CEO, I am grateful to all of our people
for their continued support. This performance, together with
good new business momentum at Aegis Media and Synovate’s
healthy orders on hand position going into 2011, ensures the
Group is well placed for the future. 
Delivering on key strategic objectives in 2010 / We have high
quality, focused senior management teams at both Aegis Media
and Synovate which were further strengthened by a number of
key appointments and promotions in 2010. The management
teams have the right balance of energy and experience to
develop our businesses going forward. In 2010, we were focused
on delivering six key strategic objectives: 
1. Increasing global reach, in particular increasing our exposure
to faster-growing regions;
2. Strengthening our product portfolio and service range,
including growing digital revenue at Aegis Media;
3. Building on our leading market positions and increasing our
presence in key markets, reflecting client needs;
4. Developing international clients and building new business
momentum;
5. Targeting potential acquisitions, subject to strategic and
financial criteria; and
6. Driving revenue growth and cost control to improve our profit
margins. 
We will continue to focus on these key strategic objectives,
ensuring our businesses remain well positioned for future
growth. 
1. Increasing global reach, in particular increasing our exposure
to faster-growing regions / Our geographic profile has
changed significantly over the last five years, demonstrated
by our increased presence in the faster-growing regions of
Asia Pacific, Latin America, Eastern Europe and the Middle
East and Africa over this period. Last year, Group revenue
contribution from these regions increased to 33%, from 20%
in 2006, following the acquisition of Mitchell Communication
Group (“Mitchell”), Australia’s leading marketing
communications agency in November 2010. 
Mitchell, Aegis’s largest acquisition in 11 years, along 
with our investment in, and joint venture with, Charm
Communications Inc (“Charm”), one of China’s leading media
buying and advertising agencies, give us a significantly
strengthened base from which to further improve our already
strong position in the Asia Pacific region.
2. Strengthening our product portfolio and service range,
including growing digital revenue at Aegis Media / In 2010,
Aegis Media and Synovate management reviewed and
optimised their respective product portfolios and service
ranges. This will ensure we are well placed to meet the needs
of clients operating across a range of different markets, using
a wide range of media and research platforms for their ever-
changing requirements. 
At Aegis Media, our digital capability is at the heart of our
strategy, with digital contributing approximately 32% of Aegis
Media’s revenue in 2010. Going foward, we expect the
proportion of digital revenues to continue to grow as a result
of continued acquisitions and anticipated organic growth from
our existing businesses in this area. In addition, to meet
increased client need for improved accountability,
performance measurement and returns on investment, we
have ensured that data management and platforms at both
businesses continue to be fully integrated into our product
and service offerings. Also in 2010, our market-leading CCS
(Consumer Connection System) insight product was extended
into 27 markets around the world. 
3. Building on our leading market positions and increasing our
presence in key markets, reflecting client needs / We
continue to build on our leading market positions, whilst also
growing our presence in key markets, reflecting the needs of
our clients. In 2010, we achieved this organically at both
businesses, as exemplified by strong performances in North
America and faster-growing regions. We also improved our
position in certain markets via acquisition, as illustrated by
the Mitchell transaction in Australia and our agreement to
acquire a majority stake in COMCON, a leading Russian
market research business, announced in December 2010. 
As a result, we are now the leading player in the Australian
media market and we will become the second largest custom
research provider in Russia. 
4. Developing international clients and building new business
momentum / In 2010, new business momentum remained
strong at both businesses. Last year, Aegis Media delivered
over $2.0 billion in net new business wins, including a
number of new international assignments such as Beiersdorf
in the US and Germany, ING in Italy and France and Deutsche
Bank around the world. Aegis Media succeeded in winning 99
additional market appointments from our major international
clients, including Diageo, Nokia, Kellogg’s and Disney.
Synovate was also successful in winning a number of major
multi-national projects around the world in 2010, for
companies including Unilever, Coca-Cola and HSBC. In
addition, client retention at both businesses was very good
during the year. This successful trend for both businesses has
continued so far in 2011, with $1.5 billion of net new business
wins already achieved at Aegis Media and a strong orders on
hand position at Synovate at the start of the year. 
5. Targeting potential acquisitions, subject to strategic and
financial criteria / Given our strong balance sheet and improved
debt profile, we are able to re-focus on acquisitions with a
view to extending our capabilities and driving growth. We have
been and will continue to target acquisitions which provide
scale, infill and innovation, with a focus on small to medium-
sized bolt-ons in both faster growing regions and digital. 
All acquisition targets are evaluated against strategic and
investment criteria, including management and cultural fit,
the delivery of good returns against financial hurdles and
earnings accretion in the first full year after they are completed. 
BUSINESS REVIEW 08 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
REPORT
(continued)
Management’s re-focused strategic approach bolstered Aegis
Media’s performance in 2010 / Aegis Media’s management team
implemented a re-focused strategic approach in 2010, the Power
Brand strategy, based on delivering a consistent range of
services integrated across one operating model through Carat,
Vizeum, Posterscope, isobar and iProspect on a network basis.
This re-focused strategic approach helped to support our
performance in 2010 and will continue to do so going forward. 
Aegis Media delivered organic revenue growth of 5.7% in 2010,
with 7.4% organic revenue growth in the fourth quarter of the
year. This was supported by another excellent new business
performance, with net new business wins of $2.0 billion in
billings. Operating margin was 18.6%, up 40 basis points at
reported rates and 60 basis points at constant currency. 
Our businesses in faster-growing regions performed extremely
well in 2010. Our North American management team achieved
further progress in revitalising our businesses there, while the
health of Western European markets remained mixed. 
Operational delivery was also driven by our excellent new business
performance in 2010. New business wins were characterised by
a return to a strong competitive position in the US, with Beiersdorf,
Diageo, Relativity Media and Red Bull won during the year . Towards
the end of the year, our North American team was also successful
in renewing our long-standing Pfizer/Wyeth contract. Elsewhere
around the world new business wins included Disney in
Australia, Tiffany across Asia Pacific, Orange in Spain, Nokia 
in the Middle East and Anheuser Busch InBev in the UK. This
new business momentum has continued into 2011, with a
number of wins already recorded so far this year including
Disney and Home Depot in North America, Fastweb in Italy, Kraft
Cadbury in South Africa and Electronic Arts across Latin America. 
Aegis Media’s performance in 2011 and beyond will be supported
by the acquisition of Mitchell, which was completed in November
2010. The combination of Aegis Media’s global network and
Mitchell’s outstanding capabilities in the Pacific region will
create a compelling offering for clients, positioning us for
continued growth in the wider Asia Pacific region. 
The acquisition of Mitchell is a good example. There is a
strong strategic and cultural fit and we expect the transaction
to be earnings accretive in 2011 at current exchange rates by
low to mid-single digits. This is despite Mitchell shareholders
taking up the maximum allotment of Aegis shares available
as part of the consideration for the transaction.
6. Driving revenue growth and cost control to improve our profit
margins / Emerging from recession, upward pressure on
staff costs is a growing feature as we ensure competitive
salaries, increase headcount to support new business and 
re-introduce incentives to retain key staff to support the growth
of our business. Total overheads were up 5.3% at constant
currency during the year. To counter these cost pressures, 
we will maintain a clear focus on cost control and efficiencies
throughout the Group. This focus is a key part of our culture,
with management incentives aligned to margin performance.
Strong operating and financial performance by Aegis in 2010 /
Aegis’s robust underlying operational performance in 2010,
supported by management focus on these strategic objectives,
translated into a strong set of financial results. 
Total revenue for the year was £1,459.4m, up 8.4% at reported
rates and up 6.4% at constant currency. Organic revenue growth
for the Group was 5.8%, driven in particular by strong top line
growth from our businesses in North America and faster-
growing regions. 
As was expected at the half year stage, both businesses
delivered a continuing trend of improvement in organic growth 
in the second half, compared to the first half. As we anticipated,
a combination of more challenging prior year revenue growth
comparatives in the fourth quarter and the relative revenue
weighting between the third and fourth quarters meant the trend
rate of organic revenue growth was impacted in the fourth
quarter of the year:
Aegis delivered a strong improvement in underlying operating profit
for the year to £192.2m, an increase of 12.9% from the prior year
at reported rates, and 12.3% at constant currency. There was a
modest improvement in Group operating margin to 13.2% during
2010, an increase of 60 basis points from the prior year. 
Our underlying earnings per share on a fully diluted basis
increased by 5.2% at reported rates and 4.1% at constant
currency, to 10.1p from 9.6p in the prior year.
Aegis Group Quarter Half year Full Year 
Q110 Q210 Q310 Q410 H110 H210 FY10
Organic revenue change % 1.1 4.7 9.7 7.0 3.2 8.1 5.8 09 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
BUSINESS REVIEW
Strong performance recovery at Synovate / Following the global
economic downturn in 2009, which had a significant impact on
the ad hoc custom market research sector, 2010 saw a strong
recovery in performance at Synovate. Sales rose 6.7%, with organic
gross revenue increasing 5.9%, with organic gross revenue
growth of 6.3% in the fourth quarter. Our strong performance 
in the second half, drove operating margin to 8.0%, up 90 basis
points at reported rates and at constant currency. 
Management’s clear focus on driving profitable sales, supported
by a broad geographic network and extensive product portfolio,
ensured an encouraging performance from Synovate in 2010,
with a healthy 8.8% underlying increase in orders on hand
achieved at year end. Performances from the vast majority of
businesses across the Synovate network performed very well 
in 2010, particularly our business in North America.
With a strong foundation now in place, management is
implementing a re-focused strategic approach to improve
Synovate’s long term position in the global custom market
research sector around the world. This strategic approach 
aims to increase traction and build momentum with key global
clients, provide competitive differentiation through operational
excellence, prioritise gateway geographies which represent 
key markets for international projects and expand our existing
capabilities in key industrial verticals and research
methodologies. The implementation of the first phase of this 
re-focused strategic approach across the organisation will 
be completed by the end of 2011. 
Balance sheet strengthened & capital discipline maintained /
During 2010, we took a number of actions to strengthen our
financial position. In April 2010, we launched a convertible bond,
due in April 2015, to raise £190.6m, including the exercise of an
over-allotment option. In July 2010, we re-financed our £450.0m
revolving credit facility, lengthening its tenure to 2015. 
Net debt fell from £398.4m at the end of the first half to £331.3m
at the end of 2010, a year-on-year increase of £74.1m from the
end of 2009. This increase was mainly due to acquisition spend,
partially offset by strong operating cash flows in the second half
of 2010. 
Our covenant positions remain robust and we had undrawn
available facilities at the end of the year totalling £450.0m 
(2009: £376.4m). Looking ahead, we aim to ensure that capital
continues to be sensibly allocated and our cash pools remain
well managed.
Outlook / Our clients’ advertising and research expenditure for
the first few months of this year is ahead of the same period in
2010, and their current indicated budgets for the remainder of
2011 suggest that this year-on-year trend will continue. In
addition, the momentum Aegis has built through 2010 has
continued into the first few months of 2011, with Aegis Media
winning $1.5bn in net new business so far this year and Synovate
starting the year with a healthy orders on hand position. 
Given these positive signals for the short term outlook, and in
spite of the relatively limited medium term visibility, we are
increasingly optimistic about the prospects for our businesses
this year. We therefore expect Group organic revenue growth for
2011 to be at least in line with the level achieved last year. 
We experienced upward pressure on staff costs at both
businesses in the second half of 2010. This will continue in 2011,
with increasing headcount and pay reviews particularly in high
growth regions, as well as an increase in bonuses where
performance justifies. 
Despite these cost pressures, given the Group’s momentum and
our expectations for organic revenue growth this year, we expect
underlying operating profit to improve further in 2011. 
Jerry Buhlmann
Chief Executive Officer, Aegis Group plc 10 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
AEGIS MEDIA 
BUSINESS REVIEW
Aegis Media’s re-focused
strategic approach
supported our 2010
performance and will
continue to do so in 
the future.
“
Operational
delivery
driven by
strong new
business
performance
Constant 
Change currency
£m 2010* 2009 % %
Revenue
EMEA** 579.7 585.3 (1.0) 0.4
Americas*** 189.4 158.6 19.4 14.5
Asia Pacific 117.7 81.3 44.8 34.4
Worldwide 886.8 825.2 7.5 6.8
Operating costs (722.1) (674.8) (7.0) (6.1)
Operating profit**** 164.7 150.4 9.5 9.9
Operating margin**** 18.6% 18.2% 40 bps 60 bps
* Mitchell acquisition contributed £12.6m revenue and £2.0m underlying
operating profit in 2010
** 2009 EMEA revenue includes one-off £9.5m insurance recoveries at Aegis
Media Germany
*** 2009 Americas revenue includes one-off £10.5m revenue reversal relating
to Posterscope USA
**** Throughout this commentary, results are stated on an underlying basis
unless otherwise indicated
Headlines /
– Organic revenue growth of 5.7% during 2010, including 7.4%
in the fourth quarter
– At constant currency, operating margin increased 60 basis
points to 18.6%, with operating profit increasing 9.9% to
£164.7m
– Businesses in faster-growing regions and North America
performed extremely well
– Geographic profile and product range in Asia Pacific
strengthened by Mitchell acquisition and Charm joint venture
and investment
– Digital revenue up to 32% in 2010, (from 31% in 2009)
– Strong global new business performance of $2.0 billion net
new business wins in 2010, with continued momentum 
into 2011 
– In March 2011, Carat upgraded 2011 global advertising
expenditure growth forecast to 5.7% (from 4.7% forecast in
August 2010).
2010 results overview / Aegis Media delivered a strong
performance in 2010, which benefited from a re-focused
strategic approach, with an emphasis on enhanced digital
capabilities, a strengthened geographic profile and an excellent
new business performance during the year, with $2.0 billion 
in net wins, compared to $2.7 billion in 2009, a record year. 
This was supported by a number of good operational
performances during the year, particularly from our businesses
in faster-growing regions and North America. 
As a result of these factors, Aegis Media delivered total revenue
for the year of £886.8m, an increase of 7.5% at reported rates
and 6.8% at constant currency. Organic revenue increased 5.7%
in the year and 7.4% in the fourth quarter. 
” 11 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Quarter Half year Full Year 
Aegis Media Q110 Q210 Q310 Q410 H110 H210 FY10
Organic revenue change % 3.0 3.6 8.5 7.4 3.4 7.8 5.7
Operating profit increased 9.5% at reported rates and 9.9% at
constant currency to £164.7m, with operating margin up 40 basis
points at 18.6% and up 60 basis points at constant currency. This
was achieved despite total Aegis Media headcount increasing by
14.3% as at the end of the year, (5.5% excluding the addition of
Mitchell employees). Underlying staff costs increased by 6.7% on
a constant currency basis and total operating costs increased by
7.0% at reported rates and 6.1% on a constant currency basis.
The increases in headcount and staff costs were partly a result
of the addition of the Mitchell business and due to accelerated
resourcing in Asia Pacific and North America in the second half
to support strong revenue growth in those regions. Whilst we
continue to expect staff costs to increase in the coming years 
to match our growth ambitions, management will ensure a
continued focus on cost control and efficiencies. 
Key performance drivers / A number of fundamental drivers
supported Aegis Media’s solid performance in 2010, including:
– A re-focused strategic approach, based on the Power Brand
strategy, with the five networks of Carat, Vizeum, Posterscope,
isobar and iProspect providing clients with communications
solutions focused on media, ideas, content creation and
digital. These brands operate as one P&L per country
providing one operating model and a full range of services
that can be easily integrated, reflecting the needs of clients in
an ever-changing media environment. The Power Brand
strategy will continue to support our business going forward
– Market-leading consumer insight and service solutions,
including our CCS (Consumer Connection System), extended
into 27 markets in 2010, provides clients with actionable
single service brand and product consumer segments. This,
in combination with our ICP (Integrated Communications
Planning) process has been rigorously embedded across all
the networks, providing real added value, insights and
consistent best practice across the division
– High quality digital capabilities, comprising isobar, our
creative origination network, iProspect, our performance
search marketing network, and our on-line planning and
buying, mobile and social media housed within our media
agencies. Revenues from these digital capabilities now
account for 32% of Aegis Media’s revenue and they enable 
us to utilise a diverse range of platforms for clients
– Data management and platforms are a key part of our digital
strategy. The ever-changing media landscape for our clients
has given rise to an increasing demand for improved
accountability, performance measurement and returns on
investment from their promotional campaigns. Consequently,
we have ensured that data management and trading
platforms continue to be fully integrated into our product 
and service offerings
– Our geographic scale and network consistency offers
opportunities to develop our international clients, providing
them with scale, quality, best practice and a coherent
approach across many markets. The acquisition of Mitchell in
Australia and our joint venture and investment with Charm in
China further strengthens our geographic reach, specifically
in Asia Pacific, and provides additional opportunities to
extend our services to our new clients in that region. In 2010,
we won 99 additional market appointments from our major
international clients, in new regions or through new service
propositions, including Diageo, Disney, Nokia, Kellogg’s and
Panasonic
– An excellent new business performance during the year,
with net new business wins of $2.0 billion of billings.
Importantly, a vibrant contribution from our US business
demonstrated the competencies of the new product strategy,
providing a clearly differentiated service. 2010 also saw the
emergence of an important trend in the drive to win new
business, with media buying and planning starting to leverage
opportunities for creative. In the past, new business initiatives
were led by the creative advertising offering, with media being
introduced to the client later on in the relationship to support
a creative campaign. We are now seeing media buying and
planning leading the way and leveraging opportunities for
creative, as evidenced by isobar successfully winning the
digital creative brief across Europe for Kellogg’s, which
consolidated European media with Carat in 2009. 
We are increasingly optimistic about the outlook for global
advertising and media expenditure, based on our clients’ current
indicated advertising budgets for the remainder of 2011. As
evidence of this, in March 2011 Carat upgraded its global
advertising expenditure growth forecast for 2011 to 5.7%, from
their forecast of 4.7% published in August 2010. 
Aegis Media EMEA / EMEA revenue increased 0.4% at constant
currency to £579.7m, supported by a number of strong
performances from our businesses across the region, but
demonstrating the patchy recovery in Western Europe. Our
performance across Europe was bolstered by a number of 
pan-European account wins including Deutsche Bank, ING, 
De Agostini, Indesit, Kellogg’s digital creative account and 
Calvin Klein’s digital campaign. 
The UK delivered good performances across the brands, in
particular at our media businesses. The UK and Ireland secured
a number of important client wins including Anheuser Busch
InBev, Pfizer, Eircom, Disney Parks and Travelodge, as well as
retaining British Gas, our largest client in the UK market, with 
a broadened remit to include digital creative. Our plans to
consolidate our UK operations and our Group employees into
one location remain on track and we expect this re-location to 
be completed during the second half of the year. 
BUSINESS REVIEW 12 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
AEGIS MEDIA 
BUSINESS REVIEW
(continued)
Aegis Media Americas / Revenues of £189.4m increased 14.5%,
at constant currency, across North America and Latin America. 
North America delivered an outstanding performance as a result
of management actions which successfully revitalised the
business. There was strong momentum at our Carat and
iProspect brands, in particular, during the course of the year. 
A clear focus on implementing the new product range and a
significant investment in new talent created a deliverable
competitive advantage. 
Consequently, there were a number of significant new business
wins in 2010 including Smuckers, Beiersdorf, Sears’ search
business, Red Bull, Relativity Media and Diageo. At the end 
of 2010, we successfully renewed our contract with Pfizer, our
largest account in the region, following the addition of the 
Wyeth media account earlier in the year. 
Latin America also produced a strong performance, driven by
Mexico, which won the Electronic Arts account across the region,
and by our creative origination business in Brazil. 
Aegis Media Asia Pacific / Our Asia Pacific businesses produced
a strong set of results, with revenue up 34.4% at constant
currency to £117.7m. Excluding the revenue contribution from
Mitchell of £12.6m, revenue was up 20.0% at constant currency. 
Our largest business in the region, China, was again a key driver
of our performance, supported by another strong performance
from our existing agencies there. In addition, the joint venture
between Vizeum and Charm Communications Inc (“Charm”)
started to gain traction. We won several important clients,
including Xian Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Bulgari, Orion and
Wyeth and retained the Kraft-Cadbury account. 
Our business in Australia delivered strong results, winning some
high profile accounts, including Kraft-Cadbury and Disney. In
November, we completed the acquisition of Mitchell, Australia’s
leading marketing communications agency, which transforms
our market position to the number one player in Australia and to
a competitive top three position across the Asia Pacific region. 
We maintained a strong retention record across the region,
extending our relationships with the likes of Procter & Gamble,
Pernod Ricard and BMW. 
Summary / Our performance in 2010 benefited from a re-
focused strategic approach, based on the Power Brand strategy,
our strengthened geographic profile and our excellent new
business performance during the year. This was supported by
solid operational performances from our businesses in faster-
growing regions and North America in particular. 
As a consequence of our increasing confidence in the outlook for
the sector, supported by the new business momentum achieved
so far in 2011, we are increasingly optimistic about Aegis Media’s
short term prospects.
Jerry Buhlmann
Chief Executive Officer, Aegis Media
Growth in our media businesses in France remained limited
during the year, but some of our diversified businesses performed
well, including organic search and sponsorship. Our new
business performance was robust, with new assignments for
Cadom and Canal+, as well as the successful retention of our
largest client, the Government of France, for another three years. 
Germany delivered a decent performance during the year,
particularly in the fourth quarter. Client wins during the year
included the German government and GE Capital Bank. 
Our businesses in Italy performed creditably in a challenging
market, winning some significant in-country accounts including
CoGeDi and teletu. 
The Spanish market remained relatively muted during the
course of 2010. However, our business closed the year with the
retention of BMW and several new client wins including Grupo
San Miguel/Mahou as well as France Telecom/Orange’s digital
creative business. Negotiations continue with Nueva Rumasa,
our former client which filed for pre-insolvency protection in
Spain last month, to recover our outstanding debt. 
There were strong performances across the board in the Nordic
region, in particular in Sweden, Denmark and Finland. New
business wins across the region included Sony Music, Citigroup
and Risicum. 
Central and Eastern Europe continued to perform well,
particularly our businesses in Russia and Turkey. New business
wins across the region included Russia Post, OBI, Ferrero,
Samsung, Megafon and MTS. 
The Middle East delivered strong results, supported by a new
management team which restructured and revitalised our
businesses there, winning a number of high profile local and
multi-national clients in 2010. We secured several important
regional extensions of existing international client accounts
including Nokia across 19 markets across the Middle East and
North Africa. We secured a number of other regional extensions
of global clients in Africa, including Procter & Gamble and BMW.
Across the region, South Africa performed particularly well,
securing a good mix of international and local new business
wins during the year.  13 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
BUSINESS REVIEW
SYNOVATE
BUSINESS REVIEW
There were good
performances from the vast
majority of business units
across the Synovate network.
“
Strong
performance
recovery at
Synovate 
in 2010
Constant 
Change currency
£m 2010 2009 %%
Gross revenue
‡
EMEA 239.2 234.4 2.0 0.6
Americas 175.4 151.1 16.1 13.1
Asia Pacific 158.0 135.8 16.3 6.1
Worldwide gross revenue 572.6 521.3 9.8 5.7
Net revenue
‡
EMEA 143.7 138.2 4.0 2.8
Americas 109.9 102.5 7.2 4.7
Asia Pacific 97.1 81.1 19.7 9.8
Worldwide net revenue 350.7 321.8 9.0 5.3
Net revenue conversion 61.2% 61.7% (50) bps (30) bps
Operating costs (305.1) (284.9) (7.1) (3.4)
Operating profit* 45.6 36.9 23.6 19.4
Operating margin on 
gross revenue* 8.0% 7.1% 90bps 90bps
‡ For the purposes of this report, Synovate gross revenue is the same as revenue in
the statutory results. Net revenue is the same as gross profit in the statutory results.
* Throughout this commentary, results are stated on an underlying basis unless
otherwise indicated.
” 14 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
SYNOVATE
BUSINESS REVIEW
(continued)
At the end of 2010, headcount had increased 3.9%, year on year,
with underlying staff costs for the year up 4.0% in constant
currency from 2009. Total operating costs increased 7.1% from
2009 at reported rates, and 3.4% at constant currency, to
£305.1m. 
Re-focused strategic approach / Following the global economic
downturn in 2009, which had a significant impact on the ad hoc
custom market research sector, performance recovery at
Synovate is now well underway, as highlighted by the operational
and financial results delivered in 2010. With a strong foundation
in place, supported by our good performance last year,
management is now implementing a re-focused strategic
approach. This approach, originated and developed last year,
aims to improve Synovate’s long term position in the custom
market research sector around the world and is based on four
key objectives: 
– Increasing traction and building momentum with key global
clients by securing long term partnerships in multiple
markets and developing more consultative relationships,
based on the success already achieved through Synovate’s
Global Client Relationship account programme
– Providing competitive differentiation through operational
excellence by delivering its services consistently and
efficiently
– Prioritising gateway geographies which represent key
markets for international projects. We aim to add weight to 
our product and service offerings in major economies, 
like the US, the UK and Germany. We are also looking to
increase market share in faster-growing regions, with further
investment in markets such as China and Russia anticipated
in the coming years
– Expanding our existing capabilities in key industrial
verticals and research methodologies across all of our
network. These industrial verticals, like consumer and
healthcare, and research methodologies, including product
testing and customer experience, are global in nature and
lend themselves to efficient work practices. 
Management is currently working on implementing this re-focused
strategic approach across the organisation. This will be achieved
through on-going communication between the various levels of
management, implementation of a number of new systems and
processes, recruitment of specialist skill sets and investment in
certain capabilities in key markets. The first phase of this
process will be completed by the end of 2011. 
Headlines /
– Sales increased 6.7%, supported by consistent management
effort to drive profitable sales 
– Organic gross revenue grew 5.9% during the year, including
6.3% in the fourth quarter 
– Net revenue conversion fell slightly to 61.2%, from 61.7%, 
due to a change in work mix and continued pricing pressure 
– At constant currency, operating margin increased 90 basis
points to 8.0%, with operating profit increasing 19.4% to £45.6m
– Strong performances from the vast majority of business units
across the network
– Market research industry anticipated to grow by around 4% 
in 2011, in line with growth in 2010
– Increasingly optimistic outlook, supported by 8.8% underlying
increase in orders on hand at the start of 2011.
2010 results overview / Synovate delivered a strong
performance in 2010, driven by management’s clear focus on
driving profitable sales and improving efficiencies, supported by
a broad geographic network and a high quality product portfolio.
There were good performances from the vast majority of
business units across the Synovate network and we started 2011
with a healthy 8.8% underlying increase in orders on hand. 
Sales, the leading forward indicator of our performance,
increased 6.7% in 2010. As a result, organic gross revenue
increased 5.9%, with total revenue growth of 9.8% at reported
rates and 5.7% at constant currency to £572.6m. This growth
was supported by a particularly strong second half performance,
when we delivered 8.4% organic gross revenue growth:
As a result of this strong performance in the second half,
Synovate recorded operating profit for the year of £45.6m, 23.6%
up on 2009 at reported rates and 19.4% up at constant currency. 
Consequently, we achieved an operating margin of 8.0%, up 90
basis points at reported rates and at constant currency. Net
revenue was up 9.0% at reported rates, 5.3% at constant
currency, to £350.7m. Net revenue conversion decreased slightly
to 61.2%, from 61.7% in 2009, as a result of change in work mix
and continuing pricing pressure in certain regions.
The improvement in operating margin was achieved despite an
anticipated upward pressure on staff costs during the second
half of the year. This cost pressure is expected to continue in the
coming years, particularly in faster-growing regions, where
competition for talent remains intense. However, management
will ensure a continued focus on cost control and efficiencies
across the business. 
Quarter Half year Full Year 
Synovate Q110 Q210 Q310 Q410 H110 H210 FY10
Organic gross revenue change % (1.9) 6.5 11.5 6.3 2.8 8.4 5.9 15 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
BUSINESS REVIEW
Our Indian business delivered growth at more than double the
market growth rate. Whilst we expect our business in India to
continue to grow, inflation remains high and the competitive
environment is becoming increasingly intense, in terms of
pricing and recruitment of experienced personnel. 
Greater China benefited from a revitalised management team
and a revised geographic reporting structure to deliver a strong
performance in 2010. Our businesses there delivered sales and
gross revenue growth at low to mid teen rates, supported by
particularly good performances from our automotive and
consumer teams. As a result, our orders on hand position going
into 2011 was extremely healthy. 
Industry verticals / The strongest performing industry in 2010 
in the majority of the markets in which we operate was the
consumer sector. FMCG companies started to re-instate
significant research projects, deferred from 2009, to support
potential expenditure on new product launches and new target
customer segments and geographies. 
Despite an increase in sales at our Healthcare business in 2010,
gross revenue was slightly down on the prior year. Whilst our ad
hoc business performed well, our syndicated business was
impacted by on-going consolidation in the industry, which
reduced subscription opportunities, as well as changing
dynamics in certain therapy areas. 
Our Healthcare business had a good order book going into 2011
and management is pursuing a range of opportunities to further
strengthen our market position going forward. These
opportunities include continuing to grow our therapy monitor
portfolio, through new monitors and geographic expansion of
existing monitors, pitching for significant regional projects, such
as sales force effectiveness studies and health economic
studies, and investigating new potential client streams. 
The automotive sector continued to show signs of recovery
during the year, with a number of Asian and European
manufacturers increasing their research expenditure across the
Asia Pacific region, particularly in China and India. 
Summary / In 2010, Synovate management maintained its focus
on driving profitable sales and improving efficiencies, supported
by a broad geographic network and an extensive product
portfolio. Consequently, Synovate’s 2010 results were good
across the vast majority of business units around the network.
Given the re-focused strategic approach being implemented by
management in 2011 and our healthy orders on hand position 
at the start of this year, we are increasingly optimistic about the
outlook for Synovate, with the market research industry expected
to grow by around 4% in 2011, in line with industry growth in 2010.
Robert Philpott
Chief Executive Officer, Synovate
Synovate Americas / Sales in the Americas were up 12.7% at
constant currency. Gross revenue was up 13.1% on 2009 at
constant currency to £175.4m. Net revenue was £109.9m, 
which was up 4.7% at constant currency. 
Our business in North America performed extremely well in
2010, with sales and gross revenue growth in the mid teen
range, in spite of an on-going price intensive environment. This
performance was driven by particularly strong sales and revenue
growth from our consumer, public sector and qualitative teams,
which has contributed to a very healthy orders on hand position
going into 2011. 
In Latin America, we entered the year with a strong order book,
which supported a healthy increase in sales and gross revenue
during the year.
Synovate EMEA / For the EMEA region, sales were down 0.9% 
at constant currency. Gross revenue was up 0.6%, at constant
currency, to £239.2m. Net revenue of £143.7m was up 2.8% 
at constant currency. 
Market conditions throughout Europe were less buoyant than
other regions. Strong performances in Germany, Italy, the
Netherlands, Russia and Turkey were diluted by the on-going
economic challenges being experienced by the Greek and
Spanish markets. The UK market remained challenging,
exacerbated by a sharp decline in public sector activity in the
second half of the year. Growth has been slow to materialise in
France too. Despite the inconsistent nature of revenue growth in
Europe, we have been able to make substantial progress on
profitability in these markets as a result of management action
on organisational performance. 
The Middle Eastern region experienced a progressive economic
recovery during 2010 helping our businesses in Saudi Arabia and
the United Arab Emirates to deliver good performances. 
Africa produced solid sales and gross revenue growth from the
prior year, with significant progress made in most of the East
African markets, in particular Kenya. 
Synovate Asia-Pacific / Sales in Asia-Pacific were up 10.2% at
constant currency, with gross revenue of £158.0m, up 6.1% at
constant currency. Net revenue was £97.1m, up 9.8% at constant
currency. 
Our Asia-Pacific businesses performed very well, with significant
growth in sales and gross revenue achieved by all of our major
businesses in the region, namely Greater China, Japan, India
and Korea. 
We outperformed a flat market in Japan, gaining market share
in the consumer, healthcare and financial services sectors.
Korea also delivered strong results, supported by the winning 
of a number of global clients in the electronics and automotive
sectors.  16 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
01
CASE STUDY
Aegis Media
For the client, the most
significant outcome of
the project has been the
engagement achieved
with its consumers.
“
”
Raphael Vasconcellos
isobar Brazil’s Head of Creative
Client
Fiat
Creation of the Fiat Mio concept Car
Location / Brazil
FIAT WANTED TO CREATE WIDESPREAD
BRAND ENGAGEMENT WITH CONSUMERS
THROUGH THE DESIGN AND CREATION
OF A CROWD-SOURCED CONCEPT CAR.
Project / Isobar created an on-line platform through
which consumers could suggest their ideas for the
concept car. Over a 12 month period, the on-line
platform received suggestions from around 17,000
people across 160 countries. These suggestions
covered a number of areas including internal and
external design of the vehicle, gadget integration,
electronic security and ecological propulsion. These
ideas were then processed by the Fiat design team,
who acted as guardians of the concept. To ensure
total transparency between the design team and
the consumer, every decision throughout the design
process was communicated through the on-line
platform.
Outcome for the client / This process produced the
Fiat Mio, the world’s first crowd-sourced car, which
was launched at the Sao Paulo Automotive Show.
The launch was promoted through various social
media channels, including a series of videos on
Youtube, as well as campaigns on facebook and
twitter. As a result of this project Fiat achieved strong
brand engagement with its consumers, who felt a
real sense of ownership in the Fiat Mio concept.
Consequently, there remains a high level of interest
in the project through the on-line platform, as the
concept continues to be developed. BUSINESS REVIEW 18 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
02
CASE STUDY
Synovate
Having a wide geographic
footprint is vital for Synovate
in providing our long term
clients with consistent
research solutions on a
global basis.
“
”
Ali Muharremoglu
Managing Director, Synovate Turkey
Client
Beko
Brand & Advertising Tracking research
Location / Turkey
SYNOVATE IS A LONG TERM CUSTOM
RESEARCH PARTNER FOR BEKO, THE
TURKISH-BASED MANUFACTURER OF
DOMESTIC APPLIANCES AND CONSUMER
ELECTRONICS, PROVIDING REGULAR 
AD HOC AND TRACKING RESEARCH 
OVER THE LAST FIVE YEARS.
Project / In 2010, Synovate partnered with Beko to
investigate for them a range of brand perception
issues, including price points, quality differentiators,
brand loyalty and perceived brand values, across
nearly 40 countries. Synovate’s strong global network
and, in particular, our ability to build an effective team
to manage and support substantial multi-country
research activity made us an ideal partner for this
particular project. Our central client management
team ensured that the data we produced for Beko,
and importantly the analysis of this data, were of the
highest quality. This was supported by a consistent
suite of tools utilised in each country. As a result,
we were able to deliver data analysis which was
accessible, easily comparable and could be readily
tracked by the client, thereby producing a deep
understanding of consumer attitudes in each market.
Outcome for the client / Beko was able to analyse
how its brand was perceived across a range of
diverse countries, through consistent parameters,
and could therefore evolve its sales and marketing
strategies, tailoring them as appropriate in certain
markets. As a result, Beko’s market share has grown
significantly over the last five years, for example by
around 70% in Western Europe. BUSINESS REVIEW 20 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
03
CASE STUDY
Aegis Media
The campaign was
successful as a result of
capturing real life reactions
and syndicating them across
a range of media to initiate
interaction and purchase.
“
”
The client refers to the
communication programme
as a best-in-class example 
of holistic planning in 
a convergent media
environment.
“
”
Client
Procter & Gamble
Launch of Gillette Fusion ProGlide
Location / USA
CARAT’S DUAL TASK WAS TO ACHIEVE 50%
PRE-LAUNCH CONSUMER AWARENESS 
OF GILLETTE’S NEW MEN’S SHAVING
PRODUCT, THE FUSION PROGLIDE RAZOR,
FOLLOWED BY SOME AMBITIOUS POST-
LAUNCH SALES TARGETS. 
Project / Our consumer insight showed that men
are generally sceptical about new razors and new
shaving technology, but are receptive to learning
about new grooming products from trusted sources.
In addition, pre-launch testing of the ProGlide
product was very positive, in terms of usage and
future potential recommendations. Based on this
insight, our strategy was to turn sceptics into
believers by enlisting grooming experts, celebrities
and everyday people to become influencers. We then
used unique insights from our Consumer Connection
System to identify the key motivations and touch
points of our most valuable targets. These men had
the opportunity to try the Fusion ProGlide product for
free, at mobile shaving units and through sample
distribution, and then captured their reactions. Their
experiences with the product were syndicated across
a range of media, including print, TV and on-line, and
were interconnected with on-line search and social
media communications programmes. As part of the
campaign, influential bloggers, sports stars and
celebrities advocated the product. 
The outcome for the client / We significantly
exceeded our consumer awareness goals and since
launch the product has achieved sales four times
higher than the client’s initial targets, making it the
most successful product launch in Gillette’s history.
Will Swayne
SVP, Group Director
Carat USA
Doug Ray
EVP, Managing Director
Carat USA BUSINESS REVIEW 22 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
04
CASE STUDY
Synovate
“
KyungEun Chang
Synovate Korea’s Managing Director
Client
Hyundai
Brand Tracking Study
Location / Korea
OVER THE LAST DECADE, HYUNDAI HAS
BEEN ONE OF THE FASTEST GROWING
AUTOMOTIVE BRANDS, BECOMING THE
5TH LARGEST GLOBAL AUTOMOTIVE
BRAND IN 2010. BUILDING ON THIS
MOMENTUM, IN 2010 HYUNDAI BEGAN
DEVELOPING A STRATEGY OF BECOMING
ONE OF THE INDUSTRY’S TOP PLAYERS
GLOBALLY. SYNOVATE HAS BEEN
HYUNDAI’S RESEARCH PARTNER
THROUGHOUT THIS JOURNEY.
Project / A key contributor to this strategy was
Hyundai’s Brand Tracking Study, which was a 26
market assessment of Hyundai’s brand, its in-market
performance and its communication effectiveness.
Synovate was selected by Hyundai to lead and
implement this significant global program.
The outcome for the client / Led by Synovate’s 
Seoul office and supported by Synovate’s Global
Motoresearch Practice, results from the study were
fundamental in identifying how Hyundai could take its
brand to new heights. Looking ahead, baseline
metrics established in the 2010 study will help keep
Hyundai moving toward its new brand strategy.
We were inspired by Hyundai’s
global commitment to
leveraging insights from the
brand tracking study. From the
US to the Ukraine, Hyundai’s
local markets embraced
customer data as fundamental
to the future success of their
marketing and sales strategies.
” BUSINESS REVIEW 24 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
05
CASE STUDY
Aegis Group
Our employees want to give
back and our partnership
with GlobalGiving helps them
do just that, as well as
developing skills and insight.
It’s as easy as logging into
facebook!
“
”
Frank Krikhaar
Corporate Responsibility Manager,
Aegis Group plc
Client
GlobalGiving
Volunteering made easy
Location / United Kingdom
AEGIS’S CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
TEAM WERE LOOKING FOR A GLOBAL
INITIATIVE TO BRING TOGETHER
EMPLOYEES FROM AROUND THE WORLD
AS ONE ORGANISATION AND ENABLE
THEM TO SUPPORT LOCAL COMMUNITIES
AND CHARITIES THROUGH SKILLS
SHARING. THE IDEA WAS TO FIND A
PROJECT WHICH HARNESSED OUR
VALUES OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP,
INNOVATION AND COLLABORATION,
WITH A SPECIFIC FOCUS ON DIGITAL
– A KEY PART OF AEGIS’S STRATEGY.
Project / We initiated a collaborative project with
GlobalGiving, one of the world’s first virtual NGOs.
Together we developed one of the world’s first digital
volunteering platforms, which connects individuals
to grassroots projects around the world. Employees
can spend a few free minutes on the GlobalGiving
platform to share communications expertise with a
diverse range of NGOs. The social media aspect of
GlobalGiving allows employees to choose projects
aligned with their individual passions and field of
expertise while connecting them with their colleagues
from our global network of Power Brands.
Outcome / The GlobalGiving platform went through
a very successful pilot phase in 2010, during which
time we gained valuable insight into how we can
support local NGOs. The project received
overwhelmingly positive feedback from employees,
who saw it as an accessible first step to becoming
active volunteers. BUSINESS REVIEW 26 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Group operating margin was
13.2% in 2010, an increase of
70 basis points at constant
currency.
FINANCIAL
REVIEW 
”
“
Aegis’s robust underlying
operational performance in
2010 translated into a strong
set of financial results.
”
“
Improved
underlying
performance 27 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
BUSINESS REVIEW
Underlying results /
Constant 
Change currency
£m 2010 2009* %%
Turnover 10,565.8 9,684.6 9.1 8.6
Revenue 1,459.4 1,346.5 8.4 6.4
Gross profit 1,237.5 1,147.0 7.9 6.4
Operating expenses (1,045.3) (976.7) (7.0) (5.3)
Operating profit 192.2 170.3 12.9 12.3
Associates 4.0 (0.3) 1,433.3 1,900.0
Profit before 
interest and tax 196.2 170.0 15.4 14.5
Net financial items (33.8) (19.6) (72.4) (73.3)
Profit before tax 162.4 150.4 8.0 7.0
Diluted eps 10.1p 9.6p 5.2 4.1
Operating margin 13.2% 12.6% 60bps 70bps
* 2009 underlying results are restated to exclude imputed interest arising due
to discounting of deferred consideration. 
Headlines /
– Revenue growth of 8.4%, or 6.4% at constant currency, to
£1,459.4m (2009: £1,346.5m), driven in particular by strong
top line growth from businesses in faster-growing regions
and North America
– Underlying operating profit increased 12.9%, or 12.3% at
constant currency, to £192.2m (2009: £170.3m) and
underlying pre-tax profit increased 8.0%, or 7.0% at constant
currency, to £162.4m (2009: £150.4m), due to improved
performances of both businesses during the year
– Group margin improved 60 basis points, 70 basis points at
constant currency, to 13.2% (2009: 12.6%)
– Net debt fell to £331.3m at the end of 2010, from £398.4m 
at the end of the first half, due to strong operating cash flows
in the second half of 2010
– Balance sheet strengthened through £190.6m convertible
bond and re-financing of £450.0m revolving credit facility
– Covenant positions remain comfortable, with undrawn
available facilities of £450.0m at end of the year (2009: £376.4m).
Currency / The average exchange rates in the year saw sterling
weaken against the US dollar and strengthen against the euro.
The US dollar average rate for 2010 was £1:$1.5457 (2009 was
£1:$1.5659) and the euro average rate was £1:€1.1663 (2009
was £1:€1.1229). On this basis the average US dollar rate
strengthened versus sterling by 1.3% and the euro weakened
versus sterling by 3.7%. Currency movements in other markets
offset this effect so that reported results reflect a positive
currency impact of 1.9% on reported revenue.
Income statement /
Revenue / Revenue grew 8.4% at reported exchange rates, 
or 6.4% at constant currency, to £1,459.4m (2009: £1,346.5m).
Excluding the limited impact of prior year acquisitions and
disposals, the increase in Group organic revenue was 5.8%. 
Group Change Change
£m 2010 % 2009 %
Prior year revenue 
as reported 1,346.5 1,342.0
Currency movements 25.7 1.9 133.2 9.9
Prior year revenue at
constant currency 1,372.2 1,475.2
Organic movement
in year 79.7 5.8 (142.5) (9.7)
Change in revenue 
from acquisitions 
& disposals in year 7.5 0.5 13.8 1.0
Total change in 
revenue at constant
currency 87.2 6.4 (128.7) (8.7)
Current year revenue 
as reported 1,459.4 1,346.5
Aegis Media Change Change
£m 2010 % 2009 %
Prior year revenue 
as reported 825.2 823.8
Currency movements 5.2 0.6 80.3 9.7
Prior year revenue at
constant currency 830.4 904.1
Organic movement 
in year 47.9 5.7 (87.7) (9.7)
Change in revenue 
from acquisitions 
& disposals in year 8.5 1.0 8.8 1.0
Total change in
revenue at constant
currency 56.4 6.8 (78.9) (8.7)
Current year revenue 
as reported 886.8 825.2
Synovate Change Change
£m 2010 % 2009 %
Prior year revenue 
as reported 521.3 518.2
Currency movements 20.5 3.9 52.9 10.2
Prior year revenue at
constant currency 541.8 571.1
Organic movement 
in year 31.8 5.9 (54.8) (9.6)
Change in revenue
from acquisitions 
& disposals in year (1.0) (0.2) 5.0 0.9
Total change in 
revenue at constant
currency 30.8 5.7 (49.8) (8.7)
Current year revenue 
as reported 572.6 521.3 28 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
(continued)
Net financial items /
Constant 
Change currency
£m 2010 2009 % % 
Interest income 6.6 7.9 (16.5) (18.5)
Interest payable (39.7) (28.6) (38.8) (38.3)
Net interest charge
before fx 
(losses)/gains (33.1) (20.7) (59.9) (60.7)
Foreign exchange
(losses)/gains (0.7) 1.1 (163.6) (163.6)
Net financial items (33.8) (19.6) (72.4) (73.3)
The Group’s net charge in respect of financial items was £33.8m
(2009: £19.6m) an increase of 72.4% or 73.3% at constant
currency. 
This increase reflects the Group’s actions to diversify and extend
the maturity profile of its borrowings over the last 18 months. 
In December 2009, the Group raised £25.0m and $183.0m in
unsecured loan notes repayable between 2017 and 2019 and, in
April 2010, £190.6m was raised through the issue of convertible
notes. In addition, the Group re-financed a five year revolving
credit facility on renewed terms.
Before the effect of foreign exchange gains and losses relating 
to financing items, the net interest charge in 2010 increased
year-on-year to £33.1m (2009: £20.7m). Within the net interest
charge, interest income reduced to £6.6m (2009: £7.9m),
principally due to the significantly lower level of average interest
rates available on cash deposits during the year, and interest
payable increased to £39.7m (2009: £28.6m), reflecting the
increase in the Group’s overall borrowings.
Profit before tax / Profit before tax of £162.4m (2009: £150.4m)
increased by 8.0%, or 7.0% at constant currency.
Tax / Our underlying effective tax rate for the year was 24.9%
(2009: 25.3%). The statutory effective tax rate was 36.8% (2009:
29.6%). The total of income taxes paid in cash in the year was
£47.6m (2009: £34.2m).
Gross profit (net revenue) / The difference between the Group’s
revenue and net revenue is attributable to pass-through and
direct costs at Synovate. Total Group net revenue was £1,237.5m,
up 7.9% or 6.4% at constant currency, whilst Synovate’s net
revenue increased by 9.0%, or 5.3% at constant currency, as
shown in the table below:
Constant 
Synovate Change currency
£m 2010 2009 %%
Gross revenue 572.6 521.3 9.8 5.7
Net revenue 350.7 321.8 9.0 5.3
Net revenue 
conversion 61.2% 61.7% (50)bps (30)bps
Synovate’s net revenue conversion fell slightly to 61.2% as a
result of a change in work mix and continuing pricing pressure.
Operating performance / Operating expenses increased to
£1,045.3m (2009: £976.7m), an increase of 7.0% at reported
exchange rates, or 5.3% at constant currency, mainly as a result
of increased staff costs during the year. Corporate costs
increased from £17.0m to £18.1m in 2010. 
Operating profit was £192.2m (2009: £170.3m), up 12.9% or
12.3% at constant currency, due to improved performances 
of both businesses during the year.
Group operating margin was 13.2% in 2010, an increase of 60
basis points, or 70 basis points at constant currency, from the
prior year.
Profit before interest and tax / After a profit from associates of
£4.0m (2009: loss of £(0.3)m), predominantly relating to our
share of profits from our investment in Charm Communications
Inc (“Charm”), profit before interest and tax was up 15.4% to
£196.2m (2009: £170.0m), equivalent to an increase of 14.5% at
constant currency.
Revenue / (continued)
Group revenue increased 7.0% organically in the fourth quarter of 2010 and 8.1% during the second half of the year: 
Half Year Full Year 
Quarterly performance performance performance
Organic Revenue change % Q110 Q210 Q310 Q410 H110 H210 FY10
Aegis Group 1.1 4.7 9.7 7.0 3.2 8.1 5.8
Aegis Media 3.0 3.6 8.5 7.4 3.4 7.8 5.7
Synovate (1.9) 6.5 11.5 6.3 2.8 8.4 5.9 29 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
BUSINESS REVIEW
As we announced at our interim results in August 2010, the
planned UK office re-location will result in one-off accounting
charges totalling between £10m to £15m. We continue to expect
that the total one-off charges will be within this range. A charge
of £8.8m has been taken in 2010, with the remainder to be
recorded in 2011. The main element of the 2010 charge relates
to an onerous lease provision on the existing premises, whilst a
small element relates to double rent, a portion of which will be
taken in 2011. These charges will be broadly cash neutral over
the next three years, before the positive impact of long term
efficiency savings relating to the re-location. 
In February 2011, we announced that a former Spanish client
and certain affiliated companies had filed for pre-insolvency
protection under section 5.3 of Spanish Insolvency Law. As these
companies had outstanding liabilities owing to an Aegis
subsidiary in Spain, we said at the time that it was likely that a
provision would be made against our net exposure. A provision 
is held against our exposure, of which £25.9m is taken as an
exceptional charge in the year (£37.0m on a pre-tax basis). 
This exceptional charge reduces statutory diluted earnings per
share by around 2.2p, but has no impact on underlying results. 
Operating profit / Statutory operating profit was down 11.4% to
£101.5m (2009: £114.6m). 
Reconciliation of underlying profit before tax to statutory profit
before tax /
Constant
Change currency 
£m 2010 2009* %%
Underlying profit
before tax 162.4 150.4 8.0 7.0
Less:
Adjustments to 
operating profit (90.7) (55.7)
IAS 39 adjustments (3.2) (4.0)
Gain on disposal of 
JV and associate 1.5 0.5
Amortisation of 
purchased 
intangible assets
within associates (2.0) –
Total adjustments (94.4) (59.2)
Statutory profit 
before tax 68.0 91.2 (25.4) (25.6)
* 2009 underlying results are restated to exclude imputed interest arising due
to discounting of deferred consideration, as explained on page 30. 
The gain on disposal of JV and associate of £1.5m relates
predominantly to the dilution of the Group’s shareholding in
Charm to 15.8%, following Charm’s Initial Public Offering during
the year. The amortisation of purchased intangible assets within
associates of £2.0m relates to the acquisition of our
shareholding in Charm. 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent / Minorities’
share of income increased to £3.4m (2009: £3.0m) reflecting 
a marginal improvement in profitability of non-100% owned
entities in the Group and underlying profit attributable to equity
holders of the parent was £118.6m (2009: £109.3m). Minorities’
share of statutory income was £1.8m, up from £1.5m in 2009.
Statutory profit attributable to equity holders of the parent was
£41.2m (2009: £62.7m). 
Earnings per share / Diluted earnings per share increased by
5.2% to 10.1p (2009: 9.6p). For 2011, we expect the Mitchell
acquisition to be accretive to diluted earnings per share by low 
to mid single digits.
Dividends / The Board is proposing a total dividend of 2.75p per
ordinary share, an increase of 10.0% from the prior year. 
Statutory results /
Reconciliation of underlying operating profit to statutory operating
profit /
Constant 
Change currency 
£m 2010 2009 %%
Underlying operating
profit 192.2 170.3 12.9 12.3
Less:
Amortisation 
of purchased 
intangible assets (26.5) (24.2)
Disposals of
subsidiaries (13.9) (1.0)
Acquisition costs (4.5) –
Exceptional debtor
impairment (37.0) –
UK property 
move costs (8.8) –
Restructuring costs – (30.5)
Total adjustments (90.7) (55.7)
Statutory operating
profit 101.5 114.6 (11.4) (11.5)
Reconciling items between underlying and statutory operating
profit include the amortisation of purchased intangible assets
and the impact of disposals of subsidiaries. The amortisation
charge increased slightly to £26.5m in the year, reflecting the
part year impact relating to purchased intangibles recognised 
in respect of Mitchell. The Group recorded a £13.9m loss on
disposal of stakes in operations in the US and EMEA, as well 
as the part disposal of Vizeum Beijing which is now operated 
as a joint venture with Charm in China.  30 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
(continued)
Goodwill and intangible assets / The increase of £320.2m in
goodwill predominantly arises due to the acquisition of Mitchell
Communication Group in the year as well as exchange
movements and upward revisions of estimated future earn-out
liabilities, offset by movements on the disposal of subsidiaries.
Goodwill arising on new acquisitions in the year totalled
£260.0m.
Intangible assets increased to £112.5m (2009: £85.5m) as a
result of an increase in purchased intangibles largely through
the Mitchell acquisition, offset by the current year amortisation
charge of £35.1m, and together with exchange movements. 
Property, plant and equipment / The net increase in property,
plant and equipment of £2.0m was due to depreciation offset by
foreign exchange and net additions. Net capital expenditure for
the year was £28.1m (2009: £26.0m).
Investments in associates and joint ventures / The increase of
£45.2m in associates and joint ventures was mainly due to the
addition of £31.0m and £10.2m from the acquisitions of stakes 
in Charm Communications Inc and Litmus MR Limited
respectively.
Net payables / Trade payables principally represent amounts
payable to media owners in respect of media space booked for
clients; trade receivables principally represent amounts due
from clients in respect of this space. 
There were the usual working capital movements during the
year, with an outflow during the first half, followed by an inflow
in the second half. During the year, there was a working capital
inflow of £18.2m on an underlying basis. 
Net debt / The profile of net debt at the year end was as follows: 
Change
£m 2010 2009 (£m)
Cash and short-term deposits 394.4 391.1 3.3
Current borrowings 
and overdrafts (85.6) (43.2) (42.4)
Non-current borrowings (640.1) (605.1) (35.0)
Net Debt (331.3) (257.2) (74.1)
Net debt fell from £398.4m at the end of the first half to £331.3m
at the end of 2010, a year-on-year increase of £74.1m from the
end of 2009. This increase was mainly due to acquisition spend,
partially offset by strong operating cash flows in the second half
of 2010. 
Profit before tax / Statutory profit before tax is stated after the
adjustments made in arriving at statutory operating profit and
certain other items recorded within net financial items. These
other items include IAS 39 adjustments relating to non-hedge
derivatives and movements in put option liabilities, an IAS 39
impairment charge relating to assets classified as available for
sale and a gain on deemed disposal of an associate in China
(Charm). 
In 2010, the Group has adopted the revised accounting standard
for acquisition accounting, IFRS 3 (revised 2008) Business
Combinations. This standard will lead to greater income
statement volatility, since the Group will be required to take all
changes in deferred consideration estimates arising on
acquisitions in or after 2010 through the income statement.
These movements will not be considered to form part of the
Group’s underlying performance. In order to align with the
accounting for such movements as non-underlying, imputed
interest arising due to discounting of deferred consideration
liabilities is also removed from underlying results in the current
year and in the restated comparatives for 2009. The impact of
the restatement is a reduction of £1.1m in the 2009 full year
underlying finance costs. This leads to an increase in underlying
profit before tax and underlying profit after tax by £1.1m and an
increase in underlying basic eps and underlying diluted eps by
0.1p in the 2009 full year comparatives. Further information can
be found in note 2 of the accounts.
Statutory profit before tax was down 25.4% at £68.0m (2009:
£91.2m). Our statutory tax charge was £25.0m (2009: £27.0m),
equivalent to a tax rate of 36.8% (2009: 29.6%). Basic and diluted
earnings per share were 3.6p (2009: 5.5p). 
Balance sheet /
£m 2010 2009
Goodwill 1,331.1 1,010.9
Intangible assets 112.5 85.5
Property, plant and equipment 61.9 59.9
Investments in associates and joint ventures 48.5 3.3
Other non-current assets 74.1 41.1
Total non-current assets 1,628.1 1,200.7
Net payables (441.0) (309.3)
Net debt (331.3) (257.2)
Earn-out liabilities (63.7) (70.2)
Liabilities in respect of put options (34.5) (31.4)
Other (89.2) (88.1)
Net assets 668.4 444.5
Balance sheet movements year-on-year were affected by
exchange movements at the closing date, but not to the extent 
of previous years. 31 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
BUSINESS REVIEW
Earn-outs and put options / Our estimated future earn-out
liabilities decreased by £6.5m to £63.7m at the end of the year.
Decreases in liabilities due to payments made in the year were
partly offset by acquired earn-outs of £10.4m through Mitchell,
revaluations of future liabilities and currency effects. The vast
majority of our earn-out commitments depend on the post
acquisition financial performance of businesses acquired. 
Liabilities in respect of put options increased by £3.1m to £34.5m
(2009: £31.4m).
Cash flow / Cash inflows from underlying operations were
£250.2m (2009: £237.6m), up 5.3%, driven largely by improved
profitability across the Group and working capital inflows.
Statutory cash inflows from operations were £232.5m, up 16.8%
from £199.1m in 2009. Net cash outflows on acquisitions and
disposals was £164.7m, primarily relating to the acquisition of
Mitchell Communication Group and our stake in Charm, as well
as earn-out liabilities paid in the year. 
Financing / In 2010, the Group made good progress in extending
its debt maturity and diversifying its debt profile and, as a result,
the headroom on the Group’s facilities increased. 
In April 2010, the Group issued a convertible bond to raise
£190.6m. The convertible bond bears interest at 2.5% per annum
and is convertible at the option of the holder into Aegis ordinary
shares at an exchange price of £1.6444. The final maturity of the
bonds is 20 April 2015.
In July 2010, the Group successfully refinanced the revolving
credit facility with a new 5 year £450.0m facility, syndicated
amongst twelve international banks, the tenure of which has
been lengthened until 2015.
We ended the year with a comfortable covenant position. Our
leverage covenant (net debt/EBITDA) was 1.5 times (compared
to a covenant requirement of <3 times) and our interest cover
covenant (EBITDA/net interest) was 8.2 times (compared to a
covenant requirement of >4 times). 
Covenant Requirement 2010 2009
Leverage Less than 3 times 1.5 1.2
Interest cover Greater than 4 times 8.2 10.8
Under our committed central facilities, we had undrawn
available facilities at the year end of £450.0m (2009: £376.4m).
The improvement in central headroom is a result of the
convertible bond, the proceeds from which were used to reduce
drawings under the Group’s revolving credit facility. 
Eight tranches of existing US private placement funding mature
between 2012 and 2019. Cash flow forecasts produced on a
prudent basis for the next three years show that the Group has
sufficient headroom and available facilities to meet its liabilities
as they fall due.
Nick Priday
Chief Financial Officer, Aegis Group plc 32 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
PRINCIPAL RISKS
AND UNCERTAINTIES
We increased the standard 
of our risk assessment and
communication procedures
in 2010.
“
Continued
focus on risk
management
Aegis faces a range of market, strategy, financial, legal,
operational, corporate responsibility and human resources risks.
These risks are continually reviewed with a view to improving our
internal control framework to help mitigate them, where
possible. Listed in the following pages are what we believe to be
the principal risk factors and uncertainties that we have faced
during the period, which we are still likely to face well into the
future, and our strategies for managing them. 
Risk assessment and communication / We increased the
standard of our risk assessment and communication procedures
in 2010, with an improved reporting framework now in place.
This has been achieved through the setting up of three separate
Risk Committees at Aegis Group, Aegis Media and Synovate to
ensure that effective risk management policies and procedures
are established throughout Aegis. These Committees report to
the Group CEO and the Audit Committee and provide a forum 
for discussion of risks faced by Aegis, the development of risk
assessment techniques and the consideration and approval 
of risk management action plans for such risks.
The Committees are authorised by the Audit Committee to
investigate any matter that they regard as relevant to their duties
and to seek any information they require from any employee of
Aegis. The Committees’ authority extends to all relevant matters
relating to all Aegis companies where this has an impact on the
Group as a whole, with their main duties and responsibilities
including:
– Assessing the major risks facing the business and the
resultant necessary risk mitigation approach and appropriate
management responses
– Maintaining a record of all risks and how they are being
mitigated in a risk register
– Assigning risk champions for risks identified in the risk
register with responsibilities for any actions required to
address potential weaknesses in such risks and monitoring
progress for the implementation of such actions
– Taking appropriate actions in relation to recurring findings
from Internal Audit activity at the Group’s businesses around
the world
– Providing an annual summary to the Board and Audit
Committee on key risk issues and management of these issues
– Reviewing risk policies on a revolving basis to ensure that
they are kept up-to-date
– Annually reviewing the Group’s insurance arrangements 
for input to changes
– Developing risk management policies and procedures to
assist in improving standards of risk management throughout
the Group.
” 33 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
BUSINESS REVIEW
The Group Risk Committee in particular provides advice on the
co-ordination of risk management strategies between the three
Risk Committees with the following objectives:
– To co-ordinate activities to obtain a more effective risk
management process from existing resources
– To prioritise and accelerate those risk management
strategies that are critical to the achievement of corporate
objectives
– To ensure that actions required are given an appropriate level 
of sponsorship
– To develop risk management as part of the culture of the
Group.
Counterparty relationships / Counterparty risk remains a
significant focus of attention for many organisations, including
our own. We have maintained our efforts to identify and monitor
material counterparty risk in relation to our clients, affiliates,
banks, media owners and other suppliers. 
These risks include the loss of income from clients in financial
distress and potential media buying liabilities arising in markets
where we act as principal. We have also continued to face the
risk of credit insurers withdrawing previously available cover 
and the continued viability risk of our domestic and overseas
banking partners. 
It is our policy to undertake credit enquiries on new clients and
for written contracts to be in place before starting any significant
work. To minimise the impact of the overall risk of default, our
strategies can include requesting pre-payment, imposing credit
limits and taking out credit insurance, broadening cover in
markets where it remains available. We have also closely
monitored our exposure to relationships with our banking
partners, ensuring that deposits held with any one banking
group do not exceed £30.0m. 
Liquidity and working capital / Our funding arrangements and
cash management have continued to be a priority for us during
the year, and will remain so going forward, to enable the Group
to meet its liabilities. Our media buying activities, in particular,
require robust cash management processes. To help manage
our cash, we receive daily cash reporting from our operations.
Our larger businesses take part in cash pooling arrangements
with our relationship banks, with which we also have our debt
facilities. Business units deposit surplus funds with Group
Treasury to assist with managing interest payments and liquidity. 
During 2010 we focused on improving the cash reporting from
our business units to ensure that executive management has
accurate and timely information to actively monitor liquidity 
and covenant headroom. We actively manage our headroom 
to accommodate both general and specific contingencies.
Management reporting, liquidity and covenant monitoring 
will continue to be a key focus going forward. 
In 2010, our principal borrowing arrangement, a 5 year revolving
credit facility of £450.0m with a syndicate of banks was extended
until 2015. We have an active programme of regular
communication with our relationship banks and bondholders,
who are long-standing and supportive, and continue to have a
good understanding of our business performance and prospects.
We were successful during the year in launching a convertible
bond, due in April 2015, to raise £190.6m, thereby further
improving our financial position. 
Client relationships / We have worked with a number of our
larger clients over a number of years, some in excess of 20
years, and have built up a strong sense of partnership. We have
a broad portfolio of some of the world’s most prestigious
multinational and national clients across 80 countries
worldwide. No single client exceeds 3% of revenues. Although
the winning and retaining of clients is at the core of our
business, we are conscious that in the uncertain economic
climate endured in recent years, there is a risk that our clients’
investment in advertising and research will decrease, causing an
impact on our revenues.
While our diversified range of services helps to mitigate this risk,
we also make sure that we have dedicated client relationship
teams in place. In 2010, we continued to integrate our digital 
and traditional services in certain markets and in global client
services, to give clients one point of contact to deliver to all their
needs across our entire range of communications services.
Through our Power Brand strategy, we also increased the
opportunity across our client base to provide multiple services 
to clients, as and where appropriate. In addition, we increased
our activity, both organically and through acquisition, in faster-
growing regions and focused on more resilient fee-based
revenues. 
As part of its global structure, Synovate has a Global Client
Relationships team in place that enables us to form stronger
ties with existing clients and develop successful new
relationships with key global clients. Synovate also has a Local
Business Development structure in place to provide strategic
support for developing relationships with local clients as well 
as with key regional and global clients. It also closely manages
client relationships and has developed an in-house tool to
enable the global sharing of client work and client preferences. 34 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
PRINCIPAL RISKS 
AND UNCERTAINTIES
(continued)
Parts of the industry we operate in have relatively low barriers to
entry, increasing the potential risk of new competitors striving 
to take a part of our market share. We have already seen some
search engines offer online advertising directly to potential
clients. Our range of additional digital services helps manage 
this risk by enabling us to offer clients a portfolio of services 
and therefore strengthen client relationships. In addition, we 
run on-going training programmes across the Group to ensure
our employees are fully aware of, and trained to use, the latest
client service tools available to them. 
Security of data / We retain confidential information in relation
to our clients’ new product pipelines and advertising strategies.
We also host client databases and other applications on our own
servers. Unauthorised access to, or inappropriate use of, any 
of this information could have a detrimental impact on our
reputation and adversely affect our businesses. External access
to such information is protected by our IT security framework
whose strength we continually seek to improve and monitor by
performing IT vulnerability testing and IT security audits, which
also review internal access rights to client data. Additionally, 
we take precautions to protect our clients’ data by using
confidentiality clauses in our employees’ contracts and have
guidelines in place that prohibit the posting of confidential
information. 
Legal & regulatory compliance / The Group is obliged to comply
with a range of legal guidelines and regulatory policies around
the world, for example in areas like taxation policy, accounting
and corporate governance. Consequently, the Group’s legal team
continually monitors changes in regulation with a view to
adapting to new laws before they come into force, putting in
place detailed planning processes and implementing
contingency plans as and when appropriate. In addition, close
relationships have been developed with the Group’s legal
advisors who provide regular updates on the regulatory and legal
environment. Any significant changes in regulations are swiftly
communicated to the Group’s executive management team. 
We have instituted a number of actions in 2010 to support us in
complying with latest regulations and legal guidelines. These
include the establishment of a regulatory intranet which is
utilised as a tracking tool for new and updated regulation, 
the implementation of an on-line compliance training system
which has recently been rolled-out across the Group and the
recruitment of an in-house compliance officer to manage our
risks in this area. 
Acquisitions and successful integration / As well as client
service, new products and services are a key driver of our
business performance. We accomplish this in part by investing 
in strong talent and by acquiring carefully selected businesses
that will broaden our offerings and capabilities and enable us 
to stay ahead of the competition and retain clients.
Acquisitions and joint ventures remain a key feature of Aegis’
long term strategy. There is a risk that our investment in an
acquisition is based on incorrect assumptions and does not have
the long term future on which we based our investment case,
resulting in overpayment. There is also a risk that our
integration plans for them are not successful. 
All of our acquisitions require approval by our internal
acquisitions committee as well as independent due diligence.
We measure the price paid by reference to an internal hurdle
rate of return which exceeds our internal cost of capital.
Acquisition sponsors from within our existing businesses are
assigned to each new acquisition and robust post-integration
monitoring plans are put in place for all acquisitions. 
Competition / We work in a competitive environment where
technological advances potentially allow our current and
prospective clients to be reached by suppliers from anywhere 
in the world. We ensure that competitor and market trends are
continually tracked and monitored, and we aim to benchmark
competitor performance and pricing where possible. 
For some services, aggressive pricing from competitors in
countries where costs are lower could cause a reduction in 
our own revenue and margins. To minimise this risk, we aim 
to build long term relationships with our clients and to remain
competitive in our offerings by reducing our own costs where
possible. We also aim to ensure that we are the supplier of
choice by maintaining high standards, developing tools that add
value to our clients’ marketing and business activity and
delivering work to our clients on time. 35 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Talent management / Aegis is a people business and we are
proud of our employees, but recognise the risk of losing our key
talent. Talent management is therefore one of our key priorities
and something we take very seriously. We aim to be able to offer
market competitive incentive plans to attract and retain quality
staff. We also aim to promote within so that our staff can develop
an enduring career with us. We receive feedback from our
employees via regular Employee Opinion Surveys, and produce
follow-up programmes based on the results. We also run a
regular process to provide an opportunity for communication
between an employee and their line manager in terms of their
career progression and ambition. 
Our people are important in our client relations and the wealth
of knowledge they hold. The departure of key personnel could
have an impact on client retention, key decision making and
successfully leading our business forward. All of our businesses,
including our global teams, are required to undertake
succession planning and we ensure that no relationship with 
a major client is restricted to one individual. For employees
leaving the business, exit interviews are conducted to
understand reasons for their leaving and action plans are
implemented as necessary.
Corporate responsibility / The typical risks associated with
corporate responsibility have a very wide impact, from
operational capacity to reputation management. Compared to
other industries, however, we do not consider ourselves overly
exposed to the impact of climate change and we do not have a
presence in countries which have a history of human rights issues. 
BUSINESS REVIEW 36 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
REPORT
Future Proof meets the
demands of our stakeholders
in a way that supports
Aegis’s corporate strategy.
“
Embedding
sustainability
in everything
we do
Introduction / Sustainability is an increasingly important factor for
our clients in the communication of their brands’ values, products
and services. It is also an essential consideration for our business,
employees and investors. That’s why we work to: 
– Clients contribute to clients’ sustainability objectives as well as
win clients with products and services into which sustainability is
integrated
– Employees attract and retain the best talent in the industry and
to develop them professionally through engaging CR initiatives
– Business mitigate risks around resource exposure and reputation
through effective internal management and cost control
– Investors ensure Aegis remains a stock for consideration by
investors through transparent reporting and credible disclosure
around corporate responsibility.
In 2010 we launched Future Proof. Future Proof is our framework to
address the concerns of our stakeholders around corporate
responsibility and sustainability. It builds on the solid foundations of
our Social, Environmental and Economic (SEE) Change Strategy
announced in 2008.
Future Proof incorporates our minimum standards around
governance and reporting, sets a strategic direction with challenging
targets and provides a suite of standard tools and initiatives for all
our businesses. This framework reflects the nature of Aegis, with
operational responsibility invested in local management but
guidance and support available from the centre. 
Our strategy / Aegis exists to help clients understand, communicate
and build relationships with their consumers around their products
and brands. The Future Proof framework supports this corporate
strategy by:
– Placing the consumer at the heart of our insight understanding
consumer attitudes and behaviour is vital, because it is a key part
of the products and services we deliver to our clients. Integrating
the role sustainability plays in brand preference is thus crucial to
placing the consumer at the heart of our business. It is the
subject of several internal initiatives such as our Consumer
Connection System (CCS)
– Driving collaboration and integration we work for global brands
but the habits of their consumers vary from country to country. In
order to deliver the communication solution best suited to each
market, we encourage internal collaboration to share knowledge
and expertise. Therefore, our CR initiatives, such as the Green
Bean network, operate across brand and office boundaries to
bring our people together and drive collaboration and integration
– Recruiting the best talent in the industry in order to deliver
consistent high quality service to our clients, it is essential we
attract, train and retain the best people for the job. Our
partnership with GlobalGiving (see case study 05 on page 24) 
not only sets us apart in the market but also delivers further
professional and skills development for our employees
– Consistently delivering innovation for clients we’ve made a huge
investment in developing a world-class suite of tools, processes,
technology and training. Sustainability is being integrated into
this suite to ensure our employees take sustainability into
consideration in everything they do. A “Sustainable Brand
Designer” was developed in Aegis Media Italy to aid the
evaluation of clients’ communications on sustainability in order 
to develop innovative insights by our employees.
” Jerry Buhlmann
CEO, Aegis Group plc 37 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
BUSINESS REVIEW
Potential impact on 
Risk Risk assessment company performance Risk management Opportunity
Clients
– Clients’ sustainability Many of our clients Not being able to meet The CR department is Mitigating this risk
objectives have set ambitious our clients’ sustainability responsible for ensuring ensures we meet
sustainability targets. They strategy and objectives that progress with Future our clients’ 
expect their suppliers, puts us at risk of Proof is shared with our objectives.
including us, to contribute; reducing our capability clients – from RFP to Doing it well 
not meeting them to grow our business in pitch to supplier delivers additional 
represents a real risk to size and profitability. protocols. capability to 
business success. enhance our
revenue and 
profitability through
growth.
Employees
– Employee engagement As our employees are Not meeting employees’ CR and sustainability Mitigating this risk 
– Recruitment & retention our biggest asset, they expectations around are part of our people enhances our ability 
– Learning & development also represent our corporate responsibility proposition. The CR to attract, retain and 
greatest risk. puts us at risk of losing Department is develop our talent. 
our largest asset. It also responsible for Doing it well also 
risks an adverse impact delivering engaging improves staff cost 
on client relationships, initiatives linked to control, client 
reputation and business learning & development. satisfaction and 
growth. business growth. 
Environment
– Energy Energy consumption Our expenditure on The CR Department is Mitigating this risk 
– Travel & transport and business travel are energy and business responsible for the delivers cost 
our largest direct travel is one of our minimum standards savings, maintains 
sources of greenhouse largest costs after and reporting system cost control, and 
gas emissions. They are employee costs and as for greenhouse gas meets client 
also the most heavily such is strongly linked emissions. A network expectations. 
regulated and have the to our profitability. But of CR champions has Doing it well also 
highest profile with it could also negatively been established to produces 
our stakeholders. impact our reputation implement sustainable opportunities to 
with our stakeholders. change. engage employees 
& clients.
Community
– Financial donations There are anti-bribery Not addressing The CR Department Mitigating this risk 
– In-kind donations and business conduct our community oversees the minimum avoids reputational 
– Volunteering risks associated with responsibilities negatively standards and reporting damage and 
community involvement. affects our ability to for community regulatory 
But not engaging with attract, train and retain involvement. A champion infringements.
the community brings the best talent. Not network has been Doing it well 
the risk of not meeting managing it well could established to delivers superior 
stakeholder expectations. have a negative impact implement engaging brand value for all 
on our reputation. CR initiatives. stakeholders and
enhances consumer
insight.
Turning risks Into opportunities / As mentioned in Principal
Risks and Uncertainties on page 32, Aegis is exposed to a
number of risks associated with corporate responsibility and
sustainability. The top 4 risks for our organisation are reflected
in the Sustainability Risk Register below. It has been developed
with input from a range of internal and external stakeholders,
including senior management and our advisors Carbon Smart.
Our Risk Register is reviewed annually by the CR Steering Group.
We’re fully focused on mitigating the potential
risks associated with corporate responsibility
and sustainability, but in our opinion every 
well managed risk can become a valuable
opportunity.
“
”
Nigel Morris
Chair, CR Steering Group
Aegis Group plc 38 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
REPORT
(continued)
Environment / In 2008, we set a target of 20% reduction of our
2008 carbon footprint per average full-time employee by the
end of 2010.
We decided to address our two largest sources of greenhouse
gas emissions, energy consumption and business travel, first.
We developed a network of environmental champions, Green
Beans, across our businesses. The Green Beans are responsible
for monitoring and reporting our environmental performance, 
as well as identifying where savings can be made and how
sustainable lifestyles can be encouraged. 
What went well?
– We were rated 64th out of 350 organisations on our carbon
management strategy by the FTSE Carbon Disclosure Project
Carbon Strategy Index. We punch above our size in this
respect
– We continued to expand the activities, tools and guidance for
Green Beans. For instance in 2010, for the first time, our
offices participated in Earth Hour with local activities around
the theme of “Give 1 Hour to the Earth” reaching thousands
of employees worldwide
– We achieved the environmental management accreditation
standard ISO14001 in the United Kingdom. 
What did not go well?
– We do not collect sufficiently detailed evidence about our
greenhouse gas emissions to have our environmental data
assured independently
– We did not achieve our 20% reduction target. There are
several reasons why we did not achieve our reduction target: 
(i) the limited control we have to make changes to the
environmental arrangements in our office locations
(ii) the relative absence of dedicated facilities managers due
to our policy on leased and managed office locations
(iii) the tight deadline on the reduction target, which is not
mirrored by our peers and competitors.
We will modify our environmental strategy to reflect our missed
reduction target. We will re-set our targets, base-line year and
approach in this area in 2011. We consider the Green Bean
network and ISO14001 accreditation key aspects of this revised
strategy and will expand their remit beyond greenhouse gas
emissions from energy and business travel.
Community / In 2008, we set ourselves a target to coordinate
community initiatives across Aegis Media and Synovate. 
We addressed this area by developing a network of community
champions, Aegis Media and Synovate CARES Champions,
across our businesses. They are responsible for monitoring and
reporting community data, as well as delivering engaging locally
relevant community initiatives in the form of fund raising,
volunteering or pro bono projects. In addition, we initiated a
partnership with GlobalGiving UK to develop a global community
initiative. 
What went well?
– We achieved a very high level of employee participation in
2010 through the Aegis Media and Synovate CARES
programme with 7,246 employees involved (representing 
47% of our workforce in 2010)
– We donated the equivalent of 1% of pre-tax profits in 2010
through financial, in-kind and time donations across our
businesses, representing a total value of £1.59m
– We completed a successful pilot project around online
volunteering with GlobalGiving UK, which is being rolled out
globally (see case study 05 on page 24). 
What did not go well?
– We do not collect sufficiently detailed information about our
community activities to have our community data assured
independently
– We have not yet expanded our internal community initiatives
to involve our clients and suppliers. 
Reflecting the successful achievement of our target, we will
continue growing our Aegis Media and Synovate CARES network.
We will provide further thematic support for our champions to
organise engaging community activities. We consider our
GlobalGiving online volunteering platform a key part of that
strategy and are committed to rolling it out globally in 2011. 
Market place / It is crucial our organisation offers innovative
products and services that meet clients’ needs. 
We addressed this area of Future Proof by focusing on the
integration of sustainability considerations in our product and
service delivery. This required a flexible approach, reflecting the
specific clients and business model of each of our businesses. 
– We encourage employees to think creatively in response to
clients’ requests and their potential link with corporate
responsibility and sustainability. This can lead to interesting
collaborations, such as the Synovate and Deutsche Welle
Climate Change study
Progress and Performance /
The Future Proof framework defines five distinct areas of activity.  39 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
BUSINESS REVIEW
Governance / The CR Steering Group is responsible for
overseeing the implementation of the Future Proof framework. 
The CR Steering Group, which consists of representatives of all
functional departments across Aegis Media and Synovate, is
convened 8 times a year. It is chaired by Nigel Morris, CEO of
Aegis Media North America and its remit is to uphold the highest
governance standards in this area, to receive progress reports on
the implementation of the Future Proof framework and to direct
the work of the CR Department. 
Level Responsibility
CR Steering Group – Sets Future Proof framework
– Receives reports on progress 
& performance
– Directs the CR Department
CR Department – Implements Future Proof
framework
– Manages day-to-day work plan 
– Engages internal and external
stakeholders
– Reports on progress &
performance
Environment/Community – Responsible for data monitoring 
champions and reporting
– Responsible for affecting
sustainable change locally
– In 2010, we launched the first Corporate Responsibility
Reporting Policy as part of the revised Group Policies &
Procedures. We also launched the first Corporate
Responsibility Reporting Protocol. Both provide a robust set
of minimum standards, internal control measures and the
measurement & reporting of CR data
– We completed the first assurance health check around the
management of CR reporting. The report by Carbon Smart
set out a route map to improve management, reporting and
disclosure of CR data. The route map was fully implemented
by the end of the reporting year.
We are committed to improving the accuracy of our CR data and 
the robustness of our internal reporting in this area. In 2011, 
in particular, CR assurance will be gained through internal
management reviews led by the CR department and supported
by internal audit where appropriate.
– We are integrating sustainability considerations into our
standard client delivery tools and developing training
programmes to build awareness in this area. An example is
the “Sustainable Brand Designer” developed in Aegis Media
Italy to aid the evaluation of clients’ communications on
sustainability in order to develop innovative insights by our
employees
– We participate actively in the Engaging Consumers work
stream of the Driving Sustainable Consumption initiative at
the World Economic Forum. Our CEO and the Chair of the 
CR Steering Group represent Aegis at the annual meeting 
in Davos. 
We are committed to work with our businesses to meet clients’
objectives around sustainability, to embed sustainability
considerations in our client delivery processes and train our
employees in the role sustainability plays in consumer preferences. 
Work place / We foster a culture of development for our people
to excel and invest in recruiting and retaining high quality talent. 
The Future Proof framework builds on our global standards on
employee development by adding engaging corporate
responsibility initiatives to enhance our people management.
The CR Department worked closely with the HR function to
utilise the full potential of our environment and community
initiatives for employee engagement and development.
– We actively work to connect environment and community
initiatives to our HR agenda. We learnt from a successful pilot
project in the United Kingdom that our corporate
responsibility initiatives are only effective when closely linked
to employee learning and development
– We have a number of systems in place to ensure we are
successful in retaining and motivating our employees,
including: 
– Performance and career development discussions
– Annual employee surveys to understand and act upon the
opinions of our employees
– Exit interviews to understand and learn from our people
leaving
– Competitive incentive plans in place across our
businesses, dependent on the market, experience and
specific skills. 
Employee learning and development is key to the success of our
corporate responsibility initiatives. In 2011, we will continue to
explore further opportunities where corporate responsibility and
sustainability can make a vital contribution to the success of our
people agenda. 
Environment /
Total Carbon Footprint / (in metric tonnes CO
2
)
2008 2009 2010
39,623
41,721
43,637
Community /
Total Community Investment / (in £m)
2008 2009 2010
2.70
1.46
1.59 40 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Market place / 
– We will provide standard structures, useful tools and training
for our people to integrate sustainability considerations in
product and service delivery. 
Work place / 
– We will exploit further opportunities where corporate
responsibility can make a vital contribution to the success 
of our people agenda. 
Governance / 
– We will continue to improve the accuracy, robustness and
appropriateness of our corporate responsibility governance
and reporting structures.
Environment / 
– We will confirm a new strategy, targets and base-line year 
for carbon reduction, including an expansion of our material
impacts
– We will expand the Green Bean network and ISO14001
management accreditation across our businesses. 
Community / 
– We will roll out the GlobalGiving initiative globally
– We will expand the Aegis Media and Synovate CARES
networks across our businesses.
CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
REPORT
(continued)
Key data /
2010 2009 2008
Environment
Energy consumption (metric tonnes CO
2
) 23,566 22,606 18,310 
Business travel (metric tonnes CO
2
) 20,072 19,115 21,312 
Total carbon footprint (metric tonnes CO
2
) 43,637 41,721 39,623 
Intensity 2.85 2.69 2.54
Community
Total community investment (in £m) 1.59 1.46 2.70
% of total revenue 0.1% 0.1% 0.2%
% of underlying PBT 1.0% 1.0% 1.6%
Financial donations (£m) 0.24 0.31 2.0
In-kind donations (£m) 0.27 0.85 0.5
Time including pro-bono (£m) 1.08 0.29 0.2
Employees involved 7,246 5,077 6,183 
% participation 47% 33% 40%
Looking ahead / In addition to their commitments under the Future Proof framework, both Aegis Media and Synovate will assess and
review their corporate responsibility and sustainability strategy in the light of our progress and performance between 2008 and 2010.
We will report back on the outcomes of this process in our next CR Report. 
Below is a summary of our targets for 2011: 41 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
BUSINESS REVIEW
Reporting principles, criteria and methodologies / If you are
interested in reviewing the principles, criteria and methodology
behind the data and statements in our Corporate Responsibility
Report, please visit our corporate website at www.aegisplc.com
for more information. You will find more detailed data in our
interactive data charting tool and extensive background
information on our reporting processes.
In addition you can explore a sample of case studies from around
our network, as well as get in touch with us if you have any
questions or feedback.
< RICHARD DAVIS
Italy
I want to encourage my
colleagues to become greener,
and use our expertise to help
clients become greener too.
TRACY PEARCE
United States
As regional coordinator for 
North America, I am thrilled to
see participation rates increase
over the past year.
PATRICIA LAURENCE
>
Canada
Coming third out of 25 in our
volunteer challenge was great.
But making a difference was
even better!
YVONNE ARIAS
Spain
I enjoy raising awareness
amongst my colleagues as a
Green Bean. Together every 
step counts.
>
>
Having largely achieved our objectives, 
we are now reviewing our CR approach 
and targets for the years ahead.
“
” Gavin Pommernelle
Global HR Director, Synovate 42 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
John Napier
Chairman
Nomination Committee chairman, member of Remuneration Committee
John Napier joined the Board in June 2008 and became chairman in July
2008. From December 2008 to May 2010 he also served as chief executive 
on an interim basis. John is also chairman of RSA Insurance Group plc, 
a position he has held since 2003. John was chief executive of Hays plc 
from 1990 to 1998. Prior to that he was chief executive of AGB, the market
research and information company. From 1998 he was chairman of Booker
until its sale to Iceland in 2000, and chairman of Kelda from 1999 to 2008. 
Jerry Buhlmann
CEO, Aegis Group plc and Aegis Media 
Jerry Buhlmann was appointed Group CEO in May 2010, having joined 
the Board in June 2008 as CEO of Aegis Media. Jerry has some 25 years’
experience in the media and advertising industries. From 2003 to May 2008
he was CEO of Aegis Media EMEA. Between 2000 and 2003, Jerry was CEO
of Carat International. In 1989 he founded media agency BBJ, which was
sold to Aegis in 1999. 
Harold Mitchell, AC
Executive chairman Aegis Media Pacific (Australia and New Zealand)
Harold Mitchell, AC was appointed to the Board in December 2010 following
the Group’s acquisition of Mitchell Communication Group Limited, of which
he was founder and executive chairman. Harold is based in Australia, where
he is a non-executive director of Crown Limited. He holds a large number 
of community roles and in the arts, being the founder of the Harold Mitchell
Foundation and serving as chairman of CARE Australia, Melbourne Rebels
Rugby Union, ThoroughVision, the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra,
Melbourne Recital Centre, Art Exhibitions Australia, Television Sydney (TVS)
and The Melbourne City School. He is also vice-chairman of Tennis
Australia and a non-executive director of Deakin Foundation. 
Robert Philpott
CEO, Synovate
Robert Philpott joined the Board in March 2010, having been appointed
global CEO of Synovate in September 2009. He is based in Chicago. Robert
is a career market researcher, having worked at Synovate for 15 years. He
previously held the position of global COO from March 2006. During his time
in research he has held senior leadership roles in Europe, Asia and the
Americas. Robert began his marketing career at IBM.
Nick Priday
Chief financial officer, Aegis Group plc and Aegis Media
Nick Priday was appointed Chief Financial Officer in September 2009. Nick
has held a variety of finance roles at Aegis since joining in 2003, and was
previously director of financial reporting, analysis and control. He qualified
as a chartered accountant with Ernst & Young. 43 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
GOVERNANCE
John Brady
Non-executive director
Member of Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee
John Brady joined the Board in August 2009. He also serves on the Boards
of Greene King plc, Osborne Clarke LLP and Invest Northern Ireland as a
non-executive director, and was previously a non-executive director of
Hanson plc. Between 1980 and 2004 he worked for McKinsey & Company,
the international management consultancy. He was made a director in 1994
and had a range of senior roles including responsibility for McKinsey’s
European Retail and Marketing practices.
Simon Laffin
Non-executive director
Audit Committee chairman, member of Nomination Committee
Simon Laffin joined the Board in August 2009. He is also a non-executive
director of Quintain Estates & Development PLC, an advisor to CVC Capital
Partners and chairman of Hozelock Group. From 2007 to 2008 he served as
a non-executive director of Northern Rock, as part of the rescue team, and
from 2009 to 2010 served on the Board of Mitchells & Butlers plc. Between
1995 and 2004 he was group CFO of UK grocery retailer Safeway, which he
joined in 1990. He is a qualified accountant. 
Martin Read
Non-executive director
Member of Audit Committee and Nomination Committee
Dr Martin Read joined the Board in August 2009. He is a non-executive
director of Invensys plc and Lloyds of London and chair of the Remuneration
Consultants Group. He was chief executive of Logica plc, the international 
IT services company from 1993 to 2007, and has served as a non-executive
director on the boards of British Airways, Siemens Holdings, Boots and ASDA.
Charles Strauss
Non-executive director, Senior independent director
Member of Audit Committee and Nomination Committee
Charles Strauss joined the Board in September 2003. He is a US national
with 35 years’ international experience in consumer products businesses,
including 18 with Unilever. From 2000 to 2004 Charles served on the Unilever
Board as group president, Unilever Home & Personal Care, chairman of
Unilever’s North American Committee, and its US president and CEO. He is
a former director of The Hershey Company and currently a director of The
Hartford Financial Services Group.
Lorraine Trainer
Non-executive director
Remuneration Committee chairman, member of Nomination Committee
Lorraine Trainer joined the Board in August 2005. She is also a non-
executive director of Jupiter Fund Management plc. She has held a number
of human resource leadership roles in international organisations, focusing
on performance and development. These include Citibank, the London Stock
Exchange and Coutts, then part of the NatWest Group. She now runs a
business in board advisory work and development. She also has significant
experience of working with arts organisations and the not-for-profit sector.  44 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
The directors present their report and the audited financial
statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December
2010. The Business and Financial Reviews set out on pages 4 
to 41 and the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages
49 to 54 form part of this report.
Results and dividends /
The consolidated income statement is set out on page 63 and
shows a profit for the financial year of £43.0 million (2009: £64.2
million). An interim dividend of 1.025p per ordinary share was
paid on 24 September 2010 to ordinary shareholders. The
directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 1.725p per
ordinary share which, if approved at the Annual General Meeting,
will be payable on 6 July 2011 to ordinary shareholders
registered at 17 June 2011. The total dividend for the year will
then amount to 2.75p per ordinary share (2009: 2.50p).
Principal activity /
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding
company based in London. Its subsidiaries and related
companies provide a broad range of services in the areas 
of media communications and market research.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting
the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in
Note 16 to the parent company financial statements.
Review of business and future developments /
A review of the business and likely future developments of the
Group is given in the Chief Executive’s report on pages 6 to 9, the
Business Reviews on pages 10 to 25 and the Financial Review on
pages 26 to 31. Those sections form part of, and are
incorporated by reference within, this Directors’ report.
Financial instruments /
Information about the use of financial instruments by the
Company and its subsidiaries is given in Note 19 to the financial
statements and in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section
on pages 32 to 35.
Post-balance sheet events /
The directors are not aware of any significant post-balance sheet
events that require disclosure in the financial statements other
than those disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements at
page 110. 
Donations /
The Group’s approach with respect to charitable donations and
the amounts donated are detailed on page 38. No political
donations were made during the year.
Supplier payment policy /
The Company does not impose a formal code of payment
practice on its subsidiaries. However, the Group’s policy is to try
to create relationships with its suppliers such that they trust us
and want to do business with us. In selecting external suppliers
we use competitive processes that are fair and transparent, and
designed to maximise value and quality of service for our clients
and ourselves. 
At 31 December 2010, the Group had 50 days’ purchases
outstanding (2009: 50 days). The creditor day analysis is not
applicable to the holding company.
Directors /
The names of the directors at the date of this report and their
biographical details are given on pages 42 and 43. 
Changes to the Board during the year were as follows:
Robert Philpott was appointed on 18 March 2010.
Harold Mitchell was appointed on 15 December 2010.
The interests of the directors in the shares and share incentives
of the Company are shown in the Remuneration report on pages
59 to 61.
Re-election of directors /
In accordance with the Articles of Association and in compliance
with the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance Harold
Mitchell will offer himself for election at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting. In addition Lorraine Trainer and Robert
Philpott will retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for
re-election at the Annual General Meeting. The FRC’s new UK
Corporate Governance Code provides for the annual re-election
of all directors, however in this transitional year the Company
has chosen not to implement the new provision. 
Details of all the directors’ service agreements, including notice
periods, are given in the Remuneration report on page 57.
Directors’ indemnities /
A qualifying third party indemnity (“QTPI”), as permitted by the
Articles of Association and sections 232 and 234 of the
Companies Act 2006, has been (or will shortly be) granted by the
Company to each of its directors. Under the QTPIs the Company
undertakes to indemnify each director against liability to third
parties (excluding criminal and regulatory penalties) and to pay
directors’ costs as incurred, provided that they are reimbursed to
the Company if the director is convicted or, in an action that is
brought by the Company, judgement is given against the director.
Directors resigning from the Board continue to have the benefit
of the QTPI for potential liability to third parties that occurred
prior to their resignation.
Substantial shareholdings /
At 16 March 2011 the Company had been notified of the following
interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares, in accordance
with chapter five of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, or
understood such interests to exist as a result of enquiries made
on its behalf:
Shareholder Number of shares %
Bolloré Group 340,911,920 26.52
Mitchell family 53,860,548 4.18
Norges Bank 52,160,955 4.06
Legal & General Group 46,599,726 3.62
Standard Life 43,444,540 3.37 45 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Share capital /
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with
details of movements in the Company’s issued share capital
during the year, are shown in Note 22 to the financial statements
on page 101.
The Company has one class of share capital that is divided into
ordinary shares of 5p each and that carry no right to fixed
income. Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at
general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding,
the transfer of shares or voting rights, which are governed by the
general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing
legislation. The directors are not aware of any agreements
between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the
transfer of shares or on voting rights, although the Company has
entered into an agreement with Harold Mitchell restricting his
ability to sell shares in the Company prior to November 2012, 
as described more fully in Note 32 on page 109.
The trustees of the Aegis Group Employee Share Trust (the
“Trust”) have agreed to waive any right to all or any future
dividend payments on shares held within the Trust except in
certain limited circumstances, none of which are currently
applicable. 
Details of the shares held are set out in Note 23 to the financial
statements. The trustees of the Trust may vote or abstain from
voting on shares held in the Trust in any way they think fit and in
doing so may take into account both financial and non-financial
interests of the beneficiaries of the Trust. 
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s
share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. 
The directors are authorised to allot unissued shares in the
Company up to a maximum nominal amount of £15,780,461. 
On 17 November 2010 the Company issued 116,672,515 ordinary
shares with a nominal amount of approximately £5,833,626,
representing approximately 9.99% of the issued share capital 
of the Company immediately prior to such issue, to accepting
shareholders in Mitchell Communication Group Pty Limited, 
on the acquisition of that company by the Aegis group (further
details of which are given in Note 25). No other shares have
been issued or allotted under the authority held by the directors,
nor is there any current intention to do so, save for shares
issued to satisfy existing obligations. This authority is valid until
the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting at which
time a resolution will be proposed to renew the authority as
detailed in the accompanying circular.
The Company has not purchased, or created any charges over,
its own shares in the year ended 31 December 2010. The Company
has not had the authority to allot shares without regard to the
pre-emption provisions of the Companies Acts or to purchase its
own shares since the 2008 Annual General Meeting. 
Appointment and replacement of directors /
With regard to the appointment of directors the Company is
governed by its Articles of Association, the 2008 Combined Code
(and its successor the Corporate Governance Code), the
Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Company is required to have no fewer than two and no more
than 16 directors. Directors may be appointed by the Company
by ordinary resolution or by a resolution of the Board. A director
appointed by the Board holds office until the following annual
general meeting but is then eligible for re-appointment. 
The Articles of Association provide that, at every annual general
meeting, any director who held office at the time of two
preceding annual general meetings and who did not retire at
either of them must retire and may offer himself for re-election.
In addition, any director who has been in office, other than as a
director holding an executive position, for a continuous period of
nine years or more at the date of the meeting must also retire
and may offer himself for re-election. At the annual general
meeting at which a director retires, shareholders can pass an
ordinary resolution to re-elect the director or to elect some other
eligible person in his place. The Corporate Governance Code
provides for annual re-election of all directors.
The only people who can be elected as directors at an annual
general meeting are: (i) directors retiring at the meeting; 
(ii) anyone recommended by the directors; and (iii) anyone
nominated by a shareholder. The nominating shareholder must
be entitled to vote at the meeting. He must deliver to the
Company a letter stating that he intends to nominate another
person for election and the written consent of that person to be
elected. These documents must be delivered to the Company 
not less than seven and not more than 42 days before the day 
of the meeting.
The Company may by special resolution remove any director before
the expiration of his term of office. A director automatically stops
being a director if: (i) he resigns; (ii) he offers to resign and the
Company accepts his offer; (iii) all of the other directors (being
at least three in number) pass a resolution or sign a written
notice requiring his resignation; (iv) he is or has been suffering
from mental or physical ill health and the directors pass a
resolution removing him from office; (v) he is absent without the
permission of the Board for a continuous period of six months
and the directors pass a resolution removing him from office; (vi)
he becomes bankrupt or makes a composition with his creditors
generally; (vii) he is prohibited by law from being a director; or
(viii) he ceases to be a director under legislation or is removed
pursuant to the Articles.
GOVERNANCE 46 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS (continued)
Significant agreements /
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling
the counterparties to, or the holders of notes or bonds issued
pursuant to, those agreements to exercise termination or other
rights in the event of a change of control of the Company:
– £450,000,000 multicurrency credit facility agreement dated 
26 July 2010 between, amongst others, the Company, The
Royal Bank of Scotland plc (as agent) and the financial
institutions named therein as banks (the “Facility”)
On a change of control of the Company, unless the Majority
Banks (as defined therein) otherwise agree, all loans, letters
of credit and guarantees, together with all accrued interest
and other sums payable under the agreement, must be
prepaid and, upon such prepayment being made, the total
commitments of the banks under the Facility will be
cancelled and reduced to zero
– Note purchase agreements dated 28 July 2005, 17 September
2007 (as amended) and 17 December 2009 (the “Note Purchase
Agreements”) pursuant to which notes amounting in aggregate
to US$342,000,000 (the “2005 Notes”), US$125,000,000 (the
“2007 Notes”) and US$183,000,000 and £25,000,000 (the
“2009 Notes”, together with the 2005 Notes and the 2007
Notes, the “Notes”) respectively were issued by the Company 
Each holder of Notes has an option, on a change of control 
of the Company, to require the Company to prepay the entire
principal amount of the Notes held by that holder together
with interest accrued thereon and the Make-Whole Amount
(as defined in each of the Note Purchase Agreements)
– Pursuant to a subscription agreement dated 18 March 2010
between, amongst others, Aegis Group Capital (Jersey)
Limited as issuer (the “Issuer”), the Company as guarantor
and the financial institutions named therein as managers and
pursuant to a trust deed dated 20 April 2010 between the
Issuer as issuer, the Company as guarantor and Citicorp
Trustee Company Limited as trustee, the Issuer issued
£190,600,000 2.50% guaranteed convertible bonds due 2015
(the “Convertible Bonds”)
On a change of control of the Company the holder of each
Convertible Bond will have the right to require the Issuer to
redeem the Convertible Bond at its principal amount together
with accrued unpaid interest.
Employment policies /
The Group operates throughout the world and therefore has
developed employment policies that meet local conditions and
requirements. These policies are based on the best traditions
and practices in any given country in which it operates. See
further pages 35 and 39.
Human rights, diversity and disability /
The Group has a series of human resources policies that require its
employees to act respectfully and responsibly at all times. These
policies include policies on human rights, diversity and disability. 
We are committed to treating each employee and applicant 
fairly and equitably. Employment decisions are based on merit,
experience and potential, without regard to race, nationality, 
sex, marital status, age, religion or sexual orientation. We are
committed to following the applicable labour and employment
laws in all of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We believe that disabled people have the same rights as non-
disabled people to become, and continue to be, employees of the
Group. Wherever possible, we provide the same opportunities for
disabled people as for others. If any of our employees become
disabled we make every effort to keep them in the Group’s
employment, with appropriate training where necessary.
Employee involvement /
We have employee consultation processes throughout our
business in accordance with local laws. In addition, we update all
of our employees on a regular basis with Group developments
and progress through newsletters, internal publications, senior
management notes and face-to-face meetings.
Annual General Meeting /
The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Wren Room 
at the Royal Institute of British Architects, 66 Portland Place,
London W1B 6DW, on Tuesday, 10 May 2011 at 11.00am. 
Enclosed with this report is a circular containing a letter from
the Chairman to shareholders and the formal notice convening
the Annual General Meeting. 
Auditors /
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in
office as auditors and resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as
auditors to the Company and to authorise the directors to fix
their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting. 
Directors’ confirmation /
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report
confirms that:
– so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware 
– the director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to
have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that
the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. 47 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Going concern /
The Group’s business activities, together with factors likely to
affect its future development, performance and financial position
and commentary on the Group’s financial results, its cash flows,
liquidity requirements and borrowing facilities are set out in the
Business and Financial Reviews on pages 4 to 41.
The Board is satisfied that the Group balance sheet remains
strong. Following the issue of £190.6m convertible bonds in April
2010 and re-financing of the £450m revolving credit facility in
July 2010, both of which are on 5 year terms, the Group is well-
financed with considerable cash and covenant headroom and 
no major facilities due to expire until 2012. 
During 2010 the Group has continued to generate positive
operating cash inflows from operations before tax, acquisitions
and capital expenditure.
The main factors contributing to these cash inflows are the
retention and growth of the customer base, terms of trade with
customers and suppliers and the continuing management of
working capital within the Group. The Board has concluded that
the Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of
reasonably possible changes in trading performance, indicate
that the Group has sufficient funding to operate within the terms
of its available facilities.
The Board has considered various alternative operating and
funding strategies should these be necessary and is satisfied
that a range of actions including cost reduction activities could
be adopted if and when necessary. 
After making these enquiries, the Board is satisfied that the
Group has sufficient resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future and for this reason the going
concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing the financial
statements for 2010. Furthermore, no material uncertainties
related to events or conditions that may cast a significant doubt
about the ability of the Group to continue as a going concern
have been identified by the directors. 
By order of the Board
Andrew Moberly 
Company Secretary
16 March 2011
GOVERNANCE 48 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors
are required to prepare the group financial statements in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting
Standards and applicable law). Under company law the directors
must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company
and of the profit or loss of the Company for the period. 
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the
directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently
– make judgments and accounting estimates that are
reasonable and prudent
– state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will
continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International
Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors:
– properly select and apply accounting policies
– present information, including accounting policies, in a
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable information
– provide additional disclosures when compliance with the
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable
users to understand the impact of particular transactions,
other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position
and financial performance
– make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of
the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity
of the corporate and financial information included on the
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement /
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
– the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or
loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the
consolidation taken as a whole
– the Business and Financial review, which is incorporated into
the directors’ report, includes a fair review of the development
and performance of the business and the position of the
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal
risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Jerry Buhlmann Nick Priday
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
16 March 2011 49 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The following sections explain how the Company applies the
main and supporting principles and the provisions of the 2008
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the “Combined
Code”). The Board confirms that throughout 2010 the Company
has complied with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code
save as detailed below. As from 1 January 2011 the Company
became subject to the terms of the UK’s new Corporate
Governance Code, which applies to accounting periods
beginning on or after 29 June 2010 (the “Corporate Governance
Code”) and will report against the Corporate Governance Code 
in its 2011 financial statements. 
The Board /
All directors are collectively responsible for the overall success
of the Company and for the creation of long-term shareholder
value. Executive directors have direct responsibility for business
operations, whereas the non-executive directors have a
responsibility to bring independent, objective judgement to bear
on Board decisions. This includes constructively challenging
management and helping to develop the Company’s strategy.
The Board comprises ten directors – the Chairman (who also
acted as interim Chief Executive Officer from December 2008 to
April 2010), four executive directors and five independent non-
executive directors. Details of the directors and their biographies
are set out on pages 42 and 43. The directors have a broad range
of expertise and experience, which we believe contributes
significantly to the effectiveness of the Board. 
Each of the non-executive directors has confirmed that they have
been throughout the year, and continue to be, independent of the
management of the Group and free from any business or other
relationship that could materially affect the exercise of their
independent judgement. The Chairman was independent at the
time of his appointment.
The other significant commitments of the Chairman are set out
in his biography on page 42. 
The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit of executive directors
and other senior employees accepting external non-executive
directorships in order to broaden their skills and knowledge for
the benefit of the Company. The Board has adopted a policy on
external appointments which is designed to ensure that
employees remain able to discharge their responsibilities to the
Group. Directors and employees are usually permitted to retain
any fees in respect of such appointments.
Directors must not vote in respect of any contract or other
proposal in which they (or any person connected with them)
have a material interest otherwise than by virtue of their
interests in securities of the Company. The Articles of
Association were amended by shareholders at the 2009 Annual
General Meeting to address the new statutory provisions
regarding directors’ duties in relation to conflicts of interest
which came into force on 1 October 2008 under the Companies
Act 2006 and the Company has taken steps to ensure
compliance with the new law on conflicts of interest and has
procedures in place to identify and deal with any conflict
situations should they arise. Those procedures have operated
effectively throughout 2010. They include procedures for the
Board to authorise any conflicts that may arise if necessary and
a regular review of all such actual and potential conflicts (last
undertaken in March 2011).
To avoid potential conflicts of interest, non-executive directors
are required to inform the Chairman before taking up any
additional external appointments. 
Charles Strauss is the senior independent director and he is
responsible for undertaking the annual review of the Chairman’s
performance and chairing the Nomination Committee when
considering the role of Chairman. He is available to shareholders
if they need to convey concerns to the Board other than through
the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer. 
In accordance with the Articles of Association directors
appointed to the Board since the previous annual general
meeting, those who have not been subject to re-election at the
previous two years’ annual general meetings and non-executive
directors who have served nine years or more on the Board are
all required to retire (and may offer themselves for re-election)
at the next annual general meeting. The Corporate Governance
Code provides for annual re-election of all directors.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer is set out in writing and has been agreed by the
Board. 
The Chairman is responsible for: 
– the composition and leadership of the Board
– monitoring corporate governance processes
– ensuring effective communication with shareholders and
other stakeholders
– supporting the Chief Executive Officer. 
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for:
– the development and execution of the Group’s strategy 
– the Group’s operational performance
– leading the executive team
– leading the management of relationships with external
stakeholders.
Ordinarily the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are
performed by separate individuals in accordance with provision
A.2.1 of the Combined Code. However, following the departure of
the former CEO in November 2008, the Chairman, John Napier,
was appointed to the additional role of interim Chief Executive
Officer as it was unanimously considered by the Board to be the
most appropriate short-term arrangement. John Napier reverted
to his role as Chairman upon the appointment of Jerry Buhlmann
as Chief Executive Officer of Aegis Group plc on 1 May 2010.
Board meetings /
The Board meets nine or ten times a year and more frequently
when business needs require. During the year, the Board met 
on average once a month. At least one Board meeting is
extended in length to consider fully the ongoing development of
the Company’s strategic plans. Board meetings are structured to
allow open discussion and all directors participate in discussing
the strategy, trading and financial performance and risk
management of the Company.
GOVERNANCE 50 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued)
Board meetings / (continued)
There is a list of matters that have been reserved to the Board
for decision. These include approval of:
– Group strategy, annual budget and operating plans
– results announcements
– dividend policy
– circulars and listing particulars
– matters relating to share capital
– major capital projects, investments and commitments.
All directors are fully briefed on important developments in the
various business activities which the Group undertakes and
regularly receive information concerning the Group’s operations,
finances, key risks and its employees, enabling them to fulfil
their duties and obligations as directors.
The Board is supplied in advance of each meeting with an
agenda and supporting documentation. At each Board meeting
there are a number of standard agenda report items. Senior
managers and external advisors are also invited to attend
meetings where relevant input is needed. The Board also
receives briefings from the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration
and other Committees following meetings of those Committees. 
The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and at Board Committees of which they were members during the year is set out
below: 
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Meetings Committee Committee Committee
No. of meetings in year 12 562
John Napier 12 – 5* 2
John Brady 12 –62
Jerry Buhlmann 12 –– 1**
Simon Laffin 12 5–2
Harold Mitchell ––– –
(appointed 15.12.10)
Robert Philpott 11 –––
(appointed 18.03.10)
Nick Priday 12 –––
Martin Read 11 5–2
Charles Strauss 11 5–2
Lorraine Trainer 11 –62
* John Napier did not attend the Remuneration Committee meeting convened to discuss his remuneration as chairman.
** appointed to the Nomination Committee 1 May 2010.
In addition to the above John Napier (as interim Chief Executive
Officer), Jerry Buhlmann (as Chief Executive Officer) and Nick
Priday regularly attended, by invitation, meetings of the Audit
Committee and Jerry Buhlmann (as Chief Executive Officer)
regularly attended, by invitation, meetings of the Remuneration
Committee. 
From time to time the non-executive directors, including the
Chairman, meet in the absence of the executive directors to
consider matters of relevance to the running of the Board and
the operation of the Company. 
Performance appraisal process /
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent
director, continued the process of meeting annually without the
Chairman being present to appraise the Chairman’s
performance. Where appropriate, the senior independent
director then meets with the Chairman to discuss any particular
issues arising. 
A review of the Board’s performance was undertaken in
November 2010, involving all members of the Board at that time.
However, as substantial changes were made to the Board’s
composition in the second half of 2009, and Jerry Buhlmann was
only appointed as Chief Executive Officer in mid 2010, it was not
considered appropriate to undertake external performance reviews
during 2010. Further Board and committee reviews will take place
in 2011 and will be reported on in the 2011 financial statements. 
Induction and training /
Directors undertake an induction programme when they join 
the Board and receive a range of information about the Group.
The induction programme also includes, where appropriate,
meetings with other members of the Board and briefings and
presentations regarding the Group’s operations from senior
executives. Ongoing training needs for directors are met as
required.
Director liability /
The Company has in place an appropriate level of directors and
officers insurance cover in respect of legal action against the
directors. In addition, the Company has given an indemnity to its
directors in respect of third party claims, as described in the
Directors’ report on page 44.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the
company secretary and, if required, external professional advice
at the Company’s expense. If a director has particular concerns,
he or she may specifically request that they be recorded in the
Board minutes. 51 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Board committees /
Terms of reference for all Board committees are regularly
reviewed and are available on the Company’s website at
www.aegisplc.com and from the company secretary on request.
Audit Committee
Simon Laffin is Chairman of the Audit Committee. He is a
chartered management accountant and the Board is satisfied
that he has appropriate recent and relevant financial experience
to lead the Committee in its duties and deliberations. The other
two members of the Committee are Charles Strauss and Martin
Read. Biographical details of the members of the Audit
Committee, all of whom are independent non-executive
directors, are set out on page 43.
At the invitation of its Chairman, meetings of the Committee
were generally attended, in whole or in part, by the Chief
Financial Officer, the external auditors, the company secretary
and the head of Internal Audit. Several meetings were attended
by John Napier (as interim Chief Executive Officer) and Jerry
Buhlmann (as Chief Executive Officer). In addition, other
members of senior management were invited to attend as
necessary to provide updates and background information on
matters considered by the Committee.
The Committee regularly meets with the auditors without
executive directors or management present. 
The Board considers that, through the Audit Committee, it has
an objective and professional relationship with the Company’s
external auditors. 
Work carried out by the Committee during 2010, in accordance
with its responsibilities, included:
– monitoring the integrity of the Company’s financial
statements and reviewing significant reporting judgements
– monitoring the effectiveness of internal audit, risk
management and controls, and considering progress reports
from the risk committees and head of internal audit
– reviewing the Company’s internal financial controls and
procedures. Further details of the steps taken to update and
improve the Company’s internal financial controls and
procedures during the year are given on page 53 
– reviewing the external auditors’ independence, objectiveness
and effectiveness
– approving the external auditors’ terms of engagement, the
scope of the audit and the applicable levels of materiality
– reviewing its own terms of reference
– prior to the release of the preliminary announcement of the
annual results, reviewing the year’s results and audit findings.
In reviewing the half year and annual financial statements the
Committee focused in particular on:
– any changes in accounting policies and practices
– major judgemental areas
– issues resulting from the external audit
– the going concern assumption
– compliance with accounting standards and the Combined Code
– compliance with UK Listing Authority regulations and stock
exchange and legal requirements. 
Based on written reports submitted to it, the Committee
reviewed with the external auditors the findings of their audit
work, and confirmed that all significant matters had been
satisfactorily resolved. 
The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations
to the Board in relation to the external auditors’ independence
and monitors the policy on the engagement of the auditors for
the supply of non-audit services. Details of amounts paid to the
external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit services are
given in Note 5 to the financial statements. The Committee has
confirmed that the policy concerning rotation of the audit
partner complies with current guidance issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. 
The current overall tenure of the external auditor dates from
2004. The audit engagement partner rotates every five years. 
The Audit Committee recommends to the Board the
appointment of the external auditor. There are no contractual
obligations that restrict the Company’s current choice of
external auditor.
The Committee has considered the balance between fees for
audit and non-audit work for the Group in the year and
concluded that the nature and extent of the non-audit fees do
not present a threat to the external auditors’ independence.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Lorraine Trainer.
The other two members of the Committee are John Brady and
John Napier. Both Lorraine Trainer and John Brady are
independent non-executive directors and John Napier was
considered to be independent on his appointment as Chairman
in July 2008. The Combined Code on Corporate Governance
suggests a remuneration committee should comprise at least
three independent non-executive directors in addition to the
chairman of the Board, however the Board considers the current
composition of the Committee to be effective, efficient and
appropriate to the Company’s needs. 
Members of the Committee have no conflict of interest arising
from cross directorships. Except as stated below members of
the Committee have no personal financial interest, other than 
as shareholders, in the Committee’s decisions. John Napier’s
remuneration as chairman following the expiry of his
appointment as interim Chief Executive Officer was agreed 
by the Committee at a meeting in August 2010 attended by all
non-executive directors other than John Napier. 
Meetings of the Committee were generally attended, in whole 
or in part, by the Group human resources director, the company
secretary and – following his appointment as Chief Executive
Officer – by Jerry Buhlmann. Some meetings of the Committee
were also attended, in part, at the invitation of the chairman, by
the Chief Financial Officer. A representative of Deloitte LLP,
independent remuneration consultants, attended one meeting.
Apart from members of the Committee, no-one attending its
meetings is present as of right and no-one (including members
of the Committee) attends when their own remuneration is
discussed.
GOVERNANCE 52 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued)
Board committees / (continued)
Remuneration Committee (continued)
The Committee usually meets at least three times a year and
more frequently if required. It met 6 times in 2010. Its main
responsibilities are:
– determining and recommending the policy and framework for
the remuneration of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
and executive directors 
– within policy terms and in consultation with the Chairman,
Chief Executive Officer and external advisers as appropriate,
determining the total remuneration packages of the
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and other executive
directors
– considering proposals in relation to other senior executive
management 
– overseeing the design of the Group’s share based long term
incentive schemes, including approving the value of awards
and overseeing the operation of performance conditions.
During the year the principal business of Committee meetings
included the following:
– determining the remuneration payable to Robert Philpott 
on his appointment to the Board
– determining the remuneration payable to Jerry Buhlmann 
on his appointment as Group Chief Executive Officer
– introducing a revised bonus scheme for Aegis Media
– conducting the annual review of base salaries for executive
directors and the Chief Executive Officer’s recommendation
for his executive team based on review of actual performance
– the consideration and approval of bonus payments for 2009 
– ongoing review and monitoring of performance conditions for
vesting awards under the Group’s share option schemes and
performance share plans 
– approving new awards under the Group’s performance share
plans 
– reviewing the Group’s executive reward arrangements
– determining the remuneration payable to John Napier
following the expiry of his appointment as interim Chief
Executive Officer
– drafting of the Remuneration report
– Considering the implications of forthcoming changes to the
UK pension regime
– reviewing the design of the Group’s share schemes.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises all of the non-executive
directors together with the Chief Executive Officer and is chaired
by the Chairman of the Board. The Committee meets as and
when required but at least once a year.
The Committee is responsible for: 
– reviewing the Board structure, size and composition
– identifying and nominating to the Board candidates for
appointment or re-appointment as directors
– reviewing the renewal or otherwise of terms of appointment
for non executive directors, with any individual in question not
taking part in the discussion.
During the year the principal business of the Committee’s
meetings included considering and recommending to the Board
the appointments of Jerry Buhlmann as Group Chief Executive
Officer (for which the Committee used the services of an
external search and recruitment consultancy) and of Robert
Philpott and Harold Mitchell as executive directors. 
Internal control and risk management /
The Group operates a system of internal control, which is
maintained and reviewed in accordance with the Combined Code
2008 (replaced as from 1 January 2011 by the Corporate
Governance Code), the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and
Transparency Rules and the guidance contained in the Turnbull
Report (as revised).
Internal control governance /
The Board sets out in this section the actions undertaken during
the year and up to the date of this report.
Responsibilities
The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the
Group adopts a suitable system of internal control and reviews
this annually to ensure its effectiveness. It delegates some of
this responsibility to the Audit Committee. In turn, the Audit
Committee places reliance on reports it receives from
management, the Group internal audit function and the external
auditors. Day-to-day responsibility for embedding the Group’s
system of internal controls lies with the executive and senior
management teams, and the reporting and detailed
consideration of internal control matters are the responsibility 
of the Group’s risk committees.
Internal control framework
The Group’s system of internal controls is designed to manage,
but cannot eliminate, the risk of the Group not achieving its
overall objectives. The Group’s internal control framework can
only be expected to provide reasonable but not absolute
assurance that the Group’s assets and reputation are
safeguarded and are not subject to material loss or financial
misstatement. The Group’s system incorporates controls
designed to mitigate against strategic, financial, commercial,
operational, governance and other risks. As they are not
controlled by the Group, the Group’s joint ventures and
associates adopt their own policies and procedures, and the
Group therefore places reliance on the systems of internal
controls operating within our partners’ businesses. 53 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Internal control framework (continued)
Whilst the control environment provides this level of reasonable
assurance, nevertheless the Board recognises that aspects of
the internal control framework can always be further improved
and steps were taken in 2010 as follows: 
1. KPMG was commissioned in March to undertake a
comprehensive independent review of the Group’s overall
control environment and, as appropriate, to provide
recommendations as to how it might be further improved.
Those recommendations have now been implemented.
2. KPMG performed site visits at a dozen of the Group’s offices
to conduct interviews and walkthrough testing of controls.
3. By November, the Group had revised and re-launched all 
of its policies and procedures globally. An online training
programme for more than 500 of the Group’s senior
managers facilitated the implementation of these policies. 
4. The finance function reporting lines were changed and a
number of key appointments were made to strengthen the
financial control environment. Appointments included new
regional CFOs for Aegis Media in North America and
Western Europe and a new Financial Controller for Aegis
Group plc. Further resources are being provided in key areas
to support regional management teams.
5. The Group identified the need for, and has recruited, a
Director of Risk and Audit with broad responsibility for risk
management and internal control, as well as oversight of the
internal audit function. The Director of Risk and Audit will
report into the Audit Committee and the Group Chief
Financial Officer. Following this appointment, internal audit
will continue to be strengthened in 2011.
6. A new Group-wide financial reporting and consolidation
system was also commissioned, to facilitate and improve the
reporting process. This system is in the final stages of
development and testing and will be rolled out across the
Group in the first half of 2011.
7. The Group’s three risk committees now each report directly
into the Audit Committee and are each chaired by the most
appropriate senior executive director. Aegis Media and
Synovate’s risk committees are chaired by their respective
Chief Executive Officers and the Head Office risk committee 
is chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer.
8. The 2010 annual self-certification compliance process has
been updated and reinforced to ensure alignment with the
revised policies and procedures. 
9. The Group has undertaken a program of testing financial
controls using Deloitte in a number of key markets and via
self assessment in all other markets. Improvements
identified by this testing program are being actioned by
business units and monitored by internal audit.
10. The Group formalised its whistle-blowing procedures, 
known as “Speak-up”, and rolled them out across the Group
during 2010.
Risk committees /
The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the
Group has an effective framework in place for managing its
risks. The risk committee structure supports the Board via the
Audit Committee in fulfilling these responsibilities. 
The Group has 3 risk committees – one within each of its
principal operating divisions, Aegis Media and Synovate, chaired
by their respective chief executive officers, and a Head Office 
risk committee chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Collectively, these committees provide a forum for the
discussion of key risks faced by the Group, the development of
risk assessment techniques and the consideration and approval
of risk management action plans.
Each of the divisional risk committees comprises a varied range
of senior representatives (from different markets, disciplines
and business streams). The principal duties of these committees
are to ensure that risks within the divisions are identified and
appropriately managed and to approve minimum standards and
procedures to enhance the control environment. Divisional risk
registers were developed and expanded towards the end of the
year and into 2011 and will continue to be reviewed and revised
as appropriate.
The Head Office risk committee ensures that effective risk
management policies and procedures are established for
matters which relate to the Group Head Office’s functional
expertise, such as tax, treasury and Group finance. The Head
Office risk register has been reviewed in detail and updated
during the year and into 2011, and will continue to be developed
as appropriate. Meetings are attended by senior head office
management drawn from all the Group’s principal Head Office
functions. 
Reporting lines for all 3 of the Group’s risk committees have
been aligned during the year, with each committee now
reporting directly to the Audit Committee. The Group Chief
Financial Officer or other senior executives have attended all
risk committee meetings to ensure a consistent approach to 
risk and the dissemination of good practice amongst the three
committees. The risks identified, and the control mechanisms
applicable to each risk and how well they are being managed,
are maintained in the relevant risk registers. Following the re-
launch of the Group’s policies and procedures and minimum
control standards to mitigate Group risks, meetings of all risk
committees now take place on a quarterly basis. 
Internal audit
As noted above, the Group identified the need for, and recruited,
a Director of Risk and Audit with broad responsibility for risk
management and internal control, as well as oversight of the
internal audit function. The Director of Risk and Audit will report
to the Audit Committee and the Group Chief Financial Officer. 
The internal audit function will continue to be strengthened in
2011 with additional resource being deployed. 
The Group’s internal audit function is considered to be
independent of the operations and monitors the business units’
application of the Company’s principles and policies and their
overall control of risks. 
GOVERNANCE 54 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued)
Risk committees / (continued)
Internal audit (continued)
The overall effectiveness of the internal audit function is
monitored by the Audit Committee, which receives regular
reports detailing the findings arising from the internal audit
function’s work, issues reported under the Group’s whistle
blowing procedures, and any actual or suspected frauds
detected or reported anywhere in the Group. 
Review of internal control effectiveness
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on the adequacy 
of the Group’s internal controls system. The Audit Committee
receives reports from management and the head of internal
audit on the integrity of the Group’s control environment. The
external auditors report to the Audit Committee on the control
environment by exception following their half year review and full
year audit. Copies of minutes of all risk committee meetings, 
as well as copies of the risk registers, are made available to
members of the Audit Committee. 
The 2010 year-end annual compliance self certification process
has been updated to ensure alignment with the revised Group
policies and procedures. The chief executive officer and chief
financial officer of each entity across the Group is required to
complete an annual certificate to confirm, in relation to such
entity, that:
– the Group’s policies and procedures were adhered to
– the accounts as submitted were accurate and complete and
prepared in accordance with Group accounting policies
– there were no actual or potential breaches of laws or
regulations
– there were no known frauds
– there were no related party transactions other than those
properly disclosed
– there were no conflicted directorships
– all relevant information was disclosed to the auditors.
Similar certifications have been required of regional, global and
Group management.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the
system of internal controls and considers that there are ongoing
processes in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the
significant risks faced by the Group and that these processes
have been in place and improved during 2010 and up to the date
of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. The Board
considers that the information received was sufficient to monitor
the process and review its effectiveness in accordance with the
Turnbull Guidance on Internal Controls.
A summary of the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties is
included in the Business Review section on pages 32 to 35.
Employee concerns /
As mentioned above, the Group has arrangements in place that
allow employees, in confidence, to raise concerns about possible
wrongdoing in matters of financial reporting or other matters,
without fear of reprisal, provided that such concerns are raised
in good faith. The Audit Committee reviews these arrangements
to ensure that there is proportionate and independent investigation
of any reported concerns and that appropriate follow up action 
is taken and has recently instigated a review to ensure the
effectiveness of the Group’s worldwide “Speak-up” policy.
Relations with shareholders /
The Board encourages an active policy of constructive dialogue
with its shareholders, which is led by the Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer.
Executive directors meet regularly with major shareholders. 
The Board encourages investor contact, including holding one-
to-one meetings and group events with existing shareholders
and non-holders alike. During the year roadshows were held in
North America and the UK. Non-executive directors are available
to meet with institutional shareholders on request.
JP Morgan Cazenove, the Group’s joint financial advisers,
provide the Board with written reports (covering changes in
valuation and ownership, market and sector issues) on a
monthly basis, and along with Numis Securities are available 
for shareholder relations advice. 
The Annual General Meeting is an opportunity for shareholders
to address questions to the Chairman and the respective
chairmen of the Board committees or other members of the
Board directly. 
Published information, including press releases, presentations
and webcasts of our results meetings, is available on our
corporate website, www.aegisplc.com. 
Further information about the Group can be obtained by
contacting 0207 070 7700 or communications@aegisplc.com. 
Andrew Moberly
Company Secretary
16 March 2011 55 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
REMUNERATION REPORT
The following report by the Remuneration Committee has been
approved by the Board for submission to the shareholders at the
2011 Annual General Meeting. Deloitte LLP has audited the
following items stipulated in law for their review:
– The table of directors’ remuneration and associated footnotes
on page 58
– The table of disclosure for directors’ share options and share
awards on pages 59 to 61 and associated footnotes.
Members of the Committee during the year are set out on page
51. The Committee’s Terms of Reference are available from the
Company’s website at www.aegisplc.com.
During the year, the Committee obtained ad-hoc advice on
executive remuneration matters from independent remuneration
consultants, Deloitte LLP. These services comprised the
provision of market data benchmarks in relation to specific
executive roles, an update on current market practice and
trends, advice on certain corporate governance aspects with
respect to executive remuneration and review of this report. As
noted previously, Deloitte are also the Company’s auditors and
have provided remuneration services in compliance with the
Ethical Standards of the Auditing Practices Board. Both the
Company and Deloitte are satisfied that appropriate measures
and controls are in place to ensure no conflicts arise from
providing these services. The Committee also received advice
where appropriate from the director of group human resources
and the company secretary. No individual is involved in decisions
relating to their own remuneration.
Remuneration policy /
The Company aims to balance the need to attract, motivate and
retain high calibre talent with the need to be cost effective,
reward exceptional performance and create shareholder value.
The Committee reviews remuneration strategies and policies to
balance these factors whilst also taking into account general
macro-economic conditions impacting the Company, changes 
in business strategy, investor expectations and the wider
compensation context of employees across the Group. During
the 2010 reviews the design of the annual cash bonus schemes
was extensively revised to incorporate more demanding annual
and year on year performance measures; enhanced controls to
ensure equitable profit share between management and
shareholders; greater transparency to incentivize performance
and some linkage of the share schemes to the annual bonus
arrangements for senior managers. The resulting reward policy
for the Executive Directors and senior management has an
enhanced focus on delivery of a high performance culture. 
The Committee reviews base salaries in the context of total
remuneration and determines remuneration levels to be aligned
with relevant market practice plus the experience, performance
and retention value of the individual. It also assesses the ratio 
of fixed and performance-based remuneration with a view to
strengthening the link between remuneration and performance,
the mix of short and long term reward, the level of challenge of
financial targets and the leverage of incentive arrangements so
that the higher levels of reward are focussed on the high
performing individuals.
Elements of remuneration /
Details on remuneration for each of the Executive Directors are
included on page 58 with some commentary on the three
principal remuneration elements described below. 
Base salary and benefits
Base salary and benefits are reviewed annually with reference to
relevant market practice, the Company’s financial performance
and the individual’s skill, experience and performance in order 
to provide a market competitive reward.
In relation to 2011, it has been decided that the annual review
cycle for all employee salaries and benefits will change from
January to July. Executive Directors will be included in this
different timescale. It is intended that salary changes for
Executive Directors and senior management will be determined
with respect to the general salary considerations of the whole
Group and be informed by market changes. 
A summary of the benefits payable to executive directors in 2010
is given on page 58. These mainly comprise company car
benefits and medical insurance. 
Short term annual cash bonus incentives
All executive directors are provided with an annual cash bonus
opportunity to incentivise and reward performance against
financial growth targets. Their bonus opportunities have a
maximum of 100% of annual salary.
The design of the arrangements in 2010 maintained and enhanced
the significant revisions implemented in 2009 to ensure that an
equitable balance of management and shareholders’ interests
was consistently achieved in differing economic conditions.
Performance targets were determined on an individual basis to
relate to stretch levels of Operating Profit growth.
Long-term share-based incentives
The Committee keeps the Company’s long term incentive plan
under regular review to ensure it remains appropriate in
fulfilling its objectives and that the performance conditions
continue to represent the best way to drive the creation of
shareholder value. 
In 2010 the Company continued to use the 2003 Performance
Share Plan (PSP) with unchanged performance conditions. The
PSP is designed to comply with the requirements of institutional
guidelines and corporate governance best practice, as well as to
reflect the Committee’s remuneration policy. In any financial
year, an executive is eligible to receive a conditional award of
shares with a face value of no more than two times basic salary
in normal circumstances. The Remuneration Committee has the
discretion to approve an award of three times salary in special
circumstances. In light of his promotion to CEO Aegis Group plc
in 2010, the Remuneration Committee approved an award of
three times annual salary to Jerry Buhlmann.
The performance conditions that apply to the 2010 PSP awards
are determined partly by reference to the Company’s Total
Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance relative to a group 
of similar businesses and partly by reference to the Company’s
underlying EPS growth relative to RPI.
GOVERNANCE 56 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
REMUNERATION REPORT (continued)
Elements of remuneration / (continued)
Long-term share-based incentives / (continued)
The TSR targets were as follows:–
TSR performance relative to peer group Proportion of award vesting
Median or below Nil
1st or 2nd 50%
For intermediate performance Nil to 50% 
(pro rata on a straight-line basis)
The following companies were included in the peer group for
calculation of TSR performance in 2010:–
Dentsu Inc. Omnicom Group Inc. 
Havas SA Pearson plc 
The Interpublic Group Publicis Groupe S.A.
of Companies Inc. 
Ipsos S.A. Reed Elsevier plc 
The News Corporation Limited Viacom Inc.
GfK WPP Group plc
The EPS performance conditions were as follows:–
Average annual EPS growth in excess of RPI Proportion of award vesting
3% or less Nil
3% to 15% Nil to 50% (pro rata on a straight-line basis)
15% 50%
Further to the appointments of the Chief Financial Officer in
September 2009, the Synovate CEO in March 2010, and the Chief
Executive Officer of Aegis Group plc in May 2010 the Company
has continued to develop and strengthen its senior management
and focus on the retention of high calibre talent. This has led the
Committee to review the Group’s long term incentive
arrangements for 2011 and in particular the continued
appropriateness of the performance conditions. 
The review concluded that the TSR peer group and vesting
schedule should remain unchanged in 2011 and that an
amendment to the EPS performance conditions should be
adopted. As from 2011, the EPS element of the performance
conditions will be based on a straightforward average annual
EPS growth target of 3 to 15% over three years. This amendment
takes account of the overwhelmingly international nature of the
Group’s business, as well as market conditions and consensus
forecasts for the Group, and the Committee believes that EPS
performance conditions remain robust and demanding. The
adjustment was the subject of prior consultation with
shareholders holding over 50% of our shares, who were
supportive of the proposal.
The PSP performance conditions are tested on the third
anniversary of grant of the award. There is no provision for
retesting. To the extent that the performance conditions are not
satisfied, the awards lapse. 
The Committee believes that using both EPS growth and TSR for
awards under the PSP provides a balanced incentive between
assessing the Company’s relative returns to shareholders and its
underlying financial performance. The blend also provides a
balanced long-term incentive for the Company’s executives.
No awards will be made under previously closed schemes,
although awards granted in the past will continue to be
exercisable in accordance with the rules of each respective
scheme. The closed schemes are the 1995 Executive Share
Option Scheme and the 2003 Executive Share Option Scheme.
Details of these schemes are given on page 59. Details 
of all share incentive awards outstanding for each executive
director serving during 2010 are set out on pages 59 to 61. 
Pensions /
The Company aims to provide pension benefits in line with
market practice and which allows executives to plan effectively
for their retirement.
Both Jerry Buhlmann and Nick Priday are members of a UK
Inland Revenue approved group personal pension plan scheme.
Pensionable salary is limited to base salary excluding all
bonuses and other benefits. Annual employer pension
contributions or salary equivalent payments are shown in the
audited Directors’ Remuneration table on page 58.
It is intended to address the 2011 changes to the UK Pension Tax
Relief by providing the quantity of the existing annual pension
benefit which exceeds £50,000 per annum as a separate cash
payment. 57 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Service contracts /
Details of the service contracts of those who served as executive directors during the year are set out below. Apart from Harold
Mitchell, whose appointment is for a 2 year term expiring on 17 November 2012, all executive directors have rolling service contracts
which expire at normal retirement age unless terminated beforehand in accordance with the terms of the individual contract and
contain non-compete obligations.
Name Contract date Notice period from Company Notice period from director
Jerry Buhlmann (appointed 02.06.08) 20.04.10 12 months 6 months
Nick Priday (appointed 01.09.09) 01.09.09 12 months 6 months
Robert Philpott (appointed 18.03.10) 20.06.02 12 months 12 months
Harold Mitchell (appointed 15.12.10) 15.03.11 6 months 6 months
Unless there are exceptional circumstances, it is the Company’s policy that notice periods to be given by the Company will not exceed
12 months. In addition, contracts will not include liquidated damages clauses and any termination benefits will be calculated on
normal contractual principles taking into account a director’s duty to mitigate his loss.
Non-executive directors /
Non-executive directors, including the Chairman, are appointed
under letters of engagement for an initial term of three years
with a one month notice period. Renewal of appointments for 
a further term of three years is not automatic. The fees of the
non-executive directors are approved at a board meeting at
which the non-executive directors do not vote. Fees are based on
time commitment and responsibility. Kepler Associates provided
external market data when fee levels were last reviewed in 2008.
The current fee structure, which has been in place since 2008
and applied throughout the year, is shown below. 
Base fee £45,000
Plus:
Chairman of Audit Committee £10,000
Chairman of Remuneration Committee £10,000
Senior Independent Director £10,000
John Napier’s annual fee as Chairman in 2010 was £200,000. For
undertaking the additional role of interim Chief Executive Officer
he received an additional annualised fee of £300,000. Following
Jerry Buhlmann’s appointment as Chief Executive Officer on 
1 May 2010 the Remuneration Committee agreed that John Napier
should continue to receive the additional annualised fee for the
remainder of 2010 and that his annual fee as Chairman should
be adjusted to £300,000 pa with effect from 1 January 2011. John
Napier does not participate in any short term bonus or long term
incentive arrangement and receives no pension contributions. 
Non-executive directors do not receive benefits or pension
contributions and do not participate in any incentive scheme.
Dates of appointment and unexpired terms are shown below:
Non-executive Date of first appointment Date(s) of Unexpired term as at
Director to the Board re-appointment 16 March 2011
John Napier 30.06.08 15.03.11 3 years 3 months
John Brady 01.08.09 – 1 year 4 months
Simon Laffin 01.08.09 – 1 year 4 months
Martin Read 01.08.09 – 1 year 4 months
Charles Strauss 05.09.03 05.09.06 and 22.05.09 1 year 2 months
Lorraine Trainer 02.08.05 02.08.08 4 months
GOVERNANCE 58 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
REMUNERATION REPORT (continued)
Audited directors’ remuneration /
Annual
Salary Cash Total Total Pensions Pensions
and Fees Benefits Bonus 2010 2009 2010 2009
£’000
(a)
£’000
(b)
£’000
(c)
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
John Brady
(appointed 01.08.09) 45 –– 45 19 – –
Jerry Buhlmann 662 21 369 1,052 850 172 124
Simon Laffin
(appointed 01.08.09) 55 –– 55 21 – –
Harold Mitchell
(appointed 15.12.10) ––– – – – –
John Napier 500 16 – 516 510 – –
Robert Philpott
(appointed 18.03.10) 355 16 223 594 – 112 –
Nick Priday
(appointed 01.09.09) 283 23 148 454 92 71 21
Martin Read
(appointed 01.08.09) 45 –– 45 19 – –
Charles Strauss 55 –– 55 55 – –
Lorraine Trainer 55 –– 55 49 – –
Former directors ––– – 1701 – 93
TOTALS 2,055 76 740 2,871 3,316 355 238
The figures above relate to remuneration earned by directors during the year or, if shorter, their term of office during the year.
Notes:
(a) The fee payable in respect of Simon Laffin’s services is paid to Simon Laffin Business Services Limited.
(b) Executive directors’ benefits relate generally to the provision of car cash allowance, life assurance and various disability and health insurances. John Napier
receives an accommodation allowance with effect from 11 July 2010 of £33,000 (gross) per annum.
(c) The main terms of the bonus schemes are summarised on page 55. 
It is the Board’s policy that executive directors with external non-executive positions are allowed to retain any fees from such
positions. In general, before an executive director may accept an external non-executive position permission must be sought from the
chairman who will take into consideration the amount of time involvement required by the role. Apart from Harold Mitchell, who holds
non-executive directorships at Crown Limited in Australia and in various community organisations referred to in his biography on
page 42, none of the executive directors holds any external non-executive appointments.
Except as disclosed in Note 32 to the financial statements on page 109, none of the directors was materially or beneficially interested
in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings during or at the end of the financial year ended
31 December 2010. 59 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ share interests /
The interests of the directors (including the interests of “connected persons” of the directors (as defined in the Disclosure and
Transparency Rules), in the ordinary shares of the Company were as follows:
16 March 31 December 1 January
2011 2010 2010*
John Brady 30,000 30,000 –
Jerry Buhlmann 265,890 265,890 228,823
Simon Laffin 10,000 10,000 –
Harold Mitchell (appointed 15.12.10) 48,125,266 48,125,266 48,125,266
John Napier 100,000 100,000 100,000
Robert Philpott (appointed 18.3.10) 186,572 186,572 167,604
Nick Priday 2,046 2,046 –
Martin Read 15,000 15,000 –
Charles Strauss 40,000 40,000 40,000
Lorraine Trainer 33,200 33,200 33,200
* or at date of appointment if later than 1 January 2010
As at 16 March 2011 Jerry Buhlmann, Robert Philpott and Nick Priday were also deemed to have an interest in the 28,411,546 ordinary
shares held by the Trustee of the Aegis Group Employee Share Trust, as potential beneficiaries under that Trust.
Dilution /
Investor guidelines recommend that the number of newly-issued shares used to satisfy awards under all share plans over any ten year
period should be limited to 10% of a company’s issued share capital. If all options granted had become exercisable on 31 December 2010
and new issue shares had been used to satisfy all exercises, the dilution would have been 3.36% of issued share capital.
Audited directors’ share option interests /
Ordinary 5p shares for which directors have, or had during the year, beneficial options to subscribe are as follows (all such options
were granted for nil consideration):
Options Granted Lapsed Exercised Options Date from
held at during during during held at Exercise which Expiry
Director 01.01.10
(a)
2010 2010 2010 31.12.10 price exercisable Date
Jerry Buhlmann 43,995 ––– 43,995 94.00p 18.06.05 17.06.12
72,414 – 72,414 –– 145.00p 18.04.03 17.04.10
96,033 ––– 96,033 119.75p 23.03.04 22.03.11
300,000* ––– 300,000 101.75p 31.03.08 30.03.15
293,154* ––– 293,154 134.00p 20.03.09 19.03.16
271,646* ––– 271,646 147.50p 23.03.10 22.03.17
Robert Philpott 266,000 ––– 266,000 101.75p 31.03.08 30.03.15
(appointed 18.03.10) 215,000 ––– 215,000 134.00p 20.03.09 19.03.16
195,585 ––– 195,585 147.50p 23.03.10 22.03.17
Total 1,753,827 – 72,414 – 1,681,413
(a) or at date of appointment if later than 1 January 2010
All options granted to Robert Philpott and those options granted to Jerry Buhlmann and marked with an asterisk were granted under
the 2003 Executive Share Option Scheme and had the following performance conditions attached:–
Average annual EPS growth in excess of RPI Proportion of option grants exercisable
3% Up to 0.5x salary
3% to 5% 0.5 to 1x salary (pro rata on a straight-line basis)
5% to 10% 1 to 2x salary (pro rata on a straight-line basis)
10% to 15% 2 to 3x salary (pro rata on a straight-line basis)
All other options granted to Jerry Buhlmann were granted under the closed 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme (whose performance
condition required that EPS growth over the performance period exceeded RPI plus 5% per annum and that the Company’s TSR
performance be greater than that of the FTSE 100 company ranked 33rd over the performance period). It was possible to re-test the
conditions annually over the life of the option if they were not achieved after three years, in each case measuring from the same 
base point. 
GOVERNANCE 60 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
REMUNERATION REPORT (continued)
Audited directors’ share option interests / (continued)
Other than as noted above, no directors or members of their immediate families have exercised or sold options during the year. 
In addition, other than as noted above, no options have been granted, expired or lapsed during the year in respect of the directors.
The middle market price of the ordinary 5p shares of the Company as derived from the Stock Exchange Daily Official List on 
31 December 2010 was 140.50p and the range during the year was 103.6p to 145.5p. The share price on 15 March 2011, the latest
practicable date prior to signing of the Annual Report and Accounts, was 131.4p.
Audited awards under the 2003 Performance Share Plan /
The table below details awards to executive directors under the 2003 Performance Share Plan:
Maximum
Maximum potential
potential Awards Awards Awards award of 
award of shares granted lapsed vested shares at 
Name at 01.01.10
(a)
during year during year during year 31.12.10 Performance period
Jerry Buhlmann 271,646 – 135,416 136,230* – 01.01.07 to 31.12.09
567,935 ––– 567,935 01.01.08 to 31.12.10
96,920 ––– 96,920 01.01.08 to 31.12.10
925,657 ––– 925,657 01.01.09 to 31.12.11
– 1,918,159 –– 1,918,159 01.01.10 to 31.12.12
Robert Philpott (appointed 18.03.10) 146,010 – 72,786 73,224* – 01.01.07 to 31.12.09
417,027 ––– 417,027 01.01.08 to 31.12.10
618,362 ––– 618,362 01.01.09 to 31.12.11
– 808,751 –– 808,751 01.01.10 to 31.12.12
Nick Priday – 511,509 –– 511,509 01.01.10 to 31.12.12
(a) or at date of appointment if later than 1 January 2010
The market price of Aegis Group plc shares at the date of the 2007, 2009 and 2010 awards was 147.5p, 87.50p and 117.30p
respectively. The market price of Aegis Group plc shares at the date of the June 2008 and August 2008 awards was 123.50p and
112.00p respectively.
The number of shares shown represents the maximum number of shares which is capable of vesting at the end of the performance
period, if the performance conditions are satisfied to the fullest extent.
The performance conditions for all outstanding Performance Share Plan awards are set out in the policy section of this report on
pages 55 and 56. 
Notes:
* details of vested awards:
Market 
Number Date of price at date 
Name vested award of transfer Gross gain
Jerry Buhlmann 136,230 23.03.07 126.50p £172,330.95
Robert Philpott 73,224 23.03.07 130.09p £95,257.10
Audited awards under the 2005 Performance Restricted Share Plan /
Robert Philpott and Nick Priday also hold awards under the 2005 Performance Restricted Share Plan, granted before their
appointment as directors. 
Details of awards granted under the 2005 Performance Restricted Share Plan are shown in the table below:
Maximum
Maximum potential
potential Awards Awards Awards award of
awards of shares granted lapsed vested shares
Name at 01.01.10
(a) 
during year during year during year at 31.12.10 Performance period
Robert Philpott (appointed 18.03.10) 500,000 ––– 500,000 01.01.09 to 31.12.11
Nick Priday 9,168 –– 9,168* – 01.01.07 to 31.12.09
40,160 ––– 40,160 01.01.08 to 31.12.10
85,714 ––– 85,714 01.01.09 to 31.12.11
250,000 ––– 250,000 01.01.09 to 31.12.11
(a) or at date of appointment if later than 1 January 2010 61 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Audited awards under the 2005 Performance Restricted Share Plan / (continued)
Notes:
* details of vested awards:
Market 
Name Number Date of price at date 
vested award of transfer Gross gain
Nick Priday 9,168 23.03.07 124.415p £11,406.37
The market price of Aegis shares at the date of the awards granted in 2007 was 147.50p, for the 2008 awards was 124.50p and for 
the 2009 awards was respectively 87.50p (April 2009) and 102.90p (August 2009). Awards are provided in the form of nil cost options
and vest in full provided the Company’s average annual EPS growth over a three year performance period reaches 3% (RPI plus 3% 
in relation to awards granted up to 2010). 
The number of shares shown represents the maximum number of shares which is capable of vesting at the end of the performance
period if the performance conditions are satisfied.
Other share awards
Part of Jerry Buhlmann’s 2008 bonus was deferred in the form of a grant of a nil-cost option over 33,591 ordinary 5p shares in March
2009. In common with many other deferred bonus schemes there are no performance conditions other than continued employment.
It is anticipated that all 33,591 shares will vest on or shortly after 25 March 2011.
Shareholding guidelines /
The Company has share ownership guidelines which operate in tandem with the executive share incentive schemes introduced in
2003, namely the Performance Share Plan and the Executive Share Option Scheme. The guidelines were simplified in March 2011 
and now require executive directors and other senior executives to retain in the form of shares for at least 2 years at least 35% of any
profit made (after paying the exercise price and any tax liability) on the exercise of 2003 Executive Share Option Scheme options and
the vesting of any Performance Share Plan awards. No further Performance Share Plan awards will be granted to executives who fail
to retain shares in accordance with these guidelines.
Performance graph /
The following graph illustrates the Company’s TSR between 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2010 relative to the FTSE All Share
Media Index. Aegis Group plc is a member of the FTSE All Share Media Index and the Remuneration Committee considers that a
comparison of the Company’s TSR relative to similar businesses is more appropriate than a comparison with a general FTSE Index. 
Aegis vs FTSE All Share Media Index TSR Performance
Lorraine Trainer 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
16 March 2011
200
2006
Source: Datastream
Aegis Group
FTSE All Share Media
2007 2008 2009 2010
800
700
400
300
500
600
GOVERNANCE 62 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Aegis Group plc
We have audited the group financial statements of Aegis Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 33. The financial
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility
to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor /
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 
on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements /
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation
of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements /
In our opinion the group financial statements:
– give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended;
– have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 /
In our opinion:
– the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
2006; and
– the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent
with the group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception /
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
– certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
– we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
– the directors’ statement in relation to going concern; and
– the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008
Combined Code specified for our review;
– certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
Other matter /
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Aegis Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2010.
William Touche (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
16 March 2011 63 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
For the year ended 31 December 2010
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Turnover 10,565.8 9,684.6 
Revenue 4 1,459.4 1,346.5 
Cost of sales (221.9) (199.5)
Gross profit 1,237.5 1,147.0 
Operating expenses (1,136.0) (1,032.4)
Operating profit 4 101.5 114.6 
Share of results of associates 3.5 0.2 
Profit before interest and tax 105.0 114.8
Investment income 7 6.6 7.9 
Finance costs 8 (43.6) (31.5)
Net finance costs (37.0) (23.6)
Profit before tax 68.0 91.2 
Tax 9 (25.0) (27.0)
Profit for the financial year 43.0 64.2 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 41.2 62.7 
Non-controlling interests 1.8 1.5 
43.0 64.2 
Earnings per ordinary share:
Basic (pence) 11 3.6 5.5 
Diluted (pence) 11 3.6 5.5 
Dividend per ordinary share (pence) 10 2.75 2.50 
Underlying results:*
Underlying operating profit 4 192.2 170.3 
Underlying profit before tax 4 162.4 150.4 
Underlying earnings per ordinary share:* 
Basic (pence) 11 10.3 9.6 
Diluted (pence) 11 10.1 9.6 
* The basis for calculating the Group’s underlying results and underlying earnings per share is set out in note 2.
The accompanying notes form an integrated part of the consolidated financial statements.
Underlying profit before tax and underlying earnings per ordinary share are restated for prior year following a change in determining
underlying finance costs, which now exclude imputed interest on deferred consideration. The restatement does not impact statutory
results or underlying operating profit.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 64 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the year ended 31 December 2010
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Profit for the financial year 43.0 64.2 
Currency translation differences on foreign operations:
– Group 42.1 (32.3)
– Non-controlling interests 0.5 (1.2)
Net investment hedges of foreign operations 3.4 (11.5)
Available-for-sale investments: movements taken to equity – 0.5 
Cash flow hedges: movements taken to equity 19 0.4 (5.7)
Actuarial loss recognised on defined benefit pension schemes 31 (0.2) (0.1)
Tax on cash flow hedge movements taken to equity (0.1) 1.6 
Other comprehensive gains and losses recognised directly in equity 46.1 (48.7)
Total comprehensive income for the financial year 89.1 15.5 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 86.8 15.2 
Non-controlling interests 2.3 0.3 
89.1 15.5  65 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
At 31 December 2010
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 12 1,331.1 1,010.9 
Intangible assets 13 112.5 85.5 
Property, plant and equipment 14 61.9 59.9 
Interests in associates and joint ventures 15 48.5 3.3 
Deferred tax assets 20 49.3 25.5 
Available-for-sale financial assets 16 15.6 14.9 
Derivative financial assets 19 8.5 –
Other financial assets 19 0.7 0.7 
1,628.1 1,200.7 
Current assets
Work in progress 18.5 15.2 
Trade and other receivables 17 2,414.1 2,006.2 
Derivative financial assets 19 3.2 0.2 
Cash and short-term deposits 19, 28 394.4 391.1 
2,830.2 2,412.7 
Total assets 4,458.3 3,613.4 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 (2,917.3) (2,365.1)
Borrowings 19 (85.6) (43.2)
Derivative financial liabilities 19 (13.4) (3.6)
Provisions 21 (3.3) (2.3)
Current tax liabilities (9.0) (5.0)
(3,028.6) (2,419.2)
Net current liabilities (198.4) (6.5)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 19 (640.1) (605.1)
Other non-current liabilities 19, 26 (35.6) (52.9)
Derivative financial liabilities 19 (36.7) (54.8)
Provisions 21 (4.7) (1.1)
Deferred tax liabilities 20 (44.2) (35.8)
(761.3) (749.7)
Total liabilities (3,789.9) (3,168.9)
Net assets 668.4 444.5 
Equity
Share capital 22 64.3 58.1 
Own shares 23 (33.7) (23.3)
Share premium account 24 395.8 245.5 
Other equity reserves 20.4 0.2 
Foreign currency translation reserve 109.6 64.1 
Retained earnings 147.4 134.5 
Potential acquisition of non-controlling interests (48.9) (47.2)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 654.9 431.9 
Non-controlling interests 13.5 12.6 
Total equity 668.4 444.5 
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 16 March 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: 
Jerry Buhlmann (Chief Executive Officer) Nick Priday (Chief Financial Officer)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 66 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended 31 December 2010
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash inflows from operations 28 232.5 199.1 
Income taxes paid (47.6) (34.2)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 184.9 164.9 
Investing activities
Interest received 6.4 8.2 
Dividends received from associates 0.1 0.2 
Net cash paid on purchase of subsidiary undertakings (81.8) (12.6)
Cash impact on disposal of subsidiary (8.1) 2.7 
Net cash paid on purchase of associated undertakings and joint ventures (36.0) –
Proceeds from disposal of associated undertakings – 2.4 
Payments of deferred consideration on prior period acquisitions (38.8) (60.9)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (29.4) (27.4)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1.3 1.4 
Other investing activities (2.3) –
Net cash outflows from investing activities (188.6) (86.0)
Financing activities
Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent (29.4) (28.5)
Dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders (2.2) (3.2)
Interest paid (33.0) (26.9)
Proceeds from borrowings 230.2 192.3 
Repayments of loans (159.6) (215.5)
Proceeds on issue of ordinary share capital 7.2 2.1 
Purchase of own shares (16.8) –
Other financing activities (2.2) (1.2)
Net cash outflows from financing activities (5.8) (80.9)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 28 (9.5) (2.0)
Translation differences 14.7 (19.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 386.2 407.7 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 28 391.4 386.2 
Represented by:
Cash and short-term deposits 394.4 391.1 
Bank overdrafts (3.0) (4.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 28 391.4 386.2 
Analysis of net debt /
1 January Cash flow Other non-cash Exchange 31 December
2010 movements movements 2010
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 386.2 (9.5) – 14.7 391.4 
Gross debt net of issue costs (643.4) (70.6) 14.5 (23.2) (722.7)
Total (257.2) (80.1) 14.5 (8.5) (331.3) 67 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended 31 December 2010
Potential 
Foreign acquisition 
Shares Share Other currency of non- Non-
Share to be Own premium equity translation Retained controlling Sub- controlling Total 
Capital issued shares account reserves* reserve earnings interests total interest equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2009 58.0 4.0 (30.6) 243.5 0.2 107.9 102.9 (43.4) 442.5 17.3 459.8 
Profit for the year –– –– –– 62.7 – 62.7 1.5 64.2 
Currency translation 
differences on foreign 
operations –– –– – (32.3) –– (32.3) (1.2) (33.5)
Net investment hedges 
of foreign operations –– –– – (11.5) –– (11.5) – (11.5)
Available-for-sale investments: 
movements taken to equity –– –– –– 0.5 – 0.5 – 0.5 
Cash flow hedges: movements
taken to equity –– –– –– (5.7) – (5.7) – (5.7)
Actuarial loss recognised on 
defined benefit pension 
schemes –– –– –– (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.1)
Tax on cash flow hedge 
movements taken to equity –– –– –– 1.6 – 1.6 – 1.6 
Total comprehensive income 
and expense –– –– – (43.8) 59.0 – 15.2 0.3 15.5 
New share capital subscribed 0.1 –– 2.0 –– –– 2.1 – 2.1 
Purchase of shares by ESOP –– –– ––– – – – –
Shares awarded by ESOP –– 7.3 –– – (7.3) – – – –
Credit for share-based 
incentive schemes –– –– –– 7.1 – 7.1 – 7.1 
Other movements – (4.0) –– –– 1.3 (3.8) (6.5) (1.8) (8.3)
Dividends –– –– –– (28.5) – (28.5) (3.2) (31.7)
At 1 January 2010 58.1 – (23.3) 245.5 0.2 64.1 134.5 (47.2) 431.9 12.6 444.5 
Profit for the year –– –– –– 41.2 – 41.2 1.8 43.0 
Currency translation differences
on foreign operations –– –– – 42.1 –– 42.1 0.5 42.6 
Net investment hedges 
of foreign operations –– –– – 3.4 –– 3.4 – 3.4 
Cash flow hedges: movements 
taken to equity –– –– –– 0.4 – 0.4 – 0.4 
Actuarial loss recognised on 
defined benefit pension 
schemes –– –– –– (0.2) – (0.2) – (0.2)
Tax on cash flow hedge 
movements taken to equity –– –– –– (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.1)
Total comprehensive 
income and expense –– –– – 45.5 41.3 – 86.8 2.3 89.1 
New share capital subscribed 6.2 –– 150.3 –– –– 156.5 – 156.5 
Purchase of shares by ESOP –– (16.8) –– –– – (16.8) – (16.8)
Shares awarded by ESOP –– 6.4 –– – (6.4) – – – –
Credit for share-based 
incentive schemes –– –– –– 8.3 – 8.3 – 8.3 
Convertible bond issue and 
reclass of convertible bond 
imputed interest –– –– 20.2 – 3.0 – 23.2 – 23.2 
Transactions with NCI –– –– –– (3.4) 0.5 (2.9) 0.3 (2.6)
Other movements –– (0.5) (2.2) (2.7) 0.5 (2.2)
Dividends –– –– –– (29.4) – (29.4) (2.2) (31.6)
At 31 December 2010 64.3 – (33.7) 395.8 20.4 109.6 147.4 (48.9) 654.9 13.5 668.4 
* The other equity reserves include the capital redemption reserve and the equity component of the convertible bond. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 68 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 December 2010
1. General information /
Aegis Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. The address of the registered
office is given on page 124. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in note 4 and in the
Directors’ Report on pages 44 to 47.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling (GBP) because that is the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the Group operates. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3. 
2. Basis of preparation /
The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’)
adopted by the European Union and comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. The financial statements have been prepared
on the going concern basis of accounting for the reasons set out in the Directors’ report on page 47.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial
instruments. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below in note 3.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been
applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective for the year:
IFRS 7 (amended) Disclosures – Transfers of Financial Assets
IAS 24 (revised 2009) Related Party Transactions
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
Improvements to IFRSs (May 2010)
Amendments to IAS 12 (Dec 2010)
Amendments to IFRS 1 (Dec 2010)
Amendments to IAS 32 (Oct 2009)
Amendments to IFRIC 14 (Nov 2009) 
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments
The Group plans to adopt IFRS 9 Financial Instruments for the year beginning on 1 January 2013. The Directors anticipate that the
adoption of IFRS 9 will have a material impact on the accounting for fair value hedges and the measurement of the hedged items
under fair value hedging relationships. This change will have no net impact on profit or loss, but will lead to additional movements
recognised within equity. There would also be additional disclosure requirements around financial instruments.
The Directors anticipate that, with the exception of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, the adoption of these standards and
interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Adoption of standards
In the current financial year, the Group has adopted IFRS 3 (revised 2008) Business Combinations and IAS 27 (revised 2008)
Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements. 
Following adoption of these standards, the Group has prospectively applied the policies for business combinations and changes 
in ownership of controlled entities effected from 1 January 2010 see note 3 “Business combinations” and “Goodwill”. As part of
the adoption of these standards, the Group is required to rename ‘Minority interests’ as ‘Non-controlling interests’ (NCI). Accordingly,
the ‘Potential acquisition of minority interests’ reserve is renamed the ‘Potential acquisition of non-controlling interests’ reserve.
The Directors expect that the adoption of this standard will lead to greater income statement volatility, since the Group will be
required to recognise acquisition costs and changes in deferred consideration estimates arising on business combinations
effected from 1 January 2010 in the income statement. 
In addition to the standards discussed above, the following standards and interpretations were adopted by the Group in the
current period. These standards have no effect on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRS 2 (amended) Group Cash-Settled Share-Based Payment Transactions
IAS 39 (amended) Eligible Hedged Items and Embedded Derivatives on Reclassifications of Financial Assets
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers
Improvements to IFRSs (April 2009)
The Group did not adopt IFRS for small and medium-sized entities as the Group is a listed entity, and hence falls outside the
scope of this Standard. All of the amendments to IFRS 1 that were effective on or after period Jan 2010 were not applicable to the
Group as the Group is not a first time adopter of IFRS, and hence were not adopted.  69 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
2. Basis of preparation / (continued)
Underlying profit
The Group believes that underlying results (note 4) and underlying earnings per share (note 11) provide additional useful
information on underlying trends to shareholders. These measures are used for internal performance analysis and incentive
compensation arrangements for employees. The term underlying is not a defined term under IFRS and may not therefore be
comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies. It is not intended to be a substitute for, or
superior to, IFRS measurements of profit. In the opinion of the Directors, such adjusting items are material by nature or amount,
and may include impairment charges, profits and losses on disposals of investments, amortisation of purchased intangible assets
(being amortisation charged on separately identifiable intangible assets in acquired businesses), unrealised gains and losses on
non-hedge derivative financial instruments, fair value gains and losses on liabilities in respect of put option agreements, and 
one-off items which are material by nature or amount in the opinion of the Directors, and any related tax thereon, as appropriate.
Adjusting items may also include specific tax items such as the benefit arising on the reduction of certain tax liabilities in a
particular period and deferred tax liabilities for tax deductions taken in respect of goodwill, where a deferred tax liability is
recognised even if such a liability would only unwind on the eventual sale or impairment of the business in question.
In 2010, the Group has adopted the revised accounting standard for acquisition accounting, IFRS 3 (revised 2008) Business
Combinations. This standard will lead to greater income statement volatility, as discussed above. These income statement
movements will not be considered to form part of the Group’s underlying performance. 
In order to align with the accounting for such movements as non-underlying, imputed interest arising due to discounting of
deferred consideration liabilities is also removed from underlying results in the current year and in the stated comparatives for
2009 full year. The impact of the restatement is a reduction of £1.1m in the 2009 full year underlying finance costs. This leads to
an increase in underlying profit before tax and underlying profit after tax by £1.1m and an increase in underlying basic EPS and
underlying diluted EPS by 0.1p in the 2009 full year comparative. The restatement has no impact on tax charges in either period
but leads to a restatement of the effective underlying tax rate as given in note 9. There is no impact on statutory profit measures.
3. Accounting policies /
Principal accounting policies
The principal accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied to all the periods presented in this Annual Report.
Basis of consolidation
(a) Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results, cash flows and net assets of Aegis Group plc and the entities
controlled by it (its subsidiaries) after eliminating internal transactions and recognising any non-controlling interests in those
entities drawn up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial and
operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities. Where subsidiaries are acquired
or disposed of in the year, their results and cash flows are included from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective
disposal date. 
Where a consolidated company is less than 100% owned by the Group, the non-controlling interest share of the results and
net assets are recognised at each reporting date. The interests of non-controlling shareholders are ordinarily measured at the
non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets, but may alternatively
be initially measured at fair value. The choice of measurement is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Subsequent to
acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the
non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity. Total comprehensive income is attributed to the non-
controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, on the date control is achieved the Group remeasures its previously held
equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value, with any resulting gain or loss presented in profit or loss. Any
amounts previously deferred in other comprehensive income are recognised on the same basis as if the Group had directly
disposed of the equity interest.
Changes in the Group’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amount of the Group’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their
relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted
and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to equity holders of the
parent.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between (i) the
aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) the previous
carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), less liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests. Goodwill
written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any
subsequent profit or loss on disposal. Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the
subsidiary are reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings as appropriate, in the same manner as
would be required if the relevant assets or liabilities were disposed of. The fair value of any investment retained in the former
subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition of the reclassified investment.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 70 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
3. Accounting policies / (continued)
Basis of consolidation (continued)
(a) Subsidiaries (continued)
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership
interest is given in the notes to the Company’s separate financial statements.
The companies listed immediately below are included in the consolidated financial statements of Aegis Group plc; as such we
apply S264b HGB of the German Commercial Code.
Aegis Media GmbH & Co. KG, Central Services, Wiesbaden
CARAT Wiesbaden GmbH & Co. KG Media-Service, Wiesbaden
HMS GmbH & Co. KG Media-Service, Wiesbaden
CARAT Hamburg GmbH & Co. KG. Media-Service, Hamburg
21 TwentyOne GmbH & Co. KG Markenberatung, Wiesbaden
Mediaagentur Dr. Pichutta GmbH & Co.KG, Wiesbaden
(b) Associates
Associates are entities in which the Group has a participating interest, over whose operating and financial policies it exercises
significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures. Significant influence is the power to participate in
the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over these policies. The reporting
dates and accounting policies used by the Group’s associates are the same as those used by the Group.
The Group’s associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the
Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as
goodwill within the associates carrying amount and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment. The Group’s share
of its associates’ post-acquisition profits or losses and any impairment of goodwill is recognised in the income statement and
as a movement in the Group’s share of associates’ net assets in the balance sheet. Its share of any post-acquisition
movements in reserves is recognised directly in equity. Losses of the associates in excess of the Group’s interest in those
associates are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments
on behalf of the associate. Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated
to the extent of the Group’s interest in the relevant associate.
(c) Joint ventures
Joint ventures are investments over which the Group exercises joint control with a third party. Such investments are equity-
accounted for, using the same method of equity accounting as described in associates above.
Business combinations
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for each
acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed,
and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are recognised
in profit or loss as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes contingent consideration, measured at its acquisition-date
fair value. Subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration are adjusted against the cost of the acquisition
when they qualify as measurement period adjustments (see below), or otherwise are accounted for as fair value changes in
profit or loss. Contingent consideration classified as equity is not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is recognised 
in equity.
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3
(2008) are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date. If the initial accounting for a business combination is
incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts.
Provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period (see below), or additional assets or liabilities are
recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, 
if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about
facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
For acquisitions completed prior to 1 January 2010, the revaluation of contingent consideration does not result in an entry to
profit or loss, but is adjusted against the carrying amount of associated goodwill. Such contingent consideration liabilities are
discounted and an imputed interest charge is included in the income statement.
Income statement movements in relation to changes to the fair value of contingent consideration are not considered to be
part of the Group’s underlying profit. Therefore, concurrent with the adoption of IFRS 3 (2008), imputed interest on deferred
consideration is also excluded from underlying profit, as explained in the ‘Underlying profit’ section in note 2. 71 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
3. Accounting policies / (continued)
Goodwill
Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is achieved (the acquisition date).
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the
acquiree and the fair value of the Group’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the acquisition-
date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed
exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value 
of the Group’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any), the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a
bargain purchase.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is not amortised but is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill
recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS is stated at net book value as at that date less any subsequent
accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill impairment
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount may be impaired. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units (“CGUs”) expected to
benefit from the synergies of the combination. CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or
more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the
carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the
unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. The Group’s
CGUs are given in note 12.
Intangible assets
Separately acquired intangible assets are capitalised at cost. Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are
capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition. Fair value is calculated based on the Group’s valuation methodology, using
discounted cash flows, charges avoided or replacement costs as appropriate. 
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Group’s development activities is recognised only if all of the following
conditions are met:
– an asset is created that can be identified (such as software and new processes)
– it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits
– the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Where these criteria are met, the development expenditure is capitalised at cost. Where they are not met, development
expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. Expenditure on research activities is recognised as
an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Intangible assets (both internally generated and separately acquired) are amortised to residual values on a straight-line basis
over the useful economic life of the asset as follows:
Software 20% to 50% per annum
Customer relationships 20% per annum
Panel costs 33% per annum
Patents and trademarks Nil to 20% per annum
Non compete agreements 14% to 50% per annum
Intellectual Property 33% per annum
Other 10% to 50% per annum
Where an asset’s useful life is considered indefinite, an annual impairment test is performed (see below).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 72 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
3. Accounting policies / (continued)
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged to write off the cost of these assets to their residual value over their expected useful lives, using the
straight-line method, on the following basis: 
Freehold buildings 1% to 5% per annum
Leasehold buildings Over the period of the lease
Leasehold improvements 10% to 20% per annum or over the period of the lease, if shorter
Office furniture, fixtures, equipment and vehicles 10% to 50% per annum
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and
the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets (both internally
generated and separately acquired) to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment
loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the
impairment loss, if any. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value 
in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows
have not been adjusted. Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group
estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is
tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset
(or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Work in progress
Work in progress comprises directly attributable costs on incomplete market research projects and is held in the balance sheet at
the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the
obligation. The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation
at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. 
Where leasehold properties remain unutilised by the Group and have not been sublet, provision is made in full for the outstanding
rental payments together with other outgoings for the remaining period of the lease. This provision takes into account any future
sublet income reasonably expected to be obtained. Future rental payments are charged against this provision in the period in
which they are made.
From time to time the Group is exposed to claims which the Group vigorously defends. Provision for costs is made when the
likelihood of a case proceeding is adjudged as probable. Disclosure is made of potentially material matters where, on the basis 
of legal advice, an adverse outcome cannot currently be judged as remote.
Turnover and revenue
Turnover represents amounts billable for media handled by the Group on behalf of clients, together with fees earned for media
and research services provided, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. 
Revenue is the value of media and research fees and commission earned by the Group.
Media revenue arises in the form of fees and commissions for media services and performance related incentives. Fee and
commission revenue is recognised when earned, principally when advertisements appear in the media over the period of the
relevant assignments or agreements. Performance related income is recognised when it can be reliably estimated whether, and
the extent to which, the performance criteria have been met.
For the market research business, revenue is recognised based on the stage of completion of each project, which is indicated by
the satisfactory completion of a specific phase of a project. Provision is made for losses on a project as soon as it becomes clear
that a loss will arise. Invoices raised during the course of a project are booked as deferred income on the balance sheet until such
a time as the related revenue is recognised in the income statement.  73 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
3. Accounting policies / (continued)
Cost of media
The direct cost of media bookings is the difference between turnover (amounts invoiced to clients) and revenue.
Investment income
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable,
which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that
asset’s net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Share-based payment transactions
The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payment. In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has
been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that remained unvested as of 1 January 2005.
Certain employees receive remuneration in the form of share-based payments, including shares or rights over shares. The cost of
equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the instruments concerned at the date at
which they are granted. The fair value is determined by an external valuer using a stochastic model. The fair value determined at
the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on
the Group’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of
the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non market-based vesting conditions. The impact of
the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit and loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised
estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Retirement benefits
The retirement benefits for employees are principally provided by defined contribution schemes which are funded by contributions
from Group companies and employees. The amount charged to the income statement is the contribution payable in the year by
Group companies.
In addition, the Group has a small number of other retirement benefit schemes, principally where required by statute in certain
jurisdictions. These schemes are not considered by management to represent standard defined benefit schemes and do not vary
significantly in terms of the Group’s liability. However, IAS 19 requires that these schemes be disclosed as defined benefit schemes. 
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit obligations is the present value of the defined benefit
obligation at the balance sheet date as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost less the fair value of the plan assets. Any asset
resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future
contributions to the scheme. The defined benefit obligation is calculated using the project unit credit method with actuarial
valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds approximating to the terms 
of the related liability. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately outside the income statement and are presented in the consolidated
statement of comprehensive income. Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already
vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. 
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in
which it operates (its functional currency). The consolidated financial statements are reported in Sterling, which is the functional
currency of Aegis Group plc and the presentational currency for the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
In group companies, the term ‘foreign currencies’ refers to currencies other than the entity’s functional currency. Transactions in
foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Upon settlement, monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate ruling on the settlement date. Monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are re-translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet
date. Exchange differences arising upon re-translation at the settlement date or balance sheet date are taken to the income statement. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the re-translation of foreign currency borrowings used to provide a hedge against foreign
currency investments, including goodwill, are taken directly to reserves as long as the hedge remains effective.
For consolidation purposes, the trading results and cash flows arising in operations with non-sterling functional currencies are
translated into sterling at average exchange rates for the period. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising upon consolidation are taken
directly to reserves. In the event of the disposal of an operation the cumulative effect of such translation is reclassified to profit or loss.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 74 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
3. Accounting policies / (continued)
Leased assets
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating
leases. Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement over the lease term on a straight-line basis. In the event that
lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability and recognised as a
reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Income
Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes
items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using
the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and
deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible
temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the
initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities 
in a transaction that affects neither the tax nor accounting profit. 
Deferred tax is calculated for all business combinations from the transition date of 1 January 2004 in respect of intangible assets
and properties. A deferred tax liability is recognised to the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes exceeds
the value of those assets for tax purposes and will form part of the associated goodwill on acquisition. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates,
including interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is
realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly
to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current
tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its
current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Financial instruments
Financial assets
Financial assets are accounted for on the trade date. The Group’s financial assets principally include the following:
Cash and short term deposits
Cash and short term deposits include cash at bank and in hand and highly liquid deposits with an original maturity of three
months or less which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts are deducted from cash and short
term deposits to give cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially recorded at the invoiced value and subsequently reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated
irrecoverable amounts. Current trade receivables do not carry any interest charge. Interest may be charged on overdue balances.
Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs, and at subsequent reporting dates
at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of
or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the net
profit or loss for the period. Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss for equity instruments classified as available-for-sale
are not subsequently reversed through profit or loss.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL ‘Fair Value Through Profit and Loss’, are assessed for indicators of impairment at
each balance sheet date. Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events
that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been
impacted. 75 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
3. Accounting policies / (continued)
Financial instruments (continued)
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Direct issue
costs are amortised over the period of the loans and overdrafts to which they relate. Finance charges, including premiums
payable on settlement or redemption are charged to the income statement as incurred using the effective interest method and 
are added to the carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially stated at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity instruments. Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the value of
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Investments in own shares, held through the Aegis Group Employee Share Trust, are shown as a deduction from shareholders’
equity at cost. The costs of administration of the Trust are included in the income statement as they accrue.
Compound instruments
The Group issued £190.6m convertible bonds in April 2010. The convertible bonds are regarded as compound financial
instruments. The component parts of compound instruments issued by the Group are classified separately as financial liabilities
and equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement. At the date of issue, in the case of a convertible
bond denominated in the functional currency of the issuer that may be converted into a fixed number of equity shares, the fair
value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate that the Group could achieve for a similar
non-convertible instrument. This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method
until extinguished upon conversion or at the instrument’s maturity date. The equity component is determined by deducting the
amount of the liability component from the fair value of the compound instrument as a whole. This is recognised and included
within equity in the Other Equity Reserves and is not subsequently remeasured.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds based on their relative carrying
amounts at the date of issue. The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity. The non-cash
element of the interest charge is reclassified within equity at each period end to exclude the impact of the accounting charge from
Retained Earnings. This element of the charge is recognised within the Other Equity Reserves.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s activities expose it to certain financial risks including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures where they are
considered to be significant. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are held at fair value at the balance sheet date. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial
instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and the
ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts deferred in this way are recognised in the income
statement in the same period in which the hedged firm commitments or forecast transactions are recognised in the income
statement. 
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised
as a financial liability. A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the
instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are
presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income
statement as they arise. Where such changes are intended to provide a natural hedge of a particular risk, the income statement
classification reflects this.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies
for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument recognised in equity are
retained until the forecast transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or
loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the period. Note 19 includes further information on hedge
accounting as applied by the Group.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks
and characteristics are not closely-related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with
unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. Accounting policies / (continued)
Financial instruments (continued)
Derivative financial instruments (continued)
Liabilities in respect of option agreements with non-controlling shareholders
The Group is party to a number of put and call options over the remaining non-controlling stakes in its subsidiaries. In accordance
with IAS 39, put options are treated as derivatives over equity instruments and are recorded at fair value on initial recognition with
a corresponding decrease in reserves. Fair value is calculated based on the discounted value of expected future payments.
Subsequent changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised as movements in the income statement. Exercise and
settlement of a put option liability is treated as an equity transaction, as explained in note 3(a) on page 69. 
Accounting estimates and uncertainties
The Group makes estimates and judgements concerning the future and the resulting estimates may, by definition, vary from the
related actual results. The Directors consider the critical accounting estimates and judgements to be:
– Revenue recognition
Judgement is required in selecting the appropriate timing and amount of revenue recognised, particularly where the Group
recognises performance related income. Revenue is only recognised when it can be reliably estimated using customer
specific information and, where there is a performance related element, to the extent to which the performance criteria have
been met
The likelihood of collection of trade receivables also requires judgement to be applied. The Group monitors the levels of
provisioning required based on historical trends and by detailed review of individually significant balances
– Contingent deferred consideration and put option payments in respect of acquisitions
The Group determines the amount of deferred consideration to be recognised according to the formulae agreed at time of
acquisition, normally related to the future earnings of the acquired entity. Estimates of the expected future earnings of the
acquired entity therefore affect the valuation of deferred consideration. The liability for deferred consideration is reviewed at
each balance sheet date and revaluation entries are applied, if required, to deferred consideration and either goodwill or profit
or loss in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy for business combinations, discussed above
Deferred consideration liabilities are discounted to their fair value in accordance with IFRS 3 and IAS 37. The difference
between the fair value of these liabilities and the actual amounts payable is charged to the income statement as a notional
finance cost
Key areas of judgement in calculating the fair value of the put option liabilities are the expected future cash flows and
earnings of the acquired entity and the discount rate
– Recognition of share-based payments
The Group makes share-based payments to certain employees. These payments are measured at their estimated fair value 
at the date of grant. The fair value is determined by an external valuer using a stochastic model
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the grant. The vesting period charge is calculated
with reference to the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest, as determined by the anticipated number of
leavers during the vesting period and based on an annual assessment of non-market performance conditions attached to
certain awards. See note 30 for further details
– Valuation of intangible assets
The Group exercises judgement in determining the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities
assumed in business combinations. In calculating the fair values of intangibles the Group makes assumptions on the timing
and amount of future cash flows generated by the assets it has acquired, the appropriate discount rates and the useful
economic lives of the assets purchased
– Impairment
In determining whether an impairment loss has arisen on goodwill or intangible assets the Group makes judgements over the
value in use of its CGUs. In calculating the value in use of a CGU the Group makes estimates of future forecast cash flows and
discount rates to derive a net present value of these cash flows and determine if an impairment has occurred. Key areas of
judgement include the determination of the long term growth rate applicable to each CGU and the determination of the CGUs
themselves. See note 12 for further details
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
76 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3. Accounting policies / (continued)
Accounting estimates and uncertainties (continued)
– Taxation
Tax laws that apply to the Group’s businesses may be amended by the relevant authorities, for example as a result of changes
in fiscal circumstances or priorities. Such potential amendments and their application to the Group are regularly monitored
and the requirement for recognition of any liabilities assessed where necessary
Being a multinational Group with tax affairs in many geographic locations inherently leads to a highly complex tax structure
which makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging. The resolution of issues is not always within the
control of the Group and is often dependent on the efficiency of legal processes. Such issues can take several years to resolve.
The Group takes a conservative view of unresolved issues, however the inherent uncertainty regarding these items means that
the eventual resolution could differ significantly from the accounting estimates and therefore may impact the Group’s results
and future cash flows
– Deferred tax
The key area of judgement in respect of deferred tax accounting is the assessment of the expected timing and manner of
realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date. In particular,
assessment is required of whether it is probable that there will be suitable future taxable profits against which any deferred
tax assets can be utilised.
4. Segment reporting /
Business segments
The segmentation of the Group’s results is driven by information provided to the Group’s chief operating decision-maker, the
Board of Directors. Information reported to the Board of Directors for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of
segment performance focuses on the two business divisions through which the Group operates: Aegis Media and Synovate. This
segment presentation reflects the management structure of the Group. These divisions, which operate in the media and market
research sectors respectively, are therefore the Group’s reportable segments under IFRS 8. Intersegment trading is not
significant to either operating segment and no intersegment trading information is included in reports to the Board of Directors.
Therefore all information reported below relates to external trade.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3.
Segment result represents segment underlying operating profit, which is the measure reported to the Board of Directors for the
purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance. The Board of Directors also monitors the tangible,
intangible and financial assets attributable to each segment. All assets and liabilities are allocated to reportable segments with
the exception of centrally-managed financial instruments, tax and other centrally-managed balances. Goodwill is allocated to the
segments as described in note 12. 
An analysis of revenue and operating segment result by reportable segment is set out below: 
Underlying performance
2010 2010 2009 2009
Revenue Result Revenue Result
£m £m £m £m
Aegis Media 886.8 164.7 825.2 150.4 
Synovate 572.6 45.6 521.3 36.9 
Reportable segment revenue / result 1,459.4 210.3 1,346.5 187.3 
Corporate costs – (18.1) – (17.0)
1,459.4 192.2 1,346.5 170.3 
77 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4. Segment reporting / (continued)
Business segments
Synovate achieved gross profit (or net revenue), after external direct costs, of £350.7m (2009: £321.8m). See below for a
reconciliation of reportable segment results to statutory results:
Amortisation
of Disposal of Exceptional Deferred 
Underlying purchased Acquisition subsidiaries debtor UK property IAS 39 tax Statutory
results intangibles costs & associates
(1)
impairment move costs adjustments
(2)
adjustment
(3)
results
2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Aegis Media 164.7 (19.9) – (12.2) (37.0) (7.6) –– 88.0 
Synovate 45.6 (6.6) – (1.7) –– –– 37.3 
Reportable segment result 210.3 (26.5) – (13.9) (37.0) (7.6) –– 125.3 
Corporate (18.1) – (4.5) –– (1.2) –– (23.8)
Operating profit 192.2 (26.5) (4.5) (13.9) (37.0) (8.8) –– 101.5 
Share of results of associates 4.0 (2.0) – 1.5 –– –– 3.5 
Profit before interest and tax 196.2 (28.5) (4.5) (12.4) (37.0) (8.8) –– 105.0 
Investment income 6.6 –– –– –– – 6.6 
Finance costs (40.4) –– –– – (3.2) – (43.6)
Net finance costs (33.8) –– –– – (3.2) – (37.0)
Profit before tax 162.4 (28.5) (4.5) (12.4) (37.0) (8.8) (3.2) – 68.0 
Tax (40.4) 6.9 – 1.6 11.1 –– (4.2) (25.0)
Profit after tax 122.0 (21.6) (4.5) (10.8) (25.9) (8.8) (3.2) (4.2) 43.0 
(1) The net loss incurred on disposal or closure of subsidiaries, and the gain on disposal or deemed disposal of associates, includes the impairment of
goodwill where relevant and any reclassification of cumulative exchange gains or losses.
(2) IAS 39 adjustments comprise gains of £0.2m on revaluation of put option liabilities, an imputed interest charge of £(1.0)m to release deferred
consideration discounting, and losses of £(0.4)m and £(2.0)m on revaluation of non-hedge derivatives and impairment of available-for-sale financial
assets respectively.
(3) Deferred tax adjustment for tax amortisation of goodwill.
The total impact of adjusting items between underlying and statutory profit after tax is £79.0m, as presented above, £77.4m of
which is attributable to equity holders of the parent. 
Disposal of Amortisation
Underlying Restructuring subsidiaries of purchased IAS 39 Deferred tax Statutory
results costs & associates
(1)
intangibles adjustments
(2)
adjustment
(3)
results
2009 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Aegis Media 150.4 (10.7) (1.0) (18.5) –– 120.2 
Synovate 36.9 (19.2) – (5.7) –– 12.0 
Reportable segment result 187.3 (29.9) (1.0) (24.2) –– 132.2 
Corporate (17.0) (0.6) ––– – (17.6)
Operating profit 170.3 (30.5) (1.0) (24.2) –– 114.6 
Share of results of associates (0.3) – 0.5 ––– 0.2 
Profit before interest and tax 170.0 (30.5) (0.5) (24.2) –– 114.8 
Investment income 7.9 ––– –– 7.9 
Finance costs (27.5) ––– (4.0) – (31.5)
Net finance costs (19.6) ––– (4.0) – (23.6)
Profit before tax 150.4 (30.5) (0.5) (24.2) (4.0) – 91.2 
Tax (38.1) 6.6 – 6.4 – (1.9) (27.0)
Profit after tax 112.3 (23.9) (0.5) (17.8) (4.0) (1.9) 64.2 
(1) The net loss incurred on disposal or closure of subsidiaries, and the gain on disposal or deemed disposal of associates, include the impairment of
goodwill where relevant and any reclassification of cumulative exchange.
(2) IAS 39 adjustments comprise gains of £13.5m on revaluation of put option liabilities on imputed interest charge of £1.1m to release deferred
consideration discounting, and losses of £10.0m and £6.4m on revaluation of non-hedge derivatives and impairment of available-for-sale investments
respectively.
(3) Included in other tax adjustments is deferred tax adjustment for tax amortisation of goodwill of £5.0m.
The total impact of adjusting items between underlying and statutory profit after tax for 2009 was £48.1m, as presented above.
The 2009 underlying results are restated to exclude imputed interest arising due to discounting of deferred consideration as
explained in note 2. Adjusting items of £46.6m are attributable to equity holders of the parent in 2009.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
78 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 4. Segment reporting / (continued)
Segment assets and other segment information
Depreciation Additions to
and non-current
Assets Liabilities amortisation assets Impairment*
2010 £m £m £m £m £m
Aegis Media 3,626.5 (2,851.6) 38.5 359.1 10.2 
Synovate 726.9 (210.6) 15.9 27.1 5.6 
Reportable segment total 4,353.4 (3,062.2) 54.4 386.2 15.8 
Borrowings not allocated to reportable segments – (637.8) –––
Other items not allocated to reportable segments 104.9 (89.9) 3.4 1.6 –
Consolidated total 4,458.3 (3,789.9) 57.8 387.8 15.8 
* The impairment charge predominantly relates to disposals and closures during the year, as shown in the reconciliation of reportable segment results to
statutory segment results given above.
Depreciation Additions to
and non-current
Assets Liabilities amortisation assets Impairment
2009 £m £m £m £m £m
Aegis Media 2,899.8 (2,325.0) 38.6 32.4 6.4 
Synovate 700.5 (197.3) 16.5 8.4 0.2 
Reportable segment total 3,600.3 (2,522.3) 55.1 40.8 6.6 
Borrowings not allocated to reportable segments – (573.3) –––
Other items not allocated to reportable segments 13.1 (73.3) 0.8 0.7 –
Consolidated total 3,613.4 (3,168.9) 55.9 41.5 6.6 
Revenues from major products and services
Aegis Media’s business comprises the provision of a number of integrated media services, which are considered to represent 
a single group of closely-related services. Similarly, the Synovate business of market research is considered to be a single group 
of closely related services. Therefore, no further analysis by service is necessary.
Geographical information
The Group operates in numerous countries throughout the world. Management has determined that revenues from external
customers attributed to an individual foreign country are material if they make up more than 10% of consolidated Group revenue,
and in such cases the revenue arising in these countries is disclosed separately. The Group’s country of domicile is the UK.
Revenue Non-current assets
2010 2009 2010 2009
£m £m £m £m
UK 181.5 184.7 177.1 146.0 
USA 280.6 247.8 349.6 341.3 
Other 997.3 914.0 1,101.4 713.4 
Consolidated total 1,459.4 1,346.5 1,628.1 1,200.7 
Major customers
The Group does not have a single external customer that contributes 10% or more to Group revenue.
79 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5. Operating profit /
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging: 
2010 2009
£m £m
Net foreign exchange losses 2.9 0.1 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 22.7 23.7 
Amortisation of intangible assets included in operating expenses 35.1 32.2 
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries and related impairment 13.9 1.0 
Operating lease expense (see note 29) 60.2 61.9 
Staff costs (see note 6) 720.8 665.5 
A detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration charged to operating profit is provided below:
2010 2010 2009 2009
£m % £m %
Audit fees
Fees payable to the company’s auditors for the audit 
of the company’s annual accounts 0.3 6.4% 0.3 7.3%
Fees payable to the company’s auditors and their associates 
for other services to the group:
– The audit of the company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 3.2 68.1% 3.1 75.6%
Total audit fees 3.5 74.5% 3.4 82.9%
Non audit fees
– Other services pursuant to legislation (interim review) 0.1 2.1% 0.1 2.4%
– Tax services 0.4 8.5% 0.2 4.9%
– Other services 0.7 14.9% 0.4 9.8%
Total non-audit fees 1.2 25.5% 0.7 17.1%
Total fees paid to the company’s auditors 4.7 100.0% 4.1 100.0%
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance statement on page 51 and includes an
explanation of how auditor objectivity is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
6. Staff costs /
The average monthly number of employees was:
2010 2009
Number Number
Aegis Media 10,247 9,408 
Synovate 6,292 6,501 
Corporate 39 40 
16,578 15,949 
Staff costs consist of:
2010 2009
£m £m
Wages, salaries, bonus and benefits 625.4 570.4 
Social security costs 83.6 82.1 
Other pension costs 11.8 13.0 
720.8 665.5 
Wages, salaries, bonus and benefits includes a share-based payment charge of £8.3m (2009: £7.1m). See note 30.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
80 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7. Investment income /
2010 2009
£m £m
Interest receivable 6.6 7.9 
Interest receivable includes £0.1m (2009: £0.4m) in respect of the expected return on pension scheme assets (see note 31). 
8. Finance costs /
2010 2009
£m £m
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (4.4) (3.3)
Interest payable on loan notes, other loans and pension scheme liabilities (32.6) (23.2)
(37.0) (26.5)
Exchange movements on financing items (0.7) 1.1 
Amortisation of financing costs and fees (2.7) (2.1)
Imputed interest on deferred consideration (1.0) (1.1)
Fair value movements on acquisition put options 0.2 13.5 
Fair value movements on non-hedge derivatives (0.4) (10.0)
Fair value movement arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge 7.6 (3.5)
Adjustment to hedged items in a designated fair value hedge (7.6) 3.5 
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets (2.0) (6.4)
(43.6) (31.5)
Exchange movements on financing items includes fair value movements in derivative instruments intended to provide a natural
hedge of exchange rate risk. Information on the Group’s designated fair value hedges is given in note 19.
9. Tax on profit on ordinary activities /
The tax charge is made up of the following: 
2010 2009
£m £m
Current tax – UK taxation at 28.0% (2009: 28.0%) 1.9 –
Current tax – overseas 43.5 27.7 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.5 (1.8)
49.9 25.9 
Deferred tax (note 20) (24.9) 1.1 
25.0 27.0 
The underlying effective tax rate on underlying profits for the year ended 31 December 2010 is 24.89% (2009: 25.33%, restated per
note 2). 
The tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2010 is £25.0m (2009: £27.0m) representing an effective tax rate (including
deferred tax on goodwill) on statutory profits of 36.81% (2009: 29.61%). The tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2010
includes a deferred tax expense of £4.2m (2009: £5.0m) for tax deductions in respect of goodwill. IFRS requires that such deferred
tax is recognised even if a liability would only unwind on the eventual sale or impairment of the business in question.
UK Corporation tax is calculated at 28.0 % (2009: 28.0%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other
jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
81 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9. Tax on profit on ordinary activities / (continued)
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Profit before taxation 68.0 91.2 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28.0% (2009: 28.0%) 19.0 25.5 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.5 (1.8)
Tax effect of income/expenditure that is not taxable/deductible 4.9 2.5 
Rate differences on overseas earnings (2.2) (3.0)
Tax losses carried forward in the period: UK 3.2 1.2 
Tax losses utilised in the period: overseas (1.7) 0.5 
Impact of short term temporary differences not recognised for deferred tax (2.7) 2.1 
Tax expense for the year 25.0 27.0 
Effective rate of statutory tax charge on statutory profits 36.81% 29.61%
The Group’s profit before taxation all arises from continuing operations. Therefore the Group’s tax charge also relates solely to
continuing operations. 
IAS 1 requires income from associates to be presented net of tax on the face of the income statement and not in the Group’s tax
charge. Associates’ tax included within ‘share of results of associates’ for the year ended 31 December 2010 is £0.1m (2009: £0.1m).
10. Dividends /
2010 2009
Ordinary shares of 5p each
Dividend rate per share for the period (pence) 2.75 2.50
Declared and paid during the period £m £m
Final dividend for 2008 of 1.54p per share – 17.8 
Interim dividend for 2009 of 0.96p per share – 11.1 
Final dividend for 2009 of 1.54p per share 17.9 –
Interim dividend for 2010 of 1.025p per share 12.0 –
29.9 28.9 
Proposed but not yet declared or paid at the balance sheet date £m £m
Final dividend for 2009 of 1.54p per share – 17.9 
Final dividend for 2010 of 1.725p per share 22.2 –
22.2 17.9 
The employee share trust has an ongoing arrangement with the Group to waive all dividends. As a result, the total cash paid in
settlement of the final dividend for 2009 was £17.7m and the total cash paid in respect of the interim dividend for 2010 was
£11.7m. Based on the number of shares held by the employee share trust as at 31 December 2010, the expected cash payment 
in settlement of the 2010 final dividend is £21.7m.
The final dividend for 2010, if approved, will be paid on 6 July 2011 to all ordinary shareholders on the register at 17 June 2011.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
82 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11. Earnings per share /
2010 2009
Profit for the year
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 
for the calculation of basic and diluted EPS (£m) 41.2 62.7 
Adjusting items (note 4) (£m) 77.4 46.6 
Underlying profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 
for the calculation of underlying basic EPS (£m) 118.6 109.3 
Finance costs due to convertible bond (net of tax) (£m) 6.7 –
Underlying profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent
for the calculation of underlying diluted EPS (£m) 125.3 109.3 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (millions)
Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,156.8 1,138.5 
Dilutive potential ordinary shares: employee share options 1.5 0.6 
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares for statutory diluted EPS 1,158.3 1,139.1 
Dilutive potential ordinary shares: convertible bond 81.0 –
Diluted weighted average number of shares for underlying diluted EPS 1,239.3 1,139.1 
Basic earnings per share (pence) 3.6 5.5 
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 3.6 5.5 
Underlying basic earnings per share (pence) 10.3 9.6 
Underlying diluted earnings per share (pence) 10.1 9.6 
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on profit after tax and non-controlling interests. The weighted
average number of shares excludes the Group’s interest in own shares held through an employee share trust. 
On 20 April 2010 the Group issued £190.6m convertible bonds due April 2015, bearing interest at 2.5%. In calculating underlying
diluted earnings per share above, the potential ordinary shares to be issued on conversion are added to the diluted weighted
average number of shares, as if the bonds had converted on 20 April 2010. The underlying profit for the year attributable to equity
holders of the parent is also adjusted to include the interest and finance charges that would have been avoided if the bonds had
converted on 20 April 2010. This treatment has not been applied for statutory earnings per share, as the convertible bonds are
accretive to statutory earnings per share.
Changes in the Group’s accounting policies during the year are described in note 2. The adoption of IFRS 3 (revised 2008) and the
associated alignment of the treatment of imputed interest on deferred consideration liabilities have the effect of increasing
underlying EPS by 0.1p (2009: increasing underlying EPS by 0.1p) and have no impact on statutory EPS.
12. Goodwill /
Cost £m
At 1 January 2009 1,139.8 
Additions 9.7 
Other acquisition adjustments 6.7 
Adjustments to prior period estimates of deferred consideration (66.8)
Exchange differences (53.3)
At 31 December 2009 1,036.1 
Additions 260.0 
Other acquisition adjustments (0.4)
Adjustments to prior period estimates of deferred consideration 15.9 
Exchange differences 55.4 
At 31 December 2010 1,367.0 
83 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 84 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
12. Goodwill / (continued)
Accumulated impairment losses £m
At 1 January and 31 December 2009 25.2 
Impairment losses for the year 10.7 
At 31 December 2010 35.9 
Carrying amount £m
At 31 December 2010 1,331.1 
At 31 December 2009 1,010.9 
The adjustments to prior period estimates of deferred consideration relate to acquisitions completed prior to 1 January 2010,
which continue to be accounted for under IFRS 3 (2004). Therefore such changes in estimate affect goodwill rather than profit 
or loss.
Goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes to cash generating units (CGUs) which reflect how it is monitored for
internal management purposes. This allocation largely represents the geographic areas of operation for the Group’s two divisions
as set out below. 
2010 2009
£m £m
Aegis Media:
– Europe, Middle East & Africa 305.9 292.6 
– Americas 195.2 172.9 
– Asia Pacific 382.2 117.0 
– Total 883.3 582.5 
Synovate:
– Europe, Middle East & Africa 163.4 156.7 
– Americas 189.4 188.3 
– Asia Pacific 95.0 83.4 
– Total 447.8 428.4 
1,331.1 1,010.9 
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations. The Group prepares cash flow forecasts
derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next year and management forecasts for the
subsequent three years. These calculations reflect management’s experience and future expectations of the markets in which 
the CGU operates. Long term average growth rates used in the projections range between 3.0% (for mature markets) and 5.0%
(for higher growth markets) and vary with management’s view of the CGU’s market position and maturity of the relevant market.
The pre-tax rate used to discount the forecast cash flows is 11.5% for mature markets and 12.5% for the developing markets in
Asia Pacific.
Further disclosures in accordance with paragraph 134 of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets are given for CGUs comprising at least 20%
of the total carrying value of goodwill for the Group.
Goodwill allocated to the Aegis Media Europe, Middle East and Africa CGU is significant in comparison with the total amount of
goodwill. The goodwill of £305.9m has arisen on a large number of individually small acquisitions. Goodwill allocated to the Aegis
Media Asia Pacific CGU is also significant in comparison with the total amount of goodwill. The goodwill of £382.2m has arisen on
the 2010 acquisition of Mitchell Communication Group as well as a large number of other individually small acquisitions. 
As with the approach for all CGU’s, the Group has prepared cash flow forecasts for the Aegis Media Europe, Middle East and
Africa and the Aegis Media Asia Pacific CGUs based on the most recent financial budgets. The key assumptions on which the
forecasts are based are management expectations of short term performance and long term growth rates as discussed above.
Expected future cash flows are inherently uncertain and could materially change over time. They are significantly affected by a
number of factors such as market growth, discount rates and currency exchange rates. 85 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
13. Intangible assets /
Customer Non-compete Intellectual 
Software Relationships Agreements Property Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2009 48.2 65.5 16.4 3.9 35.1 169.1 
Additions
– internally generated 2.0 ––– 2.2 4.2 
– separately acquired 4.6 ––– 1.8 6.4 
Acquired on acquisition of a subsidiary – 1.2 3.1 – (0.1) 4.2 
Disposals (0.4) ––– (0.1) (0.5)
Impairment ––– – (0.1) (0.1)
Transfers and other movements (3.5) (2.2) 4.3 0.5 5.4 4.5 
Exchange differences (2.9) (3.6) (0.9) (0.3) (1.8) (9.5)
At 31 December 2009 48.0 60.9 22.9 4.1 42.4 178.3 
Additions
– internally generated 1.1 ––– 0.6 1.7 
– separately acquired 5.6 ––– 2.1 7.7 
Acquired on acquisition of a subsidiary 1.1 32.0 – 13.0 6.0 52.1 
Disposals (6.2) ––– (1.3) (7.5)
Transfers and other movements 0.1 ––– (0.1) –
Exchange differences 0.2 4.4 0.5 1.2 2.0 8.3 
At 31 December 2010 49.9 97.3 23.4 18.3 51.7 240.6 
Amortisation
At 1 January 2009 34.5 12.5 2.4 1.4 13.4 64.2 
Charge for the year 6.2 12.1 4.8 1.4 7.7 32.2 
Disposals (0.1) ––– (0.1) (0.2)
Impairment ––– – 0.1 0.1 
Transfers (1.0) ––– 1.0 –
Exchange differences (2.0) (0.4) (0.1) (0.1) (0.9) (3.5)
At 31 December 2009 37.6 24.2 7.1 2.7 21.2 92.8 
Charge for the year 6.2 13.4 5.0 1.9 8.6 35.1 
Disposals (5.7) ––– (0.2) (5.9)
Impairment – 1.7 0.8 – 1.8 4.3 
Exchange differences 0.2 0.6 0.2 – 0.8 1.8 
At 31 December 2010 38.3 39.9 13.1 4.6 32.2 128.1 
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2010 11.6 57.4 10.3 13.7 19.5 112.5 
At 31 December 2009 10.4 36.7 15.8 1.4 21.2 85.5 
The carrying amount of other intangible assets includes market research panel costs of £0.2m (2009: £0.3m), patents and
trademarks of £5.2m (2009: £5.3m) and other intangibles of £14.1m (2009: £15.6m).
The carrying amount of intangible assets with indefinite useful economic lives is £1.8m (2009: £4.9m), principally relating to trade
names. These are considered to have indefinite lives because it is the Group’s intention to continue to invest in these assets and
by doing so, their value will be protected and enhanced. This continued investment involves expenditure on training, recruitment,
technological development and legal protection. All intangible assets have been subject to amortisation in the year.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 86 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
14. Property, plant and equipment /
Office 
Long furniture, 
Freehold leasehold fixtures, 
land and and leasehold equipment
buildings improvements and vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2009 3.2 70.6 154.8 228.6 
Additions – 5.7 11.1 16.8 
Acquired on acquisition of a subsidiary –– 0.1 0.1 
Disposals (0.1) (3.1) (9.1) (12.3)
Impairment – (0.3) – (0.3)
Transfer – (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
Exchange differences (0.2) (4.2) (8.9) (13.3)
At 31 December 2009 2.9 68.6 147.9 219.4 
Additions – 6.0 14.0 20.0 
Acquired on acquisition of a subsidiary – 0.5 4.5 5.0 
Disposals – (10.9) (23.4) (34.3)
Exchange differences – 0.9 3.0 3.9 
At 31 December 2010 2.9 65.1 146.0 214.0 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2009 1.2 41.9 112.0 155.1 
Charge for the year 0.1 6.8 16.8 23.7 
Disposals (0.1) (2.5) (7.4) (10.0)
Exchange differences (0.1) (2.7) (6.5) (9.3)
At 31 December 2009 1.1 43.5 114.9 159.5 
Charge for the year 0.1 6.9 15.7 22.7 
Disposals – (10.3) (22.1) (32.4)
Impairment – 0.3 – 0.3 
Exchange differences – 0.6 1.4 2.0 
At 31 December 2010 1.2 41.0 109.9 152.1 
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2010 1.7 24.1 36.1 61.9 
At 31 December 2009 1.8 25.1 33.0 59.9 
At 31 December 2010, the Group had £2.7m capital commitments contracted, but not provided, for the acquisition of property,
plant and equipment (2009: £nil). Proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment are £1.3m (2009: £1.4m). 87 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
15. Interests in associates and joint ventures /
a) Carrying amount
Associates Joint ventures Total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 3.0 0.3 3.3 
Additions 31.2 10.2 41.4 
Share of profit 2.9 (0.7) 2.2 
Deemed disposal 2.7 – 2.7 
Impairment losses (1.7) – (1.7)
Dividends received (0.1) – (0.1)
Exchange differences 0.7 – 0.7 
At 31 December 2010 38.7 9.8 48.5 
Investments in associates at 31 December 2010 include goodwill of £11.4m (2009: £2.0m). 
The significant increase in the Group’s investment in associates and share of results of associates relates predominantly to
the Group’s investment in Charm Communications Inc (“Charm”), acquired in January 2010. Charm listed on the NASDAQ
exchange in May 2010, which led to a dilution of the Group’s shareholding and therefore triggered a deemed disposal. The
profit on deemed disposal is included in the share of results of associates in the Group income statement.
At 31 December 2010, the Group’s investment in Charm represented 18.9% of the voting power. The Group’s direct operating
relationship with Charm, including active Board membership, lead to significant influence over the operating and financial
policies of Charm. 
The £10.2m increase in joint ventures represents the investment in 50% of the issued share capital of Litmus MR Limited, 
a company incorporated in England and Wales.
Losses of £0.8m arising in certain associates have been excluded from the Group share of the result of associates in the
current year (2009: £0.3m) since the carrying amount as presented above has been reduced to nil in previous years. The
cumulative total of the unrecognised share of losses is £1.1m. Impairments in the year relate to investments in associates 
in France and Malaysia for which the carrying amount is no longer supported by estimates of future performance.
b) Investments in associates
The following represents the aggregate amount of the Group’s interests in associated companies’ assets, liabilities, revenues
and profit:
2010 2009
£m £m
Total assets 51.8 10.9 
Total liabilities (26.4) (9.9)
25.4 1.0 
Goodwill 11.4 2.0 
36.8 3.0 
Total revenues 11.0 5.4 
Total profit 2.1 –
The following represents the summarised financial information of the Group’s associated companies’ assets, liabilities,
revenues and profit:
2010 2009
£m £m
Total assets 269.7 27.0 
Total liabilities (108.9) (25.1)
Total revenues 52.9 13.7 
Total profit / (loss) 25.5 (0.7)
All associates have year end reporting dates of 31 December.
c) Investments in joint ventures
The Group has a 50% shareholding in Litmus MR Limited, a market research company in the UK with a year end reporting
date of 31 December. The Group’s share of net assets at 31 December 2010 is £9.5m (2009: £nil).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
16. Available-for-sale financial assets /
2010 2009
£m £m
Equity investments 15.6 14.9 
The equity investments held at the 2010 year end represent a stake of approximately 2.1% in Harris Interactive Inc., a company
listed on the NASDAQ exchange, and a stake of approximately 12.9% in Qin Jia Yuan Media Services, a company listed in Hong
Kong, along with a number of smaller unlisted securities. The unlisted securities are held by a number of Group companies and
represent numerous small investments in private companies. 
17. Trade and other receivables /
2010 2009
£m £m
Trade receivables 2,071.8 1,723.1 
Prepayments and accrued income 197.0 167.9 
Other receivables 145.3 115.2 
2,414.1 2,006.2 
The average credit period taken for trade receivables is 44 days (2009: 43 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amount
of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value. Trade receivables for the Group are stated net of an allowance for
doubtful receivables of £77.7m (2009: £37.8m).
£m
At 1 January 2009 34.9 
Provided in the year 10.4 
Release of allowance (2.9)
Utilisation of allowance (2.4)
Exchange differences (2.2)
At 31 December 2009 37.8 
Provided in the year 54.5 
Release of allowance (3.1)
Utilisation of allowance (11.1)
Exchange differences (0.4)
At 31 December 2010 77.7 
As of 31 December 2010, trade receivables of £567.8m (2009: £396.2m) were past due but not impaired. The ageing analysis of
these receivables is as follows: 
2010 2009
£m £m
Under 3 months 479.6 336.6 
Over 3 months 88.2 59.6 
567.8 396.2 
18. Trade and other payables /
2010 2009
£m £m
Trade payables 2,130.5 1,737.6
Accruals 251.0 172.5
Deferred income 119.1 105.8
Taxation and social security 78.5 75.9 
Deferred consideration 43.7 34.4 
Other payables 294.5 238.9
2,917.3 2,365.1
The average credit period taken for trade payables is 50 days (2009: 50 days). The Directors consider that the carrying amount of
trade payables approximates their fair value.  89 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
19. Financial instruments /
The Group has established objectives concerning the holding and use of financial instruments which are discussed in the
Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 32 to 35. The key objective is to manage the financial risks faced by the Group,
which are discussed below. Formal policies and guidelines have been set to achieve these objectives and it is the responsibility of
Group Treasury to implement these policies using the strategies set out below.
The Group manages its capital to enable the entities in the Group to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to
stakeholders through the optimisation of debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which
includes the Group’s borrowings, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising
issued capital and reserves and retained earnings.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments nor engage in speculative arrangements and it is the Group’s policy not to use
any complex financial instruments, unless, in exceptional circumstances, it is necessary to cover defined risks.
Management of financial risk
The Group considers its major financial risks to be currency risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. The Group’s
policies with regard to these risks and the strategies concerning how financial instruments are used to manage these risks are
set out below.
Currency risk
A significant portion of the Group’s activities takes place overseas. The Group therefore faces currency exposures on transactions
undertaken by subsidiaries in foreign currencies and upon consolidation following the translation of the local currency results
and net assets / liabilities of overseas subsidiaries.
The Group’s foreign currency management policy requires subsidiaries to hedge all transactions and financial instruments with
material currency exposures. The Group is party to a number of foreign currency forward contracts in the management of
exchange rate exposures. The instruments purchased are primarily denominated in the currencies of the Group’s principal
markets. These are held at fair value at the balance sheet date. Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted
forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted rates matching the maturities of the contracts. Movements in the
fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts are taken to the income statement. The total notional amounts of outstanding
forward foreign exchange contracts that the Group has committed are shown below.
2010 2009
£m £m
Forward foreign exchange contracts – notional principal 367.7 242.3 
It is the Group’s policy not to hedge exposures arising from the translation of profits or net assets as these represent an
accounting rather than cash exposure.
When it is aligned with the Group’s overall funding strategy, the Group’s policy is to borrow locally wherever possible to act as a
natural hedge against the translation risk arising from its net investments overseas. Where major borrowings are denominated in
a currency other than sterling, the Group may enter into cross-currency swaps to reduce currency risk, as explained later in this
note. A currency analysis of borrowings is given in section c) of this note.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s objective of ensuring that adequate funding is in place is achieved by having agreed sufficient committed bank
facilities. The Group also seeks to manage its working capital requirement by requiring clients to pay for media in advance
whenever possible. 
At 31 December 2010, the Group had net debt (before issue costs of new debt) of £339.5m (2009: £258.6m). The Group had cash
and short term deposits of £394.4m at 31 December 2010 (2009: £391.1m) and gross borrowings of £733.9m (2009: £649.7m). 
The Group’s principal debt instruments are subject to certain financial covenants.
The following unsecured loan notes are also included within gross borrowings:
2010 2010 2009 2009
Date of issue Date repayable $m £m $m £m
28 July 2005 2012 – 2017 342.0 219.4 342.0 211.8
17 September 2007 2014 – 2017 125.0 80.2 125.0 77.4
17 December 2009 2017 – 25.0 – 25.0
17 December 2009 2017 – 2019 183.0 117.4 183.0 113.3
At 31 December 2010, the Group has undrawn committed facilities of £450.0m (2009: £376.4m). 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 90 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
19. Financial instruments / (continued)
Interest rate risk
The Group’s unsecured loan notes, referred to above, are at fixed rates. All other borrowings are at floating rates. Certain portions
of the Group’s unsecured loan notes are subject to interest rate swaps, as explained later in this note. 
The Group has in place cash pooling arrangements in a number of territories. These enable the Group to minimise the interest
paid on short-term borrowings and overdrafts, whilst allowing net surplus funds to be invested in interest bearing accounts.
Credit risk
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables and cash balances. The amounts presented in the balance
sheet in respect of trade receivables are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group’s management based
on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment. Trade credit risk is managed in each territory
through the use of credit checks on new clients and individual credit limits, where considered necessary. In some instances
clients are required to pay for media in advance.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high
credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies. The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with
exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by
the carrying amount of each financial asset in the balance sheet.
Current receivables and payables and currency disclosures
Due to the nature of the operations of the business, Group companies are able to match current receivables and payables in
currencies other than their functional currency and therefore do not have material, unhedged monetary assets and liabilities.
Current receivables and payables are therefore excluded from currency analyses provided in this note.
Private placement debt – July 2005
On 28 July 2005, the Group issued US$342m of unsecured loan notes, repayable between 2012 and 2017. The interest rates
applicable on these loan notes ranges from 5.25% to 5.65%. These loan notes are guaranteed by the Company and certain of its
subsidiaries. On 9 November 2005 cross currency swaps were entered into for US$142m of the loan notes due in 2012 and
US$50m of the loan notes due in 2015 to convert this US$ fixed rate borrowing into Euro fixed rate borrowing. The remaining
US$150m of loan notes were used to provide a natural hedge against US dollar-denominated assets.
Private placement debt – September 2007
On 17 September 2007, the Group issued US$125m of unsecured loan notes repayable between 2014 and 2017. The interest rates
applicable on these loan notes range from 6.06% to 6.29%. These loan notes are guaranteed by the Company and certain of its
subsidiaries.
Central sterling facility – June 2009
The Group secured an additional sterling facility up to a value of £40m in June 2009. The Group cancelled the facility in 2010.
Term loan – July 2009
In July 2009 the Group secured a loan of £45m available until July 2011 at a variable interest rate. In July 2011, there is a
mechanism to increase the facility to £60m and accept a fixed rate dependant on the market conditions at that time or to exit the
arrangement.
Private placement debt – December 2009
On 17 December 2009, the Group issued US$183m and £25m of unsecured loan notes repayable between 2017 and 2019. The
interest rates applicable on these loan notes range from 6.07% to 6.50%. These loan notes are guaranteed by the Company and
certain of its subsidiaries. On 17 November 2009, an interest rate swap was entered into for US$50m of the loan notes due 2019 to
convert the USD fixed rate debt to USD floating rate debt. On 17 November 2009, cross currency interest rate swaps were entered
into for US$18m of the loan notes due in 2017 and US$115m of the loan notes due in 2019 to convert the US$ fixed rate borrowing
to GBP floating rate borrowing. From 19 January 2010, US$50m of the loan note was designated as a net investment hedge
against US dollar-denominated investments. To the extent that this hedging relationship was effective, exchange differences
arising on the re-translation of the US$50m of debt was taken to reserves. 
Multi-currency credit facility – July 2010
In July 2010, the Group re-financed the five year £450m multi-currency credit facility with a group of international banks, which
was originally entered into in June 2006. The facility is committed and revolving and allows drawings under a variety of currencies.
Pricing is based on the inter-bank rate of the relevant currency for the corresponding period of the drawing with the interest
margin determined by reference to a grid based on the consolidated net borrowings to consolidated net EBITDA ratio. The facility
is unsecured but guaranteed by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries until July 2015. 91 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
19. Financial instruments / (continued)
Convertible bond
The Group issued £190.6m convertible bonds in April 2010, due for repayment in April 2015. The convertible bonds bear interest 
at 2.5% per annum and are convertible at the option of the holder into Aegis ordinary shares at an exchange price of £1.6444. 
The total number of ordinary shares that would be issued if all bonds converted would be 115.9 million.
As a compound financial instrument, the net proceeds of the bond were split into a liability component and an equity component
on the issue date, and at 31 December 2010 the carrying value of the liability, net of deferred issue costs, is £167.4m. 
Cross currency swaps
The fair value of the cross currency swaps at 31 December 2010 is £(13.4)m (2009: £(22.1)m). The fair value is based on a
discounted cash flow model and market interest yield curves applicable and represents movements in the Euro/US$ foreign
exchange spot rate and in Euro and US$ interest rate yields. The cross currency swaps are synthetically split, for accounting
purposes, to reflect the Group’s presentational currency of Sterling. The US$/Sterling legs of the swaps are designated and
effective as cash flow hedges against the Group’s US$ loan notes. Movements in the fair value of the US$/Sterling legs of the
swaps are taken to reserves and released to the income statement when the underlying portion of US Loan notes interest is
recognised in the income statement every six months. The Euro/Sterling legs of the swaps are designated as net investment
hedges in respect of certain of the Group’s Euro-denominated investments. To the extent that this hedging relationship is
effective, exchange differences arising on the re-translation of the swapped Euro debt are taken to reserves. 
Interest rate swaps
The fair value of the interest rate swaps at 31 December 2010 is £0.5m (2009: £(1.7)m). The fair value is based on a discounted
cash flow model and market interest yield curves applicable and represents unrecognised gains (2009: losses) which the Group
expects to realise as a result of lower or higher variable interest payments under the swap compared with the fixed interest rate
applicable on the underlying loan notes. The interest rate swaps are designated and effective as fair value hedges against
changes in the fair value of the debt caused by changes in interest rates/risk. Movements in the fair value of the interest rate
swaps are taken to the income statement where they offset against very similar but opposite movements in the fair value of the
debt caused by movements in interest rates.
Cross currency interest rate swaps
The fair value of the cross currency interest rate swaps at 31 December 2010 is £8.0m (2009: £(1.2)m). The fair value is based 
on a discounted cash flow model and market yield curves applicable and represents movements in the Sterling/US$ foreign
exchange spot rate and in Sterling and US$ interest rate yields. Movements in the fair value of the cross currency interest rate
swaps excluding the credit spread are taken to the income statement where they offset against opposite movements in the fair
value of the US$ loan notes caused by changes in interest rates and foreign exchange spot rates. Movements in the fair value of
the cross currency interest rate swaps relating to the credit spread are taken to reserves and released to the income statement
when the underlying portion of US loan notes interest is recognised in the income statement.
Covenants
Covenant requirements under the current Group financing arrangements and the performance against these requirements for
the current year are given in the Financial Review on page 31.
a) Categories of financial instruments
Carrying Carrying 
Value Value
2010 2009
£m £m
Financial Assets
Fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
– Held for trading 3.2 0.2 
Held to maturity investments 0.1 0.1 
Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents) 2,564.7 2,230.0 
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 8.5 –
Available-for-sale financial assets 15.6 14.9 
Total financial assets 2,592.1 2,245.2 
Financial Liabilities
Fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
– Held for trading 2.2 2.0 
– Acquisition put option derivatives 34.5 31.4 
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 13.4 25.0 
Amortised cost 3,230.0 2,788.0 
Total financial liabilities 3,280.1 2,846.4 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
19. Financial instruments / (continued)
b) Maturity profile of Group financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets
Less than More than No fixed
1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years maturity Total
2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current
Cash and short-term deposits 394.4 ––– – 394.4
Derivative financial assets:
– Forward foreign exchange contracts 3.2 ––– – 3.2
397.6 ––– – 397.6
Trade receivables 2,071.8 ––– – 2,071.8
Other financial asset receivables 97.9 ––– – 97.9
Total current 2,567.3 ––– – 2,567.3
Non-current
Available-for-sale financial assets ––– – 15.6 15.6
Derivative financial assets:
– Interest rate swap ––– 0.5 – 0.5
– Cross currency interest rate swaps ––– 8.0 – 8.0
Other financial assets ––– – 0.7 0.7
Total non-current ––– 8.5 16.3 24.8
Total 2,567.3 –– 8.5 16.3 2,592.1
Less than More than No fixed 
1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years maturity Total
2009 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current
Cash and short-term deposits 391.1 ––– – 391.1
Derivative financial assets:
– Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.2 ––– – 0.2
391.3 ––– – 391.3
Trade receivables 1,723.1 ––– – 1,723.1
Other financial asset receivables 115.2 ––– – 115.2
Total current 2,229.6 ––– – 2,229.6
Non-current
Available-for-sale financial assets ––– – 14.9 14.9
Other financial assets ––– – 0.7 0.7
Total non-current ––– – 15.6 15.6
Total 2,229.6 ––– 15.6 2,245.2
There are no material differences between the recorded and fair values of the Group’s financial assets at 31 December 2010.
The fair values of financial assets reflect market values or are based upon readily available market data. 93 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
19. Financial instruments / (continued)
b) Maturity profile of Group financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Financial liabilities
Less than More than 
1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total
2010 £m £m £m £m £m
Current
Bank overdrafts 3.0 ––– 3.0
Loans 84.3 ––– 84.3
87.3 ––– 87.3
Less: Issue costs of debt to be amortised (1.7) ––– (1.7)
85.6 ––– 85.6
Derivative financial liabilities:
– Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.2 ––– 2.2
– Put option liabilities 11.2 ––– 11.2
99.0 ––– 99.0
Trade payables 2,130.5 ––– 2,130.5
Deferred consideration 43.7 ––– 43.7
Other payables 294.5 ––– 294.5
Total current 2,567.7 ––– 2,567.7
Non-current
Bank loans – 36.6 0.2 – 36.8
Loan notes – 102.0 123.8 217.1 442.9
Convertible bond –– 166.9 – 166.9
Less: Issue costs of debt to be amortised – (1.7) (4.4) (0.4) (6.5)
– 136.9 286.5 216.7 640.1
Derivative financial liabilities:
– Cross currency swaps – 10.5 2.9 – 13.4
– Put option liabilities – 9.7 7.2 6.4 23.3
Other non-current liabilities – 9.8 14.1 11.7 35.6
Total non-current – 166.9 310.7 234.8 712.4
Total 2,567.7 166.9 310.7 234.8 3,280.1
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 94 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
19. Financial instruments / (continued)
b) Maturity profile of Group financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Financial liabilities (continued)
Less than More than 
1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total
2009 £m £m £m £m £m
Current
Bank overdrafts 4.9 ––– 4.9
Loans 38.6 ––– 38.6
43.5 ––– 43.5
Less: Issue costs of debt to be amortised (0.3) ––– (0.3)
43.2 ––– 43.2
Derivative financial liabilities:
– Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.0 ––– 2.0
– Put option liabilities 1.6 ––– 1.6
46.8 ––– 46.8
Trade payables 1,737.6 ––– 1,737.6
Deferred consideration 34.4 ––– 34.4
Other payables 314.8 ––– 314.8
Total current 2,133.6 ––– 2,133.6
Non-current
Bank loans – 6.2 20.7 0.1 27.0
Loan notes – 158.3 144.9 276.0 579.2
Less: Issue costs of debt to be amortised – (0.2) (0.4) (0.5) (1.1)
– 164.3 165.2 275.6 605.1
Derivative financial liabilities:
– Cross currency swap –– 16.7 5.4 22.1
– Cross currency interest rate swap ––– 1.2 1.2
– Interest rate swap ––– 1.7 1.7
– Put option liabilities – 10.2 13.5 6.1 29.8
Other non-current liabilities – 27.4 11.5 14.0 52.9
Total non-current – 201.9 206.9 304.0 712.8
Total 2,133.6 201.9 206.9 304.0 2,846.4
Except as detailed in the following table, the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at
amortised cost in the financial statements are approximately equal to their fair values:
2010 2010 2009 2009
Fair Carrying Fair Carrying 
Value Value Value Value
£m £m £m £m
2005 loan notes 230.2 224.4 203.7 216.7 
2007 loan notes 87.2 81.6 77.0 78.8 
2009 loan notes 155.7 142.8 136.2 138.7 
Total 473.1 448.8 416.9 434.2  95 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
19. Financial instruments / (continued)
b) Maturity profile of Group financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Valuation techniques and assumptions applied for the purposes of measuring fair value
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows:
– The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid
markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices (includes held-to-maturity investments and quoted
available-for-sale investments)
– The fair values of derivative instruments, other than put options over acquisition of minorities, are calculated using quoted
prices and yield curves derived from these quoted prices
– The fair values of put option liabilities are calculated as the best estimate of the gross cash expected to be paid discounted
to present value.
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair
value, grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
– Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets
or liabilities
– Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are
observable for the asset or liability either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices)
– Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset of liability
that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
Carrying 
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value 2010
£m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
– Held for trading – 3.2 – 3.2 
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships – 8.5 – 8.5 
Held to maturity investments 0.1 –– 0.1 
Available-for-sale financial assets – quoted 13.7 –– 13.7 
Total financial assets measured at fair value 13.8 11.7 – 25.5 
Financial liabilities
Fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
– Held for trading – 2.2 – 2.2 
– Acquisition put option derivatives –– 34.5 34.5 
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships – 13.4 – 13.4 
Total financial liabilities measured at fair value – 15.6 34.5 50.1 
Carrying 
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value 2009
£m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
– Held for trading – 0.2 – 0.2 
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships – 12.2 – 12.2 
Held to maturity investments 0.1 –– 0.1 
Available-for-sale financial assets – quoted 14.1 –– 14.1 
Total financial assets measured at fair value 14.2 12.4 – 26.6 
Financial liabilities
Fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)
– Currency derivatives held for trading – 2.2 – 2.2 
– Acquisition put option derivatives –– 31.4 31.4 
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships – 37.2 – 37.2 
Total financial liabilities measured at fair value – 39.4 31.4 70.8 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 96 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
19. Financial instruments / (continued)
b) Maturity profile of Group financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Valuation techniques and assumptions applied for the purposes of measuring fair value (continued)
There were no transfers between categories during 2010 or 2009.
A reconciliation of the movements in the calculated fair value of put option derivatives is provided below:
2010 2009
£m £m
Balance at 1 January (31.4) (41.3)
Revisions of estimated fair value recognised in the income statement 0.2 13.5 
Put options issued (3.4) (9.8)
Put options settled 1.5 3.6 
Exchange differences (1.4) 2.6 
Balance at 31 December (34.5) (31.4)
Fair value is calculated based on the discounted value of expected future payments. Subsequent changes in the fair value of
the liability are recognised in the income statement.
An increase of 1% in the rate used to discount the expected gross value of payments would lead to a decrease in the recorded
liability of £0.5m.
Analysis of derivative financial instruments
Current Non current Current Non current
2010 2010 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Derivative liabilities that are designated and effective as 
hedging instruments carried at fair value
Cross currency swaps – (13.4) – (22.1)
Cross currency interest rate swaps –– – (1.2)
Interest rate swap –– – (1.7)
Derivatives carried at fair value through profit and loss
Forward foreign currency contracts (2.2) – (2.0) –
Put option liabilities (11.2) (23.3) (1.6) (29.8)
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit and loss
Held for trading derivatives that are not designated 
in hedge accounting relationships:
Forward foreign currency contracts 3.2 – 0.2 –
Cross currency interest rate swaps – 8.0 
Interest rate swap – 0.5 ––
(10.2) (28.2) (3.4) (54.8)
Loans and receivables are discussed in this note and note 17, and available-for-sale financial assets are disclosed in note 16.
All other financial instruments are held at amortised cost except for derivative financial instruments which are held for
trading at fair value through profit and loss.  97 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
19. Financial instruments / (continued)
b) Maturity profile of Group financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Valuation techniques and assumptions applied for the purposes of measuring fair value (continued)
Analysis of hedge effectiveness
2010 2009
£m £m
Cash flow hedges
Amount recognised in equity during the period 4.6 (18.5)
Reclassified from equity to profit or loss during the period (4.2) 12.8 
0.4 (5.7)
Fair value hedges
Fair value movement arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge 7.6 (3.5)
Adjustment to hedged items in a designated fair value hedge (7.6) 3.5 
– –
Ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement that arises from cash flow hedges and fair value hedges totals less than
£0.1m in the current and prior year. No ineffectiveness arises from the Group’s hedges of net investments in foreign
operations.
Maturity of borrowings
The maturity profile of the anticipated future cash flows (including interest) in relation to the Group’s non-derivative financial
liabilities, on an undiscounted basis and which, therefore, differ from both the carrying value and fair value, is as follows:
2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
External Other External Other 
loans liabilities Total loans liabilities Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than 1 year 115.7 65.0 180.7 67.6 46.1 113.7 
1-2 years 169.4 9.8 179.2 192.2 38.6 230.8 
2-5 years 381.9 14.9 396.8 228.3 26.6 254.9 
More than 5 years 255.2 11.7 266.9 335.9 21.0 356.9 
922.2 101.4 1,023.6 824.0 132.3 956.3 
Effect of discount / financing rates (342.9) (0.9) (343.8) (295.1) (3.6) (298.7)
579.3 100.5 679.8 528.9 128.7 657.6 
The maturity profile of the Group’s financial derivatives (which include interest rate and foreign exchange swaps), using
undiscounted cash flows, is as follows:
2010 2010 2009 2009
Payable Receivable Payable Receivable
£m £m £m £m
Less than 1 year (377.4) 382.0 (248.6) 252.7 
1-2 years (7.9) 12.1 (9.6) 13.6 
2-5 years (16.6) 27.3 (19.2) 29.8 
More than 5 years (16.2) 28.7 (20.6) 36.0 
(418.1) 450.1 (298.0) 332.1 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 98 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
19. Financial instruments / (continued)
b) Maturity profile of Group financial assets and liabilities (continued)
Maturity of borrowings (continued)
The maturity profile of the Group’s put option liabilities, using undiscounted cash flows, is as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Less than 1 year 11.2 1.6 
1-2 years 9.9 10.5 
2-5 years 7.7 14.5 
More than 5 years 7.5 7.0 
36.3 33.6 
Effect of discount / financing rates (1.8) (2.2)
34.5 31.4 
The Group had the following undrawn, committed bank borrowing facilities available at 31 December in respect of which all
conditions precedent had been met at that date:
2010 2009
£m £m
Expiring between one and two years – 376.4 
Expiring between two and five years 450.0 –
450.0 376.4 
c) Interest rate profile
The following interest rate and currency profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities is after taking into account any
interest rate and cross currency swaps entered into by the Group.
Financial assets
The table below summarises current financial assets by interest type. The Group’s non-current financial assets do not bear
interest.
Floating Non-interest Floating Non-interest 
rate bearing 2010 Total rate bearing 2009 Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
GBP 45.8 0.2 46.0 3.6 1.3 4.9 
USD 44.2 9.7 53.9 70.1 4.9 75.0 
EUR 63.3 3.5 66.8 104.7 6.4 111.1 
Other currencies 199.7 28.0 227.7 176.5 23.6 200.1 
353.0 41.4 394.4 354.9 36.2 391.1 
Trade receivables 2,071.8 1,723.1 
Other financial asset receivables 97.9 115.2 
Derivative financial assets 3.2 0.2 
2,567.3 2,229.6 
The majority of cash is invested in short term fixed rate deposits of less than one month with the balance in interest bearing
current accounts. It is management’s view that the short term nature of these deposits means they effectively act as floating
rate assets.
The floating rate financial assets above are represented by cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits. 99 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
19. Financial instruments / (continued)
c) Interest rate profile
Financial liabilities
Floating Non-interest Floating Non-interest 
Fixed rate rate bearing 2010 Total Fixed rate rate bearing 2009 Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
GBP 192.5 130.8 – 323.3 25.0 240.5 (4.5) 261.0 
USD 176.4 32.1 7.8 216.3 170.3 32.4 2.2 204.9 
EUR 123.1 0.3 – 123.4 119.2 0.7 2.3 122.2 
Other currencies 23.7 47.0 0.2 70.9 16.0 45.4 0.2 61.6 
Gross borrowings 515.7 210.2 8.0 733.9 330.5 319.0 0.2 649.7 
Issue costs of debt (3.4) – (4.8) (8.2) –– (1.4) (1.4)
512.3 210.2 3.2 725.7 330.5 319.0 (1.2) 648.3 
Trade payables 2,130.5 1,737.6 
Deferred consideration 43.7 34.4 
Other payables 294.5 314.8 
Other non-current liabilities 35.6 52.9 
Derivative financial liabilities 50.1 58.4 
3,280.1 2,846.4 
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows:
2010 2009
% %
Bank overdrafts 3.9 4.3
Bank loans 6.3 4.1
Loan notes 3.7 3.1
The Group’s borrowings, excluding the US$342m of unsecured loan notes issued in 2005, US$125m of unsecured loan notes
issued in 2007 and US$183m and £25m of the unsecured loan notes issued in 2009 incur interest at floating rates.
At 31 December 2010, it is estimated that a general simultaneous parallel uplift of 1% in interest rates would increase the
Group’s reported profit by approximately £0.3m (2009: £0.1m reduction). The sensitivity is symmetrical.
d) Sensitivity analysis
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 1% increase in Sterling against the significant foreign currencies of 
the Group. The sensitivity analysis was performed taking outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and
adjusting their translation at the period end for a 1% change in foreign currency rates. The sensitivity analysis includes
external loans. For a 1% weakening of sterling against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact 
on the profit and other equity.
Euro currency impact US dollar currency impact
2010 2009 2010 2009
£m £m £m £m
Potential profit (decrease)/increase (0.1) (0.1) 1.8 1.7 
Other equity 1.4 1.4 1.0 0.9 
In management’s opinion, the sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk as certain financial
instruments are used to hedge exposures on retranslation of the Group’s operations denominated in currencies other than
Sterling, which are outside the scope of IFRS7. This sensitivity analysis excludes the foreign currency translation risk of the
foreign operations, and had this been included the sensitivities would have been disclosed as follows:
Euro currency impact US dollar currency impact
Sensitivity analysis including hedging instruments 2010 2009 2010 2009
that are outside the scope of IFRS 7 £m £m £m £m
Potential profit decrease (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
Other equity – – – –
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 100 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
20. Deferred tax /
Tax on 
Aegis Media Other  
Recognition Deductions exceptional short term
of Financial Purchased in respect debtor temporary 
Liabilities Intangibles of Goodwill impairment Losses differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 – asset/(liability) 3.4 (17.0) (14.3) – 5.3 12.3 (10.3)
Deferred tax on intangibles – (15.2) ––– – (15.2)
Deferred tax on acquisitions ––– –– 3.5 3.5 
Amounts charged to equity ––– –– (0.1) (0.1)
Amounts credited/(charged) to the 
income statement (3.2) 6.9 (4.2) 11.1 12.0 2.3 24.9 
Exchange rate differences – (1.1) ––– 3.4 2.3 
At 31 December 2010 – asset/(liability) 0.2 (26.4) (18.5) 11.1 17.3 21.4 5.1 
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. The following is the
analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset).
2010 2009
£m £m
Deferred tax liability (44.2) (35.8)
Deferred tax asset 49.3 25.5 
5.1 (10.3)
The Group has the following temporary differences in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
2010 2009
£m £m
Losses – revenue 67.5 109.7 
Losses – capital 100.2 101.9 
Other temporary differences 6.5 20.5 
174.2 232.1 
The tax losses and other temporary differences have no expiry date. The total amount of tax losses and other temporary
differences for which no deferred tax was recognised at 31 December 2009 was £232.1m.
Balances in the subsidiary entities are shown on a 100% basis, regardless of ownership percentage. Balances in associates and
joint ventures are not included.
During the year, deferred tax assets totalling £8.7m were recognised in jurisdictions where tax losses have been incurred in the
current period, to the extent that expected future profitability in those jurisdictions means that utilisation of these tax losses is
judged to be probable.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of £161.5m (2009: £97.3m) relating to the unremitted earnings of
overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable
that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The temporary differences at 31 December 2010 represent only the unremitted
earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally
as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which these subsidiaries operate. 
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures are insignificant. 101 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
21. Provisions /
Onerous 
lease 
provision
£m
At 1 January 2010 3.4 
Additional provision in the year 7.0 
Utilisation of provision (2.6)
Exchange differences 0.2
At 31 December 2010 8.0 
The Group’s vacant leasehold properties are principally located in the UK. Provision has been made for the residual lease
commitments for the remaining period of the leases, which at 31 December 2010 is approximately 1.6 years (2009: 1.5 years).
Contingent liabilities
The Group and its subsidiaries are subject to legal challenges and claims from time to time, and such claims are vigorously
defended. The Directors do not anticipate that the outcome of pending legal proceedings, either individually or in aggregate, will
have a material adverse effect on the consolidated accounts or on the operations of the Group.
22. Share capital /
2010 2010 2009 2009
Number of ordinary shares £m Number of ordinary shares £m
Authorised:
Ordinary shares of 5p each 1,500,000,000 75.0 1,500,000,000 75.0 
Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid:
At 1 January 1,161,268,910 58.1 1,158,801,112 58.0 
Issue of shares by the Company 123,877,156 6.2 2,467,798 0.1 
At 31 December 1,285,146,066 64.3 1,161,268,910 58.1 
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. The ordinary shares of 5p each have full
voting rights. 
Included within the issue of shares by the Company are 116,672,515 shares issued as consideration on the acquisition of Mitchell
Communication Group.
23. Own shares /
At 31 December 2010, the Aegis Group Employee Share Trust (the “Trust”) held 28,442,769 Ordinary Shares in the Company
(31 December 2009: 18,898,210) with a nominal value of £1.4m (31 December 2009: £0.9m) and a market value of £40.0m 
(31 December 2009: £22.6m).
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Aegis Group plc acquired in the open market by the Trust using funds
provided by Aegis Group plc. The Trust has an ongoing arrangement with the Group to waive all dividends. The Trust has
purchased the shares to satisfy future share awards under the Group’s share-based payment schemes.
24. Share premium account /
2010 2009
£m £m
At 1 January 245.5 243.5 
Issue of shares by the Company 150.3 2.0 
At 31 December 395.8 245.5 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 102 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
25. Acquisition of subsidiaries /
Mitchell Communication Group
In November 2010 the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Mitchell Communication Group, Australia’s leading
marketing communication group, to enhance Aegis Media’s offering in the region, particularly in digital media. The consideration
was delivered in a combination of cash and shares.
Consideration paid, excluding acquisition costs, totalled £229.1m with no deferred consideration. The Group’s newly issued
ordinary shares primarily relate to the acquisition of the Mitchell Communication Group. The shares of Aegis Group plc are listed
on the London Stock Exchange and therefore the consideration is valued using the closing share price on 16 November 2010 of
£1.2790. A provisional summary of the net assets acquired and goodwill arising in respect of Mitchell Communication Group is
given below:
Carrying Accounting 
amount policy Fair value Fair value 
acquired alignment adjustments of net assets
Net assets acquired: £m £m £m £m
Intangible assets 7.1 – 39.7 46.8 
Property, plant and equipment 4.8 –– 4.8 
Deferred tax asset 1.9 2.7 – 4.6 
Trade and other receivables 133.6 –– 133.6 
Work in progress 0.4 –– 0.4 
Cash and cash equivalents 12.9 –– 12.9 
Trade and other payables (177.3) (9.1) – (186.4)
Deferred tax liability (1.1) – (13.6) (14.7)
Other current liabilities (11.3) –– (11.3)
Other non-current liabilities (19.6) –– (19.6)
Net assets (48.6) (6.4) 26.1 (28.9)
Goodwill capitalised in the period 258.0 
Consideration 229.1 
Satisfied by:
Consideration paid – Cash 79.9 
Consideration paid – Equity (116,672,515 ordinary shares in Aegis Group plc) 149.2 
229.1 
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenues for 2010 would have been £1,519.9m
and Group profit before interest and tax would have been £105.7m, or £208.6m on an underlying basis. Post acquisition revenue
from Mitchell was £12.6m, with underlying profit before interest and tax of £2.0m, reduced to £nil after amortisation of purchased
intangibles. Goodwill capitalised in the period represents the expected future benefits of improving the breadth of the Group’s
service offering and anticipated operational synergies. No goodwill capitalised in the period is deductible for income tax purposes. 
Other acquisitions excluding Mitchell Communication Group
During the period, the Group acquired subsidiaries as detailed below:
% Non-controlling 
Company Country of incorporation % Acquired interests recognised Date of acquisition
Synovate
SalesOut UK 51% 49% January
JPA Europe UK 51% 49% November
In January 2010, the Group acquired a 51% equity share in SalesOut Ltd (“SalesOut”), a market research company incorporated in
the UK, thereby obtaining control of SalesOut. This acquisition was entered into primarily to strengthen the Group’s UK operations
in the retail data analysis area of the market research industry. The acquisition was supplemented in November through the
acquisition of JPA Europe, which further enhances the Group’s offering in this field.
In May 2010, the Group acquired all of the trade and assets of Magic Touch, a media company incorporated in the UK. This
acquisition was entered into primarily to enhance the Group’s media offering in the UK. 103 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
25. Acquisition of subsidiaries / (continued)
Other acquisitions excluding Mitchell Communication Group (continued)
During the period, the Group also acquired additional stakes in existing subsidiaries as detailed below:
% Acquired 
Country of (Total Group Date of 
Company incorporation holding) acquisition
DataCom CRM Spain 7.0 (80.0) January
AgenciaClick Brazil 1.8 (94.3) May
Age Brazil 1.8 (94.3) May
iProspect Brazil Brazil 3.1 (95.6) May
If the acquisitions above (excluding additional stakes in existing subsidiaries and Mitchell) had been completed on the first day of
the financial year, Group revenues for 2010 would have been £1,460.2m and Group profit before interest and tax would have been
£105.2m or £196.4m on an underlying basis. Post acquisition revenue and profit before interest and tax on 2010 acquisitions was
£6.1m and £0.8m respectively on an underlying basis, with a statutory loss before interest and tax of £0.6m.
Goodwill capitalised in the period represents the expected future benefits of improving the breadth of the Group’s service offering
and anticipated operational synergies. No goodwill capitalised in the period is deductible for income tax purposes. All non-
controlling interests are measured at the non-controlling interest share of the carrying value of net assets.
Consideration paid for acquisitions other than Mitchell Communication Group, excluding acquisition costs, totalled £3.8m with
estimated deferred consideration of £0.2m payable in 2012, subject to performance criteria. In those cases where the Group
achieved control of subsidiaries for the first time, the acquisitions are not individually material to the Group and therefore the
following disclosures are provided in aggregate. 
A provisional summary of the net assets acquired and goodwill arising in respect of all other acquisitions made in the year
excluding Mitchell Communication Group is given below:
Carrying 
amount Fair value Fair value 
acquired adjustments of net assets
Net assets acquired: £m £m £m
Intangible assets 0.2 5.1 5.3 
Property, plant and equipment 0.1 – 0.1 
Other assets 0.4 – 0.4 
Trade and other receivables 0.4 – 0.4 
Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 – 0.5 
Trade and other payables (0.1) – (0.1)
Other Liabilities (1.5) – (1.5)
Deferred tax liability – (1.3) (1.3)
Net assets – 3.8 3.8 
Non-controlling interest on current period acquisitions (1.8)
Goodwill capitalised in the period 2.0 
Consideration 4.0 
Satisfied by:
Consideration paid 3.8 
Deferred consideration 0.2 
4.0 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 104 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
26. Other non-current liabilities /
2010 2009
£m £m
Deferred consideration 20.0 35.8 
Pensions (see note 31) 6.1 8.4 
Other 9.5 8.7 
At 31 December 35.6 52.9 
Deferred consideration
Deferred consideration, which has been included within trade and other payables to the extent that it is due within one year 
(note 18), may be paid to the vendors of certain subsidiary undertakings in the years to 2015. Such payments are either fixed
under the terms of the acquisition or are contingent on future financial performance. Deferred consideration arising on
acquisitions completed prior to 1 January 2010 is presented at the Directors’ best estimate of the total payable. Changes in such
estimates in the current period have led to an increase in the liability of £15.9m. Deferred consideration treated in this way is
discounted at the Group’s weighted average cost of borrowing. The Directors estimate that, at the rates of exchange ruling at the
balance sheet date, the discounted liability at the balance sheet date for payments that may be due is as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Within one year 43.7 34.4 
Between one and two years 7.7 25.8 
Between two and five years 12.3 9.8 
Greater than five years – 0.2 
At 31 December 63.7 70.2 
The minimum potential liability is £17.3m and the maximum potential liability is £163.5m.
Following the adoption of IFRS 3 (revised), deferred consideration arising on acquisitions completed from 1 January 2010 must be
recorded at fair value on acquisition, with subsequent changes now reflected in the income statement. Deferred consideration of
£0.2m arises on current year business combinations therefore this change has not had a material impact on classification or
measurement for the current period.
Liabilities in respect of put options granted to NCI are disclosed as derivative liabilities. Their expected maturities and a
reconciliation of movements in the year are given in note 19.
27. Contingent asset /
As reported in prior years, during 2006 the Group became aware of a fraud perpetrated against Aegis Media Germany. The Group
has successfully recovered a portion of the monies expected to be due. Further recoveries are anticipated in future years but the
value to be received is not sufficiently certain to be recognised as an asset. 105 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
28. Notes to the cash flow statement /
2010 2009
£m £m
Operating profit 101.5 114.6 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 22.7 23.7 
Amortisation of intangible assets 35.1 32.2 
Impairment of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.4 
Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 13.9 1.0 
Net loss on disposal of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 0.5 1.2 
Share-based payment charge 8.3 7.1 
Other non-cash movements – (0.1)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 4.4 (1.0)
Decrease in restructuring related liabilities (9.4) (7.0)
177.3 172.1 
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (248.1) 174.4 
(Increase)/decrease in work in progress (2.3) 6.1 
Increase/(decrease) in payables 305.6 (153.5)
55.2 27.0 
Cash flows from operations 232.5 199.1 
Analysis of net debt
Other 
1 January non-cash Exchange 31 December 
2010 Cash flow movements movements 2010
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash and short-term deposits 391.1 (11.6) – 14.9 394.4 
Overdrafts (4.9) 2.1 – (0.2) (3.0)
Cash and cash equivalents 386.2 (9.5) – 14.7 391.4 
Debt due within one year (38.6) (42.2) – (3.5) (84.3)
Debt due after more than one year (606.2) (36.8) 16.1 (19.7) (646.6)
Net debt before issue costs of debt (258.6) (88.5) 16.1 (8.5) (339.5)
Issue costs of debt 1.4 8.4 (1.6) – 8.2 
Total (257.2) (80.1) 14.5 (8.5) (331.3)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 106 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
29. Operating lease arrangements /
2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Land and Land and
buildings Other Total buildings Other Total
Lease payments under operating leases 
recognised in operating expenses 55.5 4.7 60.2 56.6 5.3 61.9 
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Land and Land and
Net minimum lease commitments buildings Other Total buildings Other Total
Within one year 46.1 2.9 49.0 38.1 5.5 43.6 
In the second to fifth years inclusive 110.7 4.4 115.1 91.3 10.1 101.4 
After five years 58.4 – 58.4 46.2 – 46.2 
215.2 7.3 222.5 175.6 15.6 191.2 
Operating lease payments principally represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties. Leases are
negotiated for an average term of 3.2 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 2.0 years.
30. Share-based payments /
The Group recognised a total expense of £8.3m (2009: £7.1m) in respect of all share-based payments in the year. Share-based
payments include share options and conditional share awards.
Share options
The Group issues conditional share options to certain employees. The grant price for share options is equal to the average quoted
market price of the Company’s shares on the date of grant. The vesting period is typically three years. If share options remain
unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. Share options are forfeited if the employee
leaves the Group before the options vest, unless otherwise approved by the Remuneration Committee at their discretion, and are
subject to EPS performance conditions. Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report, on page 59.
2010 2009 2009
Weighted Weighted
2010 average average 
Options exercise Options exercise
(millions) price (£) (millions) price (£)
Outstanding at beginning of period 22.2 1.17 29.4 1.16
Forfeited during the period (2.9) 1.31 (4.7) 1.29
Exercised during the period (7.2) 1.00 (2.5) 0.91
Expired during the period (4.0) 1.45 ––
Outstanding at end of period 8.1 1.12 22.2 1.17
Exercisable at end of period 8.1 1.12 19.6 1.13
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £1.00 (2009: £0.91).
The options outstanding at 31 December 2010 had a range of exercise price between £0.78 (2009: £0.78) and £1.48 (2009: £2.15),
and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.3 years (2009: 3.8 years). No options were granted in 2010. The Group did
not recognise any expense (2009: £0.4m) in respect of share options in the year. 107 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
30. Share-based payments / (continued)
Conditional share awards
The Group issues conditional share awards to certain employees. The vesting period is typically three years. The extent to which
awards vest is determined in documented scheme rules and may be based on the employees’ continuing employment, the
Company’s TSR performance relative to a group of similar businesses and the Company’s EPS growth relative to RPI. Further
details are provided in the Remuneration Report.
The fair value of conditional share awards was determined using a stochastic model using the assumptions given in the table
below.
2010 2009
Weighted average share price (£) 1.19 0.88
Expected volatility 41.0% 37.2%
Risk free rate 1.5% 3.4%
Expected dividend yield 2.2% 3.2%
During 2010, 16.0m conditional share awards were granted (2009: 14.5m), with a weighted average fair value per share of £1.02
(2009: £0.72) at the relevant measurement date.
The Group recognised a total expense of £8.3m (2009: £6.7m) in respect of conditional share awards in the year.
31. Retirement benefit schemes /
Defined contribution schemes
Retirement benefits for employees are principally provided by defined contribution schemes which are funded by contributions
from Group companies and employees. The amount charged to the profit and loss account of £12.0m (2009: £11.9m) represents
contributions payable in the year to these schemes at rates specified in the rules of the plans. As at 31 December 2010,
contributions of £3.0m (2009: £3.5m) due in respect of the current reporting period had not been paid over to the schemes.
Other retirement benefit schemes
The Group operates a small number of retirement benefit schemes that do not fall under the definition of defined contribution
schemes, principally where required by local statutory regulations. The principal schemes are located in Germany, Italy, France
and Norway. Under these schemes, the Group’s liabilities in respect of past service are fixed as a percentage of past salaries, but
the schemes do not meet the definition of defined contribution schemes because contributions have not been paid to a separate
entity. These schemes are not considered by management to represent standard defined benefit schemes and do not vary
significantly in terms of the Group’s liability. However, IAS 19 requires that these schemes be disclosed as defined benefit
schemes. The numbers below are in respect of all material Group defined benefit schemes, unless otherwise stated. 
The most recent actuarial valuations of plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation were carried out at 
31 December 2010. The present value of the defined benefit obligation, the related service cost and the past service cost were
measured using the projected unit credit method.
The principal assumptions used are set out below.
2010 2009
Germany Italy France Norway Germany Italy France Norway
Discount rate 5.1% 5.0% 4.5% 4.5% 5.8% 4.0% 5.2% 4.4%
Expected rate of increase 
in pensionable salaries – 3.0% – 5.7% – 2.0% – 5.6%
Expected rate of increase 
in pensions in payment 2.0% –– 4.5% 2.0% 2.0% – 4.3%
Expected long-term rate 
of return on plan assets 5.1% –– 4.3% 5.8% –– 4.0%
Inflation assumption – 2.0% 2.0% 1.4% – 2.2% 2.0% 1.5%
The principal defined benefit schemes in Germany and Norway are funded. The assets of these schemes are held separately from
those of the Group in independently administered funds, in accordance with scheme rules and statutory requirements. The
unfunded defined benefit schemes are principally in Italy and France.
During the year, the majority of the employees in Norway were transferred to a defined contribution scheme.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 108 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
31. Retirement benefit schemes / (continued)
Other retirement benefit schemes (continued)
The table below shows the amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined
benefit retirement schemes and the expected rates of return (net of administrative expenses) on the assets in the schemes.
2010 2010 2009 2009
% £m % £m
Equity instruments 5% 0.2 53% 5.5 
Other assets 95% 4.0 47% 4.9 
Fair value of pension scheme assets 100% 4.2 100% 10.4 
Present value of defined benefit obligations (11.5) (18.8)
Deficit in scheme (7.3) (8.4)
Related deferred tax asset 1.2 1.2 
Net pension liability net of deferred tax asset (6.1) (7.2)
The actual gain on scheme assets was £5.3m (2009: £0.3m loss). The plan assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial
assets, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The amounts charged to operating profit are as follows: 
2010 2009
£m £m
Current service cost 0.3 (1.1)
There were no charges in relation to past service in either the current or prior years.
The amounts credited to investment income and charged to finance costs are as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Expected return on pension scheme assets 0.1 0.4 
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (0.1) (0.8)
– (0.4)
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (0.1) (0.3)
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities (0.1) 0.2 
Amount recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (0.2) (0.1)
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
At 1 January 18.8 16.6 
Service cost (0.3) 1.1 
Interest cost 0.1 0.8 
Contributions from scheme members 0.6 0.4 
Actuarial gains and losses 0.1 (0.2)
Benefits paid (1.8) (0.3)
Transfer to defined contribution scheme (6.8) –
Other 0.5 0.7 
Exchange differences 0.3 (0.3)
At 31 December 11.5 18.8  109 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
31. Retirement benefit schemes / (continued)
Other retirement benefit schemes (continued)
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
At 1 January 9.7 7.7 
Expected return on scheme assets 0.1 0.4 
Actuarial gains and losses (0.1) (0.3)
Benefits paid (0.7) 0.4 
Contributions from scheme members 0.5 1.3 
Transfer to defined contribution scheme (6.2) –
Other 0.7 0.1 
Exchange differences 0.2 0.1 
At 31 December 4.2 9.7 
History of experience gains and losses:
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Present value of defined benefit obligations (£m) 11.5 18.8 16.7 13.0 12.7 
Fair value of scheme assets (£m) 4.2 9.7 7.8 5.8 4.7 
Difference between the expected and actual 
return on scheme assets:
Amount (£m) (0.1) (0.3) (0.6) (0.2) –
Percentage of scheme assets (2.4)% (3.1)% (7.8)% (3.1)% –
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) 0.1 0.2 0.6 0.3 –
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities 0.9% 1.1% 3.6% 2.3% –
The estimated amount of contributions to be paid to the scheme during 2010 is £0.4m (2009: £1.5m).
32. Related party transactions /
Remuneration of key management personnel
The following is the compensation of Directors and key management. Further information about the remuneration of individual
Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 58.
2010 2009
£m £m
Short-term employee benefits 2.9 2.7 
Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.2 
Termination benefits – 0.6 
Share-based payment 0.7 1.0 
4.0 4.5 
Transactions with associated undertakings
In 2010, Group subsidiary companies purchased media space from associated undertakings totalling £29.7m (2009: £18.7m). 
The balance due from Group companies to associated undertakings at the end of 2010 was £13.4m (2009: £8.6m). The balance
due from associated undertakings to Group companies at the end of 2010 was £6.8m (2009: £2.8m).
Other related party disclosures
Harold Mitchell, a director of the Company, holds 46,652,393 Aegis Group plc shares and unless otherwise agreed with the
Company will retain at least 85% of those shares for 2 years from 17 November 2010. Harold’s son, Stuart Mitchell, is a director
and employee of Mitchell Communication Group Limited, which was acquired by Aegis Group plc in the year. Mitchell
Communication Group Limited leases premises from Mitchell Land Pty Ltd, of which Harold Mitchell is a director, and from
another member of his family for a combined annual rental charge of £1.2m. The lease terms end in 2011 and 2020.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 110 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
33. Subsequent events /
a) Receivable impairment
Following the end of the reporting period, one of the Group’s former Spanish clients, Nueva Rumasa, and certain affiliated
companies filed for pre-insolvency protection under section 5.3 of Spanish Insolvency Law. As these companies have
outstanding liabilities owing to an Aegis subsidiary in Spain, a provision has been recorded for the Group’s exposure, of which
£25.9m is taken as an exceptional charge in the year (£37.0m on a pre-tax basis). 
b) Acquisitions
In February 2011, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Clickthinking, an award-winning digital search and
performance agency incorporated in South Africa. Clickthinking will join the iProspect network within Aegis Media, where it
will compliment iProspect’s search engine marketing expertise, as well as giving iProspect a presence in Africa. 
In December 2010, the Group announced an agreement to acquire a majority stake in COMCON, Russia’s leading independent
market research agency. This acquisition required clearance from Russian competition authorities, which was received in
March 2011, allowing the acquisition to complete.
At the time of issuing the Group’s annual report, the initial accounting for these acquisitions is incomplete and therefore
further disclosure will be provided in the Group’s Interim Financial Statements. 111 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Income statement
Revenue 1,459.4 1,346.5 1,342.0 1,106.4 996.9 
Underlying profit before interest and tax 196.2 170.0 179.7 149.4 133.8 
Underlying profit before tax 162.4 150.4 168.4 133.5 118.1 
Profit before tax 68.0 91.2 124.6 131.7 113.5 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 41.2 62.7 82.8 88.5 76.3 
Balance sheet
Non-current assets 1,628.1 1,200.7 1,345.7 938.7 766.6 
Net current (liabilities)/assets (198.4) (6.5) (5.4) 35.6 (97.2)
Non-current liabilities (761.3) (749.7) (880.5) (668.0) (452.8)
Net assets 668.4 444.5 459.8 306.3 216.6 
Financed by:
Equity 654.9 431.9 442.5 299.8 209.1 
Non-controlling interests 13.5 12.6 17.3 6.5 7.5 
668.4 444.5 459.8 306.3 216.6 
Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Earnings per share
– Basic 3.6 5.5 7.3 7.8 6.8 
– Diluted 3.6 5.5 7.3 7.8 6.8 
Underlying earnings per share
– Basic 10.3 9.6 10.5 8.3 7.2 
– Diluted 10.1 9.6 10.5 8.2 7.2 
Dividend rate per share 2.75 2.50 2.50 2.30 1.90 
The amounts disclosed for all years have been prepared under IFRS.
Underlying profit before tax and earnings per share are restated for prior years as discussed in note 2.
FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 112 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Aegis Group plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Aegis Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise
the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 16. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility
to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor /
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent
company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an
opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK
and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements /
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall
presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements /
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
– give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2010;
– have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 /
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception /
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our
opinion:
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or
– the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement
with the accounting records and returns; or
– certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
– we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter /
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Aegis Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 and on the
information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
William Touche (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, United Kingdom
16 March 2011 113 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
At 31 December 2010
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Tangible assets 4 2.9 2.1 
Investments 5 1,518.6 1,461.8 
Derivative financial assets 10 8.5 –
1,530.0 1,463.9 
Current assets
Debtors
- due within one year 6 219.2 214.4 
- due after more than one year 7 225.5 11.2 
Cash at bank and in hand 6.2 3.2 
450.9 228.8 
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 8 (715.5) (485.5)
Derivative financial liabilities 10 (2.1) (0.1)
Net current liabilities (266.7) (256.8)
Total assets less current liabilities 1,263.3 1,207.1 
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 9 (440.2) (533.1)
Derivative financial liabilities 10 (13.4) (25.0)
Net assets 809.7 649.0 
Called up share capital 11 64.3 58.1 
Share premium account 12 395.8 245.5 
Capital redemption reserve 12 0.2 0.2 
Other reserve 12 19.2 –
Merger reserve 12 13.0 13.0 
ESOP reserve 12 (33.7) (23.3)
Capital reserve 12 301.4 301.4 
Profit and loss account 13 49.5 54.1 
Equity shareholders' funds 809.7 649.0 
Company number 1403668 England and Wales
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 16 March 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
Jerry Buhlmann (Chief Executive Officer) Nick Priday (Chief Financial Officer)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 114 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
For the year ended 31 December 2010
1. Basis of preparation and accounting policies /
Basis of preparation 
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. They have been
prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
The Directors’ Report, Corporate Governance and Directors’ Remuneration Report disclosures have been made in the Group
section of this annual report, refer to pages 44 to 61.
Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the
preceding year.
The Company has utilised the exemptions provided under FRS 1 (Revised) and has not presented a cash flow statement. The
Group’s cash flow statement has been presented in the Group financial statements.
In accordance with FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures, the Company is exempt from disclosing transactions with other Group
Companies as it is a parent publishing consolidated financial statements.
As the parent company of a group drawing up consolidated financial statements that meet the requirements of IFRS 7, it is
exempt from disclosures that comply with its UK GAAP equivalent, FRS 29 Financial Instruments Disclosures.
Employee benefits
The retirement benefits for employees are provided by defined contribution schemes which are funded by contributions from the
Company and employees. The amount charged to profit and loss is the contribution payable in the year.
Share-based payments
The Company applies the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based payment. In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20
has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
Certain employees receive remuneration in the form of share-based payments, including shares or rights over shares. The cost of
equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the instruments concerned at the date at
which they are granted. The fair value is determined by an external valuer using a stochastic model. The fair value determined at
the Grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on
the Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest. At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its
estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit and loss such that the cumulative expense
reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. 
Where a parent entity grants rights to its equity instruments to employees of a subsidiary, and such share-based compensation is
accounted for as equity-settled in the consolidated financial statements of the parent, UITF 44 requires the subsidiary to record
an expense for such compensation in accordance with FRS 20 Share-based payment, with a corresponding increase recognised in
equity as a contribution from the parent. Consequently, the Company has recognised an addition to fixed asset investments of the
aggregate amount of these contributions of £7.3 million (2009: £6.0 million), with a credit to equity for the same amount.
Interest income
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable,
which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that
asset’s net carrying amount.
Leased assets
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating
leases. Operating lease rentals are charged to income statement over the lease term on a straight-line basis. In the event that
lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability and recognised as a
reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis. 115 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
1. Basis of preparation and accounting policies / (continued)
Tangible assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of all fixed assets to their residual value over their expected useful lives using the
straight-line method. It is calculated on the historic cost of the assets at the following rates:
Leasehold buildings Over the period of the lease
Leasehold improvements 10% to 20% per annum or over the period of the lease, if shorter 
Office furniture, fixtures, equipment and vehicles 10% to 50% per annum
Software 20% to 50% per annum
Other 10% to 50% per annum
The carrying value of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the
carrying value may not be recoverable.
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are held in the Company balance sheet at cost less any provisions for
impairment.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Loans
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Direct issue costs 
are amortised over the period of the loans and overdrafts to which they relate. Finance charges, including premiums payable on
settlement or redemption are charged to profit and loss as incurred using the effective interest method and are added to the
carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Derivative financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements. 
The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as a hedge the instrument must be related to actual foreign currency assets
or liabilities or to a probable commitment. It must involve the same currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and must
also reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Company’s operations. Gains and losses arising on these
contracts are deferred and recognised in the profit and loss account, or as adjustments to the carrying amount of fixed assets,
only when the hedged transaction has itself been reflected in the Company’s financial statements.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the
profit and loss account as they arise.
2. Profit for the year /
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for
the year.
Aegis Group plc reported a profit, before the payment of dividends, for the financial year ended 31 December 2010 of £24.0m
(2009: £66.3 m).
The profit for the year of £24.0m includes dividends received of £77.6 m from group companies.
The auditor’s remuneration for audit services to the Company amounted to £0.3m (2009: £0.3m) and for non-audit services
amounted to £0.6 m (2009: £0.1m).
Details of executive and non-executive directors’ emoluments and their interest in shares and options of the Company are shown
within the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 116 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
3. Staff costs /
The monthly average number of persons employed by the Company (excluding directors) during the year was 38 (2009: 38).
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
2010 2009
£m £m
Wages and salaries 4.1 3.6 
Bonus costs 0.5 0.2 
Social security costs 0.4 0.4 
Pension costs 0.3 0.4 
Staff Costs 5.3 4.6 
Staff costs include a share-based payment expense of £1.0m (2009: £1.1m).
Directors’ remuneration is disclosed in the front section of this report, refer to Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 61.
4. Tangible assets /
Long leasehold Equipment, 
and leasehold fixtures Computer 
improvements and fittings software Other Total
COST £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 0.8 2.2 0.2 1.5 4.7 
Additions 0.8 0.1 0.6 0.1 1.6 
Disposals ––– ––
At 31 December 1.6 2.3 0.8 1.6 6.3 
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
At 1 January 0.4 1.7 – 0.5 2.6 
Charge for the year 0.2 0.4 – 0.2 0.8 
At 31 December 0.6 2.1 – 0.7 3.4 
CARRYING AMOUNT
At 31 December 2010 1.0 0.2 0.8 0.9 2.9 
At 31 December 2009 0.4 0.5 0.2 1.0 2.1 
The net book value of other tangible assets includes trademarks of £0.9m (2009: £1.0m). 
5. Investments /
Shares in
Interests subsidiary 
in associates undertakings Total
COST £m £m £m
At 1 January 0.2 1,633.6 1,633.8 
Additions – 308.5 308.5 
Disposals – (233.6) (233.6)
At 31 December 0.2 1,708.5 1,708.7 
ACCUMULATED IMPAIRMENT LOSSES
At 1 January – 172.0 172.0 
Written off – 18.1 18.1 
At 31 December – 190.1 190.1 
CARRYING AMOUNT
At 31 December 2010 0.2 1,518.4 1,518.6 
At 31 December 2009 0.2 1,461.6 1,461.8 
A listing of principal subsidiary and associated undertakings is included in note 16. 117 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
5. Investments / (continued)
The Company’s associated undertaking is:
Effective interest in 
Nature of Operation Country of Incorporation ordinary share capital
Carat Philippines Inc Media Communications Philippines 30%
6. Debtors due within one year /
2010 2009
£m £m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 217.3 212.7 
Other debtors 0.9 1.1 
Prepayments and accrued income 1.0 0.6 
219.2 214.4 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings are on-demand and interest-bearing.
7. Debtors due after more than one year /
2010 2009
£m £m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 222.0 11.2 
Deferred tax asset 3.5 –
225.5 11.2 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings are interest-bearing.
During the year, a deferred tax asset totalling £5.0m was recognised which relates to tax losses bought forward to the extent that
future UK profitability means that utilisation of these tax losses is now judged to be probable. This has been netted against a
deferred tax liability of £1.5m.
8. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year /
2010 2009
£m £m
Bank overdrafts – 14.4 
Loans 6.8 6.3 
Less issue costs of debt to be amortised (1.0) (0.2)
5.8 20.5 
Trade creditors 2.2 1.3 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 698.3 456.3 
Other creditors 1.1 –
Provision for liabilities 0.5 0.4 
Accruals and deferred income 7.6 7.0 
715.5 485.5 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings are on-demand and interest-bearing.
The provision for liabilities is the Company’s vacant leasehold properties which are located in the UK. Provision has been made for
the residual lease commitments for the remaining period of the leases split as current £0.5 m (2009: £0.4m) and non-current
£1.0m (2009: £0.3m).
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 118 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
9. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year /
2010 2009
£m £m
Borrowings 442.9 533.9 
Less issue costs of debt to be amortised (3.7) (1.1)
439.2 532.8 
Provision for liabilities 1.0 0.3 
440.2 533.1 
Private placement debt – July 2005
On 28 July 2005, the Company issued US$342m of unsecured loan notes, repayable between 2012 and 2017. On 9 November 2005
cross currency swaps were entered into for US$142m of the loan notes due in 2012 and US$50m of the loan notes due in 2015 to
convert this USD fixed rate borrowing into EUR fixed rate borrowing. These loan notes are guaranteed by the Company and
certain of its subsidiaries.
Private placement debt – September 2007
On 17 September 2007, the Company issued US$125m of unsecured loan notes, repayable between 2014 and 2017. These loan
notes are guaranteed by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
Private placement debt – December 2009
On 17 December 2009, the Company issued US$183m and £25m of unsecured loan notes repayable between 2017 and 2019.
These loans are guaranteed by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. On 17 November 2009, an interest rate swap was
entered into for US$50m of the loan notes due 2019 to convert the USD fixed rate debt to USD floating rate debt. On 17 November
2009, cross currency interest rate swaps were entered into for US$18m of the loan notes due 2017 and US $115m of the loan
notes due 2019 to convert the USD fixed rate borrowing to GBP floating rate borrowing.
Revolving credit facility – July 2010
On 26 July 2010, the Company re-financed the five year £450m multi-currency credit facility with a group of international financial
institutions, which was originally entered into in June 2006. The facility is of a committed revolving nature with drawings allowable
under a variety of currencies. The facility is guaranteed by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
Loans repayable, included within creditors, are analysed as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Repayable within one year 6.8 20.7 
Repayable between one and two years 102.0 113.0 
Repayable between two and five years 123.8 144.8 
Repayable after more than five years 217.1 276.1 
Issue cost of debt (4.7) (1.3)
445.0 553.3 
Details of gross borrowings not wholly repayable within five years as follows:
5.50% fixed rate 2005 $118m private placement debt repayable 28 July 2015 – 73.1
5.65% fixed rate 2005 $65m private placement debt repayable 28 July 2017 41.7 40.3
6.29% fixed rate 2007 $50m private placement debt repayable 17 September 2017 32.1 31.0 
6.39% fixed rate 2009 £25m private placement debt repayable 17 December 2017 25.0 25.0 
6.07% fixed rate 2009 $18m private placement debt repayable 17 December 2017 11.5 11.1 
6.50% fixed rate 2009 $165m private placement debt repayable 17 December 2019 105.8 102.2 
216.1 282.7 
The loan repayable within one year includes bank overdrafts of £nil (2009: £14.4m). 119 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
10. Derivative financial instruments /
2010 2009
£m £m
Current
Derivative financial liabilities (2.1) (0.1)
Non-current
Derivative financial assets 8.5 –
Derivative financial liabilities (13.4) (25.0)
The derivative financial assets and liabilities represent the fair value of the external and intra-group foreign exchange contracts,
cross currency swaps, interest rate swap and cross currency interest rate swaps which are accounted for as fair value through
profit and loss. 
Cross currency swaps
The fair value is based on a discounted cash flow model and market interest yield curves applicable and represents movements 
in the Euro/USD foreign exchange spot rate and in Euro and USD interest rate yields. The cross currency swaps are synthetically
split to reflect the Company’s functional currency of Sterling. The USD/Sterling legs of the swaps are designated and effective as
cash flow hedges against the Company’s USD loan notes. The Euro/Sterling legs of the swaps have been designated as fair value
through profit and loss.
Interest rate swap
The fair value is based on a discounted cash flow model and market interest yield curves applicable and represents unrecognised
movements which the Company expects to realise as a result of lower or higher variable interest payments under the swap
compared with the fixed interest rate applicable on the underlying loan note. The interest rate swap is designated and effective as
fair value hedge against changes in the fair value of the debt caused by changes in interest rates/risk. Movement in the fair value
of the interest rate swap is taken to profit and loss where it offsets against similar but opposite movement in the fair value of the
debt caused by movement in interest rates.
Cross currency interest rate swaps
The fair value is based on a discounted cash flow model and market yield curves applicable and represents movements in the
GBP/USD foreign exchange spot rate and in GBP and USD interest rate yields. Movements in the fair value of the cross currency
interest rate swaps excluding the credit spread are taken to profit and loss where they offset against opposite movements in the
fair value of the USD loan notes caused by changes in interest rates and foreign exchange spot rates. Movements in the fair value
of the cross currency interest rate swaps relating to the credit spread are taken to reserves and released to the profit and loss
when the underlying portion of USD loan notes interest is recognised in profit and loss.
Details of the fair value of the Company’s derivative financial instruments are set out in note 19 of the Group’s financial
statements.
11. Share capital /
2010 2010 2009 2009
Number of Number of 
ordinary ordinary 
shares £m shares £m
Authorised:
Ordinary shares of 5p each 1,500,000,000 75.0 1,500,000,000 75.0 
Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid:
At 1 January 1,161,268,910 58.1 1,158,801,112 58.0 
Issue of shares by the Company 123,877,156 6.2 2,467,798 0.1 
At 31 December 1,285,146,066 64.3 1,161,268,910 58.1 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 120 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
11. Share capital / (continued)
Movements in called up share capital
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. The ordinary shares of 5p each have full
voting rights.
The Company issued a total of 123,877,156 shares (2009: 2,467,798) in the year with an aggregate nominal value of £6,193,858
(2009: £123,390), 7,204,641 (2009: 2,467,798) of which were due to the exercise of share options. The total share premium arising
on the issue of shares in the year was £150,253,527 (2009: £2,120,268). 
Included within the issue of shares by the Company are 116,672,515 shares issued as consideration on the acquisition of Mitchell
Communication Group.
Under the Company’s share option schemes, there were outstanding options over 8.1million ordinary shares of 5p each at 31
December 2010 (2009: 22.2 million), for which the participants have the right to exercise their options at prices ranging from
£0.78 to £1.48. These options are exercisable between 31 December 2010 and 23 March 2017.
12. Share premium account and reserves /
Share Capital Profit 
premium redemption Other Merger ESOP Capital and loss 
account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve account Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 245.5 0.2 – 13.0 (23.3) 301.4 54.1 590.9 
Retained profit for the year –– ––– – 24.0 24.0 
Cash flow hedge reserve –– ––– – (1.1) (1.1)
Share capital subscribed 150.3 –– ––– – 150.3 
Purchase of shares by ESOP –– –– (16.8) – (16.8)
Shares awarded by ESOP –– –– 6.4 – (6.4) –
Credit for share-based incentive schemes–– ––– – 8.3 8.3 
Other movements –– 19.2 –– –– 19.2 
Dividends to shareholders –– ––– – (29.4) (29.4)
At 31 December 395.8 0.2 19.2 13.0 (33.7) 301.4 49.5 745.4 
At 31 December 2010, the Aegis Group Employee Share Trust (the “Trust”) held 28,442,769 ordinary shares in the Company 
(31 December 2009: 18,898,210) with a nominal value of £1.4m (31 December 2009: £0.9m) and a market value of £40.0m 
(31 December 2009: £22.6m).
The capital redemption reserve represents the conversion, issue and redemption of shares by the Company, less expenses. 
The other reserve contains the equity component of the convertible bond.
The ESOP reserve represents the cost of shares in Aegis Group plc acquired in the open market by the Trust using funds provided
by Aegis Group plc. The Trust has waived any entitlement to the receipt of dividends in respect of all of its holding of the
Company’s ordinary shares. The Trust has purchased the shares to satisfy future share options and share awards under the
Company’s share-based payment schemes.
13. Profit and loss account /
2010 2009
£m £m
At 1 January 54.1 22.2 
Shares awarded by ESOP (6.4) (7.3)
Retained profit for the year 24.0 66.3 
Dividends to shareholders (29.4) (28.5)
Credit for share-based incentive schemes 8.3 7.1 
Cash flow hedge reserve (1.1) (5.7)
At 31 December 49.5 54.1 
For the year ended 31 December 2010, dividends paid to shareholders comprise the final 2009 dividend of £17.7m (1.54p per share)
and the interim 2010 dividend of £11.7m (1.025p per share). For the year ended 31 December 2009, dividends paid to shareholders
comprise the final 2008 dividend of £17.8m (1.54p per share) and the interim 2009 dividend of £11.1m (0.96p per share). The final
dividend for 2010, if approved, will be paid on 6 July 2011 to all ordinary shareholders on the register at 17 June 2011. 121 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
14. Share-based payments /
The Company recognised a total expense of £1.0m (2009: £1.1m) in respect of all share-based payments in the year. Share-based
payments include share options and conditional share awards.
Share options
The Company issues share options to certain employees. The grant price for share options is equal to the average quoted market
price of the Company shares on the date of grant. The vesting period is typically three years. If share options remain unexercised
after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. Share options are forfeited if the employee leaves the
Company before the options vest and are subject to EPS performance conditions. Further details are provided in the
Remuneration Report.
Details of outstanding share options are provided in note 30 to the Group’s financial statements. There were no new awards in 
the year.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £1.00 (2009: £0.91).
The options outstanding at 31 December 2010 had a weighted average exercise price of £1.12 (2009: £1.17), and a weighted
average remaining contractual life of 3.3 years (2009: 3.8 years). No options were granted in 2010.
Conditional share awards
The Company issues conditional share awards to certain employees. The vesting period is typically three years. The extent to
which awards vest is determined in documented scheme rules and may be based on the employees’ continuing employment, the
Company’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance relative to a group of similar businesses and the Company’s EPS growth
relative to RPI. Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report. 
The fair value of conditional share awards was determined using a stochastic model using the assumptions given in the table
below.
2010 2009
Weighted average share price 1.19 0.88
Expected volatility 41.0% 37.2%
Risk free rate 1.5% 3.4%
Expected dividend yield 2.2% 3.2%
15. Operating lease arrangements /
At 31 December 2010, there were the following annual commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases: 
2010 2009
£m £m
Operating lease payments recognised in expense for the year 0.6 0.5 
Operating leases that expire
Within 1 year 0.2 –
After 5 years 0.3 0.5 
0.5 0.5 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 122 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
NOTES TO THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2010
16. Principal subsidiary and associated undertakings /
All shareholdings are of ordinary shares. 
All of the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings are disclosed below. To avoid a statement of excessive length, details
of investments which are not significant have been omitted.
Country of incorporation Effective interest in issued 
and operation share capital at 31 Dec 2010
Principal subsidiary undertakings
Media Communications
Aegis Media France S.A.S France 100%
Aegis Media Iberia S.L Spain 100%
Aegis Media (Central Europe & Africa) GmbH Germany 100%
Carat Nordic AB Sweden 100%
Aegis Media Italia Srl Italy 100%
Aegis Media Ltd England and Wales 100%
Eaton Gate Inc US 100%
Aegis Media Pacific Limited England and Wales 100%
Aegis Australia Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100%
Market Research
Synovate Inc US 100%
Synovate (Holdings) Ltd England and Wales 100%
Synovate Holdings BV Netherlands 100%
Principal associated undertakings
Media Communications
Charm Communications Inc China 15.8%
L'Agence des Services de la Presse et de l'Edition SAS France 49.8% 123 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
The Group
Aegis Group plc and its subsidiaries.
Aegis Media
The media services division of Aegis Group plc.
Synovate
The market research division of Aegis Group plc.
Billings
The annualised value of media purchased and/or managed on
behalf of clients, before agency discounts.
Sales
Commissions from clients for research services to be provided
by the Group. Sales convert to revenue in accordance with the
revenue recognition policy and the timing of delivery of research
services.
Orders on hand
The cumulative value of projects recorded in sales, which have
not been completed and recognised within revenue in the year.
Turnover
Represents amounts invoiced for media handled by the Group 
on behalf of clients, together with fees invoiced for media and
research services provided.
Revenue
The value of media and research fees and commission earned 
by the Group.
Gross profit
Media and research income after deduction of all direct costs.
Net revenue
Research income after deduction of all direct costs which is
equivalent to gross profit. This item is used in respect of
Synovate only.
Gross margin
Gross profit stated as a percentage of turnover.
Operating profit
Gross profit less operating expenses.
Operating margin
Operating profit stated as a percentage of revenue.
Net new business
The estimated annualised value of media billings gained less the
estimated annualised value of media billings lost.
Reported growth
Reported growth represents the year on year growth including
the effect of new businesses acquired or disposed of during the
year and movements in exchange rates.
Organic growth
Organic growth represents the constant currency year on year
growth after adjusting for the effect of businesses acquired or
disposed of since the beginning of the prior year.
Constant currency results
Constant currency results are calculated by restating prior year
local currency amounts using current year exchange rates.
Underlying results
Underlying operating profit, underlying profit before interest and
tax, underlying profit before tax, and underlying profit after tax
are operating profit, profit before interest and tax, profit before
tax, and profit after tax respectively, stated before those items 
of financial performance that the Group believes should be
separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the
underlying performance achieved by the Group and its
businesses (“adjusting items”). In the opinion of the Directors,
such adjusting items are material by nature or amount and may
include impairment charges, profits and losses on disposals of
investments, amortisation of purchased intangible assets (being
amortisation charged on separately identifiable intangible assets
in acquired businesses), unrealised gains and losses on non-
hedge derivative financial instruments, fair value gains and
losses on liabilities in respect of put option agreements, and
one-off items which are material by nature or amount in the
opinion of the Directors, and any related tax thereon, as
appropriate. Adjusting items may also include specific tax items
such as the benefit arising on the reduction of certain tax
liabilities in a particular period and deferred tax liabilities for tax
deductions taken in respect of goodwill, where a deferred tax
liability is recognised even if such a liability would only unwind
on the eventual sale or impairment of the business in question.
Adjusting items are classified as operating, non-operating and
financing according to the nature of the underlying income or
expense.
Goodwill
The difference between the fair value of purchase consideration
of a business as a whole and the aggregate fair value of its
separable net assets.
Non-controlling interests
Partial ownership of subsidiary undertakings by external
shareholders.
Faster growing regions
Faster growing regions comprise Latin America, Central and
Eastern Europe, Asia Pacific, and the Middle East and Africa.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 124 / Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
DIRECTORS AND ADVISORS
Directors /
John Napier, non-executive Chairman 
Jerry Buhlmann, Chief Executive Officer, Aegis Group plc and Aegis Media
Harold Mitchell, Executive Chairman Aegis Media Pacific (Australia and New Zealand) 
Robert Philpott, Chief Executive Officer, Synovate
Nick Priday, Chief Financial Officer, Aegis Group plc and Aegis Media
John Brady, non-executive
Simon Laffin, non-executive
Martin Read, non-executive
Charles Strauss, non-executive
Lorraine Trainer, non-executive
Company secretary /
Andrew Moberly
Ultimate parent entity /
Aegis Group plc
Registered office /
180 Great Portland Street
London W1W 5QZ
Tel: 020 7070 7700
Fax: 020 7070 7800
Registered number /
1403668 England and Wales
Auditors /
Deloitte LLP
London 
Registrars /
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
www.investorcentre.co.uk 
Tel +44 (0) 870 889 3174
Solicitors /
Slaughter and May
One Bunhill Row
London EC1Y 8YY
Financial advisers /
JP Morgan Cazenove
125 London Wall
London EC2Y 5AJ
Numis Securities Limited
The London Stock Exchange Building
10 Paternoster Square
London EC4M 7LT  Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
TWO STRONG
OPERATING BUSINESSES…
delivering for clients
and shareholders
Aegis Media…
Our businesses
develop
communications
solutions for clients
in todays converged
media world. 
They employ over
10,000 people in 
80 countries.
>
Synovate…
A leading global custom
market research company
which generates insights to
help clients drive competitive
brand, product and customer
experience strategies. It
employs over 6,000 people 
in 62 countries.
>
Aegis Media
Carat / Isobar / Posterscope / Vizeum / iProspect
All five of Aegis Media’s major brands are world-leading
marketing and communications businesses:
> Carat is the world’s largest independent media
communications business.
> Vizeum, our challenger media brand, pioneering the
art of connection.
> Isobar, a global communications agency with digital at
its heart.
> iProspect, a leading global search marketing business.
> Posterscope is the out-of-home sector leader, and the
only truly global network, constantly pushing the
technological boundaries.
Synovate
Synovate offers clients a broad suite of custom research
solutions across a diverse range of geographies, sectors
and specialisms.
R
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS 2010
RE-FOCUSED STRATEGIC
APPROACH &
STRENGTHENED
MANAGEMENT TEAMS 
AT BOTH BUSINESSES:
SYNOVATE
PERFORMANCE
TOWARDS THE TOP
OF ITS PEER GROUP
> EXCELLENT
PERFORMANCES IN
NORTH AMERICA AND
FASTER-GROWING
REGIONS
ORGANIC REVENUE
GROWTH OF 5.8%
OPERATING PROFIT OF
£192.2M - UP 12.3%*
AEGIS MEDIA
OUTPERFORMED THE
ADVERTISING MARKET
> STRENGTHENED
FINANCIAL POSITION
ENABLED RE-FOCUS 
ON ACQUISITIONS
OPERATING MARGIN TO
13.2% - UP 70 BPS*
MOMENTUM
ACHIEVED AT
AEGIS MEDIA
AND SYNOVATE 
The paper used in this report is produced with FSC mixed sources pulp
which is fully recyclable, biodegradable, pH Neutral, heavy metal absence
and acid-free. It is manufactured within a mill which complies with the
international environmental ISO 14001 standard.
Fulmar Colour is FSC certified, PEFC certified and ISO 14001 certified
showing that it is committed to all round excellence and improving
environmental performance is an important part of this strategy. Fulmar
Colour aim to reduce at source the effect their operations have on the
environment, and are committed to continual improvement, prevention 
of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry standards.
Fulmar Colour is a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
Designed and produced by MAGEE
www.magee.co.uk
Printed by Fulmar Colour
ISO14001REGISTERED
DNVCertificationBV 013
* Underlying performance with percentages representing change at constant currency. Albania
Afghanistan
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Bosnia & Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Cambodia
Cameron
Canada
Chile
China
Columbia
Congo
Costa Rica
Croatia
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Estonia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Honduras
Hong Kong
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Ivory Coast
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kosovo
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Latvia
Lebanon
Libya
Lithuania
Macedonia
Malaysia
Malta
Mexico
Moldova
Morocco
Mozambique
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palestine
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Romania
Russia
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Slovenia
South Africa
South Korea
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tanzania
Thailand
Tunisia
Turkey
UAE
Uganda
UK
Ukraine
Uruguay
USA
Uzbekistan
Venezuela
Vietnam
Yemen
Aegis Group plc 180 Great Portland Street London W1W 5QZ
www.aegisplc.com
Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Carat
Posterscope
Vizeum
Isobar
iProspect
Synovate
STRONG MOMENTUM
for a sustainable future
Also available online…
www.aegisplc.com/annualreport/
AEGIS GROUP IS ONE OF THE WORLD’S
LEADING MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS 
& MARKET RESEARCH GROUPS.
WHO WE ARE…
There are over 16,000 of us working on
six continents in 24 time zones, continually
pioneering the worlds of media
communications and market research.
We have two strong operating businesses, Aegis Media and Synovate.
