 Being Number One 
Costain Group PLC
Annual Report 2005
Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Costain Group PLC
Costain House
Nicholsons Walk
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 1LN
Telephone 01628 842444
www.costain.com Costain is an international
engineering and construction
company, seen as an
automatic choice for projects
requiring innovation, initiative,
teamwork and high levels of
technical and managerial skills.
working
together
Financial calendar
Half year results – Announced 31 August 2005
Full year results – Announced 15 March 2006
Report & Accounts – Sent to shareholders 28 March 2006 
Annual General Meeting – T o be held 27 April 2006
Half year results 2005 – T o be announced 30 August 2006
Analysis of Shareholders
Shares
Accounts (millions) %
Institutions, companies, individuals and nominees:
Shareholdings 100,000 and over 156 321.92 90.39
Shareholdings 50,000 – 99,999 93 6.37 1.69
Shareholdings 25,000 – 49,999 186 6.01 1.79
Shareholdings 5,000 – 24,999 1,390 13.78 3.87
Shareholdings 1 – 4,999 12,848 8.06 2.26
14,673 356.14 100.00
Secretary and Registered Office
Secretary Registrar and T ransfer Office
Clive L Franks Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Registered Office Worthing
Costain Group PLC West Sussex
Costain House BN99 6DA
Nicholsons Walk T elephone 0870 600 3984
Maidenhead
Berkshire
SL6 1LN
T elephone 01628 842444
www.costain.com
info@costain.com
Company Number 1393773
Shareholder information
The Company’ s Registrar is Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway , Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. For enquiries regarding 
your shareholding, please telephone 0870 600 3984. Y ou can also view up-to-date information abourt your holdings by visiting 
the shareholder web site at www.shareview.co.uk. Please ensure that you advise Lloyds TSB Registrars promptly of a change of 
name or address.
ShareGIFT
The Orr Macintosh Foundation (ShareGIFT) operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares
whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them. Details of the scheme are available on the ShareGIFT internet site www.sharegift.org.
Lloyds TSB Registrars can provide stock transfer forms on request. Donating shares to charity in this way gives rise neither to a gain
nor a loss for Capital Gains T ax purposes. This service is completely free of charge.
Image: Page 13 Design and production Principal photography Print
Diamond Light Source Ltd. College Design Phil Starling Royle Corporate 
(© Diamond Light Source Ltd, 2006.) www.collegedesign.com Print 01 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Highlights
Contents
01 Highlights
02 Chairman’ s statement
04 Chief Executive’ s report
08 ‘Being Number One’
14 Operating review
22 Financial review
24 Board of directors
26 Report of the directors
27 Corporate governance
34 Corporate social responsibility
39 Directors’ remuneration report
50 Statement of directors’ responsibilities 
in respect of the Annual Report and 
the ﬁnancial statements
51 Independent auditors’ report to the
members of Costain Group PLC
52 Consolidated income statement
53 Consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense
54 Consolidated balance sheet
55 Company balance sheet
56 Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
57 Company cash ﬂow statement
58 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
98 Five-year ﬁnancial summary
99 Notice of annual general meeting
IBC Financial calendar
> T urnover £773.2 million 
(2004: £695.2m)
> Proﬁt from operations £25.6 million
(2004: £9.3m)
> Proﬁt before tax £25.0 million
(2004: £10.5m)
> Earnings per share 6.7p
(2004: 2.5p)
> New strategy in place: 
‘Being Number One’
> New Chief Executive and senior
management appointments
> Record forward order book 
up 73% to £1.9 billion
(2004: £1 . 1bn)
> Building on excellent 
market positions
> Balance sheet restructured: 
dividend payment and pension 
deﬁcit being addressed 02 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
I am pleased to report that the Company
continued to make good progress in
2005. The year saw a number of major
developments including the appointment
of a new Chief Executive, the successful
restructuring of the balance sheet and 
a record forward order book including
long-term contracts that give the Group
an outstanding quality and visibility of
sustainable earnings.
In September 2005, Andrew Wyllie
formally succeeded Stuart Doughty 
as Chief Executive. Andrew joined 
from T aylor Woodrow Construction
Limited where he was Managing 
Director. We were delighted to have 
found someone of Andrew’ s immense
experience of, and track record in, the
industry. Since joining Costain, Andrew
has completed a strategic review and 
this was recently approved by the Board.
He sets out in detail the key components
of the ‘Being Number One’ strategy in 
his Chief Executive’ s Report.
Following the signiﬁcant water contract
wins of the ﬁrst half, the latter part of the
year also recorded some notable
successes including a major contract 
on the M1 motorway, Costain’ s largest
road project to date, further work on 
the M25 motorway and a nuclear
decommissioning contract. These awards
further reinforced Costain’ s strategy of
targeting sectors where it can establish
leading market positions through
partnering relationships with major clients
and develop long-term framework
agreements.
Results
This is the ﬁrst set of annual results that
the Group is reporting under International
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’)
which, as previously reported, have no
impact upon the underlying cash ﬂows 
or trading activities of the Group but do
impact on the timing of accounting for
both revenue and proﬁt recognition from
the Group’ s property development
activities in Southern Spain. 
Such revenue can now only be recognised
when risk associated with ownership of the
land is transferred to the purchaser and 
all signiﬁcant acts (such as infrastructure
works) are complete. The impact of 
this change is to defer sales recognised
by the joint venture. As was previously
explained in the announcement published
on 17 August 2005 on the ‘Transfer to
IFRS’, this reduced the Group’ s earnings
for the year ended 31 December 2004 
by £6.4 million. As expected, the majority
of these infrastructure works were
completed in 2005 and the corresponding
proﬁt recognised. 
The results for the year ended 
31 December 2005 show a turnover 
of £773.2 million (2004: £695.2m). 
As expected, the balance of earnings 
for the year was more weighted towards
the second half with a full-year proﬁt
before tax of £25.0 million (2004:
£10.5m). Proﬁt after tax of £23.6 million
(2004: £8.8m) includes a contribution 
of £14.0 million from the Alcaidesa joint
venture and £3.5 million proﬁt on the sale
of half of the Company’ s shareholding in
King’ s College Hospital PFI. Earnings per
share were 6.7p (2004: 2.5p). 
At the year-end, the forward order book
was £1.9 billion (2004: £1.1bn) up 73%,
of which £760 million relates to 2006 and
of which 70% is repeat order business. 
The Group has no signiﬁcant borrowings
and net cash balances at the full-year
totalled £74.0 million (2004: £62.6m),
including the Group’ s share of cash held
by joint arrangements (construction joint
ventures) of £25.0 million (2004: £18.9m). 
The continuing changing proﬁle of the
business into framework/partnered client
relationships will result in a more evenly
balanced cash ﬂow proﬁle going forward.
Pensions
Following discussions with the Trustee of
the Costain Pension Scheme, the Board
agreed that the ﬁnal salary scheme would
Chairman’s
statement
David Jefferies, Costain Chairman (left),
pictured with Andy Wright (Thames Water
Principal Project Manager) and Costain
colleagues. 03 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
be closed to new employees who would
have the opportunity to join a deﬁned
contribution scheme. This change was
effective as of 1 June 2005. In addition,
the ﬁnal salary scheme is being changed
to a Career Average Revalued Earnings
(CARE) scheme with effect from 
1 April 2006. The Company is increasing
its contributions to the Costain Pension
Scheme from 15.6% of pensionable
salaries to 21.6% of pensionable salaries
also with effect from 1 April 2006. 
The active members of the Pension
Scheme are also increasing their
contributions from 8% to 10% from the
same date. These steps have been taken
to help address the deﬁcit on the Group’ s
pension scheme. 
Dividend
In April last year, shareholders approved 
a restructuring of the Group’ s balance
sheet, by way of a reduction of share
capital and cancellation of the share
premium account. Following the
restructuring, the Company’ s distributable
reserves were re-set at nil. As reported
last year, this will allow the Board to
consider, subject to prevailing trading
conditions, a resumption of a ﬁnal
dividend payment in respect of 2006.
As well as prevailing trading conditions, 
a resumption of dividend payments must
also take into account our obligation to
address the deﬁcit on the Group’ s pension
scheme which, as at the year-end, stood
at £69.5 million net of deferred tax.
Following extensive discussions with the
Trustee of the Costain Pension Scheme,
the Board has agreed that a resumption
of dividend payments will be matched
pound for pound by a payment into the
scheme. The Pensions Regulator, having
been approached by the Board, has
agreed the proposal in principle and
formal clearance will be sought at the
appropriate time.
Board
Charles McCole, Finance Director, had
previously notiﬁed the Board that he
wished to pursue new opportunities in 
the future and did not feel able to give a
long-term commitment to the Company.
The Board was therefore pleased to
announce on 6 March 2006 that Anthony
Bickerstaff FCCA, Finance Director of
T aylor Woodrow Construction Limited,
would succeed Charles McCole as
Finance Director at a date to be ﬁnalised
but expected to be not later than June
2006. Charles McCole will remain with the
Company to ensure a smooth handover.
Anthony Bickerstaff has considerable
experience both in the industry and the
ﬁnance arena. He will be an able
successor to Charles McCole, who has
made a signiﬁcant contribution to our
Our forward order
book stands at
record levels but, 
more importantly,
includes secure
work over a 
ﬁve-year term.
+1 38
%
+1 68
%
Proﬁt before tax increased to £25.0 million 
(2004: £10.5m).
Earnings per share 6.7p (2004: 2.5p).
successful recovery and whom we wish
well for the future. 
Outlook
The Group made good progress in 2005.
We are particularly pleased with the
forward order book, which not only
stands at record levels but, more
importantly, includes secure work over 
a ﬁve-year term of which a signiﬁcant
proportion is repeat business.
The current year has started well, with
continuing high levels of customer spend
in our targeted markets. Our ‘Being
Number One’ strategy will see a greater
emphasis on establishing market leading
positions in selected sectors and this,
combined with other actions, will help
ensure that Costain achieves its new
objective of double-digit growth in both
turnover and underlying proﬁtability over
the next three years. 
David G Jefferies
Chairman
20 March 2006 04 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Greater focus will also allow us to play 
to our core strengths, including a
reputation for technical capability coupled
with exceptional customer service.
Costain’ s recent successes have
highlighted, in many areas, a quality and
delivery of a far higher calibre than that 
of the competition. Now we must ensure
that this is a consistent theme across all 
of our operations and that everyone in the
business strives for continual excellence.
This is not new territory for Costain and
our people are very ambitious. We are
already the market leader in Asset
Management in the water sector where, 
in 2005, we were successful in renewing
all of our ﬁve-year framework contracts
and, in most cases, with enhanced
opportunity of increased turnover. 
Our people regularly receive awards 
and praise for their work. We have 
a skills base second to none, which 
is enhanced through our training and
general development programmes. 
The components of success are to 
be found in many parts of the business.
Our priority is to ensure that they are
replicated across the whole Group.
Chief Executive’s
report
I am delighted to have been given the
opportunity to lead one of the UK’ s best
known construction and engineering
companies. 
My impression of Costain before my
arrival in August 2005 was of a company
with a strong brand, quality contracts and
talented people – all of the raw materials
needed to take a business forward. 
Since joining, I have met many of the
Group’ s skilled and dedicated people 
and spoken to a wide range of
customers. There is much to inspire
conﬁdence. My predecessor, Stuart
Doughty, and his team had achieved 
a great deal. The business has grown,
there is a good order book with an
emphasis on long-term relationships 
and there is a belief, both internally and
externally, in the Group’ s ability to build 
on its recovery.
When I arrived, I said that my intention
was to embark on a course of ‘evolution
not revolution’. That remains the case. 
I have spent a considerable amount of
time analysing the strengths of Costain
and the areas which could and will be
improved. A clear conclusion was that, 
as the Group expanded during its
recovery phase, resources in certain 
parts of the business, especially in
Building, were stretched. Management
teams in those areas have been
signiﬁcantly strengthened and working
practices brought into line with those 
in the rest of the Group. 
With my fellow Executive Board Directors,
I have completed a strategy document –
‘Being Number One’. This has been
approved by the Board and will provide
the foundation for future Costain success.
‘Being Number One’
‘Being Number One’ is about striving for
leadership through focus and excellence.
Capitalising on our core strengths, it is 
a strategy to ensure that we are the best
in everything we do. Our approach is
underpinned by a strongly held belief that
developing strong market positions is a
pre-requisite for sustainable proﬁtability
and cashﬂow. 
T o grow and to create strong market
positions, we need to adopt a greater
focus in fewer areas of operation. This will
enable us to commit more resources to
those areas where we believe we have
competitive advantage and where we can
generate the greatest return.
Above: Andrew Wyllie, Costain Chief Executive,
briefs colleagues at the Channel Tunnel Rail
Link project at St Pancras. 05 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
2006 objectives
T o ensure that we deliver our strategy, 
we have set some clear objectives for
2006 which are:
> T o maintain our priority on the
management of Health and Safety, 
with zero tolerance for accidents
> T o focus our efforts and develop 
even stronger positions in our key
targeted markets
> T o achieve progress towards our three
year objective of double-digit growth 
in turnover and underlying proﬁt 
> T o provide a challenging and stimulating
working environment where our people
enjoy their jobs, can fulﬁl their potential
and are recognised for their efforts
> T o ensure we achieve improved
customer satisfaction scores by
providing excellent and innovative
project and framework solutions
> T o continue to develop our supply chain
through closer working relationships
with a reduced number of key suppliers 
> T o implement Best Practice and
rigorous risk management across
Costain to ensure that our operations
are as efﬁcient and effective as possible.
Safety, Health and Environment
I have made it clear, both internally and
externally, that safety will continue to be
Costain’ s ﬁrst priority. Everybody in the
business has a corporate and individual
responsibility to ensure that our operations
are properly and effectively managed 
in a safe, healthy and environmentally
controlled manner. We will adopt a zero
tolerance to accidents. 
We cannot afford to fail in this area, 
not least because we know that excellent
health, safety and environmental
performance also has a direct correlation
with bottom line business results. 
It makes good business sense for both
the Company and our customers. 
We are working closely with the Health
and Safety Executive (HSE) and the Major
Contractors Group on the introduction 
of further initiatives relating to speciﬁc
issues including noise, lifting, vibration
white ﬁnger, stress and asbestos working.
The Costain Safety, Health and
Environment (SHE) culture will be
developed through continuous
improvement across our operations.
Although our current performance 
places us in the upper quartile of our
industry peer group of Major Contractors,
we are still not satisﬁed, and are aiming 
for Costain to be recognised as being 
at the very vanguard of SHE leadership.
‘Being Number One’
is about striving 
for leadership
through focus 
and excellence.
Andrew Wyllie
Achieving leading market positions
Our strategy is focused on building 
long-term partnership and framework
relationships with large sophisticated 
‘blue-chip’ customers, who have the
ability to place repeat orders with Costain. 
These major customers are looking 
for Costain to deliver much more than 
just consistently high-quality projects.
Within long-term framework relationships,
they are also looking for us to be
proactive in delivering tangible beneﬁts 
to their businesses. T o do this on 
a consistent basis requires us to have 
a detailed knowledge of their operations
and the challenges that they face,
whether they be a water utility, a retailer 
or Government department. T o provide
such a service naturally requires a high
degree of sector expertise, a specialist
supply chain and teams led by
knowledgeable people. 
All of the major customers in the industry
are moving – in one form or another –
towards longer-term relationships with
contractors, and are increasingly
demanding higher levels of sector
expertise and service. Our future success
will depend on our ability to focus and
properly align our organisation to be 
at the forefront of meeting these sector
speciﬁc needs.  06 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
In the water sector, we are already the
number one contractor, and we have
every intention of retaining that position.
Costain’ s success in water is the result of
a focused strategy in pursuit of the market
leading position and the deployment of
specialist teams to deliver results. 
Drawing on the water model, we intend 
to repeat that success elsewhere,
speciﬁcally in the roads, health, education,
nuclear, rail, marine, retail, airport and oil 
& gas sectors. We will also seek to grow
our Spanish land development activity. 
In all of these markets, we already have 
a signiﬁcant presence on which we intend
to build, and our skills are recognised in
UK and international markets. 
In roads, for example, we are currently
number two and hold the leading position
in the Highways Agency Capability
Assessment T oolkit (CAT 2) that measures
a contractor’ s capabilities. Recently, 
in joint venture, we pre-qualiﬁed for the
M25 PFI scheme, which is valued at 
£1.5 billion. This is the largest single PFI
road scheme to be issued to the UK
roads market. Pursuing awards such 
as this will help to achieve our goal of
attaining the market leader position.
We have made good progress in other
sectors too such as education and health.
Key individuals, with specialist sector
knowledge, have been appointed and
high-quality teams are actively pursuing
new opportunities. 
The construction market is generally
buoyant and there is a high demand 
for the services provided by Costain. 
This positive environment is good news
and allows us to be more selective in
ensuring that we achieve proﬁtable growth.
Financial growth
It is important that we continue to grow
our business so that we can achieve 
even stronger market positions, provide
numerous career opportunities for our
people and deliver increasing returns for
our shareholders.
We will deliver our 2006 proﬁt and
turnover targets through a range of
initiatives such as customer targeting,
product innovation, effective key account
management and building stronger
relationships with clients. This objective 
is underpinned by having already secured
£760 million of turnover for 2006. 
People
Our success will depend largely on the
quality of our people. Simply put, to be
the best and to be Number One, we will
need to continue to recruit, retain and
develop the very best people.
We have a vibrant, challenging and
growing business – and an environment
that provides tremendous opportunities
for everybody. Our policy is to provide
proper recognition and reward for the
efforts of both individuals and teams,
where appropriate. We are committed 
to linking reward to performance.
We are prioritising training and
development, detailed performance
reviews and succession planning. 
We have already put in place an 
Executive Development Programme 
for senior management advancement.
The majority of participants have already
been promoted. 
As we continue to grow we must further
develop project management, design
management and commercial skills
through forums and the general sharing 
of best practice. 
Customer satisfaction
Improving customer satisfaction by
understanding their needs and exceeding
their expectations through excellent
delivery is essential to achieving repeat
orders. We must also work to enhance
our reputation with our customers so that
they recommend us to others.
Key Account Managers have been
appointed for each of our customers. 
It is their job to manage and co-ordinate
the overall Costain relationship with that
customer. It is also their responsibility to
maximise the number of projects and
services that we provide to that customer
from across the Costain organisation. 
We ask our customers to provide regular
detailed feedback on our performance
increasingly using the Costain Heartbeat
approach, which is the Company’ s 
in-house scorecard to measure
performance. We monitor the feedback
by project, division and across the whole
of Costain and, we take appropriate
action where necessary.
It is encouraging that our customer
performance results generally indicate 
a steady improvement. However, detailed
analysis indicates that there is still room
for speciﬁc improvement. Enhanced
targets have been set for 2006 to 
ensure that we continue to enhance 
our reputation with our customers.
Supply chain
Costain recognises the potential for
enhanced performance through
developing long-term partnership
relationships with suppliers. 
These mutually beneﬁcial relationships,
based on trust and a common set of
objectives, deliver real business beneﬁts
to both parties. By providing greater
certainty of future workload to our
suppliers, we generate commitment,
encourage innovation, strip out duplicated
and abortive costs, improve efﬁciency 
and increase reliability. 
T o achieve this, we are concentrating on
supplier development within key trades
and have set a speciﬁc supply chain
action plan. This includes a reduction in
the number of suppliers.
Risk management 
When a customer purchases a project
from Costain, that customer rightly
expects the very best service that we can
offer. Likewise, it goes to the heart of our
values that Costain people are committed
to doing a good job.
Consequently, we have set out clear
procedures to help ensure that we deliver
our objective of consistently high levels 
of service. These processes are called the
Implementation of Best Practice (IBP) and
are mandatory on every Costain project.
I am committed to ensuring we have 
a strong focus on processes, and that
these are constantly reviewed and
updated to ensure that they are still as
relevant, efﬁcient and effective as they
should be. An important area that will
receive much attention in 2006 is design
management.
Chief Executive’s report
continued 07 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
We must also appreciate that there are
risks associated with some of the things
that we do, and so live risk registers are
maintained on every project. Risk
assessments are carried out on all of our
activities and, where appropriate, detailed
method statements are put in place.
Risks and opportunities are also reviewed
at a corporate level, and a new Executive
Investment Panel has been formed to
review all major new project opportunities.
Conclusion
‘Being Number One’ is as much about
corporate culture as it is about strategy. 
It highlights and focuses on Costain’ s
strengths which will be the building blocks
for the future. Everybody at Costain must
aim to be and supply the best. There
must be a commitment at all times to
premier performance and mediocrity will
not be accepted. This is already part of
the Costain culture and that is why I am
optimistic about the future. All our
stakeholders – who include shareholders,
customers, suppliers, local communities
and employees – are looking to Costain
to maintain the momentum into the future 
as we seek to occupy the Number One
position in everything we do. 
Andrew Wyllie
Chief Executive
20 March 2006
Costain Non-Executive Directors visited the
Company’s St Martin-in-the-Fields project 
in London. Pictured are (left to right) Geoff
Hunt, Costain Project Manager; Saad Shehata, 
Costain Non-Executive Director; The Rt Hon
The Earl of Home, CVO, CBE, Chairman 
of Coutts & Co, (Lord Home is an advisor to the
St Martin-in-the-Fields fundraising campaign);
Dato’ Ahmad Senin, Costain Deputy Chairman;
Azman Sulaiman, Costain Non-Executive
Director and Hugh Player, St Martin-in-the-
Fields Chief Executive. 08 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Costain has tremendous strengths – 
a great brand, a strong order book 
and highly motivated people. 
Our key objectives for 2006 are:
> T o maintain our priority on the management 
of Health and Safety , with zero tolerance 
for accidents...
Press Release
The Sirhowy Enterprise Way is Costain’s
ﬁrst PFI road scheme. The project, in South
Wales, has created a new road which will
help bring thousands of jobs to the local
area. Costain completed the road nearly
four months ahead of schedule. Our
photograph shows John Bryant, Costain
Non-Executive Director (left), with Harry
Andrews, Leader of Caerphilly County
Borough Council. In the background is 
the cable-stay Chartist Bridge, a central
feature of the project.
Costain has a joint venture project with 
China Harbour to design and construct the
breakwater for a liqueﬁed natural gas (LNG)
receipt terminal at Baja California, Mexico
(pictured top).
Above: Bill Ballard (left), Costain Non-Executive
Director, with Stephen Wells, Business
Development Director.
fast faster
‘Being Number
One’ 09 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Despite the complexity of the Channel Tunnel
Rail Link project at St Pancras, 2.7 million 
man-hours were completed with zero lost 
time accidents.
Zero 10 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
N
o
1
£1 .9bn
We are already the market leader in Asset
Management in the Water sector.
Record forward order book.
> T o focus our efforts and develop even stronger
positions in our key targeted markets...
> T o achieve progress towards our three year
objective of double-digit growth in turnover 
and underlying proﬁt...
Press Release
Victoria Leyshon, Costain sponsored
student (pictured left) won Student of the
Year at Loughborough University in 2005.
William Wong, another Costain student,
won the Student of the Year title at the 
2005 London Construction Awards. 
smart sma 11 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
> T o provide a challenging and stimulating
working environment where our people 
enjoy their jobs, can fulﬁl their potential 
and are recognised for their efforts...
Above: Costain continues its Building
Awareness initiative which raises awareness 
of the construction industry through direct
involvement and partnership with a number 
of schools across the UK.
David Jefferies, Costain Chairman (pictured
below), at Thames Water’s London Water
Control Centre. Costain won the Best Small
Water Project and Environmental categories 
in the 2005 Thames Water Engineering Awards.
arter 12 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
> T o ensure we achieve improved customer
satisfaction scores by providing excellent and
innovative project and framework solutions...
> T o continue to develop our supply chain
through closer working relationships with 
a reduced number of key suppliers...
Costain is responsible for the PalaceXchange
project in North London (artist impression
pictured top). The contract will provide 22 shop
units and 530 parking spaces over 6 levels.
The CTRL project at St Pancras (above).
The Diamond Synchrotron is the largest
scientiﬁc facility to be built in the UK for 
30 years. Project Manager, Jim Gamble
(pictured far right) with Phil Grimson,
Assistant Design Manager.
Press Release
Costain has targeted Safety as its ﬁrst
priority. The Company announced in 2005
that it had won 38 Royal Society for the
Prevention of Accidents’ Occupational
Health and Safety Awards, including 21
golds and a President’s Award for COGAP
which is given to those organisations that
have achieved a minimum of 10 consecutive
gold awards. 
safe safer > T o implement Best Practice and rigorous
risk management across Costain to ensure
that our operations are as efﬁcient and
effective as possible.
13 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 14 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Operating review
Of our record £1.9 billion 
order book at the end of 
2005, 77% is in the core 
civil engineering activity.
£600m
As the delivery of AMP3 comes to a close,
Costain will have delivered over £600 million 
of capital work to the UK Water companies 
in 700 projects to quality, time and best whole
life value. 15 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Civil Engineering 
In Civil Engineering, proﬁt was £16.0 million
on a turnover of £329.8 million. Of our
record £1.9 billion order book at the end
of 2005, 77% is in the core civil
engineering activity. 
Water
2005 brought continued success for
Costain in securing further long-term
programme delivery framework contracts
from Water companies for the next ﬁve
years, which positions Costain as the
leading delivery contractor in the UK
Water market.
As the delivery of AMP3 comes to a
close, Costain will have delivered over
£600 million of capital work to the UK
Water companies in 700 projects to
quality, time and best whole life value.
We have resecured contracts with
increased scope and value for our 
existing customers, United Utilities and
Yorkshire Water, to add to those contracts
re-secured with Thames Water and Dwr
Cymru Welsh Water late last year. In June,
we were awarded a £60 million ﬁve-year
framework for clean water process and
distribution by a new customer, Bristol
Water Company, which built on speciﬁc
contracts undertaken for this client in its
AMP3 programme. These frameworks
have been fully integrated into our Asset
Management organisation and we now
have signiﬁcant projected capital spend
committed in the second and third years
of AMP4.
April 2005 saw the award from Southern
Water to Costain of the largest individual
programme framework secured to date.
Costain is working alongside United
Utilities and Montgomery Watson Harza 
in a joint venture company, 4 Delivery
Limited, to deliver Southern Water’ s
complete capital process programme 
in AMP4, worth £750 million over the 
next ﬁve years. Over 40% of the total
programme is currently under design 
and work commenced on site within 
12 weeks of the transfer of 120 existing
Southern Water delivery staff to our new
venture. This delivery model is at the
forefront of the market place and
successful performance will give Costain
the ability to develop further long-term
security in the Water market well beyond
2010. By March 2006, we will have
commenced construction on 80 of the
270 contracts to be undertaken.
Major capital projects in Water continue 
to sit alongside these long-term
frameworks as part of our strategy 
in AMP4 to continue to grow asset
management. We are now in the ﬁnal
stages of commissioning our £100 million
Design & Build Perry Oaks/Iver South
scheme for Thames and BAA, to provide
new sewerage processing and transfer
operations from the T erminal 5 site at
Heathrow. This will be fully operational in
July 2006, well before the T erminal opens.
On the K3 Costain Black & Veatch Joint
Venture for Southern Water, we
successfully delivered the £15 million
Lewes Old T own Flooding Scheme 
to support the EA and DEFRA in
eliminating the town centre inundation
suffered in 2003. The £110 million AMP3
programme was completed in February
2006 when the last of the 54 schemes 
at Romsey Waste Water Treatment Works
was handed over three months early.
From the reputation gained both here and
during the Southern Water K3 programme,
Costain was successful with Black &
Veatch in winning the £66 million major
coastal sewerage upgrade at Margate
and Broadstairs, Kent. This three year
contract commenced in April 2005 and
gives Costain the opportunity to continue
to deploy its tunnelling and marine skills as
part of capital process delivery pedigree,
for water companies. The project is
forging ahead of programme and the
team has delivered some innovative value
solutions for Southern Water.
Costain installed a new 25-metre 
railway bridge in West London 
(pictured above) as part of 
the White City redevelopment. 16 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
The award of these contracts in 2005 
has lifted the forward order book in Water
to £820 million at 2005 prices and gives
us a platform for strategically developing
the business alongside our Water
company partners. The forward order
book does not include the potential to
extend the framework contracts for 
a further period of ﬁve years. 
In Spring 2005, Costain, with its joint
venture partner Severn Trent, commenced
delivery of water and waste water
services to approximately 1,500 Ministry
of Defence sites under the Aquatrine ‘C’
PFI project, which continues to go well. 
Roads
In the Roads sector, Costain scored
another notable achievement when the
£34 million Sirhowy Enterprise Way PFI
contract in South Wales was successfully
delivered nearly four months ahead of
schedule and is now being maintained
as part of the 30-years concession
period. At £85 million the Porth Relief
Road is the largest local authority highway
scheme in the UK. Costain is on target 
to complete substantially this logistically
complicated ECI contract by the end 
of the year.
Substantial road contract additions 
to the forward order book have been
secured during 2005 with the award of
three Highways Agency ECI Contracts:
A2/M25 (£138 million), M25 Holmesdale
(£57 million) and M1 J10-13 Joint Venture
(£429 million). 
Costain won the new Walton Bridge over
the Thames for Surrey County Council
(value £14 million) and an upgrade of the
J9 Interchange on the M62 at Rochdale,
together with an adjoining major
remediation and infrastructure contract 
for a business park (value £24 million) for
Wilson Bowden PLC and the Highways
Agency. Costain is well advanced with 
this major project for a developer who
specialises in brownﬁeld sites nationally
and who will be releasing major plots in
September 2006 with overall completion
in April 2007 .
Rail
In Rail, we are ahead of programme to
deliver the major rail infrastructure for
Chelsﬁeld Plc to allow that company’ s
development at White City Retail City to
proceed. Costain constructed new
bridges and, at the end of February 2006,
built retaining walls on the LUL
Hammersmith and City Line together with
demolishing redundant infrastructure. 
At the end of July 2005, the major bridge
was slid into position during a 72-hour
possession. As a result of the success
with this client, we have been awarded
further new station works for LUL on the
project to a value of between £8 million
and £12 million. These performances
have provided signiﬁcant opportunities 
to develop market share in the South East
Rail Sector.
Work on the Channel Tunnel Rail Link
Contract at St Pancras continues and 
the construction of the new Thames Link
Station infrastructure was completed. 
The focus now is on ﬁnishing the new
Midland Mainline Station, which is due 
to be opened in 2006. Despite the
complexity of the scheme, 2.7 million
man-hours were completed with zero
lost-time accidents, a testament to the
quality of the management and
supervision.
King’ s Cross Underground redevelopment
nears completion with only minor
architectural ﬁnishings and commissioning
remaining. The station will open in
summer 2006. A contract for the
refurbishment of Battersea Park Railway
Station, part of the redevelopment of
Battersea Power Station, was awarded 
in the last quarter of 2005 with a value 
of £20 million. 
Operating review
continued 17 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Nuclear Decommissioning
Moving the Costain capital delivery 
model and skills developed in the Water
market into the developing Nuclear
Decommissioning market has been 
a key expansion priority over the last 
12 months. In 2005, we have delivered 
a series of small decommissioning
projects at AWE Aldermaston, Burghﬁeld
and Harwell facilities. Out-performance
has now been recognised with a preferred
bidder position on a long-term framework
under the control of the Nuclear
Decommissioning Authority (NDA) at
Aldermaston and a £6 million contract at
Winfrith for the Dragon facility for the
United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority.
In addition, at Trawsfynydd in North Wales,
we have recently secured a ﬁve-year
major civils works framework for
decommissioning work at the Transfer
Station estimated at £35 million over
the ﬁve-year contract period and work
commenced in November 2005 on 
the foundations of the low level waste
(LLW) store.
Costain is building from these framework
contracts and has signiﬁcant opportunity
to bid for further decommissioning
contracts at Hinkley Point, Winfrith,
Chapelcross and Sellaﬁeld in 2006. 
Marine
With regard to Coastal Defence Works, 
in March 2005, HRH Duke of York
opened the new harbour and arm at West
Bay, Dorset. This high quality three year
£18 million contract was delivered on
some of the most exposed coastline in
the South West. In the North, another
arduous coastal defence scheme for
DEFRA at Withernsea on Spurn Head,
Humberside. In the second half of 2005,
Costain won a £4 million coastal
protection scheme at Whitstable.
As a leading contractor in container port
development, our teams are currently
locked in the ﬁnal tender stages of bidding
for the £250 million plus port development
at Felixstowe Landguard for Hutchison
Whampoa. The client has received full
unconditional planning consent and we
anticipate this contract will commence
construction in June, 2006. As reported 
in our Interim Statement 2005, the ﬁnal
settlement of the Felixstowe Stage T wo
development is in part the subject of an
insurance claim as a result of ground
movement in the early part of the
contract.
We were also selected to bid to P&O on 
a shortlist of ﬁve contractors for its
ﬂagship port development within Thames
Gateway Development at ‘London
Gateway Port’. T wo bids submitted for
this £300 million new container port have
been extended until the end of July 2006,
while the takeover of P&O by Dubai World
Ports is completed.
In addition, 2006 will bring further
signiﬁcant port expansion marine
opportunities at Hull, Brixham and
Stranraer. Costain is hopeful of securing 
a major port infrastructure contract to
construct over the next three years and, 
in addition, has a team engaged in winning
a position on the next Environment
Agency national framework due to be
awarded in early 2007 .
Airports
At the New Robin Hood Airport at
Doncaster, Costain handed over aircraft
stands and taxi-ways worth £10 million,
built in less than six months to allow 
Peel Holdings to open the Airport on
programme in March 2005. This was
Costain’ s ﬁfth consecutive successful
delivery to Peel Holdings.
Fresh from success at Doncaster, 
we were awarded a three year aircraft
pavement framework by Manchester
Airport for all its airports valued in excess
of £50 million and we have just completed
the ﬁrst major project being new charter
stands at Manchester Airport (value 
£22 million) and a taxi-way widening 
at East Midlands Airport. 
Costain is building
from these (nuclear)
framework contracts
and has signiﬁcant
opportunity to bid
for further
decommissioning
contracts. 18 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
The Building
Division grew 
by 36% in 2005
completing 
the year with 
a turnover 
in excess of 
£300 million.
Building
In Building, turnover was £321.6 million
which delivered a proﬁt of £4.3 million. 
The Building Division grew by 36% in
2005 completing the year with a turnover
in excess of £300 million, thus
establishing Costain as a major national
player in the sector. As referred to in the
Chief Executive’ s report, this rapid growth
stretched resources and has resulted in
some lower margin business. These
issues are being addressed, key
management appointments have been
made and robust actions taken to
strengthen procurement and operational
controls across the business. The volume
of new work taken on has given the
division the critical mass to enable it to be
more selective in tendering future projects
which in the medium term will lead to
enhanced proﬁt. 
Winning the 2005 Major Contractor 
of the Year Award by Building Magazine 
was evidence of the progress made
during the year.
2005
Winning the 2005 Major Contractor of the Year
Award by Building Magazine was evidence 
of the progress made during the year.
Operating review
continued 19 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Health
In the Health sector, ﬁnancial close was
reached on Shropshire Quality Services
in the Community PFI and the Company
entered into a contract with Nations
Healthcare on its £34 million Day
Treatment Centre facility at Queens
Medical Centre. ProCure21 has continued
through the year and contracts were
completed on £30 million of new
schemes. 
Also during the year, construction was
completed on the Kent Care Homes PFI
and the operational phase is underway.
The Broadmoor project was also
successfully completed for West London
Mental Health NHS Trust in September
2005. The Company sold half of its
shareholding in King’ s College Hospital
PFI in 2005, realising a proﬁt of 
£3.5 million. This is the ﬁrst investment
that we have sold into the secondary
market. It is intended to sell the balance 
in 2006.
Preferred Bidder status was achieved on
the 3 Shires PFI project, the ﬁrst batched
PFI project for the NHS with a total capex
value of approximately £60 million.
Construction is underway at Kingston
Hospital PFI. 
Education
Good progress has been made in the
education sector. The Ealing and Kent
Schools PFI projects both reached
ﬁnancial close. The John Madejski
Academy and the Glen Eyre Campus 
for the University of Southampton also
reached contract close. Stockley
Academy and the University of Kent 
at Canterbury Phase 6 were ﬁnished
successfully.
The focus that has been put into
developing a market position and
capability in Education has led to the
signiﬁcant success in achieving preferred
bidder status on the pathﬁnder Bradford
Building Schools For The Future project
which will deliver new schools through 
an education partnership, using PFI 
and traditional contracts. As with the 
3 Shires project in the Health sector,
success in these major programmes
signiﬁcantly improves the proﬁle of the
contracted workload. This in turn enables
the building of ever-stronger supply 
chain relationships and the development
of innovative solutions to differentiate
Costain’ s capabilities.
Retail
In Retail, the relationship with T esco remains
strong and Costain worked on a wide
variety of schemes under its construction
framework contract. The Enﬁeld T own
Centre redevelopment for ING Real Estate
Development UK progressed well during
the course of the year.
Costain has also been appointed to
review and assess the current situation
regarding completion of the T esco store
and tunnel at Gerrards Cross. The project
was stopped in 2005 after the collapse of
the rail tunnel. Costain was not involved in
the tunnel construction work. 
At the New Robin Hood Airport (pictured above)
at Doncaster, Costain handed over aircraft
stands and taxi-ways worth £10 million 
which were completed in less than six months.
Costain won a major community 
award at the Faculty of Building 
Awards 2005. Kuldish Dhesi (pictured 
above) compiled the Company’s entry, 
which focused on the Castle Vale 
project in Birmingham. 20 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
International
In International, turnover was £24.7 million
which delivered a loss of £2.9 million.
Work is under way at the Costa Azul
project in Mexico, despite procedural
delays in obtaining permits. Costain 
in joint venture with China Harbour
Engineering has been granted a time
extension and additional costs. 
In Africa, the T ambuwara wastewater
treatment project in Nigeria was awarded
mid-year. There have been problems in
closing out historical projects in other
areas of Africa which have impacted on
the result for 2005. Appropriate provisions
have been made.
Oil, Gas & Process
In Oil, Gas & Process, turnover was 
£52.1 million which delivered a loss 
of £1.0 million.
Costain was awarded a £30 million
contract by Conoco Phillips for the
engineering, procurement and
construction of a VOC recovery facility 
to be installed at the North Sea Petroleum
T erminal, Seal Sands, Middlesbrough.
The project is proceeding according to
schedule and budget. Also, during 2005,
WINGAS (a JV of Wintershall and
Gazprom) awarded Costain the Front End
Engineering Design of an underground
gas storage facility that will be located in
the east of England. There are several
other such facilities being planned around
the UK.
Costain’ s expertise in the design of
‘package plant’ has been utilised in the
execution of the Modulerised Active
Efﬂuent Treatment Plant project for the
British Nuclear Group at Hunterston,
Scotland. The project is scheduled to be
completed in 2007 .
In the Middle East, we executed the
shutdown and overhaul of the ADGAS
LNG Train II located on Das Island, Abu
Dhabi. Once again, the project was
completed safely, within budget and
ahead of schedule. In Iran, political
uncertainties resulted in delays to the
progress of several projects, a situation
that we monitor closely. 
In international gas processing, Costain is
executing, together with T echint, a project
for the engineering, procurement and
construction of the world’ s largest
nitrogen rejection plant for Pemex,
Mexico. In addition, we undertook early
design work for facilities that will be
located in Pakistan and Egypt. Costain
offers its proprietary cryogenic technology
to customers involved in the enhanced
production of hydrocarbons in gas
processing and in LNG.
Property Development
In Property Development, turnover was
£45.0 million which delivered a proﬁt after
tax of £14.0 million. 
The Group’ s Spanish property
development business, Alcaidesa Holding
SA, in which Costain holds a 50%
interest, had another successful year. 
The business has consolidated its original
development schemes on the Costa del
Sol near Gibraltar, and expanded its
activities into Granada province in the
municipal districts of Salobrena and Motril
ensuring a long-term business stream for
the company.
During 2005, infrastructure in Alcaidesa’ s
La Linea 2 land holding was completed
including the servicing of all developable
land with some 4.2 km of roads and 
the provision of water, electricity and
telecommunication services to all plots.
This enabled the company to complete 
a number of substantial land sales to
Spanish residential developers and to meet
its ﬁnancial objectives. In addition, a new
environmentally sensitive water treatment
plant was completed which will process
waste water from the entire Alcaidesa
development with cleansed water being
stored in new dams and used to irrigate
the Alcaidesa golf courses.
Operating review
continued
(Left to right): David Allvey, Costain 
Non-Executive Director, with Charles McCole, 
Finance Director and Martin Hunter, Group
Financial Controller.
Costain Abu Dhabi (pictured left) paid great
attention to safety and completed 1.26 million
man hours of work during 2005, without 
a single Lost Time Accident. 21 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
A second golf course is under
construction and should be ready for play
before the end of 2006. This new course
will be run in conjunction with the adjacent
existing 18 hole links course and both will
be serviced by a new club house currently
being built.
During the year, Alcaidesa was able 
to acquire a further 98 hectares of
developable land immediately adjacent 
to its San Roque 3 land holding to add 
to the 209 hectares already owned. 
This enlarged land holding, once detailed
planning consent has been achieved,
should permit about 3,000 residential
units to be built plus hotels, retail and 
two further golf courses.
At Salobrena, the company acquired a
further 3.5 hectares of developable land
next to land purchased in 2004 and also
made excellent progress in negotiating an
improved planning consent with the Local
Authority which it is hoped will lead to a
new consent during the course of 2006.
The activities in Salobrena, and the
options over land held in the nearby town
of Motril, have led to Alcaidesa opening a
new ofﬁce in Motril from which the
expansion of the Granada region will be
centred. Further expansion of Alcaidesa’ s
developments on the Costa del Sol are in
detailed negotiation with the expectation
of securing in mid 2006 land and water
rights to build a substantial yacht marina
and commercial development close 
to Gibraltar.
Safety, Health and Environment (SHE)
For the sixth consecutive year, Costain
achieved a reduction in its Accident
Frequency Rate (AFR) which now stands
at 0.25 and places the Company in the
top quartile of the Major Contractors
Group. However, we are not satisﬁed with
that performance and are constantly
looking to improve. 
Costain’ s Health and Safety performance
was recognised at the 2005 RoSPA
Awards ceremony when Costain received
38 awards in recognition of the efforts
made to keep Health and Safety at the
forefront of the Company ethos and to
generate a strong culture.
Costain has also set out to raise the 
proﬁle of environmental issues within
the business. This has been achieved 
by the delivery of a one-day site-speciﬁc
environmental awareness course across
all operating divisions of the business. 
In addition, our environmental
management system has been
developed, updated and improved 
by our own enhanced team of highly
qualiﬁed environmental specialists. This has
now been formally acknowledged by the
BSI, who recommended Costain Ltd for
an upgrade to ISO14001: 2004, 
the updated international environmental
standard, following its audit of our
systems in September 2005.
All sites with a duration of over six weeks
are now registered on the Considerate
Constructors Scheme. A key priority is 
to minimise the impact of our works on
the local neighbourhoods in which
Costain operates. Costain has received 
a number of excellent audit scores, giving
the opportunity to gain further recognition
as a caring, professional contractor and 
to enhance still further Costain’ s brand
and reputation.
T o assist and continue the drive towards 
a more sustainable Costain, promotion
and development of the ‘Save It’
campaign, aimed at reducing waste
through improved material and resources
management, recycling and reuse of
material, have continued. Roadshows,
which outline the aims of the campaign
and how to achieve them, have been
completed across the Company and
further benchmarking and monitoring 
are planned for the year ahead.
£1 4m
In Property Development, turnover was 
£45.0 million which delivered a proﬁt after 
tax of £14.0 million. 22 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
IFRS restatement
This is the ﬁrst set of annual results that
the Group is reporting under International
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’).
These have no impact upon the
underlying cash ﬂows or trading activities
of the Group but do impact on the timing
of accounting for both revenue and proﬁt
recognition from the Group’ s property
development activities in Southern Spain.
The impact of this change on the
previously reported results for the year
ended 31 December 2004 is to reduce
proﬁt after tax by £6.4 million.
In respect of the year ended 31 December
2005, the impact of the change is to
increase proﬁt after tax by £7 .2 million.
Further details are set out below.
Results 
Proﬁt before tax for the year ended 
31 December 2005 under IFRS 
increased by 138% over the previous year
to £25.0 million on turnover (including the
Group’ s share of joint ventures and
associates) up 11.2% to £773.2 million.
Underlying proﬁt (being the proﬁt before
tax and before IFRS restatements 
in respect of Spanish property, share
based payments and hedging costs) 
for the year ended 31 December 2005
was £20.7 million, up 6.2% on the
previous year.
Net interest payable amounted to 
£0.6 million (2004: £1.2m receivable)
including a pension ﬁnance cost of 
£2.8 million (2004: £1.1m cost).
Basic earnings per share increased 
168% to 6.7p (2004: 2.5p).
Cash ﬂow and borrowings
The Group generated a cash inﬂow 
of £11.4 million (2004: £8.0m outﬂow),
reﬂecting an improvement in working
capital. 
The net cash position of £74.0 million
(2004: £62.6m) includes £1.2 million 
of borrowings.
Order book
Order book improved during the year 
with a work in hand position of £1.9 billion
(2004: £1.1bn) at the end of the year and
of which 70% is repeat order business.
Shareholder funds
The Group has positive net 
operating assets of £47.0 million 
(2004: £25.1m) sustaining the continued
improvement of the last few years.
However, the impact of the deﬁcit in 
the pension scheme produced negative
shareholder equity of £22.5 million 
(2004: £44.6m negative).
Treasury controls 
Policy
The Group’ s treasury and funding
activities are undertaken by a centralised
treasury function, its primary activities are
to manage the Group’ s liquidity, funding
and ﬁnancial risk, principally arising from
movements in interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates. The Group’ s
policy is to ensure that adequate liquidity
and ﬁnancial resource are available to
support the Group’ s growth development,
while managing these risks. The Group’ s
policy is not to engage in speculative
transactions. Group Treasury operates 
as a service centre within clearly deﬁned
objectives and controls and is subject 
to periodic review by Internal Audit.
Foreign currency exposure
Translation exposure: the results of the
Group’ s overseas activities are translated
into sterling using the cumulative average
exchange rates for the period concerned.
The balance sheets of overseas
subsidiaries are translated at closing
exchange rates.
Transaction exposure: the Group has
transactional currency exposure arising
from subsidiaries’ commercial activities
overseas in currencies other than the
subsidiaries’ operating currencies. In such
circumstances, the Group requires its
subsidiaries to use forward currency
contracts to minimise the currency
exposure unless a natural hedge exists
elsewhere within the Group.
Interest rates risks and exposure
The Group holds ﬁnancial instruments 
for two main purposes: to ﬁnance its
operations and to manage the interest
rate and currency risks arising from its
operations and its sources of ﬁnance.
Various ﬁnancial instruments (for example,
trade debtors, trade creditors, accruals
and prepayments) arise directly from the
Group’ s operations. The Group ﬁnances
its operations through a mixture of
working capital and bank borrowings.
With the Group’ s low level of borrowings,
the main exposure to interest rate
ﬂuctuations arises from surplus cash,
which is generally deposited with one 
of the Group’ s relationship banks.
Liquidity risk
Group policy is to ensure that projected
ﬁnancing needs are supported by
adequate committed facilities.
The Group negotiated borrowing facilities
with its relationship banks to a maturity
date of 30 June 2007 . In addition to its
borrowing facilities, the Group has
extended its contract bonding facilities
with its relationship banks and surety
companies, all of which facilities subsist
until 30 June 2007 .
Going concern
The Directors believe, after due and
careful enquiry, that the Group has
sufﬁcient resources for its present
requirements and, therefore, consider 
it appropriate to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the 2005
ﬁnancial statements.
Financial review 23 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
International Financial Reporting
Standards
The Group has prepared its consolidated
ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2005 in accordance with
International Financial Reporting
Standards (‘IFRS’) as required by EU Law
(IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002).
Basis of preparation
The ﬁnancial information has been
prepared on the basis of the recognition
and measurement requirements of IFRS
in issue that are either endorsed by the
EU and effective/or available for early
adoption at 31 December 2005.
As permitted by IFRS1 First time adoption
of IFRS, the Group has adopted IAS 32
and IAS 39 Financial instruments with
effect from 1 January 2005: comparative
ﬁgures have not been restated. 
The Group has also decided to adopt
early IAS 19 (Revised) Employee Beneﬁts. 
The Group issued a document setting 
out the impact of the transition to
International Financial Reporting
Standards on 17 August 2005, which is
available on its website (www.costain.com) 
or from the Company Secretary. 
The main changes relate to revenue
recognition, accounting for derivative
ﬁnancial instruments and share based
payments.
Revenue Recognition
Alcaidesa, the Group’ s Spanish property
development interest, has sold parcels of
land that were subject to the completion
of certain infrastructure. Sales and proﬁts
in respect of such developments were
recognised on exchange of contract with
costs to complete on the infrastructure
element recognised accordingly.
Under IFRS, these developments fall within
the scope of IAS 18, where reference is
speciﬁcally made to situations where the
seller is obliged to perform substantial acts
to complete under the contract. Revenue
and thus proﬁt in respect of such acts
should be recognised only when the act 
is performed. 
Given the speciﬁc circumstances 
existing within these developments, 
we consider that the appropriate
treatment under IFRS is to view these
arrangements, where separable, as two
transactions, ﬁrstly the sale of the land
and secondly the provision of the
infrastructure. In such circumstances,
revenue and proﬁt are recognised on 
the land sale element of each transaction
on exchange of legal title and when all
conditions for revenue recognition under
IAS 18 are met. In respect of the
infrastructure, the proportion of revenue
and proﬁt related to the provision of these
facilities is deferred until such works 
are complete.
The impact of IAS 18 has been to defer
the amount of proﬁt shown within the
Group’ s share of proﬁts from joint ventures
and associates in previous years.
Financial Instruments
IAS 39 is relevant to the Group for the ﬁrst
time this year. Retrospective adjustment 
is not required, however from 1 January
2005, the Group must fair value derivative
ﬁnancial instruments. Management has
identiﬁed derivative ﬁnancial instruments
within the Group to be forward contracts
to buy and sell foreign currency and
interest rate and RPI swap arrangements
within the PFI investments. The Group
has assessed the effectiveness of the
hedging arrangements and the ineffective
portion of the hedge is posted to the
income statement and the effective
hedges are posted directly to reserves.
Share Based Payments
IFRS2 requires the Group to fair value
share incentives using an appropriate
model and spread fair value over 
the vesting period of the options. 
The Group has used a Black Scholes
model to value share options and has
resulted in a £0.2 million charge to the
income statement.
Charles J McCole
Finance Director
20 March 2006 24 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
David G Jefferies 
1 2 3
CBE, FREng, FIEE (Hon), CCMI,
DT ech (Hon), LLD (Hon)
Non-Executive Chairman (2001)
Age 72. Chairman of Geotrupes Energy
Limited. Formerly, Chairman National 
Grid Group Plc (1989-1999) and 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of Viridian Group Plc (1992-1999).
Chairman, 24/Seven Utilities Services
Limited (1990-2002). Chairman of Smart
Logik Plc (2000-2002). Formerly, a board
member of the Strategic Rail Authority.
Co-Chairman Indo British Partnership.
Board Member of the Royal Institution.
Dato’ Ahmad Pardas Senin 
3
FCMA, CA(M)
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
(2004) 
Age 53. Managing Director/Chief
Executive of United Engineers (Malaysia)
Berhad, the Malaysian infrastructure
development conglomerate. Concurrently,
Dato’ Senin is serving as the Managing
Director/Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of UEM
World Berhad, Deputy Chairman of PLUS
Expressways Berhad and UEM Builders
Berhad and Non-Executive Director of
Pharmaniaga Berhad all of which are
companies listed on the Malaysian
Securities Exchange. Dato’ Senin is 
also a Non-Executive Director of OPUS
Group Plc, a company listed on the
Malaysian Securities Exchange and
London Stock Exchange.
Andrew Wyllie 
BSc, MBA, FICE, CEng
Chief Executive (2005)
Age 43. Formerly, Managing Director 
of T aylor Woodrow Construction 
(2001-2005) and a member of the 
T aylor Woodrow plc Executive Committee.
Joined T aylor Woodrow in 1984 and
worked on major contracts in Africa,
Middle East, Far East and the UK.
Charles J McCole 
BA, CA 
Finance Director (2002) 
Age 53. Formerly, Finance Director 
of Sodexho UK (1994-2002).
David P Allvey 
2 3 4
FCA, ATII 
Non-Executive Director (2001)
Age 61. Non-Executive Director of
Resolution Plc, Intertek Plc, William Hill Plc
and MyTravel Plc. Formerly, Group
Finance Director Barclays Bank Plc
(1999-2000), Chief Operations Ofﬁcer,
Zurich Financial Services AG and Allied
Zurich Plc (1997-1999), Group Finance
Director of BAT Industries Plc 
(1989-1998), Board member of the 
UK Accounting Standards Board 
(1993-2003), and Non-Executive Director
of McKechnie Group Plc (1993-2000).
Frederick William Ballard 
1 3 4
OBE 
Non-Executive Director (2001)
Age 67 . Chairman of United Kingdom
Airports Group. Formerly, Director of
Alstom Power Conversion Limited 
(1986-2000), Director of Ransomes 
& Rapier Limited (1976-1986) and
Newton Chambers Limited.
John Bryant 
1 3 4
MA (Cantab), FREng, FIM, CEng, 
DSc (Hon) 
Non-Executive Director (2002)
Age 62. Non-Executive Director Welsh
Water Plc and Glas Cymru Limited since
2001. Formerly, Chief Executive of Corus
Group Plc (1999-2000), Chief Executive
British Steel Plc (1999), Executive Director
British Steel Plc (1995-1999) and 
Non-Executive Director Bank of Wales Plc
(1996-2001).
Saad Shehata 
1 2 3
BSc, Eng 
Non-Executive Director (1997) 
Age 80. Principal in Saad Y Shehata
Engineers Ofﬁce, Cairo, Egypt since 1983.
Formerly, Industrial Attaché at the Egyptian
Embassy in Germany (1959-1963),
General Manager Akaria Construction
Company, Egypt (1965-1972), General
Manager for Construction at MA Kharaﬁ
(responsible for Abu Dhabi, Saudi Arabia,
Yemen and Egypt) (1972-1980) and
Deputy Director General MA Kharaﬁ
(Construction) Kuwait (1980-1983).
Mohd Azman Sulaiman 
2 3
BSc, MSc, MBA 
Non-Executive Director (2004)
Age 41. Group Business Development
Director United Engineers (Malaysia)
Berhad, Director UEM Land Sdn Bhd and
Environment Idaman Sdn Bhd.
Notes
1
Member of Remuneration Committee
2
Member of Audit Committee
3
Member of Nomination Committee
4
Independent Non-Executive Director
Board of directors 25 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
The Executive Board
The Executive Board has primary
authority for the day-to-day management
of the Group’ s operations, following
policies laid down by the Board. 
It consists of the Executive Directors 
and certain senior managers and is
chaired by Andrew Wyllie, the Chief
Executive. The other members of 
the Executive Board are:
Clive L Franks 
(Company Secretary)
Mark Gordon 
(Managing Director – Building)
Alistair Handford
(PFI Director)
Martin Hunter
(Group Financial Controller)
David Jenkins 
(Managing Director – Regional Civil
Engineering and Asset Management)
Alan Kay 
(Managing Director – Major Civil
Engineering Projects)
Charles McCole 
(Finance Director)
Stephen Prendergast 
(Managing Director – International)
Charles Sweeney 
(Managing Director – COGAP)
Alex Vaughan
(HR Director)
Appointed 17 February 2006
Stephen Wells
(Business Development Director)
A strategy document – Being Number One –
has been sent to all Costain staff, highlighting
our future objectives. Report of the directors
The directors submit their report, together with the audited ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Activities
The progress and prospects of the Group’ s businesses are reviewed on pages 4 to 23.
Fixed assets
The Board is of the opinion that the aggregate market value of the Group’ s land and buildings is in excess of book value but that this
difference is not signiﬁcant in relation to the affairs of the Group as a whole.
Directors and directors’ interests 
Brief biographies of the present members of the Board are given on page 24.
Mr Andrew Wyllie, was appointed as an Executive Director and Chief Executive of the Company on 12 September 2005 following 
the resignation of Mr Stuart John Doughty on the same date. As Mr Andrew Wyllie was appointed by the Board during the period 
since the last Annual General Meeting, the Company’ s Articles of Association require that he retire, and being eligible, offer himself for
re-election. In accordance with the Company’ s Articles of Association, Mr John M. Bryant and Mr Saad Shehata being eligible will offer
themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting. Mr Wyllie has a service agreement with the Company but none of the other
retiring Directors has a service agreement with the Company . Mr Shehata, having been born on 20 June 1925, will have attained the
age of 80 years at the time of the Annual General Meeting and, pursuant to Section 293 of the Companies Act 1985 and Article 76 
of the Company’ s Articles of Association, notice of his age in years must be given.
No director had any material interest in any contract of signiﬁcance with the Group during the period under review. Details of directors’
emoluments and interests in shares in the Company are contained in the Directors’ remuneration report, which appears on pages 
39 to 49.
Related party transactions
Details of transactions with related parties undertaken by the Group during the year are disclosed in Note 24 to the ﬁnancial statements
on page 90.
Dividends
No dividends were paid or recommended (2004: £Nil).
Share capital and major shareholders
Details of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2005 are set out in Note 19 on page 84.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 28 April 2005, the members of the Company resolved that:
> the share capital of the Company be reduced by the cancellation of 5p per share on each of the issued ordinary shares in the capital
of the Company and the nominal value thereof be reduced to 5p;
> the amount standing to the credit of the share premium account of the Company as at the date of the Extraordinary General
Meeting be cancelled; and
> that subject to, and immediately upon, the above reduction of share capital and cancellation of the share premium account 
taking effect:
(i) each of the unissued ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company be sub-divided into two ordinary shares of 5p each;
and
(ii) Article 1(A) of the Articles of Association of the Company be deleted entirely and replaced by the insertion of the following:
‘1(A) The authorised share capital of the Company at the date of adoption of this Article is £37,343,182.40 divided into
746,863,648 Ordinary Shares of 5p each.’
Once the Special Resolution had been passed, an application had to be made to the Companies Court, Chancery Division, High
Court of Justice to approve the capital reduction. The capital reduction was conﬁrmed by the Court on 18 May 2005 and became
effective when the Order of the Court and Minute on reduction of capital and cancellation of share premium account was registered 
at Companies House on 20 May 2005 pursuant to Section 138 of the Companies Act 1985.
26 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 27 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Report of the directors
continued
The three-year savings contracts in the Company’ s 2002 Save As Y ou Earn Plan, which had been approved by shareholders at an
Annual General Meeting, held on 24 May 2002 matured in December 2005. The Company made an application for a block listing of
4,147,605 ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the Company on 11 November 2005. This was the maximum number of shares
required to satisfy the options granted to employees under the three-year savings contracts. In December 2005, a total of 3,005,100
ordinary shares of 5p each were allotted to employees. The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2005 was
£17,807,072.60 consisting of 356,141,452 ordinary shares of 5p each. Further details of the share capital are given in Note 19 to the
ﬁnancial statements on page 84. 
As at 20 March 2006, the Company had been notiﬁed in accordance with Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985 of the
following interests in its ordinary share capital:
Daedalus Projects Limited* 125,354,541 35.19%
Mohammed Abdulmohsin Al-Kharaﬁ & Sons WLL 79,168,523 22.23%
* UEM Builders Berhad owns 93% of Daedalus Projects Limited.
Corporate Governance
Throughout the year to 31 December 2005, the Company complied with the provisions of the revised Combined Code on corporate
governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 (the ‘Combined Code’), except where indicated within this report.
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code and aims to comply with
established best practice, wherever possible and where it is in the Company’ s interests.
The Board and Committees
The Board currently comprises two executive directors and seven non-executive directors of whom one is the Chairman and three are
independent non-executive directors. The Board considers its independent non-executive directors to be independent in character
and judgement. 
No independent non-executive director has:
> been an employee of the Group within the last ﬁve years;
> had within the last three years, a material business relationship with the Group;
> received remuneration other than a director’ s fee;
> had close family ties with any of the Group’ s advisers, directors or senior employees;
> held cross-directorships or had signiﬁcant links with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies;
> represented a signiﬁcant shareholder; or
> served on the board for more than nine years.
The Combined Code indicates that a Chairman of the Company should meet the independence criteria on appointment, which he did,
but thereafter the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
The remaining three non-executive directors are nominated by major shareholders, namely Daedalus Projects Limited and
Mohammed Abdulmohsin Al-Kharaﬁ & Sons WLL.
The Company is a member of the FTSE small cap companies and has been throughout the period under review. The requirement
under provision A3.2 of the Combined Code that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive
directors determined by the board to be independent is waived in respect of smaller companies. A smaller company is required to
have at least two independent non-executive directors, in respect of which provision the Company complies.
The independent non-executive directors all have terms and conditions of appointment, which are available for inspection during
normal business hours at the Company’ s registered ofﬁce. An independent non-executive director’ s appointment is for an initial 
period of three years at the expiry of which time the appointment is reviewed to determine whether the appointment should continue. 
The three nominee non-executive directors are appointed by the two major shareholders and they are entitled to hold such
appointments for so long as those shareholders hold 7% of the aggregate nominal value of the then issued ordinary share capital of
the Company . In consequence, the Company does not comply completely with provision A7.2 of the Combined Code, which requires
that all non-executive directors should be appointed for a speciﬁc term and be subject to re-election. The Company’ s Articles of
Association require that all directors including nominee non-executive directors should be subject to election by shareholders at the
ﬁrst opportunity after their appointment and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years, thus complying with
provision A7 . 1 of the Combined Code. Report of the directors
continued
Brief biographies of the executive and non-executive directors appear on page 24. The biographies illustrate that the non-executive
directors have a range of business and ﬁnancial experience that is important and relevant to the management of the Company .
The Group is controlled through its Board. The Board’ s main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide entrepreneurial
leadership of the Group, to approve the Group’ s strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary ﬁnancial and other resources 
are made available to enable the Group to meet those objectives. 
Details of Board members’ attendance at Board meetings, Audit Committee meetings, Remuneration Committee meetings and
Nomination Committee meetings during the year ended 31 December 2005 are given in the table below:
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
No. of meetings held in the year 7 5 8 1
D G Jefferies 7 Chairman 5 8 1 Chairman 
Dato’ A P Senin 4 – – –
A Wyllie (appointed 12 September 2005) 4† (by invitation)  2** (by invitation)  2 –
C J McCole 7 (by invitation)  5 – –
D P Allvey 7* 5 Chairman 2§ (by invitation) 1
J M Bryant 6 – 7 Chairman  1
S Shehata 7 3◊ 8–
A Sulaiman 6 3◊ ––
W F Ballard 6 – 8 1
S J Doughty (resigned 12 September 2005) 4 4 (by invitation) 3 (by invitation) –
† Mr Wyllie attended one Board meeting as an observer
** Mr Wyllie attended one Audit Committee meeting as an observer
* Mr Allvey attended one Board meeting for part of the time by telephone conference call
§ Mr Allvey attended one Remuneration Committee meeting for part of the time only
◊ One meeting of the Audit Committee dealt with the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards and was held in mid-
August when neither Mr Shehata nor Mr Sulaiman could attend.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters speciﬁcally reserved to itself for decision. The principal matters reserved to the Board
include: setting Group strategy and approving an annual budget and medium term projections; reviewing operational and ﬁnancial
performance; approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure; reviewing the Group’ s systems of ﬁnancial control
and risk management; ensuring that appropriate management development and succession plans are in place; reviewing the
environmental, health and safety performance of the Group; approving appointments to the Board and the appointment of the
Company Secretary; approving policies relating to executive directors’ remuneration and the severance of executive directors’ service
agreements; and ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place with shareholders. The schedule of matters reserved to the Board 
is reviewed periodically . The Company does not comply with provision A3.3 of the Combined Code, which requires the Company 
to identify a separate senior independent director for disclosure in the Annual Report and to whom concerns can be conveyed. 
The Board is of the opinion that the appointment of a Senior Independent Director would not assist further in dialogue with
shareholders. Any shareholder is free to meet with or discuss any issues that may arise with any of the directors or the Company
Secretary as they choose at any time. It is felt that an additional single point of contact other than the Chairman would not be helpful.
As required by provision A5.3 of the Combined Code, all directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary
and a procedure also exists whereby any director , wishing to do so in furtherance of his duties, may take independent professional
advice at the Company’ s expense as required by provision A5.2. In the year ended 31 December 2005, no director sought
independent professional advice.
In order to discharge their duties, the directors are provided with full and timely access to papers prior to Board meetings and the
directors are free to seek any further information they consider necessary . In addition, between Board meetings, non-executive
directors have access to the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Company Secretary in order to progress the Company’ s business.
The non-executive directors also receive a weekly report from the Chief Executive and monthly management accounts and regular
management reports and information, which enables them to scrutinise the Group’ s and management’ s performance against 
agreed objectives.
28 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 29 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Report of the directors
continued
On appointment, the directors, as required by provision A5.1 of the Combined Code, take part in an induction programme where they
receive information about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and
membership of the principal board committees and the powers delegated to the committees, the Group’ s corporate governance
practices and procedures and the latest ﬁnancial information about the Group. All newly appointed directors are also provided with 
a booklet covering the responsibilities and duties of directors of a public company together with additional relevant materials on
corporate governance produced by the Company’ s legal advisers, Slaughter and May . As to the continuing education of the executive
and non-executive directors, arrangements were made in October 2004 for Slaughter and May to conduct an in-house seminar on
topical corporate governance issues and the Operating and Financial Review and seminar papers were retained by members of the
Board for future reference. A further session with Slaughter and May on topical corporate governance issues will be arranged for 2006.
A number of Board members, independent of any formal training arranged by the Company , attend seminars and conferences on
issues relevant to their appointment as directors of a public company , particularly matters concerned with corporate governance and
audit issues. The Company keeps a record of attendances by directors at such seminars and conferences.
In 2004, the Board established a formal process for the evaluation of the performance of the Board and its principal committees. 
The evaluation was performed using a questionnaire’ which was predominantly focused on the structure and processes of the Board
and its Committees. Equity Culture Limited (‘Equity Culture’), the independent adviser who assisted the Company in the exercise,
collated the results and its report was discussed by the Board. The Board addressed such shortcomings in 2005. The Board engaged
Equity Culture again in 2005 to carry out a further evaluation of the Board. The evaluation concentrated on Board processes including
its effectiveness in making decisions and monitoring its implementation and the appropriate balance in discussion between strategic
and operational issues. The evaluation also concentrated on individual director’ s contribution to the Board and the extent to which
Board members may beneﬁt from ongoing education and training. The evaluation was undertaken using a questionnaire prepared 
by Equity Culture. The questionnaire was sent to each Board member by the Company Secretary and responses were sent directly 
to Equity Culture for collating and preparation of reports. One report provides individual feedback to each Board member . It gives 
self-scores and the score for the Board collectively and the other report contains an analysis of responses to the questionnaire and
recommendations which are currently being considered by the Board.
The Company does not comply with parts of provision A6.1 of the Combined Code in that the Chairman does not currently undertake
an individual appraisal of each director , although responses to the questionnaire referred to above provide a self-assessment of each
director’ s effectiveness and commitment. The Chairman is also involved in a regular dialogue with each director , which enables him 
to reﬁne his assessments on individual directors. The Company does not comply with provision A6.1 of the Combined Code in that
a performance evaluation is not undertaken on the Chairman, save that the questions in the most recent questionnaire were directed
to the Chairman’ s performance. The Chairman does hold meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors
being present, as required by provision A1.3 of the Combined Code.
The Chairman, Mr Jefferies, did not have any other signiﬁcant commitments during the year (provision A4.3 of the Combined Code).
In accordance with provision A1.5 of the Combined Code, the Company has in place Directors and Ofﬁcers Insurance in respect of the
directors’ duties as directors.
The principal Board Committees are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee. 
The members of the Audit Committee during the year were Mr Allvey as Chairman, Mr Jefferies, Mr Sulaiman and Mr Shehata. 
The Audit Committee has established written terms of reference, which were last reviewed, revised and re-issued on 12 March 2004.
Details of the attendance at Audit Committee meetings in 2005 are given in the table on page 28. The Executive Directors, the external
auditors, the Group Internal Auditor and Group Financial Controller attend all meetings but provision is also made for discrete meetings
between the Audit Committee and the external auditors. The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Audit Committee. Report of the directors
continued
The Company considers that it has in Mr Allvey , the Chairman of the Audit Committee, an appropriate person possessing what the
Smith Report describes as recent and relevant experience. Mr Allvey , a chartered accountant, was Group Financial Director of
Barclays Bank Plc (1999-2000) and Group Financial Director of BAT Industries Plc (1989-1998) and was a board member of the 
UK Accounting Standards Board (1993-2003). The Company does not comply with that element of provision C3.1 of the Combined
Code in that not all members of the Audit Committee are independent non-executive directors. The Audit Committee comprises one
independent non-executive director , the Chairman of the Group and two nominee non-executive directors. The Combined Code
indicates that a Chairman of the Company should meet the independence criteria on appointment, but, thereafter , the test of
independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman and, as such, there is a general discouragement to the Chairman of 
a company sitting on the Audit Committee or Remuneration Committee. The Board considers that the Company and the Audit
Committee beneﬁt from the wealth of experience and knowledge of the Chairman of the Company and he is still considered by the
Board to be independent. Notwithstanding this non-compliance with the Combined Code, the Board is satisﬁed that the effectiveness
and efﬁciency of the Audit Committee are not impaired.
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Group’ s ﬁnancial statements and any formal
announcement relating to the Group’ s performance. The Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the external
audit process and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the
external auditors. It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group and the external auditors is
maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees. The Audit Committee also reviews the Group’ s system of internal 
controls and the management of the risks facing the Group. The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function 
and is responsible for approving, upon the recommendation of the Chief Executive, the appointment and termination of the head of
that function. The Committee reviews its terms of reference and its effectiveness from time to time and recommends to the Board any
changes required as a result of the review. The Committee’ s terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary and are
published on the Company’ s website.
In 2005, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by:
> reviewing the Group’ s draft ﬁnancial statements and interim results prior to Board approval and reviewing the external auditors’
detailed reports thereon;
> reviewing the appropriateness of the Group’ s accounting policies;
> reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Group’ s external auditors;
> reviewing the external auditors’ plan for the audit of the Group’ s accounts, (this plan includes the audit scope, key risks on the
accounts, conﬁrmation of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee) and approving the terms of engagement for the audit;
> reviewing and monitoring the external auditors’ independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into
consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements;
> reviewing the Group’ s system of internal controls and its effectiveness, reporting to the Board on the results of the review and
receiving regular updates on key risk areas of ﬁnancial control;
> reviewing the internal audit function’ s terms of reference, its work programme and quarterly reports on its work during the year;
> reviewing the risks associated with the business; and
> reviewing and monitoring the Commercial Systems Replacement Project, which is concerned with the replacement of hardware
and software systems to service the following functions: ledger replacement, personnel services, customer relationships
management, supply chain management and project controls and reporting.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is one of the individuals named in the Company’ s Public Interests Disclosure Policy (whistle-
blowing procedures) to whom employees may communicate any wrongdoing at work, which they believe has occurred or is about 
to occur . The Audit Committee has wide powers to establish special investigations in the event that any wrongdoing is brought to its
notice, in particular , in the case of defalcations, fraud and theft.
The Audit Committee monitors regularly the non-audit services being provided to the Group by its external auditors, and has
developed a formal policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors to check this does not impair their
independence or objectivity , and that the Group maintains a sufﬁcient choice of appropriately qualiﬁed audit ﬁrms. The policy sets out
four key principles, which underpin the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: the auditors should not audit their own
ﬁrm’ s work, make management decisions for the Group, have a mutuality of ﬁnancial interest with the Group, or be put in the role of
advocate for the Group. Prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any services provided by the external auditors where the
fee is likely to be in excess of £25,000. The Audit Committee reviews all services being provided by the external auditors annually to
review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, taking into consideration relevant performance and regulatory
requirements so that those are not impaired by the provision of permissible non-audit services. 
30 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 31 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Report of the directors
continued
Full particulars of the Remuneration Committee are given in the Directors’ remuneration report which appears on pages 39 to 49. 
The Company does not comply with that element of provision B2.1 of the Combined Code in that not all members of the
Remuneration Committee are independent non-executive directors. The Remuneration Committee comprises two independent non-
executive directors, the Chairman of the Company and one nominee non-executive director . As previously mentioned, the Chairman
of the Company is still considered by the Board to be independent. It is felt appropriate that the Chairman of the Company should
participate in any decisions concerning remuneration owing to his experience and the fact that, encompassed in his role, is the
supervision of the Board. However , no director has any involvement in the determination of his own remuneration. Notwithstanding this
non-compliance with the Combined Code, the Board is satisﬁed that the effectiveness and efﬁciency of the Remuneration Committee
are not impaired. The Remuneration Committee’ s terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary and are published on
the Company’ s website.
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman and all non-executive directors. The Chairman is the Chairman of the
Committee. The Company does not comply with provision A4.1 of the Combined Code in that the majority of members of the
Nomination Committee are not independent non-executive directors. The Nomination Committee has established written terms 
of reference which were last reviewed, revised and re-issued on 12 March 2004. The Committee’ s terms of reference are available
from the Company Secretary and are published on the Company’ s website. This Committee meets, as required, to select and
propose to the Board suitable candidates for appointment as executive and non-executive directors. The Company Secretary is the
Secretary of the Nomination Committee. In 2005, the Nomination Committee met formally on one occasion but an ad hoc committee
of the Board comprising the Chairman and one or more non-executive Directors who are resident in the United Kingdom also met on 
some twelve of occasions to consider matters within the remit of the Nomination Committee. Details of the attendance at Nomination
Committee meetings in 2005 are given in the table on page 28. Succession planning within the Group was considered by the Board. 
The Financial Services Authority implemented Article 6 of the Market Abuse Directive (Directive 2003/6/EC) by publication of the
Disclosure Rules which became effective on 1 July 2005. The Disclosure Rules replaced the Continuous Disclosure Obligations under
the Listing Rules. The Disclosure Rules introduced new rules regarding the way listed companies manage inside information. In
consequence of the Disclosure Rules, the Company introduced a set of procedures, rules and controls to ensure compliance with the
Company’ s obligations under the Listing Rules (including the obligations under the Disclosure Rules) of the United Kingdom Listing
Authority (UKLA). It is recommended good practice that each listed company should have a Disclosure Committee. The Company
established a Disclosure Committee with its own terms of reference. The terms of reference of the Disclosure Committee are available
from the Company Secretary . The members of the Disclosure Committee are the Chairman of the Company , the Chairman of the
Audit Committee, Chief Executive, Finance Director and Group Financial Controller . The Company Secretary is the Secretary of the
Disclosure Committee. The procedures also deal with the insider list process and a code for dealing in securities. The new Model Code
is appended to the procedures.
Relationship with institutional investors and private investors
The Company continues to increase its communication with institutional investors and brokers. Presentations are made to brokers’
analysts, the press and institutional investors at the time of the announcement of the full year and half-year results. In addition, there are
meetings with analysts, ﬁnancial journalists and institutional investors throughout the year .
The Company has two key shareholders, who control the beneﬁcial interest in 57% of the issued share capital of the Company and,
also, appoint nominees to sit on the Board of the Company . However , apart from these two large shareholders, the Company has
approximately 15,000 other shareholders and the Board recognises that not all of the Company’ s private investors have regular
access to market information. All shareholders are sent copies of Annual and Interim Reports and, where appropriate, circulars and
prospectuses, and are given notice to enable them to attend the Company’ s Annual General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting
is normally attended by all directors, and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with directors after
the formal proceedings have ended. Shareholders whose shares are held by nominees may receive copies of such communications
upon request. The Company has an internet web-site, www.costain.com, on which it publishes its magazine, (“Blueprint” ), press
releases and other information concerning the Company’ s business and upon which it also publishes its annual and interim results.
The electronic version of Blueprint received, in 2005, an Award of Excellence from the British Association of Communications in
Business, which is the UK’ s leading body for internal and corporate communications.
In accordance with provision D2.1 of the Combined Code, the Company will announce the votes cast by proxy at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting. The Company complied with this obligation in respect of the Annual General Meeting in 2005. The Company
will also comply with provision D2.4 of the Combined Code by giving 20 working days’ notice of the Annual General Meeting. 
The Company complied with this obligation in respect of the notice for the Annual General Meeting in 2005. Report of the directors
continued
Review of internal controls
The Board is responsible for the Group’ s system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness. However , such system can only
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board maintains full control over strategic, ﬁnancial, operational and compliance issues. Within the overall objectives set by the
Board, the management of the Group is delegated to the Chief Executive who is assisted by other members of the Executive Board.
The responsibilities of the Executive Board include:
> the development and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration by the Board that reﬂect the longer-term objectives and
priorities established by the Board;
> implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group as determined by the Board;
> monitoring of the operating and ﬁnancial results against the plans and budgets;
> prioritising the allocation of technical and human resources; and
> developing and implementing risk management systems.
The Chief Executive has full authority to act subject to the matters reserved to the Board and to the requirements of Group Policies.
Following publication of guidance for directors on internal control “Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code”
(the T urnbull guidance), the Board conﬁrms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signiﬁcant
risks faced by the Group, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report. 
This process is reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board and accords with the T urnbull guidance. 
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls. The review covers all controls, including
ﬁnancial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Risk management
Risk management has been an important issue within the Company for many years but, following the publication of the T urnbull
guidance, the Company undertook a detailed business risk review and identiﬁed and evaluated the signiﬁcant project risks affecting
the business. At the direction of the Board, existing procedures were then reviewed and, where necessary , new procedures were
developed to manage risk. This included a speciﬁc project risk management procedure, which among other things required a T ender
Project Risk Register and a Commercial Risk Review of the contract to be prepared in respect of each contract bid. This identiﬁes key
risks, the probability of those risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and the actions necessary to manage those risks to an
acceptable level. The risks are divided into four broad categories of: safety , technical, operational and environmental and are reviewed
by the project manager and commercial manager of the project on a continuing basis following contract award. 
The commercial and contractual risks identiﬁed as part of the T ender Project Risk Register are monitored and managed by the
commercial directors and commercial managers within the operations. It is also the responsibility of the commercial directors and
commercial managers to ensure that the risks accepted are fully understood. Regular reports on commercial and contractual issues
are submitted to the Board. 
In 2005, the Company continued to progress the second phase of its Implementing Best Practice (IBP) programme, which principally
involved the Commercial Systems Replacement Project (Enterprise 1) that will see the replacement of the company ledgers system
and an updating of all commercial and project reporting systems so as to provide a co-ordinated information technology system for
the businesses. The core systems included in the replacement programme are: ledger replacement; personnel services; customer
relationship management; supply chain management; and project controls and reporting. The Commercial Systems Replacement
Project (Enterprise 1) is due to complete on a phased basis during 2006. Substantial progress was made in 2005 in rolling out the
system in the business. 
The initial key areas developed as part of the IBP programme were: risk management; planning and programming; design
management, supply chain management; sub-contract management; bid management and work winning; and project management.
These standards are presented as process ﬂowcharts and are supported by tools and guides, which are available to employees of the
Group on the Costain intranet (iCosNet). The IBP modules are monitored to ensure compliance and the programme has proved a
useful tool to identify early any underperforming sites. T raining in the IBP standards continued during 2005.
The Company has a Group Risk Co-ordinator , who is responsible for reviewing and endorsing the Projects Risk Register at the time of
tender and at various stages during the project. The Group Risk Co-ordinator will also undertake an end of contract review of the risk
register on selected projects to determine whether there are any lessons to be learnt.
32 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 33 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Report of the directors
continued
In 2005, the Executive Board, which meets monthly , established an Executive Investment Panel which meets immediately before the
Executive Board meeting. The members of the Executive Investment Panel are the members of the Executive Board. The Executive
Investment Panel reviews all projects with a value greater than £20 million, projects which involve joint venture partners and other
projects which require an equity participation. The review by the Executive Investment Panel is governed by the Executive Investment
Panel protocol, which is a fully auditable risk process. The process, among other things, ensures compliance with the Company’ s
strategic business plan designed to achieve growth in the Company’ s chosen market sectors. 
Costain Group Internal Audit provides to the Board and Audit Committee corporate and project management with independent
assurance that risks inherent to the business processes are reasonably controlled, assists management in identifying and assessing
the risks it faces in its business activities and helps management in evaluating the effectiveness of internal controls that manage those
risks. Internal Audit also promotes best practice in risk management processes to ensure delivery of corporate objectives.
Internal Audit conducted project and Departmental reviews in the UK and internationally to appraise the effectiveness of the risk
management processes. All reviews carried out during 2005 were subject to appropriate follow-up action. This short review was
designed to revisit areas previously subject to audit. It provided assurance that accepted recommendations in Internal Audit reports
have been implemented effectively resulting in improvements in the management of identiﬁed risks. The overall assessment is that 
a strong risk management culture is developing within the Company .
Internal Audit meets monthly with the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Group Financial Controller . These meetings enable Internal
Audit to discuss key ﬁndings from recent reviews and to discuss any management actions that may result. The effectiveness of the
controls in place, including risk management, forms a key agenda item. The Internal Auditor attends most Audit Committee meetings
and reports on the activities of Internal Audit. The Internal Auditor also has unfettered access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
Internal Audit also meets with the Business Systems Group on a quarterly basis. These forums allow Internal Audit to inform those
responsible for developing company systems about key issues and trends from audit assignments so as to generate a continuous
improvement feed back process. Internal Audit developed a ‘lessons learnt’ register of non-compliances identiﬁed during the year,
which was communicated to business units to ensure continuous improvement.
Management reviews the role of insurance in managing risks across the Group and brings any important issues to the attention 
of the Board. 
Operational
Controls and procedures are detailed in Group Policy Statements, procedure manuals and other written instructions. The procedure
manuals are regularly reviewed. The procedures are published on iCosNet. A method of navigating the various controls has also been
developed and is presented to the business during the various training programmes to ensure all project managers are aware of their
obligations and accountability .
The Company has developed, in the United Kingdom, operational management systems, which are accredited to ISO 9001: 2000.
These are designed to set out an operating framework that ensures a systematic approach to management to provide safe
construction processes of the highest quality . The IBP standards referred to above are incorporated within the Project Management
Plan for each new contract, which forms part of the accredited management system. The implementation and compliance with the
management system are monitored and audited on a continual basis by Internal Audit. In order to maintain the Company’ s
accreditation, external audits of the management systems are undertaken twice yearly by the British Standards Institution.
In September 2005, a monthly Project Management Report (PMR) was introduced for every project and completed by the Project
Manager . The form replaced the monthly project reporting form entitled T otal Project Report (TPR). The PMR is copied to the Chief
Executive, Commercial Director and Divisional Managing Director and Operations Directors. The information provided in the PMR
includes, HSE statistics, cashﬂow, value cost and proﬁt, claims and valuations, progress and stafﬁng levels. Guidance notes have 
been issued on the completion of the PMRs.
All projects operate in a controlled framework of safety , health and environmental systems. Execution of and compliance with these
systems are monitored by the project management and audited by health, safety and environmental advisers. Further detail on safety,
health and environmental matters is given on page 35.
The Board and Executive Board receive reports at each meeting on health, safety and environmental performance and on signiﬁcant
operational matters. The responsibility for ensuring compliance with the Company’ s procedures lies with the Executive Board. Report of the directors
continued
Financial
There is a comprehensive annual budgeting system for each business within the Group. The annual budget is discussed by 
the Executive Board and reviewed by the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Group Financial Controller prior to submission to 
the Board for approval. An updated forecast was produced quarterly and compared with the annual budget and, where appropriate, 
the previous quarterly forecast. The Company is now moving to producing a monthly rolling forecast which will be compared with 
the annual budget.
Monthly actual performance of each operation is reviewed by management and, subsequently , reported against forecast to the
Executive Board and the Board. Reports cover proﬁt and loss and cash ﬂow with an accompanying narrative on signiﬁcant issues
underlying the ﬁnancial reports.
The Group T reasury and T ax Managers report to the Finance Director who reports to the Audit Committee, from time to time, on any
issues of signiﬁcance to the Group. 
Compliance
The Group Policies contain a statement on business conduct, which emphasises the legal, ethical and moral standards that have 
to be employed in all of the Company’ s business dealings. The Company expects the highest standards from all employees.
Litigation and other legal matters were controlled in 2005 by the Company Secretary and Group Legal Adviser . With effect from 13
February 2006, Miss T racey Wood was appointed Head of Legal and will now have responsibility for litigation and the majority of legal
matters. The Company Secretary will continue in his role. A legal report is submitted to the Board in the event of a critical legal issue
and, subject to that, a review of all litigation with a value of above £10,000 is submitted to, and reviewed by , the Board annually.
Signiﬁcant changes in laws and regulations are drawn to the attention of the appropriate staff and training is given where necessary.
The processes used by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal controls
include the following:
> reviewing and agreeing the external and internal audit work plans;
> monitoring the process for formally identifying, evaluating and managing any signiﬁcant risks within the business;
> overseeing the establishment of procedures to manage perceived and real risks;
> consideration of reports from management, internal and external auditors on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of
internal control including risk management systems and any material control weaknesses;
> discussion with management of the actions taken on problem areas identiﬁed by Board members or in management reports or in
the internal/external audit reports and monitoring the follow-up on any agreed remedial action; and
> a review of the self-certiﬁcation returns on risks and internal controls from the various operating divisions of the Group.
The process of self-certiﬁcation and hierarchical reporting, which is in place, provides for a documented and auditable trail of
accountability . These procedures are relevant across Group operations and provide assurance to senior management and, ﬁnally , 
to the Board. Internal Audit also provides a degree of assurance as to the operation and validity of the systems, processes and checks
within internal control. 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of the Audit Committee meetings to the Board and the Board receives 
the minutes of all Audit Committee meetings.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Although Corporate Social Responsibility is not deﬁned as such, it is generally considered to cover Health and Safety , Environmental,
Ethical and Social issues. Corporate Social Responsibility is an increasingly important measure as to how a company is judged and the
Board is very conscious of that fact and the need to manage that risk.
34 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 35 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Report of the directors
continued
Health, Safety and Environment
In line with the Health and Safety Commission’ s view, the Company believes that Health and Safety are central to sustainable
development and the securing of a better quality of life for all. It is therefore paramount to both the Board and the Executive Board that:
> health risks or accidents to employees, subcontractors, members of the public and others who may come into contact with the
Group’ s activities are avoided; 
> the Group meets all applicable government guidelines or regulations and industry codes of practice on the environment and, 
in so doing, seeks to reduce environmental disturbance in all of the Group’ s activities;
> the Company seeks continuous improvement in working towards sustainable construction;
> the Company embraces and supports the efforts of the enforcing authorities and others through industry initiatives aimed at
continually improving the Company’ s own performance; and
> the Company develops an ethos and culture across the Group so that health, safety and environmental issues are given equal
status to all other critical aspects of the business.
In order to achieve these objectives, regular reports on health, safety and the environment are submitted to and considered by the
Board and the Executive Board. In addition, the Executive Board is responsible, for among other things, overseeing the preparation,
updating and dissemination of the Group’ s health, safety and environmental policies, monitoring health, safety and environmental
performance, ensuring that appropriate training is undertaken by employees and by employees of subcontractors and taking the
appropriate initiatives to deliver steady improvement in the health, safety and environmental performance of the Group. 
Mr Wyllie, the Chief Executive, is the Board member responsible for Health and Safety .
In 2005, Costain Limited achieved a reduction in its Accident Frequency Ratio (AFR) which stood at 0.25 at the end of the year . 
This was the sixth consecutive year in which the AFR has been reduced. The AFR for the Group is 0.20.
The Group’ s Health and Safety performance was recognised at the Royal Society for Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) Awards
Ceremony when subsidiaries of the Company received 38 awards in recognition of the Group’ s performance in Health and Safety .
As part of the Company’ s proactive approach to safety , health, and environmental management, senior representatives of the
Company have held meetings with senior executives of the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) aimed at collaborative working in order
to achieve continuous improvement in health and safety . Mr Stephen Williams, HM Chief Inspector of Construction, was invited to
address the Company’ s Senior Management Conference in September 2005 on safety issues. The Company worked closely with the
HSE in 2005 on its ‘Working Well T ogether’ campaign aimed at getting the health and safety message to the small and medium sized
enterprises in the supply chain.
The Company has undertaken a review of its occupational health management system using an independent auditor Sypol to
establish appropriate thresholds and to identify areas where the Company could improve. These will be addressed in 2006.
The Company continued to develop its Sustainability Development Strategy . The main drivers behind the development of the strategy
were the opportunity to boost business prospects, improve performance and increase proﬁtability . 
The Company has adopted principles similar to those of the UK Government on sustainability and those are: 
> being more proﬁtable through reducing costs from increased process efﬁciency and gaining revenue from market recognition and
securing supply chain relationships;
> delivering buildings and structures that provide greater satisfaction, well-being and value to customers and users;
> respecting and treating stakeholders more fairly;
> enhancing and better protecting the natural environment;
> further improving the corporate image; and
> minimising impact on the consumption of energy and natural resources.
The Sustainable Development Advisory Group comprising senior Company employees and representatives from the Construction
Industry T raining Board, the Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment and the Environmental Agency continued to give
guidance on the establishment of sustainable development principles and policy . Report of the directors
continued
In 2005, the Company has continued to promote and develop the ‘Save It’ campaign, aimed at reducing waste through improved
material and resources management, recycling and re-use of material. Roadshows, which outline the aims of the campaign and how
to achieve them, have been completed across the Company and further benchmarking and monitoring are planned for the year
ahead. The Company was in 2005 involved in case studies highlighting the amount of recycled content within projects built by the
Company . The research was carried out for the Waste and Resources Action Programme (WRAP) and the ﬁndings have been
presented at the WRAP Reconstruct Roadshows and is available on its website www.wrap.org.uk/procurement. The Company was
able to demonstrate that it could deliver projects in excess of the Government’ s intended target of 10% for recycled content within
publicly funded projects. 
During 2005, the Company concentrated on increasing environmental awareness. This was achieved by the delivery of a one-day site-
speciﬁc environmental awareness course across all operating divisions of the business. In addition, the Company’ s environmental
management system has been developed, updated and improved by the Company’ s environmental specialists. In consequence, and
following its audit of the Company’ s system in September 2005, the British Standards Institute recommended Costain Limited for an
upgrade to ISO 14001: 2004, the updated International Environmental Standard. 
The Company continues its involvement in CEEQUAL (Civil Engineering Environmental Quality Audit). Mr Peter H Fisher , the
Company’ s SHE Director is an active member of the CEEQUAL board and the Company’ s Environmental Manager sits on the
CEEQUAL T echnical Advisory Group. The plans for 2006 include increasing the number of CEEQUAL assessors and driving the
CEEQUAL ethos within the civil engineering industry . 
Regrettably , an accident occurred in March 2004 on the Strood & Higham T unnel Relining project. An employee of a subcontractor
was injured by two pieces of falling chalk. Costain Limited was prosecuted in 2005 under Section 3(1) of the Health and Safety At Work
etc Act 1974 and was ﬁned £8,000 with costs. However , it was recognised that this was an unfortunate accident, which was not
caused by poor management as there were numerous examples of good practice at the site. 
Group policies
Group policies, include:
> Business Conduct policy , which covers the legal, ethical and moral standards that the Group must adhere to in all its business
dealings. It covers conﬂict of interest and lays down stringent guidelines for the receiving and the giving of gifts, loans and
entertainment and makes it clear that the offering of a gift (however nominal in value) could constitute bribery and corruption. 
It deals with the statutes covering corruption in the United Kingdom and the Anti-T errorism Crime and Security Act 2001, which
gives extra-territorial scope to the statutes covering the United Kingdom and so covers bribery and corruption of a foreign ofﬁcial,
notwithstanding the act of bribery and corruption is carried out in a country or territory outside the United Kingdom. The policy also
prohibits anti-competitive behaviour;
> Community Involvement policy , which recognises that the work of the Company impacts on communities throughout the world. 
It is therefore important for the Group to (i) support employees involved in the community for both business reasons and their
personal development; (ii) safeguard both the built and natural environment; (iii) create employment; (iv) encourage enterprise and
promote regeneration in areas of need; (v) contribute to education and training through true partnerships and (vi) develop awareness
of the work and values of the Group and the construction industry , as a whole, as a resource for education in the wider community;
> Political and Other Charitable Donations policy , which prohibits political donations without Board approval. The Company has not
made political donations since 1990;
> Equal Opportunities policy , which provides for non-discrimination and equal opportunities. The policy is directed to avoiding
discrimination based on gender , ethnic origin, religion, age, disability or sexual orientation. The policy also contains the Company’ s
code of practice on harassment at work; and
> Public Interest Disclosure policy (‘whistleblowing procedure’ ), which encourages employees to report wrongdoing by the Company
or any of its employees that fall short of the business principles of the Group and ensures that employees who do report
wrongdoing are protected. 
The old Insider Dealing policy is now covered by the procedures, rules and controls which were issued last year to ensure compliance
with the Company’ s obligations under the Listing Rules (including the obligations under the Disclosure Rules) of the UKLA.
These policies apply worldwide but only represent some of the Group policies. The majority have been in existence for many years 
and have governed the conduct and action of the Company and its employees. Group policies are kept constantly under review. 
36 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 37 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Report of the directors
continued
Employment policies
The Company’ s vision is to have the right people, with the right blend of skills, experience and enthusiasm to exceed the Company’ s
business objectives. T o achieve this, the Company has developed values which drive all employment policies. The Company’ s
employees must be Customer focused; Open and honest; Safe and environmentally aware; T eam players; Accountable; Improving
continuously; Natural choice. 
Capitalising on what is unique about individuals and drawing on their different perspectives and experiences will add value to the way
the Company conducts its business. By attracting, recruiting and developing talent from the widest possible talent pool, the Company
can gain an insight into different markets and generate greater creativity in anticipating customer needs. The Company constantly
strives to create a productive environment, representative of, and responsible to, different cultures and groups, where everyone has 
an equal chance to succeed.
The Company is committed to positive policies, which promote equal opportunities and diversity in employment and, during 2005, 
all employment policies and procedures were reviewed. The Company believes that it is in its best business interests to offer both
employees and potential employees a fair and consistent environment in which they can contribute their best efforts and talent, 
in the knowledge that the Company will recruit, select, promote and train people on the basis of merit.
The Company acknowledges the importance for its employees in achieving a balance between work and family commitments. 
The Company follows a range of family friendly policies and will support ﬂexible working practices where possible.
A key area of activity in 2005 has been focused on the welfare of the Company’ s employees, including the introduction of an Employee
Assistance Programme, a revision to the drugs and alcohol policy , (including testing procedures) and medical and security support for
employees travelling and working overseas. The Company has extended its proactive approach towards safety into areas of
occupational health, working with the HSE on separate projects, looking at managing road safety and work related stress.
In April 2005, the Company was reviewed in respect of its Investors in People accreditation. The review was positive and the Company
continues to be recognized for the investment it makes in its people. A new approach has been adopted for performance reviews to
make the appraisal system better suited to all parts of the business and there is a renewed enthusiasm for training and development
for all, particularly for graduates, through the creation of a training and development team.
The Company employees were questioned in the Business Superbrands Survey 2005, conducted by the British Market Research
Bureau, about their attitudes towards the Company , including fairness, training and management issues. The Company was voted as
one of the top brands in the UK, with 75% of respondents feeling a strong personal attachment to the Company; 90% proud to work
with the Company; and 84% believed the Company was a good place to work, with strong support for the Company’ s approach to
providing an environment where people can give of their best through the open and honest culture and excellent training opportunities. 
Community relations
The Company’ s ‘Building Awareness’ campaign continues to be one of the cornerstones of its social sustainability strategy , raising
awareness of the construction industry amongst young people. During 2005, the Company arranged 36 events and 12 site visits,
encouraging 2,317 students to think about the possible career opportunities in the industry . One such event in March 2005 involved 
a job swap in the North West region. Ms Fiona Hull, one of the Company’ s managers, became a teacher at Great Sankey High School
for the day , promoting careers in construction. The swap was completed when Ms Margaret Harwood, a teacher at the school, joined
the building team at Manchester T ransport Interchange, becoming a builder on one of the Company’ s sites. 
The Company has agreed to be an employer for the Higher Futures 4 U initiative, a Government backed scheme to encourage 8 to10
year olds to consider career options and further education. The Company is also working with the Learning and Skills Council in Kent,
offering work experience and day release to construction students.
Students from partnerships schools, (these are schools with whom the Company has a special relationship), having been sponsored
through University , are joining the Company and other sectors within the industry as students and graduates. As a direct result of
taking part in the Building Awareness Scheme, Mr Nicholas Dow was given an industrial placement with the Company . T wo of the
Company’ s students – Mr William Wong at University College, London and Miss Victoria Leyshon at Loughborough – were awarded
‘Student of the Y ear’ Awards in 2005.
The Company received the Community Initiative Award for the Castle Vale project in Birmingham, in recognition of how the Company
worked with the local community and the beneﬁts brought to the community . Report of the directors
continued
Employee involvement
The Company provides information to its employees, both of a general company nature and to encourage awareness of ﬁnancial and
economic factors which affect the Company in various ways. These include an in-house magazine, information via our Electronic mail
system, circulation of press releases, management brieﬁngs on Company results, a report to employees on the annual accounts of the
Company and annual pension scheme reports. Participation and involvement are encouraged through regular management meetings
with employees. The Company also encourages the involvement of employees in the Company’ s performance through the Save As
Y ou Earn Scheme referred to in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 44. A large proportion of the employees who participated
in the Save As Y ou Earn Scheme, which matured in December 2005, have retained their shares in the Company .
Policy and practice on payment of suppliers
As a result of the nature of the Group’ s business, the contractual relationships with suppliers of goods and services and with
subcontractors vary according to circumstances. It is the Group’ s policy to enter into an appropriate form of contractual agreement 
on payment terms and to pay according to those terms. The Group does not follow any particular code or practice for the payment 
of creditors. In practice, the Group makes every effort to pay accordingly when it can be conﬁrmed that the supplier has provided the
goods or services in accordance with the relevant terms of the contract. The amount for trade creditors of the major subsidiary trading
companies represents 59 (2004: 53) days of average daily purchases. The Company has no trade creditors (2004: Nil).
Donations
Group charitable donations of £21,121 (2004: £5,999) were made during the year . No political donations were made (2004: £Nil).
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in ofﬁce as auditor of the Company and a resolution to re-appoint will be
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at One Great George Street, Westminster , London SW1P 3AA on Thursday
27 April 2006 at 11:00 am. The following resolutions will be proposed as Special Business:
a. An ordinary resolution will be proposed to renew the directors’ authority to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80
of the Companies Act 1985. The current authority lapses on 27 April 2010 but this authority is normally renewed at each Annual
General Meeting so that the authority under the resolution (resolution no. 6 in the Notice of Meeting) will replace the existing authority
and will lapse on 26 April 2011. The authority is limited to shares of a nominal value of £5.935 million which equates to 118.7 million
ordinary shares of 5p each, being approximately 33% of the current issued ordinary share capital.
b. Resolution 7 in the Notice of Meeting is a special resolution for the renewal of the directors’ authority (i) to make a rights issue and (ii)
to issue a limited number of shares for cash without ﬁrst offering them to shareholders pro-rata to their holdings. In the latter case,
the authority is limited to shares of a nominal value of £890,000 which equates to 17.8 million ordinary shares of 5p each, which is
approximately 5% of the currently issued ordinary share capital. The authority contained in the resolution expires at the earlier of next
year’ s Annual General Meeting and 26 July 2007. The directors have no current intention of exercising either authority contained in
Resolution 6 or 7 in the Notice of Meeting other than in connection with satisfying options under the Save As Y ou Earn Plan and
granting options under the Long T erm Incentive Plan.
Mr David Allvey , the Chairman of the Audit Committee and Mr John Bryant, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will be
available at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board
Clive L Franks
Company Secretary
20 March 2006
38 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 39 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were Mr Bryant as Chairman , Mr Jefferies, Mr Ballard and Mr Shehata.
Further details of the members of the Remuneration Committee are given on page 24. The Chief Executive is normally in attendance at
Remuneration Committee meetings but is always excluded when his own performance and remuneration are under review. 
Details of attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings in 2005 is given in the table on page 28. The Company Secretary acts as
secretary to the Remuneration Committee. 
The Remuneration Committee has established written terms of reference which were last reviewed, revised and re-issued on 
27 August 2004 to ensure they conform with both best practice and the Combined Code on corporate governance issued by the
Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 (the ‘Combined Code’). 
The Remuneration Committee is entitled to access independent advice from external consultants on individual remuneration
packages or the Company’ s remuneration practices in general. The Remuneration Committee took advice from The Hay Group
Management Limited (the Hay Group) during 2005. The Hay Group were appointed by and reported directly to the Remuneration
Committee but the information was shared with the Company . The Hay Group prepared and submitted to the Remuneration
Committee a number of papers during 2005 and representatives of the Hay Group attended three remuneration Committee meetings
to discuss the papers they had prepared and to advise the Remuneration Committee generally . The papers submitted to the
Remuneration Committee were: ‘Analysis of Remuneration Competitiveness for Senior Executives’, ‘T reatment of Leavers under the
L TIP’, ‘Long T erm Incentive Plan Design’, ‘T reatment of Performance Condition under the 2002 L TIP’, ‘Earnings Per Share
Performance Condition’, ‘Review of the Non-executive Directors’ Remuneration’ and ‘Reward and Incentives’. The Remuneration
Committee also took advice from Slaughter and May , solicitors, in connection with the compromise agreement with Mr Stuart Doughty
and the service agreement for Mr Andrew Wyllie. Slaughter and May were appointed by the Company and their advice was shared
with the Remuneration Committee. Slaughter and May are legal advisors to the Group on corporate and related matters. The Hay
Group prepared a report for the Company on the remuneration levels and beneﬁts of staff below the level of the Executive Board but,
save for that, the Hay Group has no other connection with the Group.
Save as disclosed, the Remuneration Committee did not take any other independent advice during the ﬁnancial year ended 31
December 2005.
The Remuneration Committee sets the overall remuneration policy of the Group and makes recommendations to the Board on the
speciﬁc remuneration packages for each of the executive directors and the Company Secretary . In addition, the Remuneration
Committee will review and consider on behalf of the Board, the terms of employment of senior management of the Group, including
basic salary , performance related bonus arrangements, beneﬁts in kind, long-term incentives and pension beneﬁts. The Remuneration
Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive, determines and recommends to the Board the annual fee payable to the
Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board, in consultation with the Chief Executive, determines and recommends to the
Board the fees payable to the non-executive directors. Further details on the remuneration of the non-executive directors are given 
on pages 47 and 49.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy for executive directors and other senior management is designed to attract, retain and motivate executives 
of the appropriate calibre and experience so that the Company is managed successfully for the beneﬁt of its stakeholders. 
The Remuneration Committee is, however , aware that it should avoid paying more than is appropriate or necessary . Accordingly , 
the Hay Group has, for the beneﬁt of the Remuneration Committee, carried out an exercise to benchmark remuneration packages 
and their constituent elements with those of comparable organisations, primarily within the UK-based contracting sector , to ensure
that the remuneration packages within the Group bear reasonable comparison with those of other companies of a similar size. 
The Remuneration Committee is, however , conscious that such comparisons must be viewed with caution in order to avoid the risk 
of an upward ratchet of remuneration levels without corresponding improvement in performance levels. The analysis and/or
comparison exercises referred to earlier are only one element to assist the Remuneration Committee in exercising its judgement; 
the Remuneration Committee also takes into account personal performance. Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Remuneration components 
The Remuneration Committee considers that annual bonuses and long-term incentive plans are an important part of the total
remuneration package of an executive director or other member of senior management and are used to drive and reward
performance and so it aligns the incentives of executive directors and other members of senior management with the interests of
shareholders. Accordingly , the Remuneration Committee aims to impose challenging performance targets for both annual bonuses
and long-term incentive plans.
The main components of executive directors’ and other senior management’ s remuneration packages comprise basic salary , which
forms the major element of remuneration, an annual bonus which is dependent on the achievement of short-term objectives approved
by the Remuneration Committee, long-term incentive arrangements, membership of the pension scheme (which includes life cover 
of four times salary for death in service), a company car (and in certain cases the provision of a fuel beneﬁt) and the provision of 
health insurance.
Since the advent of the Combined Code, the Remuneration Committee has given due consideration to the Code’ s provisions. 
The Remuneration Committee now gives due consideration to the provisions of B1, B1.1 to B1.4 and Schedule A in formulating the
remuneration policy of the Group and has noted and taken account of the requirements of provisions B1.5 and B1.6 with regard to
service contracts and compensation. The Company does substantially comply with provisions B2, B2.1 to B2.4 of the Combined
Code with regard to the establishment and procedures of the Remuneration Committee, save that as already noted, the Company
does not comply with provision B2.1 of the Combined Code in connection with the membership of the Remuneration Committee. 
The Remuneration Committee has also taken into account the provisions of rule LR9.8 of the Listing Rules and the Companies Act
1985 Schedule 7A in the preparation of this report.
There were no material changes made to the remuneration policies of the Company during the year . 
The Company’ s policy on the remuneration for executive directors and other senior management for the following and subsequent
ﬁnancial years will follow substantially the policy laid down herein, save as where otherwise noted.
Further details of the main components of executive directors’ and other senior management’ s remuneration packages are 
given below:
Basic Salary – Salary is the major element of the remuneration package. The Remuneration Committee reviews the salaries of the
executive directors and the Company Secretary annually and, at the same time, gives guidance to the Chief Executive as to the
matters to be taken into account in the salary review of other senior management of the Group. Salaries for executive directors are
based on market rates and take account of an executive’ s experience, responsibilities and performance. The remuneration of other
senior management, including the Company Secretary , is determined in the light of the levels of remuneration generally within the
Company and other companies in the UK-based construction sector . The salary review is undertaken in February/March of each year,
after a review of the performance of the individual. A salary increase, if awarded, is effective from 1 April in each year .
From April 2005, Mr Doughty’ s basic salary was increased from £300,000 to £325,000 per annum. Mr McCole’ s basic salary was
increased from £165,000 to £180,000 per annum. Mr Wyllie joined the Company on 22 August 2005 and became Chief Executive 
on 12 September 2005 at a basic salary of £300,000 per annum.
Annual Bonus – An annual bonus scheme is a further component of the remuneration package for executive directors and other senior
management. With the exception of the Chief Executive, annual bonuses up to a maximum of 50% of basic salary were payable if
performance targets were met. The performance targets for 2005 related to proﬁt at Group level and in some cases cash, and, where
appropriate, divisional and speciﬁc targets. The targets for the annual bonus are reviewed and approved annually by the Remuneration
Committee and in undertaking their review and upon the advice of the Hay Group it was concluded that a bonus level of 50% of basic
salary was falling behind the rates used by other companies in the UK based construction sector . Accordingly the Remuneration
Committee have decided that executive directors (with the exception of the Chief Executive) and other senior management will be able
to earn for 2006 bonuses up to a maximum of 60% of basic salary if performance targets are met. The Chief Executive will be entitled
to earn a bonus of 80% of basic salary (previously 70%) if performance targets are met. 
For the year ended 31 December 2005, the Remuneration Committee decided that Mr Doughty should be entitled to earn 
a bonus of 70% of his ﬁnal salary namely a bonus of £227,500. Mr Doughty was given six months’ notice to terminate his employment
with the Company on 1 June 2005 and Mr Doughty resigned as Chief Executive and as an executive director of the Company on 
12 September 2005. The Remuneration Committee taking into account all appropriate matters determined that Mr Doughty’ s bonus
for 2005 should be the sum of £207,000. 
40 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 41 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Directors’ remuneration report
continued
For the year ended 31 December 2005, Mr McCole was entitled to earn a bonus of 50% of his salary as at 1 January 2005, namely a
bonus of £82,500. For the payment of £33,000 of that bonus, the Remuneration Committee has to be satisﬁed that the performance
conditions relating to the proﬁt on ordinary activity before taxation have been met. For the payment of £16,500 of that bonus, the
Remuneration Committee has to be satisﬁed that the performance condition relating to cash has been met. The sum of £8,250 was 
at the complete discretion of the Remuneration Committee and the balance of £24,750 is linked to the achievement of certain
management tasks relating to the implementation of pension changes, the implementation of the Commercial Systems Replacement
Project and the reduction of overheads. The Remuneration Committee has determined that Mr McCole’ s bonus for 2005 should be
the sum of £49,500 being 60% of his maximum bonus.
Under the terms of his appointment, Mr Wyllie is entitled to receive bonuses. The bonuses shall be such amounts as the Remuneration
Committee, on behalf of the Board, in its absolute discretion may , from time to time, determine up to a maximum of 70% of annual
salary subject to the satisfaction of such corporate and individual performance targets as the Remuneration Committee may , from 
time to time, determine. For the year ended 31 December 2005, the maximum bonus which Mr Wyllie will be entitled to earn will be
£108,493 being a proportion of the annual bonus for the period from 22 August 2005 to 31 December 2005. The Remuneration
Committee has determined that Mr Wyllie’ s bonus for 2005 should be the sum of £108,493 being the maximum bonus.
In order to compensate Mr Wyllie for some of the beneﬁts he would have been entitled to under his previous employment if he had
remained in such employment, the Company agreed to pay to Mr Wyllie an initial bonus of £200,000, which was payable within one
month of the commencement of Mr Wyllie’ s employment with the Company . If Mr Wyllie should terminate his employment with the
Company (unless his departure arises as a result of information which adversely impacts on the value and standing of the Company
and which has not been disclosed in the annual report and accounts for 2004) or where Mr Wyllie resigns because of a change of
control or where the Company dismisses Mr Wyllie (unless such dismissal arose out of incapacity) then, if such termination occurs in
the ﬁrst year of Mr Wyllie’ s employment, Mr Wyllie will be bound to repay £100,000 of the initial bonus and, if such termination shall
occur in the second year , then Mr Wyllie will be bound to repay a proportion of £100,000 equivalent to the unexpired period of the
second year .
In addition, certain payments are made on behalf of the executive directors such as the payment of life assurance premiums in respect
of earnings above the earnings cap. These payments are assessable for income tax as beneﬁts in kind and the Remuneration
Committee, each year , considers the payment of a discretionary bonus that the executive directors can choose to use to meet the
additional tax liabilities so that the executive directors are put in a neutral position from a taxation standpoint. Any difference between
the bonuses described above and the ﬁgures in the table of Directors’ remuneration is attributable to such discretionary bonuses.
There is no requirement for any bonus earned to be taken as shares. Bonus payments are not pensionable.
Long-T erm Incentive Arrangements – The Long-term Incentive Plan (L TIP) was approved by shareholders on 24 May 2002. The L TIP 
is designed to reward executive directors and other senior management by reference to the performance of the Group. The L TIP
allows for conditional awards to a participant with a maximum face value of 100% of basic annual salary at the date of grant of the
award. Four awards have been made under the L TIP . The ﬁrst award was made on 11 October 2002, the second award was made 
on 21 April 2004, the third award was made on 26 April 2005 and the fourth award was made on 19 September 2005. Mr Wyllie was
the sole beneﬁciary of the fourth award. The ﬁrst and second awards were only for a proportion of each participant’ s annual salary.
Prior to the third award, the Remuneration Committee decided that, in the case of the Chief Executive and Finance Director , they
would be entitled to an amount equivalent to 100% of their annual salary , whereas senior management would only be entitled to a
proportion of their annual salary . Mr McCole participated in the third award but Mr Doughty was excluded. The performance condition
for each award was earnings per share (EPS) as the Remuneration Committee considered, after taking into account the advice of the
Hay Group, that such a target was the most appropriate performance target in order to focus on achieving a demanding business
plan. The performance period for each award will not be less than three consecutive years. The awards in 2002 and 2004 are “all or
nothing” awards so that if the performance target is not met, no award is made. The ﬁrst award was subject to a restricted period of
two years so that only 75% of the ordinary shares subject to the award vest if the performance condition is satisﬁed, the remaining
25% vest at the expiry of two years but are not subject to the satisfaction of any further performance condition. The performance
condition for the 2002 award was the achievement of an EPS of 5.59p in the ﬁnancial year ending 31 December 2005. Since the
awards were made, the Company has issued an additional 16 million ordinary shares of 10p each (now 5p each) and, in
consequence, the Remuneration Committee, as it is empowered to do under the L TIP Rules, has decided to amend the performance
condition to take account of the additional shares and so it has determined that the performance condition for the 2002 award shall be
the achievement of an EPS of 5.34p. The performance condition for the 2004 award is the achievement of an EPS of 6.7p in the
ﬁnancial year ending 31 December 2007. The Remuneration Committee decided that the performance target for the third award
would be on a sliding scale, which was in keeping with the approach that other companies made to their long-term incentive plans.  Directors’ remuneration report
continued
The performance conditions for the third award are as follows:
> In the event that an EPS of 5.25p was achieved for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2008 then 25% of the award would vest;
> In the event that an EPS of 5.625p was achieved for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2008 then 50% of the award 
would vest;
> In the event that an EPS of 6p was achieved for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2008 then 75% of the award would vest; and
> In the event that an EPS of 6.375p was achieved for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2008 then 100% of the award 
would vest.
The fourth award, which was only for the beneﬁt of Mr Wyllie, has the same performance conditions for the ﬁnancial year ended 
31 December 2008 as the third award.
Under the L TIP Rules, on an award vesting, a participant becomes entitled to ordinary shares in the Company . The Remuneration
Committee considered that it would be advantageous to the Company to introduce into the L TIP Rules an ability to satisfy , at its
discretion, awards vested instead by a cash payment of equivalent value. The Remuneration Committee took advice from Slaughter
and May and they advised that the amendment to the L TIP Rules was permissible as a minor amendment to beneﬁt the administration
of the plan and in those circumstances it would not need the approval of the Company in a general meeting. The Remuneration
Committee decided that, for the purpose of calculating the cash equivalent, the shares should be valued on the basis of an average
price over a 30 day period immediately preceding the date of the award vesting. 
The Remuneration Committee have decided for 2006 to increase the number of participants eligible to take part in the L TIP award in
2006 to include senior managers immediately below the executive board. These senior managers will be entitled to conditional awards
up to a maximum face value of 60% of their basic annual salary at the date of grant of the award. The executive board members (other
than the Chief Executive and Finance Director) will be entitled to conditional awards up to a maximum face value of 80% of their basic
annual salary at the date of grant of award. The Chief Executive and Finance Director will be entitled to conditional awards up to a
maximum face value of 100% of their basic annual salary at the date of grant of award.
Mr Doughty , who resigned as Chief executive and an executive director of the Company on 12 September 2005, was a participant in
the L TIP awarded in 2002 and 2004. In the light of the contributions made by Mr Doughty to the success of the Company the
Remuneration Committee decided to exercise their discretion under the Rules of the L TIP and award to Mr Doughty the cash
equivalent of 601,075 ordinary shares of 5p each in the Company . The shares were valued at an average closing price over a 30 day
period ending on (and including) the date the award would be released namely Mr Doughty’ s termination date of 12 September 2005.
The cash equivalent amounted to £295,127 gross and £174,125 net of withholdings. 
42 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 43 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Details of the executive directors’ participation in the L TIP are as follows:
Maximum number of shares subject to award
Award Lapsed Vested 
Date At during during during At 31 Dec Exercisable
Name of Director of grant 1 Jan 2005 the year the year the year 2005 from
A Wyllie 19.09.05 – 677,966 – – 677,966 March 
2009
C J McCole 11.10.02 156,483–––156,483March 
2006
11.10.02 52,160––– 52,160 January 
2008
21.04.04 229,850–––229,850March 
2008
26.04.05 – 382,978 – – 382,978 March 
2009
S J Doughty 11.10.02 290,611 – 72,611 218,000 – –
11.10.02 96,870 – 24,870 72,000 – –
21.04.04 417,910 – 106,835 311,075 – –
Notes
(a) The awards which are expressed as options are subject to an exercise price of £1.
(b) The average closing middle market price of ordinary shares of 5p each in the Company for the dealing day immediately preceding
the date of the grant for the 2002 award under the L TIP was 25p, for the 2004 award was 41.5p, for the ﬁrst 2005 award was 47p
and for the second 2005 award was 44.25p.
(c) The number of ordinary shares of 5p each still outstanding and the subject of the 2002 award is 1,102,977 , the 2004 award 
is 1,455,218, the ﬁrst 2005 award is 1,732,974 and the second award is 677,966.
(d) In the case of Mr Doughty , as described earlier , he took the cash equivalent of the shares which are described as having vested
during the year .
In 2003, the Company did not grant any awards under the L TIP for executive directors or for other senior management. 
On 19 September 2005, Mr Wyllie was awarded a contingent award over 400,000 ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the
Company . Subject to Mr Wyllie continuing employment (other than in circumstances where he is entitled to treat himself as having
been constructively dismissed) until the results for the ﬁnancial year ending 31 December 2007 are published in 2008 and not being
under notice to terminate his employment at that date, the matching award will vest dependent on the extent to which the following
performance target is satisﬁed:
> EPS of 4.9p – 100,000 ordinary shares will vest;
> EPS of 5.5p – 200,000 ordinary shares will vest;
> EPS of 6.1p – 300,000 ordinary shares will vest; and 
> EPS of 6.7p – 400,000 ordinary shares will vest.
The Remuneration Committee has reserved the right to alter the performance targets.
At 31 December 2005, the derived mid-market price of the ordinary shares of the Company , as advised by the Company’ s Brokers,
was 43p. The range of the share price of the ordinary shares during 2005 was 38.75p to 53.75p. Directors’ remuneration report
continued
A Save As Y ou Earn Share Option Scheme (the Plan) was approved by shareholders at the 2002 Annual General Meeting. 
All eligible employees and executive directors are entitled to participate in the Plan. The Group granted options on 22 October 2002 
at an option price of 20p per share and the entitlement to participate was subject to the proviso that the eligible employee had been 
in the employment of the Company for 12 months. The Group granted options on 21 October 2004 at an option price of 33.6p and
participants were not subject to any service qualiﬁcation. Mr McCole participated in the 2004 Plan and details are given below.
Number of Options
Granted Exercised Lapsed
Date At 1 Jan during during during At 31 Dec Exercise
Name of Director granted 2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 price Exercisable from
C J McCole 21.10.04 49,181 – – – 49,181 33.6p Dec 2009- 
May 2010
Details of the grants made under the Plan are shown in Note 18 to the ﬁnancial statements on pages 82 and 83.
No other executive director participated in this Plan. 
Save for under the terms of the compromise agreement with Mr Doughty , no payments were made to or beneﬁts received by
executive directors during the year under any long-term incentive scheme.
Beneﬁts – Beneﬁts comprise primarily of the provision of a company car , fuel and medical insurance and the amounts stated exclude
the pension and life assurance costs identiﬁed separately under ‘Pension Arrangements’. The amounts stated also exclude the cost of
disability insurance, which is provided by the Group to all staff employees under a general policy with no separately-identiﬁable cost in
respect of individual beneﬁciaries. The premiums attributable to Messrs Wyllie, McCole and Doughty in respect of permanent health
insurance, based on a proportion of total cost, were respectively £850, £1,473 (2004: £1,281) and £3,676 (2004: £4,344).
Pension Arrangements – Executive directors (with the exception of Mr Wyllie and Mr Doughty during his period with the Company) 
and other senior management participate in the executive section of the Group’ s main approved UK pension scheme. This section
provides enhanced beneﬁts in respect of accrual rate and spouse pension and early retirement ages (e.g. 60 for executive directors
and other members of senior management). In addition to a maximum pension of two-thirds of ﬁnal salary , the scheme provides 
a lump sum death in service beneﬁt of four times basic salary and pensions for dependants of members. The executive director 
in the scheme and all other senior management participate on a contributory basis.
The Group’ s main approved UK pension scheme was a ﬁnal salary scheme which was closed to new members with effect from 
30 May 2005. Members of senior management joining the Company on or after 1 June 2005 will be offered pension provision on 
a deﬁned contribution basis which will carry with it a lump sum death in service beneﬁt of four times basic salary but with no provision
for spouse pensions.
In the case of Mr Wyllie, he is entitled, under his terms of engagement, to an annual pension allowance of 22% of his basic salary. 
The Company contributes the pension allowance to the Scottish Widows Plc stakeholder pension scheme. The Company
contributed a sum of £24,030 towards Mr Wyllie’ s pension provision during the year . In the case of Mr Doughty , the Company made
no contribution to his personal pension arrangements. 
For each of Mr Wyllie, Mr McCole and Mr Doughty , life assurance cover of four times basic salary is provided through the approved UK
pension scheme in respect of earnings up to the HM Revenue and Customs limit (£105,600 per annum with effect from 6 April 2005)
and through the Costain Funded Unapproved Retirement and Death Beneﬁt Scheme in respect of the excess. Life Assurance cover 
is in place for Mr Wyllie but no premium is payable until April 2006. The annual premiums payable in respect of life assurance for 
Mr McCole and Mr Doughty were respectively £2,056 (2004: £1,748) and £7,388 (2004: £8,123). In the case of Mr Doughty , 
the premium covers the period until his departure as Chief Executive on 12 September 2005. Under the terms of the compromise
agreement with Mr Doughty , the Company agreed to maintain his life assurance cover for a period of six months, namely a period
expiring on 11 March 2006. The premium in respect of that period is £9,920.
44 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 45 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Pension beneﬁts earned by executive directors (deﬁned beneﬁt scheme):
Change in Change in Increase in
accrued accrued Transfer GN11 GN11 GN11
beneﬁts beneﬁts value of (A) transfer transfer transfer
during during net of value value of value net of
Accrued the year the year director’ s at the accrued director’ s
beneﬁt excluding including contri- beginning beneﬁts contri-
Age at year end inﬂation (A) inﬂation butions of the year at year end butions
Name year end £pa £ £pa £ £ £ £
C J McCole 53 9,680 2,676 2,880 29,653 85,265 137,565 43,924
Notes to deﬁned pension beneﬁts:
(1) The table covers the Group’ s main approved UK pension scheme.
(2 The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuaries Guidance Notes GN11 
and GN27 . 
(3) The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year .
(4) Members of the scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions; neither the contributions nor the resulting
beneﬁts are included in the table.
The Costain Funded Unapproved Retirement and Death Beneﬁt Scheme was established in 1997 to provide beneﬁts for senior
executives subject to the HM Revenue and Customs limit (£105,600 per annum with effect from 6 April 2005) on earnings eligible for
treatment as pensionable earnings under approved pension schemes. Prior to the establishment of the scheme, pension entitlements
on earnings in excess of the limit were provided by way of an unfunded reserve.
In the context of impending changes to pension taxation this year , no changes have yet been made to the remuneration of executive
directors or other senior management. The Remuneration Committee will be consulting with the Chief Executive and independent
advisors on the appropriateness of any changes which may be proposed for future pension provisions in due course.
With the exception of contributions paid to secure life assurance beneﬁts, no contributions were paid to the Costain Funded
Unapproved Retirement and Death Beneﬁts Scheme during the year . However , a contribution of £18,010 has accrued during the year
in respect of Mr McCole and a contribution liability of £52,363 has been brought forward with interest in respect of Mr McCole from
prior years. The total sum of £70,373 is being retained, pending consideration of the provisions of the Finance Act 2004, particularly
those relating to the future tax treatment of unapproved schemes.
Contracts of Service and Compromise Agreements – In general, the service agreements with executive directors and other senior
management provide for termination by the Group on either one or two years’ notice. No executive director has a notice period over
one year . The Remuneration Committee considers that such notice periods are reasonable and fair in the interests of the Group and
the individual concerned, having regard to prevailing practice amongst public companies both in the industry in which the Group
operates and elsewhere.
The Remuneration Committee considers it unlikely that any executive director or other member of senior management would in the
future be engaged with a notice period greater than one year . There is no provision for payment of predetermined compensation in
case of wrongful termination by the Group. The Remuneration Committee also believes that a robust line should be taken on reducing
compensation to reﬂect departing directors’ obligations to mitigate loss.
Mr Wyllie’ s service agreement is dated 25 April 2005 and provides for him to serve the Company as Chief Executive or in such capacity
of a like status as the Company may require from a date no later than four months after the date of the service agreement. Mr Wyllie’ s
service agreement terminates automatically when he reaches normal retirement age of 60 years. Subject to that, Mr Wyllie’ s
engagement as Chief Executive can be terminated on 12 months’ notice given at any time.
Mr McCole’ s service agreement is dated 22 May 2002. On 11 January 2006, the Company issued a T rading Update through the
London Stock Exchange and, at the same time, announced that Mr McCole had notiﬁed the Board that he wished to pursue new
opportunities in the future and did not feel able to give a long-term commitment to the Company . The Company , under the terms of the
service agreement, gave Mr McCole 12 months’ notice on 11 January 2006 in writing to terminate his employment with the Company .  Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Mr Doughty’ s service agreement was dated 14 June 2001 and was amended by a supplemental agreement dated 12 September
2003, which provided that Mr Doughty’ s appointment as Chief Executive would automatically terminate on 13 September 2006 
unless terminated by either party on six months’ notice given at any time. On 1 June 2005, the Company gave Mr Doughty six
months’ notice to terminate his employment on the basis that he would continue to perform his duties as Chief executive and effect 
an orderly handover to Mr Wyllie. The terms of the compromise agreement with Mr Doughty were that he would be paid by the
Company the sum of £212,667 less withholdings in two tranches. The ﬁrst tranche of £62,667 was paid within a period following his
departure as Chief Executive and the second tranche of £150,000 will be paid within fourteen days of the Company’ s Annual General
Meeting in 2006. The sum of £212,667 was made up of salary and other contractual beneﬁts for the unexpired period of his notice, 
the payment for compensation for loss of ofﬁce and a sum in return for Mr Doughty’ s agreement to enter into a restrictive covenant in
favour of the Company . In addition, Mr Doughty was permitted to retain his car for a period of six months from 12 September 2005
and the Company continued to provide life assurance cover and provide medical insurance again for a period of six months from 
12 September 2005.
Outside Appointments – In principle, the Company encourages executive directors to take outside appointments, with the prior
consent of the Company , in the belief that such appointments broaden their skills and the contribution which they can make to 
the Company’ s performance. However , not more than one such appointment may be undertaken except in special circumstances.
There must be no conﬂict of interest, and the time to be devoted to the outside appointment must be reasonable in relation to the
individual’ s commitment to the Company . Fees paid for outside appointments may be retained by the individual concerned.
Performance graph as required by the Companies Act 1985 Schedule 7A.
The graph below shows the Company’ s T otal Shareholder Return (TSR) performance compared to the FTSE All-Share Index TSR over
the last ﬁve years, namely the period from 1 January 2001 to 31 December 2005. TSR is deﬁned as share price growth plus reinvested
dividends but it should be noted that, during the period, the Company has not paid dividends. The FTSE All-Share Index TSR has
been rebased so that it starts at the same TSR point as the Company on 1 January 2001. As a broad index is required for a
comparison, the Board is of the opinion that the FTSE All-Share Index is the most appropriate for the Company as the Company is a
constituent part of that index.
Costain – 5 year , total shareholder return versus FTSE All Share Index
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Costain (TSR)
FTSE All-Share Index (TSR)
46 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Jan – 01 Jul – 01 Jan – 02 Jul – 02 Jan – 03 Jul – 03 Jan – 04 Jul – 04 Jan – 05 Jul – 05 47 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Directors’ remuneration
The aggregate directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2005 was £1,640,888, as set out in the following table:
Restated
2005 2004
Salary/fee Bonus Beneﬁts T otal T otal
£ £ £ Other £ £
Executive Directors
A Wyllie
1
109,231 308,493 4,801 – 422,525  –
C J McCole 176,250 49,500 9,654 – 235,404 232,179
S J Doughty
2
237,500 207,000 28,917 212,667
3
686,084 487,194
Non-Executive 
Directors
D G Jefferies 98,750 – – – 98,750 95,000
Dato’ A P Senin 31,250 – – – 31,250 13,890
D P Allvey 36,875 – – – 36,875 35,000
F W Ballard 31,250 – – – 31,250 30,000
J M Bryant 36,250 – – – 36,250 35,000
S Y Shehata 31,250 – – – 31,250 30,000
A M Sulaiman 31,250 – – – 31,250 15,205
Former Directors – – – – – 47,503
T otal 819,856 564,993 43,372 212,667 1,640,888 1,020,971
1
Appointed 12 September 2005
2
Resigned 12 September 2005
3
This amount comprises salary and beneﬁts in lieu of the unexpired period of notice, compensation for loss of ofﬁce and a payment 
for restrictive covenant. In addition, Mr Doughty was paid the cash equivalent of 601,075 ordinary shares awarded under the L TIP, 
full particulars of which are given on page 42.
The Company has previously disclosed bonuses on a paid basis. The Remuneration Committee wish to move to a payable basis and
so accordingly the column for 2004 has been restated to show a payable rather than a paid basis.
An initial bonus of £200,000 was paid to Mr Wyllie in 2005 and he is also entitled to a performance related bonus for 2005 
of £108,493. Mr McCole is entitled to a performance related bonus for 2005 of £49,500. A performance related bonus of £207,000
was paid to Mr Doughty in 2005 for that year .
Save for the payment made to Mr Doughty in respect of 601,075 ordinary shares of 5p each in the Company under the L TIP , 
no payments were made to or beneﬁts received by executive directors during the year under any long-term incentive schemes.
Provision for compensation payment relating to a former director (following taking legal advice as to the level of compensation for 
Mr Doughty) upon termination of his employment amounted to £212,667 (2004: £Nil). 
Payments made to third parties in respect of directors’ services amounted to £62,500 (2004: £61,598). This ﬁgure is included within
the directors’ emoluments.
No payment was made to any alternate director .
The emoluments of the highest paid director were £686,084 (2004 restated: £487,194); both ﬁgures exclude attributable 
pension contributions. Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Directors’ interests
Directors’ interests recorded by the Company , in accordance with requirements of the Companies Act 1985, are as follows: 
At At
1.1.05 31.12.05
D G Jefferies a 175,000 175,000
Dato’ A P Senin ––
A Wyllie a –* 100,000
f – 677,966
g – 400,000
C J McCole a 80,000 80,000
b 208,643 208,643
c 229,850 229,850
d 49,181 49,181
e – 382,978
D P Allvey a 30,000 30,000
F W Ballard a 8,994 8,994
J M Bryant a 50,000 50,000
S Y Shehata ––
A M Sulaiman ––
S J Doughty a 166,000 166,000†
b 387,481 –†
c 417,910 –†
Notes
a Costain Group PLC ordinary shares of 5p each
b Options granted on 11 October 2002 to acquire Costain Group PLC ordinary shares of 5p each under the 2002 Long-T erm
Incentive Plan
c Options granted on 21 April 2004 to acquire Costain Group PLC ordinary shares of 5p each under the 2004 Long-T erm 
Incentive Plan
d Options granted on 21 October 2004 to acquire Costain Group PLC ordinary shares of 5p each under the Save As Y ou Earn Share
Option Scheme.
e Options granted on 26 April 2005 to acquire Costain Group PLC ordinary shares of 5p each under the 2005 Long-T erm 
Incentive Plan
f Option granted on 19 September 2005 to acquire Costain Group PLC ordinary shares of 5p each under the 2005 Long-T erm
Incentive Plan
g Option granted on 19 September 2005 to acquire Costain Group PLC ordinary shares of 5p each
* As at date of appointment
† As at date of resignation
48 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 49 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Directors’ remuneration report
continued
All interests are beneﬁcial. Particulars of directors’ options are contained in the register of directors’ interests.
The basis on which executive directors participate in long-term incentive schemes is decided by the Remuneration Committee, 
except for the Costain Share Saving Scheme which is open to all relevant UK employees. Non-executive directors do not participate 
in any of these schemes.
Save in the case of Mr Doughty , no options were exercised by directors during the year .
Details of all outstanding options are set out in Note 18 to the ﬁnancial statements on pages 81 to 83.
The Company’ s auditors are required to report to the shareholders on the information contained in sections relating to ‘Long-T erm
Incentive Plan’, ‘Save As Y ou Earn Share Option Scheme’, ‘Pension’, ‘Sums paid to third parties’ and on the tables relating 
to directors’ remuneration and directors’ interests section of this report. Other elements of the Directors’ remuneration report 
are unaudited.
Non-executive directors
The independent non-executive directors have contracts of appointment. These cover , amongst other things, the initial terms for
which the independent non-executive directors are appointed, a general statement on their role and duties, and the fees they will
receive as a director .
A non-executive director’ s initial period of appointment is until the time comes to retire by rotation under the Company’ s Articles. 
This is intended to be three years and will be treated as being three years, notwithstanding that, because of changes that have taken
place on the Board, their term to retire by rotation may arise in under three years. The appointment of an independent non-executive
director can be terminated by reasonable notice on either side. At the end of the initial period, the appointment may be continued by
mutual agreement. Messrs Allvey , Ballard and Bryant are not entitled to compensation for loss of ofﬁce.
The nominee non-executive directors, as indicated in the Report of the directors, hold ofﬁce for as long as the shareholder nominating
them holds a speciﬁc percentage of the issued share capital of the Company . The nominee non-executive directors are nevertheless
required to stand for re-election in the usual way .
Under the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, the fee of the Chairman is determined and recommended to the Board
following consultation between the Remuneration Committee and the Chief Executive. The fees payable to all other non-executive
directors are recommended to the Board following consultation between the Chairman and the Chief Executive. The fees of the
Chairman and the other non-executive directors will be reviewed annually in October and on the second anniversary from when the
fees were last raised or benchmarked. There will be a benchmark review by an independent remuneration consultant. 
A benchmarking review was undertaken by the Hay Group in 2005 to determine the appropriate level of fees for the Chairman and
non-executive directors of the Company . As a result of the advice received from the Hay Group, it was decided that the fees paid to 
the Chairman should be increased from £95,000 to £110,000. The fees payable to the non-executive directors (including the Deputy
Chairman) other than the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee should be increased
from £30,000 to £35,000. The fees paid to the Chairman of the Audit Committee should be increased from £35,000 to £42,500 
in recognition of the extra work undertaken by the non-executive director holding that position. The fees of the Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee were increased by from £35,000 to £40,000. The increases took effect on 1 October 2005.
As mentioned earlier , non-executive directors do not participate in any Group share, bonus or pension schemes.
Although there is no requirement to do so, all the independent non-executive directors purchased ordinary shares in the Company
shortly after their appointment so aligning their interests further with those of shareholders.
This report was approved by the Board of directors on 20 March 2006 and has been signed on its behalf by 
John M Bryant
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
20 March 2006 Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report 
and the ﬁnancial statements 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the group and parent company ﬁnancial statements in accordance
with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year . Under that law
they are required to prepare the group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to
prepare the parent company ﬁnancial statements on the same basis. 
The group and parent company ﬁnancial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the ﬁnancial
position of the group and the parent company and the performance for that period; the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to
such ﬁnancial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to ﬁnancial statements giving a true and fair view are references
to their achieving a fair presentation. 
In preparing each of the group and parent company ﬁnancial statements, the directors are required to: 
> select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
> make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
> state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU; and 
> prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent
company will continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial
position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. 
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration
report and the Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations. The directors are responsible 
for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the company’ s website. Legislation in the 
UK governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
50 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 51 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Costain Group PLC
We have audited the group and parent company ﬁnancial statements (the ‘ﬁnancial statements’) of Costain Group PLC for the year
ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the
Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
and the related notes. These ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also
audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the company’ s members, as a body , in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’ s members those matters we are required to state to
them in an auditor’ s report and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility
to anyone other than the company and the company’ s members as a body , for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the ﬁnancial statements in
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU are set out in the
Statement of directors’ responsibilities on page 50. Our responsibility is to audit the ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the ﬁnancial statements and
the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985
and, as regards the ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors’ report is
not consistent with the ﬁnancial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speciﬁed by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed. We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reﬂects the company’ s compliance with the
nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority , and
we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the board’ s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls,
or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’ s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures. 
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited ﬁnancial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the
ﬁnancial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information. 
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements
and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and
judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate
to the group’ s and company’ s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed. We planned and performed our audit so
as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are free from
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion 
In our opinion: 
> the Group’ s ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the
Group’ s affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its proﬁt for the year then ended; 
> the parent company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent company’ s affairs as at 31 December 2005;
and 
> the ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered auditor
20 March 2006 Consolidated income statement
Year ended 31 December
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Revenue (Group and share of joint ventures and associates) 2 773.2 695.2
Share of joint ventures and associates 11 (95.1) (22.0)
Group revenue 678.1 673.2
Cost of sales (650.7) (645.0)
Gross proﬁt 27.4 28.2
Administrative expenses (18.7) (18.0)
Group operating proﬁt 8.7 10.2
Sale of interest in joint venture 3.5 –
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 11 13.4 (0.9)
Proﬁt from operations 25.6 9.3
Finance income 6 23.5 22.9
Finance costs 6 (24.1) (21.7)
Net ﬁnancing (costs)/income (0.6) 1.2
Proﬁt before tax 3 25.0 10.5
Income tax expense 8 (1.4) (1.7)
Proﬁt for the period 2 23.6 8.8
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 23.6 8.8
Minority interests – –
23.6 8.8
Earnings per share – basic 7 6.7p 2.5p
Earnings per share – diluted 7 6.5p 2.5p
During the year and the previous year , no businesses were acquired or disposed and therefore all results arise from 
continuing operations.
The notes on pages 58 to 97 form part of these ﬁnancial statements.
52 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 53 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
Year ended 31 December
2005 2004
Note £m £m
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (0.9) (0.4)
Cash ﬂow hedges:
Effective portion of changes in fair value (net of tax) during period – Group (0.6) –
Effective portion of changes in fair value (net of tax) during period – joint ventures and associates (2.7) –
Fair value adjustment of asset held for sale 3.4 –
Actuarial gains/(losses) on deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 0.2 (22.8)
T ax recognised on actuarial gains/(losses) recognised directly in equity – 6.8
Net expense recognised directly in equity (0.6) (16.4)
Proﬁt for the period 23.6 8.8
T otal recognised income and expense for the period 20 23.0 (7.6)
Effect of change in accounting policy:
Effect of adoption of IAS 32 and 39 (net of tax) on 1 January 2005 
(with 2004 not restated) on hedging reserve – Group 0.2 –
Effect of adoption of IAS 32 and 39 (net of tax) on 1 January 2005
(with 2004 not restated) on hedging reserve – joint ventures and associates (1.9) –
21.3 (7.6)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 21.4 (7.6)
Minority interests (0.1) –
21.3 (7.6)
Statement of recognised income and expense – Company
The Company does not have any recognised income and expense other than the loss for the period of £1.4m (2004: £1.4m).
The notes on pages 58 to 97 form part of these ﬁnancial statements. Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December
2005 2004 
Notes £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property , plant & equipment 9 5.9 4.9
Intangible assets 10 3.5 0.5
Investments in joint ventures 11 27.6 11.6
Investments in associates 11 0.2 –
Loans to joint ventures 11 0.2 2.6
Loans to associates 11 3.0 2.7
Other investments 11 4.4 1.0
Other debtors 12 10.2 5.7
Deferred tax assets 8 31.1 31.6
T otal non-current assets 86.1 60.6
Current assets
Inventories 2.0 1.0
T rade and other receivables 12 166.5 152.3
Cash and cash equivalents 13 75.2 64.1
T otal current assets 243.7 217.4
T otal assets 329.8 278.0
Equity
Share capital 19 17.8 35.3
Share premium 0.4 119.5
Special reserve 13.1 –
Fair value reserve 3.4 –
Foreign currency translation reserve (1.2) (0.4)
Hedging reserve (5.0) –
Retained earnings (51.0) (199.0)
T otal equity attributable to equity holders of the parent (22.5) (44.6)
Minority interests – 0.1
T otal equity 20 (22.5) (44.5)
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 14 0.2 0.5
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 18 99.3 99.5
Other payables 16 7.2 3.0
Long-term provisions 17 6.8 3.1
T otal non-current liabilities 113.5 106.1
Current liabilities
T rade and other payables 16 233.3 212.1
Current tax liabilities 8 3.2 2.2
Overdrafts 13 0.2 0.6
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 14 0.8 0.4
Provisions 17 1.3 1.1
T otal current liabilities 238.8 216.4
T otal liabilities 352.3 322.5
T otal equity and liabilities 329.8 278.0
The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 20 March 2006 and were signed on its behalf by:
A Wyllie C J McCole
Director Director
The notes on pages 58 to 97 form part of these ﬁnancial statements.
54 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 55 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Company balance sheet
As at 31 December
2005 2004 
Notes £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 11 118.1 118.1
T otal non-current assets 118.1 118.1
Current assets
T rade and other receivables 12 2.1 6.0
Cash and cash equivalents 36.9 30.0
T otal current assets 39.0 36.0
T otal assets 157.1 154.1
Equity
Share capital 19 17.8 35.3
Share premium 0.4 119.5
Special reserve 13.1 –
Retained earnings (0.9) (123.5)
T otal equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 20 30.4 31.3
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Long-term provisions 17 1.6 1.3
T otal non-current liabilities 1.6 1.3
Current liabilities
T rade and other payables 16 123.0 119.1
Current tax liabilities 1.8 1.8
Provisions 17 0.3 0.6
T otal current liabilities 125.1 121.5
T otal liabilities 126.7 122.8
T otal equity and liabilities 157.1 154.1
The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 20 March 2006 and were signed on its behalf by:
A Wyllie C J McCole
Director Director
The notes on pages 58 to 97 form part of these ﬁnancial statements. Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
Year ended 31 December
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Cash ﬂows from operating activities
Proﬁt for the period 23.6 8.8
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation 3 1.5 1.1
Finance income 6 (23.5) (22.9)
Finance costs 6 24.1 21.7
Share based payments expense 18 0.2 –
Income tax expense 8 1.4 1.7
Sale of interest in joint venture (3.5) –
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 11 (13.4) 0.9
Release of provision against investment (0.3) –
Operating proﬁt before changes in working capital and provisions 10.1 11.3
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (1.1) 0.6 
Increase in receivables (15.1) (38.3)
Increase in payables 24.2 18.8
Movement in provisions and employee beneﬁts (3.0) (2.9)
Cash from/(used by) operations 15.1 (10.5)
Interest paid (0.1) (0.3)
Income taxes paid – –
Net cash from/(used by) operating activities 15.0 (10.8)
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Interest received 2.4 2.6
Additions to property , plant & equipment 9 (2.4) (1.3)
Additions to intangible assets 10 (3.1) (0.4)
Additions to investments 11 (0.2) (0.4)
Capital repayments by investments 11 1.3 0.2
Dividend received from joint venture – 4.4
Loans to joint ventures and associates 11 (2.6) (2.8)
Net cash (used by)/from investing activities (4.6) 2.3
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Issue of ordinary share capital 20 0.5 0.9
New loans 0.4 –
Payment of ﬁnance lease liabilities (0.3) (0.2)
Net cash from ﬁnancing activities 0.6 0.7
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 11.0 (7.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 63.5 71.7
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 (0.4)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 13 75.0 63.5
The notes on pages 58 to 97 form part of these ﬁnancial statements.
56 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 57 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Company cash ﬂow statement
Year ended 31 December
2005 2004
Note £m £m
Cash ﬂows from operating activities
Loss for the period (1.4) (1.4)
Adjustments for:
Provision against investments – 4.8
Finance income (0.8) (5.9)
Finance costs 1.9 1.8
Income tax credit (1.7) (0.8)
Operating proﬁt before changes in working capital and provisions (2.0) (1.5)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (0.2) 3.0
Increase in payables 3.8 7.2
Decrease in provisions – (0.6)
Cash from operations 1.6 8.1
Interest paid (1.8) (1.8)
Income taxes received 0.8 0.6
Net cash from operating activities 0.6 6.9
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Interest received 0.8 0.9
Dividends received 5.0 –
Net cash from investing activities 5.8 0.9
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Issue of ordinary share capital 20 0.5 0.9
Net cash from ﬁnancing activities 0.5 0.9
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 6.9 8.7
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 30.0 21.3
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 36.9 30.0
The notes on pages 58 to 97 form part of these ﬁnancial statements. Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
1 Signiﬁcant accounting policies
Costain Group PLC (the ‘Company’) is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom. 
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2005 comprise the Company and 
its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’) and the Group’ s interest in associates and jointly controlled entities. 
The parent company ﬁnancial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The ﬁnancial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 20 March 2006.
Statement of compliance
Both the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the Group consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared and approved 
by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (Adopted IFRS). On publishing
the parent company ﬁnancial statements here together with the Group ﬁnancial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the
exemption in s230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of
these approved ﬁnancial statements.
These are the Company’ s and the Group’ s ﬁrst ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS 1 First
time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards has been applied. An explanation of the transition from UK GAAP to
Adopted IFRS has been presented in note 25 and a reconciliation of the reported ﬁnancial performance, ﬁnancial position and cash
ﬂows of the Group and the Company is also provided in note 25. The Group has decided to adopt early IAS19 (Revised) Employee
beneﬁts. In addition to exempting companies from the requirement to restate comparatives for IAS 32 and IAS 39, IFRS 1 grants
certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period. The following exemptions have been taken in these
ﬁnancial statements:
> Business combinations – Business combinations that took place prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated.
> Employee beneﬁts – All cumulative actuarial gains and losses on deﬁned beneﬁt plans have been recognised in equity at 
1 January 2004.
> Cumulative translation differences – Cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations have been set to zero at 
1 January 2004.
The Company has not adopted amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 in relation to ﬁnancial guarantee contracts, which will apply for
periods commencing on or after 1 January 2006.
Currently , where the Company enters into ﬁnancial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its
Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company
treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make
a payment under the guarantee. The Company does not expect the amendments to have any impact on the ﬁnancial statements for
the period commencing 1 January 2006.
Basis of preparation
The Group’ s ﬁnancial statements are presented in Pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand. They are prepared 
on the historical cost basis except that certain ﬁnancial assets and derivative ﬁnancial instruments are stated at their fair value.
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and
assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates
and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not
readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in 
the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the
revision affects both current and future periods. Judgements made by management in the application of Adopted IFRS that have
signiﬁcant effect on the ﬁnancial statements and estimates with a signiﬁcant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed
in the relevant notes to the accounts. The assumptions in relation to the Group’ s deﬁned beneﬁt scheme are set out in note 18.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently by the Group to all periods presented
in these ﬁnancial statements and in preparing the opening balance sheet at 1 January 2004 for the purposes of the transition to
Adopted IFRS.
58 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 59 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
Basis of consolidation
a) The Group ﬁnancial statements include the accounts of Costain Group PLC and subsidiaries controlled by the Company . 
Control exists where the Company has the power , directly or indirectly , to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of an entity 
so as to obtain beneﬁts from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable are taken into
account. The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements from the date that control
commences until the date that control ceases.
b) Associates are operations over which the Group has the power to exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence but not control, generally
accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Associates are accounted for using the equity method. 
If the Group’ s share of losses in an associate equals its investment, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has
incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. 
c) Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
Jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method from the date that the jointly controlled entity commences until
the date that joint control of the entity ceases.
d) Jointly controlled operations are those joint ventures over which the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement,
which are not entities. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements include the Group’ s proportionate share of the jointly controlled
operation’ s assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses with items of a similar nature on a line-by-line basis from the date that the jointly
controlled operation commences until the date that jointly controlled operation ceases.
e) Intragroup balances and transactions together with any unrealised gains arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in
preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with jointly controlled entities and jointly
controlled operations are eliminated to the extent of the Group’ s interest in the entity . The Group’ s share of unrealised gains arising
from transactions with associates is eliminated against the investment in the associate. The Group’ s share of unrealised losses is
eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Currency translation
T ransactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to Pounds sterling at the foreign exchange rate
ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments, are translated to Pounds sterling at
foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to Pounds
sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and of related hedges are recognised
directly in equity and those that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRS, are presented as a separate
component of equity . The Group has taken advantage of the exemption within IFRS1 and set the cumulative translation reserve to zero
at 1 January 2004. They are released into the income statement upon disposal. T ranslation differences that arose before the date of
transition to Adopted IFRS in respect of all foreign entities are not presented as a separate component.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of value added tax. Revenue from the sale 
of goods is recognised when the Group has transferred the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the buyer , 
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic beneﬁts associated with the transaction will ﬂow
to the Group. Revenue includes the Group’ s share of revenue of jointly controlled operations. 
Revenue in respect of property development sales is recognised on the transfer to the buyer of the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of
ownership. This is typically achieved when legal title is transferred. If at the time that a sale reaches legal completion there remain
infrastructure works to complete, the nature and extent of the Group’ s continuing involvement is assessed to determine whether it is
appropriate to recognise revenue. Where the conditions for revenue recognition are met an appropriate amount is recognised.
Amounts deferred in respect of infrastructure works are only recognised when such works are substantially complete.
Rental income is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives are
recognised as an integral part of the total rental income.
1 Signiﬁcant accounting policies continued Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
Construction contracts
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the contract will be proﬁtable, 
revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date. 
Stage of completion is assessed by reference to surveys of work performed.
Variations and claims are included where it is probable that the amount will be settled. When the outcome of a construction 
contract cannot be estimated reliably , contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred where it is probable
those costs will be recoverable.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense
immediately.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of the cost of acquisition over the Group’ s interest in the fair
value of the identiﬁable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary , jointly controlled entity or associate at the date of acquisition.
The classiﬁcation and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 have not been
reconsidered in preparing the Group’ s opening Adopted IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004. Prior to 1 January 1998, it was the
Group’ s policy to eliminate goodwill arising on acquisition against reserves and such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves.
Positive goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and is reviewed for impairment at least annually . 
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement. In respect of associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is
included in the carrying amount of the investment in the associate. Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly 
in the income statement.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Amortisation begins when an asset
is available for use and is calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives (computer
software – generally 3 to 5 years). Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the
future economic beneﬁts embodied in the speciﬁc asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment
Property , plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Where parts of an item of
property , plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items. Cost comprises purchase price
and directly attributable costs. Freehold land is not depreciated. For all other property , plant and equipment, depreciation is calculated
on a straight-line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Leasehold buildings Shorter of 50 years or lease term
Plant and equipment Remaining useful life (generally 3 – 12
1
⁄ 2 years)
T rade and other receivables
Construction work in progress is stated at cost plus proﬁt recognised to date less a provision for foreseeable losses and less progress
billings. Cost includes all expenditure related directly to speciﬁc projects and an allocation of ﬁxed and variable overheads incurred in
the Group’ s contracting activities based on normal operating capacity .
T rade and other receivables are stated at their cost less impairment loss.
Investments – Company
Company investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less impairment.
60 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
1 Signiﬁcant accounting policies continued 61 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
PFI investments
In determining an appropriate accounting policy for the Group’ s interests in PFI projects under Adopted IFRS, the Group 
has considered the current status of the project by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) on
accounting for service concession arrangements. IFRIC published three draft interpretations on accounting for service concessions 
in 2005. However , the ﬁnal form of the interpretations and the timetable for IFRIC to ﬁnalise and the EU to adopt the interpretations
remain uncertain.
In light of this uncertainty , the Group considers that until such time as ﬁnal guidance is issued by IFRIC and adopted by the EU 
it remains appropriate to apply elements of the approach set out in UK Financial Reporting Standard 5 Reporting the substance 
of transactions in accounting for its interests in PFI projects. This involves applying a ‘risks and rewards’ test to determine whether 
a non-current asset (property , plant & equipment) or ﬁnance debtor model should be followed. Once the accounting model has been
determined, the recognised assets and liabilities of the PFI joint ventures are measured in accordance with Adopted IFRS; these
accounting policies do not differ signiﬁcantly from those applied previously under UK GAAP .
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form 
an integral part of the Group’ s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of 
the statement of cash ﬂows.
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’ s assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date
to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the assets’ recoverable amount is estimated. 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit is less than the recoverable
amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
For goodwill, assets that have an indeﬁnite useful life and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount 
is estimated at each balance sheet date. These assets were tested for impairment at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to Adopted
IFRS, even though no indication of impairment existed.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets an impairment loss is reversed if there has been 
a change in the estimates resulting in the recoverable amount rising above the impaired carrying value of the asset. An impairment loss
is reversed only to the extent that the assets’ carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
T axation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable proﬁt for the year . T axable proﬁt differs from net proﬁt as reported in the income
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items
that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’ s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in the ﬁnancial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁt and is accounted for using the
balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all temporary differences except for those speciﬁc
exemptions set out below and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁts will be available
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each
balance sheet date. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of
goodwill or other assets and liabilities (other than in a business combination) in a transaction that affects neither the taxable proﬁt nor
the accounting proﬁt.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures,
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will
not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates based on those enacted or substantively enacted at the
balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement except when it relates to items charged or credited
directly to equity , in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity .
1 Signiﬁcant accounting policies continued Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
Additional taxes arising from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Leases
Leases are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group. 
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value 
of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the liability and ﬁnance charge to produce a constant 
rate of interest on the ﬁnance lease balance outstanding. Assets capitalised under ﬁnance leases are depreciated over the shorter 
of the useful life of the asset or the lease term and adjusted for impairment losses. The interest expense component of ﬁnance lease
payments is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
Leases other than ﬁnance leases are classiﬁed as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are recognised as an
expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Any incentives to enter into operating leases are
recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis. Operating lease income is credited to the
income statement as it is earned.
Retirement beneﬁt obligations
The Group operates a pension scheme in the United Kingdom providing beneﬁts based on ﬁnal pensionable salary . The assets of the
scheme are held separately from those of the Group.
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values. Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method
and discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability . The liability
recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan is the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation less
the fair value of scheme assets at the balance sheet date. 
The increase in the present value of the liabilities of the Group’ s deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme expected to arise from employee
service in the period is charged to the proﬁt from operations. The expected return on the scheme’ s assets and the increase during the
period in the present value of the scheme’ s liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in ﬁnance income and ﬁnance costs
respectively . Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Obligations for contributions to deﬁned contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Share based payments
The Group operates various equity share option schemes. For equity settled share options, the services received from employees 
are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options. The fair value is calculated at the grant date and is recognised in 
the income statement, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity , on a straight line basis over the vesting period,
based on an estimate of the number of options that are expected to eventually vest. 
IFRS 2 has been applied, in accordance with IFRS 1, to equity settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 and not vested 
at 1 January 2005. 
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is
probable that an outﬂow of economic beneﬁts will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined
by discounting the expected future cash ﬂows at a pre-tax rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money
and, where appropriate, the risks speciﬁc to the liability .
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected beneﬁts to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than
the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
62 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
1 Signiﬁcant accounting policies continued 63 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
Accounting policy applicable for periods prior to 1 January 2005:
The Group protects the sterling value of overseas income and payments, where appropriate, by means of forward sales and purchase
contracts. Proﬁts or losses arising from these arrangements are accounted for in the period in which the contracts are due to mature.
Accordingly , no account is taken of unrealised proﬁts or losses arising on such forward contracts.
Accounting policy applicable from 1 January 2005:
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are measured at fair value and those utilised by the Group’ s treasury operations and its associated
investments include interest rate and Retail Price Index swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts. Certain derivative ﬁnancial
instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Group’ s risk management policies. Hedges are classiﬁed as follows:
a) Fair value hedges that hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability .
b) Cash ﬂow hedges that hedge exposure to variability in cash ﬂows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with 
a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
c) Net investment hedges that hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Group’ s interests in the net assets of foreign operations.
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the income statement
and any gain or loss on the hedged item is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the
income statement.
For cash ﬂow hedges and net investment hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be 
an effective hedge is recognised in equity , with any ineffective portion recognised in the income statement. When hedged cash ﬂows
result in the recognition of a non-ﬁnancial asset or liability , the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in
the initial measurement of the asset or liability . For all other cash ﬂow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are
transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash ﬂows affect the income statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised 
in the income statement. Borrowings are measured at amortised cost except where they are part of an effective fair value hedge
relationship, in which case the carrying value is adjusted to reﬂect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risk. Where
borrowings are used to hedge the foreign currency risk of the Group’ s interests in the net assets of foreign operations, the portion of
the foreign currency gain or loss on the borrowings that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity .
Other ﬁnancial assets are measured as follows:
(a) At fair value for available for sale ﬁnancial assets. Gains and losses are recognised as a separate component of equity except for
impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from these assets, which are recognised in the income statement.
(b) At amortised cost for held to maturity ﬁnancial assets. T rade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any
provision for impairment. T rade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
1 Signiﬁcant accounting policies continued Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
Derivative risk management policies and hedging activities
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments in order to manage risks arising from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest
rates. Principally , the Group uses forward foreign currency sale and purchase contracts in respect of its subsidiary companies and
interest rate and Retail Price Index swaps in respect of its PFI Investments. 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are stated at their fair value. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market value 
at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price. The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated
amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date. Valuations for both forward exchange
contracts, RPI swaps and interest rate swaps are determined using in-house valuation techniques supported by reference to market
values for similar transactions. 
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and risk management is carried out by Group T reasury , which
identiﬁes, evaluates and hedges ﬁnancial risk in close co-operation with the Group’ s subsidiaries.
It is and has been throughout the year under review, the Group’ s policy that no trading in ﬁnancial instruments shall be undertaken. 
Hedge accounting
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at
their fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging
instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates where appropriate the hedges of highly probable
forecast transactions as cash ﬂow hedges.
Changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ﬂows are
recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualiﬁes 
for hedge accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument previously recognised in equity is retained in equity 
until the hedged transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur , the net cumulative gain or loss
recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments, which do not qualify for hedge accounting, are recognised in the income
statement as they arise.
64 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
1 Signiﬁcant accounting policies continued 65 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
2 Business and geographical segment information by origin
In the opinion of the directors, the business segments are Civil Engineering, Building, Oil, Gas & Process, International, which
undertake engineering and construction projects, the Group’ s Property Development operations in Spain and central costs. These
represent the Group’ s primary segments. Secondary segments are presented geographically .
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on 
a reasonable basis. Central costs comprise mainly corporate expenses. Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during
the period to acquire segment assets that are expected to be used for more than one period.
Civil Property 
Engin- Oil, Gas Inter- Develop- Central
eering Building & Process national ment costs T otal
Y ear ended 31 December 2005 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
Group revenue 309.1 315.5 44.5 9.0 – – 678.1
Share of revenue of JVs and associates 20.7 6.1 7.6 15.7 45.0 – 95.1
T otal revenue 329.8 321.6 52.1 24.7 45.0 – 773.2
Group operating proﬁt 16.0 1.2 (1.2) (2.5) – (4.8) 8.7
Sale of interest in joint venture – 3.5–––– 3.5
Share of results of JVs and associates – (0.4) 0.2 (0.4) 14.0 – 13.4
Segment result 16.0 4.3 (1.0) (2.9) 14.0 (4.8) 25.6
Net ﬁnancing costs (0.6)
Income tax expense (1.4)
Proﬁt for the period 23.6
Group assets 93.0 65.5 21.3 12.7 – – 192.5
Investments in and loans to JVs and associates 0.6 0.4 0.3 3.2 26.5 – 31.0
Segment assets 93.6 65.9 21.6 15.9 26.5 – 223.5
Unallocated assets 106.3
T otal assets 329.8
Group liabilities (99.1) (104.0) (19.3) (9.6) – (15.7) (247.7)
Provisions against JVs and associates (1.8) (2.1) (0.2) – – – (4.1)
Segment liabilities (100.9) (106.1) (19.5) (9.6) – (15.7) (251.8)
Unallocated liabilities (100.5)
T otal liabilities (352.3)
Capital expenditure 2.2 2.1 0.3 0.9 – – 5.5
Depreciation/amortisation 0.5 0.5 0.3 0.2 – – 1.5 2 Business and geographical segment information by origin continued
Property 
Civil Oil, Gas Inter- Develop- Central
Engineering Building & Process national ment costs T otal
Y ear ended 31 December 2004 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
Group revenue 392.1 225.9 41.9 13.3 – – 673.2
Share of revenue of JVs and associates – 10.1 4.1 2.7 5.1 – 22.0
T otal revenue 392.1 236.0 46.0 16.0 5.1 – 695.2
Group operating proﬁt 18.4 0.2 (3.9) (0.4) – (4.1) 10.2
Share of results of JVs and associates – (0.3) 0.1 (0.2) (0.5) – (0.9)
Segment result 18.4 (0.1) (3.8) (0.6) (0.5) (4.1) 9.3
Net ﬁnancing costs 1.2
Income tax expense (1.7)
Proﬁt for the period 8.8
Group assets 81.9 55.6 21.0 7.1 – – 165.6    
Investments in and loans to JVs and associates 0.4 1.1 0.1 2.4 12.9 – 16.9
Segment assets 82.3 56.7 21.1 9.5 12.9 – 182.5
Unallocated assets 95.5
T otal assets 278.0
Segment liabilities (108.5) (77.2) (20.3) (5.4) – (10.1) (221.5)
Unallocated liabilities (101.0)
T otal liabilities (322.5)
Capital expenditure 0.6 0.5 0.3 0.3 – – 1.7
Depreciation/amortisation 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 – – 1.1
Capital Capital
Segment Segment expen- expen-
Revenue Revenue result result Assets Assets diture diture
2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom 673.4 661.4 16.3 9.8 177.2 158.6 4.3 1.4
Spain 45.0 5.1 14.0 (0.5) 26.5 12.9 – –
Rest of the world 54.8 28.7 (4.7) – 19.8 11.0 1.2 0.3
773.2 695.2 25.6 9.3 223.5 182.5 5.5 1.7
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
66 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 67 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
3 Other operating expenses and income
2005 2004
£m £m
Proﬁt before tax is stated after charging:
Personnel expenses (note 4) 93.2 84.1
Share based payments 0.2 –
Remuneration of directors (note 5) 1.6 1.0
Depreciation (note 9) 1.4 0.9
Amortisation (note 10) 0.1 0.2
Hire of plant and machinery 15.1 19.7
Rent of land and buildings 4.1 4.1
Auditors’ remuneration
– audit services – Group 0.4 0.4
– audit services – Company – –
– other fees paid to the auditors and their associates – 0.1
and after crediting:
Income from rents of land and buildings 1.9 2.2
Sale of interest in joint venture (see below) 3.5 –
During the year , the Group sold half of its interest in HpC King’ s College Hospital (Holdings) Ltd for the consideration of £3.6m.
4 Personnel expenses – Group
2005 2004
£m £m
Wages and salaries 81.3 72.8
Social security costs 6.9 6.7
Pension costs (note 18) 5.0 4.6
93.2 84.1
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year was:
2005 2004
Number Number
Civil Engineering 1,124 1,067
Building 634 602
Oil, Gas & Process 836 650
International 573 816
Central costs 19 19
3,186 3,154
Personnel expenses – Company
The Company does not employ any personnel, except for the directors considered in note 5.
5 Remuneration of directors
Details of directors’ remuneration, pension entitlements, L TIPs and share options are included on pages 39 to 49 in the Directors’
remuneration report.
6 Net ﬁnancing (costs)/income
2005 2004
£m £m
Interest income 2.4 2.6
Expected return on the assets of the pension scheme 21.1 20.3
Financial income 23.5 22.9
Interest expense (0.1) (0.3)
Losses on foreign currency forward contracts (0.1) –
Expected increase in the present value of the scheme liabilities (23.9) (21.4)
Finance costs (24.1) (21.7)
Net ﬁnancing (costs)/income (0.6) 1.2 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
68 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
7 Earnings per share
The calculation of earnings per share is based on proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the parent of £23.6m (2004: £8.8m) and the
number of shares set out below: 
2005 2004
Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share calculation 353,355,346 351,190,999
Dilutive potential ordinary shares:
SAYE Scheme 7,945,390 6,417,591
Weighted average number of shares for fully diluted earnings per share calculation 361,300,736 357,608,590
8 Income tax expense
2005 2004
£m £m
On proﬁt for the year:
United Kingdom corporation tax at 30% (1.0) (0.2)
Overseas taxation – (0.1)
Current tax charge for the year (1.0) (0.3)
Deferred taxation (0.4) (1.4)
T otal income tax expense in income statement (1.4) (1.7)
2005 2004
£m £m
T ax reconciliation:
Proﬁt before tax 25.0 10.5
Income tax at 30% (7.5) (3.1)
Rate adjustments relating to overseas proﬁts 0.1 0.2
Share of results of joint ventures and associates at 30% 4.0 (0.3)
Sundry disallowed expenses and proﬁts relieved by capital losses (0.6) (0.4)
Reversal of temporary differences 2.6 1.9
T otal income tax expense in income statement (1.4) (1.7)
Deferred tax recognised directly in equity:
Relating to deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes (0.1) 7.0
Relating to cash ﬂow hedges 0.1 –
– 7.0
The income tax expense above does not include any amounts for joint ventures and associates, whose results are disclosed in the
income statement net of tax.
The current tax liabilities of £3.2m (2004: £2.2m) represent the amount of income taxes due in respect of current and prior periods.
Accumulated tax losses carried forward, mainly in the United Kingdom, are estimated at £6.2m (2004: £8.5m). 69 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
8 Income tax expense continued
The elements of deferred taxation are as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 1.7 2.2
Other temporary differences (0.4) (0.5)
Pension liability 29.8 29.9
Deferred tax asset 31.1 31.6
The movements in the deferred taxation balance were as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Asset at 1 January 31.6 25.9
Implementation of IAS 39 (0.1) –
Restated asset at 1 January 31.5 25.9
Amount charged to income statement (0.4) (1.4)
Amount credited to equity – 7.0
Exchange differences – 0.1
Asset at 31 December 31.1 31.6
The amount charged comprised £0.5m for accelerated capital allowances and £0.1m (credit) for other temporary differences.
Factors that may affect future tax charges are:
a) No deferred tax has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures except where
remittances are expected.
b) The Group has potential deferred tax assets in its UK operations that have not been recognised at 31 December 2005 on the basis
that their future economic beneﬁts were not assured at the balance sheet date.
The full potential deferred tax assets not recognised at 31 December at 30% were:
Group Group Company Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 0.4 0.4 – –
Other temporary differences 2.4 4.6 0.1 0.1
T rading tax losses 2.9 3.6 – –
Management expenses and charges 17.2 17.2 17.0 17.0
T otal temporary differences 22.9 25.8 17.1 17.1
Surplus ACT 10.2 10.2 – –
Capital losses 85.1 85.8 74.5 75.3
T ax relief will be obtained if suitable proﬁts arise in future accounting periods. Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
9 Property, plant & equipment – Group
Land and buildings Plant and T otal
Over 50 years equipment
Freehold 50 years and under 
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2004 1.1 0.3 3.4 11.6 16.4
Currency realignment – – (0.2) (0.2) (0.4)
Additions – – – 1.3 1.3
Disposals – – – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 December 2004 1.1 0.3 3.2 12.4 17.0
At 1 January 2005 1.1 0.3 3.2 12.4 17.0
Additions – – – 2.4 2.4
Disposals – – (3.1) (1.1) (4.2)
At 31 December 2005 1.1 0.3 0.1 13.7 15.2
Depreciation
At 1 January 2004 0.1 0.1 3.3 8.3 11.8
Currency realignment – – (0.2) (0.1) (0.3)
Provided in year – – – 0.9 0.9
Disposals – – – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 December 2004 0.1 0.1 3.1 8.8 12.1
At 1 January 2005 0.1 0.1 3.1 8.8 12.1
Provided in year – – – 1.4 1.4
Disposals – – (3.1) (1.1) (4.2)
At 31 December 2005 0.1 0.1 – 9.1 9.3
Net book value
At 31 December 2005 1.0 0.2 0.1 4.6 5.9
At 31 December 2004 1.0 0.2 0.1 3.6 4.9
At 1 January 2004 1.0 0.2 0.1 3.3 4.6
Freehold land and buildings includes land of £0.7m (2004: £0.7m) on which no depreciation has been charged.
Included in the total net book value of plant and equipment is £0.6m (2004: £0.7m, 2003: £0.7m) in respect of assets held under
ﬁnance leases. 
Depreciation for the year on these assets was £0.1m (2004: £0.1m). The net book value of assets held under ﬁnance leases has not
been discounted as the impact is immaterial.
70 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 71 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
10 Intangible assets – Group
2005 2004
£m £m
Cost
At 1 January 0.8 0.4
Additions 3.1 0.4
At 31 December 3.9 0.8
Amortisation
At 1 January 0.3 0.1
Provided in year 0.1 0.2
At 31 December 0.4 0.3
Net book value
At 31 December 3.5 0.5
At 1 January 0.5 0.3
Net book value of intangible assets comprises £3.3m (2004: £0.4m) relating to software development costs and £0.2m (2004: £0.1m)
relating to software licences. Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
11 Investments – Group
Loans to 
Joint joint Loans to Other
ventures Associates ventures associates investments T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost or fair value
At 1 January 2004 22.3 – 2.8 – 1.5 26.6
Currency realignment (0.1) –––– (0.1)
Additions 0.2 0.2 0.1 2.7 – 3.2
Repayments –––– (0.3) (0.3)
Reclassiﬁcation – 0.2 – – (0.2) –
Disposals (0.2) –––– (0.2)
At 31 December 2004 22.2 0.4 2.9 2.7 1.0 29.2
At 1 January 2005 22.2 0.4 2.9 2.7 1.0 29.2
Currency realignment (0.5) 0.1––– (0.4)
Additions 0.2 – 1.1 1.5 – 2.8
Repayments – – (1.2) (0.1) – (1.3)
Disposals (0.1) – (1.6) – – (1.7)
Fair value adjustment –––– 3.4 3.4
At 31 December 2005 21.8 0.5 1.2 4.1 4.4 32.0
Share of post-acquisition reserves
At 1 January 2004 (5.5) – (5.5)
T otal recognised income and expense (5.1) (0.2) (5.3)
At 31 December 2004 (10.6) (0.2) (10.8)
Implementation of IAS 39 (1.2) (0.7) (1.9)
At 1 January 2005 (11.8) (0.9) (12.7)
T otal recognised income and expense 15.0 (2.8) 12.2
At 31 December 2005 3.2 (3.7) (0.5)
Amounts written off
At 1 January 2004 – – (0.3) – (0.5) (0.8)
Reclassiﬁcation – (0.2) – – 0.2 –
Disposals –––– 0.3 0.3
At 31 December 2004 – (0.2) (0.3) – – (0.5)
At 1 January 2005 – (0.2) (0.3) – – (0.5)
Disposals – – 0.3 – – 0.3
At 31 December 2005 – (0.2) – – – (0.2)
Subtotal 25.0 (3.4) 1.2 4.1 4.4 31.3
Reclassiﬁcation (see below) 2.6 3.6 (1.0) (1.1) – 4.1
Net book value
At 31 December 2005 27.6 0.2 0.2 3.0 4.4 35.4
At 31 December 2004 11.6 – 2.6 2.7 1.0 17.9
At 1 January 2004 16.8 – 2.5 – 1.0 20.3
Presentation in the balance sheet in respect of joint ventures and associates restricts the minimum carrying value to £Nil. Where the
carrying value is negative, the corresponding loan value to those investments has been reduced or , where future funding obligations
exist, a provision made.
72 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 73 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
11 Investments continued
The analysis of the Group’ s share of joint ventures and associates is set out below:
Alcaidesa Alcaidesa
joint Other joint joint Other joint 
venture ventures Associates T otal venture ventures Associates T otal
2005 2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 45.0 37.5 12.6 95.1 5.1 16.3 0.6 22.0
Proﬁt before tax 22.5 0.8 (1.1) 22.2 (0.8) (0.1) (0.2) (1.1)
Income tax expense (8.5) (0.3) – (8.8) 0.3 (0.1) – 0.2
Proﬁt for the period 14.0 0.5 (1.1) 13.4 (0.5) (0.2) (0.2) (0.9)
Non-current assets 7.4 0.7 2.0 10.1 11.3 0.2 1.5 13.0
Current assets 40.2 68.0 20.5 128.7 27.2 60.4 1.9 89.5
Current liabilities (15.6) (23.9) (7.5) (47.0) (21.7) (7.3) (2.0) (31.0)
Non-current liabilities (5.5) (43.7) (14.8) (64.0) (3.9) (54.6) (1.4) (59.9)
Investments in joint ventures and associates 26.5 1.1 0.2 27.8 12.9 (1.3) – 11.6
Financial commitments – 9.5 – 9.5 – 4.3 – 4.3
Capital commitments – 36.3 – 36.3 – 20.7 – 20.7
Net interest payable by joint ventures and associates in 2005 was £1.6m (2004: £0.6m).
The ﬁnancial commitments relate to joint ventures involved in Private Finance Initiative (PFI) schemes and the capital commitments 
to construction work being undertaken by the Costain Group. All ﬁgures are the Group’ s share.
The analysis of the total revenue, income, assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates in which the Group has an interest is set
out below:
Alcaidesa Alcaidesa
joint Other joint joint Other joint 
venture ventures Associates T otal venture ventures Associates T otal
2005 2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 90.1 85.4 47.5 223.0 10.2 40.3 1.6 52.1
Proﬁt before tax 45.0 1.4 (3.2) 43.2 (1.6) (0.9) (0.5) (3.0)
Income tax expense (16.9) (0.6) – (17.5) 0.6 (0.2) – 0.4
Proﬁt for the period 28.1 0.8 (3.2) 25.7 (1.0) (1.1) (0.5) (2.6)
Non-current assets 14.8 1.5 5.5 21.8 22.7 0.8 4.0 27.5
Current assets 80.4 140.7 72.4 293.5 54.4 157.3 5.2 216.9
Current liabilities (31.1) (50.5) (25.6) (107.2) (43.5) (17.3) (5.5) (66.3)
Non-current liabilities (11.1) (89.2) (51.0) (151.3) (7.7) (144.5) (3.7) (155.9)
Equity 53.0 2.5 1.3 56.8 25.9 (3.7) – 22.2
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are shown in note 23.
Investments – Company
Investments in subsidiaries £m
Cost
At 1 January 2004/31 December 2004/31 December 2005 387.6
Amounts written off
At 1 January 2004/31 December 2004/31 December 2005 269.5
Net book value
At 1 January 2004/31 December 2004 /31 December 2005 118.1 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
12 T rade and other receivables
Group Group Company Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Amounts included in current assets:
T rade receivables 84.6 74.8 – –
Other receivables 6.6 4.7 – 0.2
Amounts due from customers for contract work 64.5 66.1 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 4.4 4.4 0.4 –
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 6.4 2.3 – –
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 1.7 –
Dividends receivable from Group undertakings – – – 5.0
T axation – – – 0.8
166.5 152.3 2.1 6.0
Amounts included in non-current assets:
Other receivables 10.2 5.7 – –
At 31 December 2005, trade receivables falling due within one year and other receivables falling due after more than one year include
retentions of £18.7m (2004: £17.7m) relating to construction contracts in progress.
13 Cash and cash equivalents – Group
Cash at bank and in hand is analysed below and includes the Group’ s share of cash held by joint arrangements of £25.0m 
(2004: £18.9m). 
2005 2004
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 75.2 64.1
Bank overdrafts (0.2) (0.6)
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash ﬂows 75.0 63.5
14 Interest bearing loans and borrowings – Group
2005 2004
£m £m
Current liabilities:
Finance leases 0.1 0.1
Bank loans 0.7 0.3
0.8 0.4
Non-current liabilities:
Finance leases 0.2 0.5
T otal interest bearing loans and borrowings 1.0 0.9
The minimum lease payments under ﬁnance leases amounted to £0.3m (2004: £0.6m).
74 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 75 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
15 Financial instruments
The Group uses forward foreign currency sale and purchase contracts in respect of its foreign exchange requirements and interest rate
and RPI swaps in respect of its PFI Investments. The Company does not have any forward exchange contracts or other derivatives.
Interest rate risk
The Group’ s exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates predominantly relate to the Group’ s PFI obligations. The Group’ s
policy is to ﬁx the interest cost on variable rate ﬁnancing on speciﬁc PFI projects by taking out ﬂoating to ﬁxed interest rate swaps, these
swaps are designated to hedge underlying debt obligations and are expected to be effective for cash ﬂow hedge accounting purposes.
Inﬂation risk
Inﬂation risk on the Group’ s PFI projects is, where appropriate, hedged by the use of RPI swaps.
Foreign currency risk
The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from sales or purchases by its operating companies in currencies other than
the operating company’ s measurement currency . Its current hedging strategy is to hedge 100% of both committed and forecast
foreign currency exposures where no natural hedge exists. It is not the Group’ s policy to enter into forward contracts until a ﬁrm
commitment is in place. The Group’ s policy is to negotiate the terms of the hedge derivatives to match the terms of the hedged item 
to maximise hedge effectiveness.
At 31 December 2005, the net monetary assets denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the operation involved
were Hong Kong dollar denominated net assets of £1.5m (2004: £1.1m), US Dollar denominated net assets of £2.2m (2004: £1.8m)
and Euro denominated net liabilities of £Nil (2004: £0.3m) in the books of sterling companies.
Cash ﬂow hedges
At 31 December 2005, the Group held 10 foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges of expected future sales to customers 
for which the Group has ﬁrm commitments. The Group also had 10 foreign exchange contracts outstanding at 31 December 2005
designated as hedges of expected future purchases. The foreign exchange contracts are being used to reduce the exposure to
foreign exchange risk.
The Group classiﬁes its forward exchange contracts, which hedge forecast transactions, as cash ﬂow hedges and states them at fair
value. The fair value of forward exchange contracts at 1 January 2005 was adjusted against the opening balance of the hedging
reserve at that date. The net fair value of these contracts at 31 December 2005 was £0.3m (liability), comprising assets of £Nil and
liabilities of £0.3m. These amounts were recognised in current liabilities as fair value derivatives.
The terms of the foreign exchange contracts have been negotiated to match the terms of the commitments. However , due to 
a number of foreign currency forward contracts for which hedge accounting had been applied now no longer expected to occur 
or being ineffective for hedge accounting purposes £0.1m is included in the income statement.
At 31 December 2005, the Group’ s PFI investments held the following interest rate swaps, which related to the ﬁxing of the interest
cost on variable rate debt and are being used to reduce the exposure to interest rate risk and RPI swaps being used to hedge inﬂation
risk. The Group classiﬁes these swaps as cash ﬂow hedges and states them at fair value. The fair value of swaps at 1 January 2005
was adjusted against the opening balance of the hedging reserve at that date. The net fair value of these swaps at 31 December 2005
was £4.7m (liability) (£6.7m less tax of £2.0m), comprising assets of £Nil and liabilities of £4.7m. These amounts were recognised
against the value of the investment or within provisions, as appropriate, as fair value derivatives and £0.1m was deemed to be
ineffective and recognised in the income statement.
Between
Within one and After
T otal one year ﬁve years 5 years
PFI Swap obligations £m £m £m £m
Interest rate swaps 5.9 – – 5.9
RPI swaps 0.8 – – 0.8
6.7 – – 6.7 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
Financial liabilities and assets
The Group’ s ﬁnancial liabilities were denominated in the following currencies and at the following interest rates:
Effective Between Effective Between
interest Within one and After interest Within one and After
rate T otal one year two years two years rate T otal one year two years two years
2005 2005 2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 2004 2004
%£m £m £m £m %£m£m£m£m
Finance lease 
liabilities – Sterling 4.9% 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 4.9% 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.3
Finance lease  – 
Other –– – – – 5.5% 0.1 – 0.1 –
Bank overdraft – 
UAE Dirhams –– – – – 5.0% 0.4 0.4 – –
Bank overdraft – 
Kuwait Dinars 8.0% 0.2 0.2 – – 5.0% 0.2 0.2 – –
Bank loan – 
Hong Kong Dollars 8.7% 0.7 0.7 – – 6.0% 0.2 0.2 – –
Bank loan – Other –– – – – 6.0% 0.1 0.1 – –
1.2 1.0 0.1 0.1 1.5 1.0 0.2 0.3
The currency and maturity of the Group’ s ﬁnancial assets, which comprised cash at bank and in hand and loans to joint ventures and
associates, were as follows:
Between Between
Within one and After Within two and After
T otal one year two years ﬁve years T otal one year ﬁve years ﬁve years
2005 2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004 2004
Cash at Bank and in hand £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling 65.2 65.2 – – 59.4 59.4 – –
UAE Dirhams 0.6 0.6 – – 1.7 1.7 – –
Hong Kong Dollars 0.5 0.5 – – 0.5 0.5 – –
US Dollars 4.9 4.9 – – 1.0 1.0 – –
Euro 0.3 0.3 – – 0.5 0.5 – –
Botswana Pula 0.3 0.3 – – 0.7 0.7 – –
Other 3.4 3.4 – – 0.3 0.3 – –
75.2 75.2 – – 64.1 64.1 – –
Loans to JVs and associates: Sterling 3.2 – 2.6 0.6 5.3 1.1 2.7 1.5
78.4 75.2 2.6 0.6 69.4 65.2 2.7 1.5
The Company’ s ﬁnancial assets comprised cash at bank of £36.9m (2004: £30.0m) denominated in Pounds sterling and maturing
within one year .
Undrawn borrowing facilities are available to the Group as set out below.
2005 2004
£m £m
Expiring in one year or less – 8.5
Expiring between one and two years 10.0 –
There are no signiﬁcant differences between the carrying values of the Group’ s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities and their fair values.
Credit risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are
performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount. T ransactions involving derivative ﬁnancial instruments are with
counter-parties with whom the Group has a signed netting agreement as well as sound credit ratings. Given their high credit ratings,
management does not expect any counter-party to fail to meet its obligations.
At the balance sheet date there were no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented
by the carrying amount of each ﬁnancial asset, including derivative ﬁnancial instruments, in the balance sheet.
76 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 77 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
16 T rade and other payables
Group Group Company Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
Current liabilities:
T rade payables 94.1 86.6 – –
Other payables 10.6 14.9 – –
Social security 2.7 2.2 – –
Credit balances on long-term contracts 6.4 11.3 – –
Accruals and deferred income 119.5 97.1 0.1 –
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – – 122.9 119.1
233.3 212.1 123.0 119.1
Non-current liabilities:
Accruals and deferred income 7.2 3.0 – –
At 31 December 2005, credit balances on long-term contracts include advance payments of £5.2m (2004: £0.1m) relating to
construction contracts in progress.
17 Provisions – Group
Engineering
&
Construction Void space Investments Other Pension T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Current
At 1 January 2004 2.1 1.0 – 0.2 – 3.3
Provided – 0.1––– 0.1
Utilised (2.0) (0.1) – (0.2) – (2.3)
At 31 December 2004 0.1 1.0––– 1.1
At 1 January 2005 0.1 1.0––– 1.1
Provided 0.1 0.3 – 0.4 – 0.8
Utilised (0.1) (0.5) – – – (0.6)
At 31 December 2005 0.1 0.8 – 0.4 – 1.3
Non-current
At 1 January 2004 2.1 1.0 – – 0.7 3.8
Provided (0.1) – – 0.1 – –
Utilised – (0.7) – – – (0.7)
At 31 December 2004 2.0 0.3 – 0.1 0.7 3.1
Implementation of IAS39 – – 1.8 – – 1.8
At 1 January 2005 2.0 0.3 1.8 0.1 0.7 4.9
Provided – 0.2 2.3 – 0.2 2.7
Utilised (0.5) (0.3) – – – (0.8)
At 31 December 2005 1.5 0.2 4.1 0.1 0.9 6.8 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
17 Provisions continued – Company
Obligations
of
non-trading
overseas
subsidiary Other T otal
£m £m £m
Current
At 1 January 2004 0.2 0.4 0.6
Provided 0.4 0.2 0.6
Utilised (0.2) (0.4) (0.6)
At 31 December 2004 0.4 0.2 0.6
At 1 January 2005 0.4 0.2 0.6
Utilised (0.2) (0.1) (0.3)
At 31 December 2005 0.2 0.1 0.3
Non-current
At 1 January 2004 1.6 0.3 1.9
Utilised (0.4) (0.2) (0.6)
At 31 December 2004 1.2 0.1 1.3
At 1 January 2005 1.2 0.1 1.3
Provided 0.3 – 0.3
At 31 December 2005 1.5 0.1 1.6
Engineering & Construction provisions are in respect of liabilities incurred on long-term contracts most of which are estimated to be
paid over the next two years.
Void space provisions relate to costs of vacant properties and will be utilised over the next ﬁve years. 
Investments provisions relate to interest rate and other swaps in PFI investments, where the resulting carrying value of the investment
would be negative. The provisions are expected to reverse over the lives of the concessions.
Other provisions mainly comprise remedial costs and litigation provisions most of which are expected to be utilised over the next year .
Provisions in the Company relating to obligations of a non-trading overseas subsidiary eliminate on consolidation.
78 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 79 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
18 Employee beneﬁts – Group
Pensions
The Group operates a deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme in the United Kingdom and a number of deﬁned contribution type schemes in
the United Kingdom and overseas. Contributions are paid by Group undertakings and employees. The deﬁned beneﬁt scheme was
closed to new members on 1 June 2005 and from 1 April 2006, future beneﬁts will be calculated on a Career Average Revalued
Earnings basis. The total pension cost charge for the Group was £7.8m (2004: £5.7m). The Company does not operate a pension
scheme.
2005 2004
£m £m
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (501.9) (447.9)
Fair value of plan assets 402.6 348.4
Recognised liability for deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (99.3) (99.5)
Movements in present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation
2005 2004
£m £m
At 1 January 447.9 400.1
Current service cost 4.8 4.2
Past service cost 0.1 0.3
Interest cost 23.9 21.4
Actuarial losses 38.1 34.2
Beneﬁts paid (16.8) (15.8)
Contributions by members 3.9 3.5
At 31 December 501.9 447.9
Movements in fair value of plan assets
2005 2004
£m £m
At 1 January 348.4 321.7
Expected return on plan assets 21.1 20.3
Actuarial gains 38.3 11.4
Contributions by employer 7.7 7.3
Contributions by members 3.9 3.5
Beneﬁts paid (16.8) (15.8)
At 31 December 402.6 348.4 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
18 Employee beneﬁts continued
Expense recognised in the income statement
2005 2004
£m £m
Current service cost 4.8 4.2
Past service cost 0.1 0.3
Interest on deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan obligation 23.9 21.4
Expected return on deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan assets (21.1) (20.3)
T otal       7.7 5.6
The expense is recognised in the following line items in the income statement:
2005 2004
£m £m
Cost of sales 4.8 4.4
Administrative expenses 0.1 0.1
Finance income (21.1) (20.3)
Finance expense 23.9 21.4
T otal  7.7 5.6
Cumulative actuarial losses reported in the statement of recognised income and expenses since 1 January 2004, the transition date to
Adopted IFRS, are £22.6m (2004: £22.8m).
The fair value of the plan assets and the return on those assets were as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Equities 271.8 229.5
Bonds 130.8 118.9
402.6 348.4
Actual return on plan assets 59.4 31.7
The expected rates of return on plan assets are determined by reference to relevant indices. The overall expected rate of return is
calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the plan’ s investment portfolio.
Principal actuarial assumptions (expressed as weighted averages):
2005 2004
% %
Discount rate 4.75 5.40
Expected rate of return on plan assets 6.02 6.11
Future salary increases 2.75 2.80
Future pension increases 2.75 2.80
Inﬂation assumption 2.75 2.80
Weighted average life expectancy per mortality tables used to determine beneﬁts at 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2004:
Male Female
(years) (years)
Member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 18.2 21.3
Member aged 45 (life expectancy at age 65) 19.7 22.7
80 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 81 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
18 Employee beneﬁts continued
History of plans
The history of the plans for the current and prior periods is as follows:
Experience adjustments 2005 2004
Experience gain/(loss) on plan liabilities (£m) 10.2 (9.0)
2% 2%
Change in assumptions on plan liabilities (£m) (48.3) (25.2)
11% 6%
Experience adjustments on plan assets (£m) 38.3 11.4
10% 3%
T otal gain/(loss) (£m) 0.2 (22.8)
Experience adjustment on plan assets
The Group expects to contribute approximately £9.2m to its deﬁned beneﬁt plans in the next ﬁnancial year .
Deﬁned contribution plans 
The Group operates a number of deﬁned contribution pension plans. The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was
£0.1m (2004: £0.1m).
Share-based payments
The terms and conditions of the outstanding grants of share options and incentive schemes made after 7 November 2002 are 
as follows:
Arrangement L TIP 2004 L TIP 2005 L TIP 2005
Nature of the arrangement Grant of shares Grant of shares Grant of shares
Date of grant 21 Apr 2004 26 Apr 2005 19 Sept 2005
Number of instruments granted 2,040,292 1,732,974 677,966
Exercise price £1 per option exercise £1 per option exercise £1 per option exercise
Share price at date of grant 41.5p 47.0p 44.25p
Contractual life (years) 4 Y ears 4 Y ears 3.5 Y ears
Vesting conditions 3 year service period 3 year service period 3 year service period
& eps of 6.7p & 4 eps targets & 4 eps targets 
in 2007 of between of between
5.25p and 6.375p 5.25p and 6.375p 
in 2008 in 2008
Settlement Shares Shares Shares
Normally exercisable in periods to 20 Apr 2014 25 Apr 2015 18 Sept 2015
Expected volatility 20% 20% 20%
Expected option life at grant date (years) 4 Y ears 4 Y ears 3.5 Y ears
Risk-free interest rate 4.5% 5.0% 5.0%
Expected dividend (dividend yield) 0% 0% 0%
Fair value per granted instrument determined at the grant date 1.2p 11.9p 11.2p
Valuation model Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Black-Scholes
Number of ordinary shares – 2004 2,040,292 – –
Number of ordinary shares – 2005 1,455,218 1,732,974 677,966 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
18 Employee beneﬁts continued
Arrangement SAYE 2004 3 Yr SAYE 2004 5 Yr Contingent Award
Nature of the arrangement Save As Y ou Earn Save As Y ou Earn Grant of shares
scheme scheme
Date of grant 22 Oct 2004 22 Oct 2004 19 Sep 2005 
Number of instruments granted 4,274,887 3,173,116 400,000
Exercise price 33.6p 33.6p £1 per option exercise
Share price at date of grant 42.0p 42.0p 44.25p
Contractual life (years) 3 Y ears 5 Y ears 2 years
Vesting conditions 3 year service 5 year service 2 year service 
period & savings period & savings period & 4 eps 
requirement requirement targets of between
4.9p and 6.7p
Settlement Shares Shares Shares
Normally exercisable in periods to 1 June 2008 1 June 2010 18 September 2015
Expected volatility 20% 20% 20%
Expected option life at grant date (years) 3 Y ears 5 Y ears 2 Y ears
Risk-free interest rate 4.5% 4.5% 5.0%
Expected dividend (dividend yield) 0% 0% 0%
Fair value per granted instrument determined at the grant date 13.6p 16.4p 7.7p
Valuation model Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Black-Scholes
Number of ordinary shares – 2004 4,274,887 3,153,444 –
Number of ordinary shares – 2005 3,827,105 2,727,541 400,000
The expected volatility for the share option arrangements uses historical volatility , determined by the analysis of daily share price
movements over the past three years, as a basis for estimating the future volatility .
The recognition and measurement principles in IFRS 2 have not been applied to share option arrangements granted before
7 November 2002 in accordance with transitional provisions in IFRS 1 and IFRS 2. At 31 December 2005, share options outstanding
from the exempt arrangements were:
Arrangement L TIP 2002 SAYE 2002 3 Yr SAYE 2002 5 Yr
Nature of the arrangement Grant of shares Save As Y ou Earn Save As Y ou Earn
scheme scheme
Date of grant 11 Oct 2002 22 Oct 2002 22 Oct 2002
Number of instruments granted 2,047,833 5,142,690 8,277,535
Exercise price £1 per option exercise 20.0p 20.0p
Share price at date of grant 25.0p 25.0p 25.0p
Contractual life (years) 4 years 3 Y ears 5 Y ears
Vesting conditions 3 year service 3 year service 5 year service
period & eps period & savings period & savings
of 5.34p in 2005 requirement requirement
on UK GAAP basis
Settlement Shares Shares Shares
Normally exercisable in periods to 10 October 2012 1 June 2006 1 June 2008
Expected option life at grant date (years) 4 Y ears 3 Y ears 5 Y ears
Number of ordinary shares – 2004 1,490,458 4,318,650 7,507,203
Number of ordinary shares – 2005 1,102,977 1,013,985 7,080,154
During the year , one participant in the Long T erm Incentive Plans (L TIP) left the employ of the Group and ceased to be a participant 
in the L TIP 2002 and L TIP 2004. The only new grants were the L TIP 2005 and the Contingent Award. The participants in these Plans
remain in the employment of the Group.
82 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 83 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
18 Employee beneﬁts continued
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options issued under the SAYE schemes is as follows:
Weighted average Weighted average
exercise price exercise price
2005 Number of options 2004 Number of options
p2005 p 2004
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 25.2 19,254,184 20.0 12,808,495
Forfeited during the period 28.0 (1,477,449) 20.0 (1,002,314)
Exercised during the period 20.0 (3,127,950) ––
Granted during the period –– 33.6 7,448,003
Outstanding at the end of the period 26.1 14,648,785 25.2 19,254,184
Exercisable at the end of the period 20.0 1,013,985 ––
The only share options exercised during the year related to the SAYE 2002 3 year Plan. All other movements in the SAYE schemes
related to forfeitures.
The amounts recognised in the income statement (before taxes) for share-based payment transactions with employees is
£0.2m (2004: £Nil). 19 Share capital of Costain Group PLC
2005 2004
Number Nominal value Number Nominal value
£ £
Authorised share capital – Ordinary
shares of 5p each (2004: 10p each) 746,863,648 37,343,182 550,000,000 55,000,000
Shares in issue at beginning of year –
Ordinary shares of 10p each, fully paid 353,136,352 35,313,636 345,136,362 34,513,637
Capital reduction (see below) – (17,656,818) ––
Issued in year (see below) 3,005,100 150,255 7,999,990 799,999
Shares in issue at beginning of year –
Ordinary shares of 5p each
(2004: 10p each), fully paid 356,141,452 17,807,073 353,136,352 35,313,636
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 28 April 2005, the members of the Company resolved that:
> the share capital of the Company be reduced by the cancellation of 5p per share on each of the issued ordinary shares in the 
capital of the Company and that the nominal value thereof be reduced to 5p;
> the amount standing to the credit of the share premium account of the Company as at the date of the Extraordinary General
Meeting be cancelled; and
> that subject to, and immediately upon, the above reduction of share capital and cancellation of the share premium account 
taking effect:
(i) each of the unissued ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company be subdivided into two ordinary shares of 5p
each; and
(ii) Article 1(A) of the Articles of Association of the Company be deleted entirely and replaced by the insertion of the following:-
‘1(A) the authorised share capital of the Company at the date of adoption of this Article is £37,343,182.40 divided into
746,863,648 ordinary shares of 5p each.’
Following the passing of the special resolution an application was made to the Companies Court, Chancery Division, High Court of
Justice to approve the capital reduction. The capital reduction was conﬁrmed by the Court on 18 May 2005 and became effective
when the order of the Court and minute on reduction of capital and cancellation of share premium account was registered at
Companies House on 20 May 2005.
The three-year savings contract in the Company’ s 2002 Save As you Earn Plan matured in December 2005. The Company made an
application for a block listing of 4,147,605 ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the Company on 11 November 2005. This was
the maximum number of shares required to satisfy the options granted to employees under the three-year savings contract. By
31 December 2005, a total of 3,005,100 ordinary shares of 5p each were allotted to employees. The total number of issued fully paid
shares stood at 31 December 2005 at 356,141,452 ordinary shares of 5p each. 
The share options outstanding at 31 December 2005 are shown in note 18. 
Details of the performance conditions and the options granted to Executive Directors are given in the Directors’ remuneration report on
pages 39 to 49.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
84 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 85 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
20 Capital and reserves
Group
Share
Share premium Special Fair value T ranslation Hedging Retained Minority T otal
capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings T otal interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 34.5 119.4 – – – – (191.8) (37.9) 0.1 (37.8)
T otal recognised 
income & expense – – – – (0.4) – (7.2) (7.6) – (7.6)
Shares issued 0.8 0.1 – –––– 0.9 – 0.9
At 31 December 
2004 35.3119.5––(0.4)–(199.0)(44.6)0.1(44.5)
Implementation of 
IAS 39 – – – – – (1.7) – (1.7) – (1.7)
At 1 January 2005 35.3 119.5 – – (0.4) (1.7) (199.0) (46.3) 0.1 (46.2)
T otal recognised 
income & expense – – – 3.4 (0.8) (3.3) 23.8 23.1 (0.1) 23.0
Share based 
payments – – – – – – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
Capital reduction (17.6) (119.5) 13.6 – – – 123.5–––
Shares issued 
(note 19) 0.1 0.4 (0.5) – – – 0.5 0.5 – 0.5
At 31 December 
2005 17.8 0.4 13.1 3.4 (1.2) (5.0) (51.0) (22.5) – (22.5)
Company
Share
Share premium Special Retained
capital account reserve earnings T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 34.5 119.4 – (122.1) 31.8
T otal recognised income & expense – – – (1.4) (1.4)
Shares issued 0.8 0.1 – – 0.9
At 31 December 2004 35.3 119.5 – (123.5) 31.3
1 January 2005 35.3 119.5 – (123.5) 31.3
T otal recognised income & expense – – – (1.4) (1.4)
Capital reduction (17.6) (119.5) 13.6 123.5 –
Shares issued (note 19) 0.1 0.4 (0.5) 0.5 0.5
At 31 December 2005 17.8 0.4 13.1 (0.9) 30.4
At 31 December 2005, the cumulative goodwill written off through retained earnings on acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998 amounted
to £3.3m (2004: £3.3m).
There are no signiﬁcant restrictions on the ability to remit overseas reserves. Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
20 Capital and reserves continued
Special reserve
On 18 May 2005, Court approval of a capital restructuring was granted under which the deﬁcit on the Company’ s proﬁt and loss
account was eliminated using a special reserve created from restructuring the share capital and the share premium.
T ranslation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial statements of foreign
operations that are not integral to the operations of the Company , as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Group’ s 
net investment in a foreign subsidiary .
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash ﬂow hedging instruments
related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred. Under UK GAAP , the Group did not recognise unrealised gains or losses
arising from derivatives maturing at dates beyond the balance sheet date. In accordance with Adopted IFRS, derivatives should be
included in the balance sheet at fair value.
Costain Group PLC did not adopt IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments:
Recognition and measurement until 1 January 2005 as allowed under the transition rules for Adopted IFRS. 
There are several ﬁnancial instruments that were entered into and in place prior to 2005 that were not previously recognised in the
prime ﬁnancial statements under UK GAAP . These include:
– Forward sales and purchases of foreign currency
– Interest rate swaps 
– Inﬂation swaps
The forward sales and purchases of foreign currency are required to be marked-to-market (fair value) under IAS 39 and will be revalued
at each period end. At 31 December 2004, the unrecognised gain on these instruments was £0.2m and an adjustment has been
made at 1 January 2005 to recognise this gain.
Interest rate swaps, which ﬁx the interest cost on variable rate ﬁnancing, and inﬂation swaps, which hedge the risks associated with
inﬂation on speciﬁc PFI projects, must be recorded at fair value under IAS 39. The cash ﬂow hedging treatment is available (provided
there is an effective risk match and appropriate hedging documentation is in place) resulting in fair value movements on the effective
portions of these derivatives being recognised directly in equity . At 31 December 2004, the unrecognised loss on these instruments
was £1.9m and an adjustment has been made at 1 January 2005 to recognise this loss.
Fair value reserve
The fair value reserve includes cumulative net change in the fair value of available for sale investments until the investment is
derecognised.
86 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 87 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
21 Contingent liabilities
Group Group Company Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Under guarantees of bank overdrafts and loans:
T o subsidiary undertakings – – 0.9 –
Certain subsidiary undertakings have entered into cross-guarantees for overdraft facilities made available to the Group. At
31 December 2005, these liabilities amounted to £Nil (2004: £Nil).
There are also contingent liabilities in respect of:
– creditors of joint arrangements, which are less than the book value of their assets;
– performance bonds and other undertakings entered into in the ordinary course of business.
22 Other ﬁnancial commitments 
Group
2005 2005 2004 2004
Land Other Land Other
and operating and operating
buildings leases buildings leases
Leases as lessee £m £m £m £m
T otal operating lease commitments under non-cancellable leases are as follows:
- within one year 3.6 1.9 3.8 2.3
- between one and ﬁve years 13.0 1.2 13.2 1.5
- after ﬁve years 6.7 – 9.2 –
23.3 3.1 26.2 3.8
The Group sub-leases property under operating leases.
2005 2004
Land Land
and and
buildings buildings
Leases as lessor £m £m
T otal income commitments under non-cancellable leases expiring:
- within one year 1.7 1.8
- between one and ﬁve years 6.8 6.7
- after ﬁve years 3.6 5.2
12.1 13.7
Company
The Company does not have any other ﬁnancial commitments (2004: £Nil). Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
23 Principal subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities and jointly controlled operations
Activity Percentage of equity held Country of incorporation
Subsidiary undertakings
Costain Abu Dhabi Co WLL Process Engineering 49+* UAE
Costain (Africa) Ltd Holding & Property Company 100+ Zimbabwe
Costain America Inc Holding Company 100+ USA
Costain Building & Civil Engineering Ltd Civil Engineering & Construction 100+
Costain Ltd Civil Engineering & Construction 100+
Costain Construction (Botswana) Pty Ltd Civil Engineering & Construction 100+ Botswana
Costain Construction Ltd Construction 100+
Costain Engineering & Construction Ltd Holding Company 100
Costain International Ltd Civil Engineering & Construction 100+
Costain (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Civil Engineering & Construction 100+ Malaysia
Costain Oil, Gas & Process Ltd Process Engineering 100+
Costain USA Inc Holding Company 100 USA
County & District Properties Ltd Commercial Property 100
Costain Zimbabwe (Pvt) Ltd Civil Engineering & Construction 85+ Zimbabwe
Richard Costain Ltd Service Company 100
Richard Costain Construction &
Engineering Ltd Civil Engineering & Construction 100+ Nigeria
Issued share Percentage Country of
capital of equity incorp- Reporting
Activity £m held oration date
Jointly controlled entities
ACM Health Solutions Construction & Operation of Hospital – 33+ UK 31 Dec
Alcaidesa Holding SA Property Development 8.9 50+ Spain 31 Dec
China Harbour – 
Costain Mexico S de RL de CV Civil Engineering – 50+ Mexico 31 Dec
Costain Petrofac Ltd Process Engineering 0.1 50+ UK 31 Dec
4Delivery Ltd Civil Engineering – 40+ UK 31 Mar
Integrated Care Solutions (East Kent) 
Holdings Ltd Operation of Care Homes 0.1 50+ UK 31 Dec
Integrated Care Solutions (Shropshire)
Holdings Ltd Construction & Operation of Care Homes – 50+ UK 31 Dec
KP Costain Ltd Civil Engineering & Construction – 50+ Cyprus 31 Dec
Seafort Holdings Ltd Construction & Operation of Schools – 45+ UK 31 Mar
Sirhowy Enterprise Way (Holdings) Ltd Road Operator – 50+ UK 31 Mar
Associates
Coast to Coast Holdings Ltd Asset Management – 20+ UK 31 Mar
Coast to Coast Services Ltd Asset Management – 20+ UK 31 Mar
Costain (West Africa) Plc Civil Engineering & Construction 0.3 37+ Nigeria 31 Mar
Kent Education Partnership Ltd Construction & Operation of Schools – 30+ UK 31 Mar
Prime Care Solutions (Kingston) Ltd Construction & Operation of Hospital – 40+ UK 31 Dec
Other investments
Bridgend Custodial Services Ltd Operation of Prison – 9+ UK 30 Sep
HpC King’ s College Hospital (Holdings) Ltd Operation of Hospital – 17+ UK 31 Mar
+ Equity capital held by subsidiary undertakings.
* T reated as subsidiary undertakings due to Costain having power to inﬂuence and control the composition of the Board 
of Directors.
88 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 89 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
23 Principal subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities and jointly controlled operations continued
All undertakings are incorporated in Great Britain, except where otherwise stated, and operate mainly in the country of incorporation,
with the exception of Costain Building & Civil Engineering Ltd and Costain Ltd, which operate inside and outside of the UK and Costain
International Ltd, which operates in various countries outside the UK. All holdings are of ordinary shares except Richard Costain Ltd,
where Costain Group PLC holds 100% of the ordinary and preference shares. A full list of Group companies will be included in the
Company's annual return.
Activity Percentage held Country of operation
Major jointly controlled operations
Balfour Beatty-Costain Joint Venture – 
A303 Stonehenge Improvement Civil Engineering 50 UK 
Black & Veatch-Costain Joint Venture – Southern Water Asset Management 50 UK
Black & Veatch-Costain Joint Venture – Margate & Broadstairs Asset Management 50 UK
Costain-China Harbour-Aarsleff Joint Venture Civil Engineering 33 Hong Kong
Costain-Kharaﬁ Joint Venture – Palapye Village Sanitation Civil Engineering 50 Botswana
Costain-Norwest Holst Joint Venture – Hungerford Bridge Civil Engineering 50 UK
Costain-O’Rourke-Bachy-Emcor Rail Consortium – CTRL 105 
(Combined)      Civil Engineering 27 UK
Costain-Skanska-Bachy Joint Venture – CTRL 240 Civil Engineering 33 UK
Costain-Skanska Joint Venture – Great Western Hotel Construction 50 UK
Costain-Skanska Joint Venture – King’ s College Hospital Construction 50 UK
Costain-Skanska Joint Venture – Uxbridge Shopping Centre Construction 50 UK
Costain-T aylor Woodrow – King’ s Cross Civil Engineering 50 UK
Galliford-Costain Joint Venture – United Utilities Asset Management 50 UK
Galliford-Costain-Atkins Joint Venture – United Utilities Asset Management 42 UK
Costain-Planned Construction Solutions Joint Venture – 
Melrose House Construction 50 UK
Costain-Mowlem Joint Venture – M1 Widening & A5/M1 Link Civil Engineering 50 UK Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
24 Related party transactions
The Group has a related party relationship with its major shareholders, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, joint arrangements
and with its directors and executive ofﬁcers.
Joint 
Major ventures Joint
share- and arrange-
holders associates ments T otal
£m £m £m £m
Sales of goods and services to related parties:
Staff 0.2 8.6 14.3 23.1
Management services – 1.5 0.2 1.7
Construction services and materials 4.2 1.7 3.8 9.7
Administrative services – 0.7 – 0.7
4.4 12.5 18.3 35.2
Balances with major shareholders at 31 December 2005
Amounts due from related parties 4.4
Provision (see below) (1.8)
2.6
Amounts due to major shareholders –
Given the Group’ s position as a sub-contractor and in the light of ongoing discussions between all the parties a provision has been
made.
Balances with joint ventures and associates are disclosed elsewhere in these accounts. Balances with joint arrangements are
eliminated on consolidation.
The Company has no disclosable transactions with related parties.
Major shareholders
Mohammed Abdulmohsin Al-Kharaﬁ & Sons WLL and UEM Builders Berhad are regarded as related parties of Costain Group PLC. 
T ransactions with key management personnel
Directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control 0.1% of the voting shares of the Company .
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash beneﬁts to directors and executive ofﬁcers, and contributes to a
post-employment deﬁned beneﬁt plan on their behalf. In accordance with the terms of the plan, directors and executive ofﬁcers retire
at age 60 or 62
1
⁄ 2 and are entitled to pension beneﬁts based on their service with the Group.
Executive ofﬁcers also participate in the Group’ s share option programme (note 18).
The compensation of key management personnel (including the directors) is as follows:
Group
2005 2004
£m £m
Directors’ emoluments 1.4 1.0
Executive ofﬁcers’ emoluments 1.6 1.4
Post retirement beneﬁts 0.1 0.1
Compensation for loss of ofﬁce 0.2 –
Share based payments 0.2 –
Equity compensation beneﬁts 0.3 –
3.8 2.5
T otal remuneration is included in ‘personnel expenses’ (note 4).
90 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 91 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
25 Explanation of transition to Adopted IFRS
As stated in note 1, these are the Group’ s ﬁrst consolidated ﬁnancial statements prepared in accordance with Adopted IFRS.
The accounting policies set out in note 1 have been applied in preparing the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 December
2005, the comparative information presented in these ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 and in the
preparation of an opening Adopted IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 (the Group’ s date of transition).
In preparing its opening Adopted IFRS balance sheet, the Group has adjusted amounts reported previously in ﬁnancial statements
prepared in accordance with UK GAAP . An explanation of how the transition from previous GAAP to Adopted IFRS has affected 
the Group’ s ﬁnancial position, ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows is set out in the following tables and the notes that accompany 
the tables.
There was no impact on the Company’ s ﬁnancial statements of Adopted IFRS. Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
25 Explanation of transition to Adopted IFRS continued
Reconciliations – UK GAAP to IFRS
Consolidated income statement 
Y ear ended 31 December 2004
Under UK Impact of transition to IFRS Under
GAAP Joint IFRS
Ventures/
Alcaidesa Associates Financing
£m £m £m £m £m
Group revenue 673.2––– 673.2
Cost of sales (645.0) – – – (645.0)
Gross proﬁt 28.2––– 28.2
Administrative expenses (18.0) – – – (18.0)
Group operating proﬁt 10.2––– 10.2
Group share of joint ventures operating results 8.9 (9.2) 0.3 – –
Group share of associates operating results (0.2) – 0.2 – –
Share of results of joint ventures and associates – – (0.9) – (0.9)
Proﬁt from operations 18.9 (9.2) (0.4) – 9.3
Other ﬁnance charges (1.1) – – 1.1 –
Net interest 1.7 – 0.6 (2.3) –
Finance income – – – 22.9 22.9
Finance costs – – – (21.7) (21.7)
Proﬁt before tax 19.5 (9.2) 0.2 – 10.5
Income tax expense (4.3) 2.8 (0.2) – (1.7)
Proﬁt for the period 15.2 (6.4) – – 8.8
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 15.2 (6.4) – – 8.8
Minority interests –––––
Earnings per share – basic 4.3p (1.8p) – – 2.5p
Earnings per share – diluted 4.3p (1.8p) – – 2.5p
92 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 93 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
25 Explanation of transition to Adopted IFRS continued
Explanatory notes on the impact of IFRS adjustments to the consolidated income statement
IAS 18 Revenue recognition
Alcaidesa, the Group’ s Spanish property development interest, has sold parcels of land that were subject to the completion of certain
infrastructure. Sales and proﬁts in respect of such developments were recognised on exchange of contract with costs to complete on
the infrastructure element recognised accordingly .
Under IFRS, these developments fall within the scope of IAS 18, where reference is speciﬁcally made to situations where the seller 
is obliged to perform substantial acts to complete under the contract. Revenue and thus proﬁt in respect of such acts should be
recognised only when the act is performed. 
Given the speciﬁc circumstances existing within these developments we consider that the appropriate treatment under IFRS is to view
these arrangements, where separable, as two components, ﬁrstly the sale of the land and secondly the provision of the infrastructure.
In such circumstances, revenue and proﬁt are recognised on the land sale element on exchange of legal title and when all conditions
for revenue recognition under IAS 18 are met. In respect of the infrastructure, the proportion of revenue and proﬁt related to the
provision of these facilities is deferred until such works are complete.
The impact of IAS 18 has been to defer the amount of proﬁt shown within the Group’ s share of proﬁts from joint ventures and
associates. Proﬁt after tax for the year ended 31 December 2004 has reduced by £6.4m.
IAS 28 Investments in associates and IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures
Under UK GAAP , the Group’ s share of operating results of joint ventures and associates was presented on the face of the income
statement after Group operating proﬁt. The Group’ s share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates was included within the
relevant Group totals. Under IFRS, the Group’ s share of proﬁt after tax of joint ventures and associates is presented on the face of the
income statement after Group operating proﬁt.
IAS 1 Income statement reclassiﬁcations and IAS 19 Retirement beneﬁt obligations
There are a number of reclassiﬁcations between income statement and balance sheet captions that arise from the application 
of various IFRS. Under IFRS, the expected return on assets of the pension scheme and interest income are shown as ﬁnance income
and the interest on pension scheme liabilities and interest and ﬁnance charges payable are shown as ﬁnance costs. Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
25 Explanation of transition to Adopted IFRS – Reconciliations – UK GAAP to IFRS continued
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 1 January 2004 (T ransition)
Under Impact of transition to IFRS Under
UK GAAP T ranslation Intangible P&L IFRS
Reclassiﬁed Pension Reserve Assets Reserves
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property , plant & equipment 4.9––– (0.2) – 4.7
Intangible assets –––– 0.2 – 0.2
Investments in joint ventures 17.6–––– (0.8) 16.8
Investments in associates –––––––
Loans to joint ventures 2.5––––– 2.5
Loans to associates –––––––
Other investments 1.0––––– 1.0
Other debtors – 3.2–––– 3.2
Deferred tax assets – 2.6 23.5––– 26.1
T otal non-current assets 26.0 5.8 23.5 – – (0.8) 54.5
Current assets
Inventories 1.6––––– 1.6
T rade and other receivables 122.4 (5.8) –––– 116.6
Cash & short term deposits 72.0––––– 72.0
T otal current assets 196.0 (5.8) –––– 190.2
T otal assets 222.0 – 23.5 – – (0.8) 244.7
Equity
Share capital 34.5––––– 34.5
Share premium 119.4––––– 119.4
Foreign currency translation reserve –––––––
Retained earnings (190.6) – (0.4) – – (0.8) (191.8)
(36.7) – (0.4) – – (0.8) (37.9)
Minority interests 0.1––––– 0.1
T otal equity (36.6) – (0.4) – – (0.8) (37.8)
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 0.9––––– 0.9
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 54.5 – 23.9––– 78.4
Other payables 1.7––––– 1.7
Long-term provisions – 3.8–––– 3.8
T otal non-current liabilities 57.1 3.8 23.9––– 84.8
Current liabilities
T rade and other payables 191.8––––– 191.8
Current tax liabilities 2.1––––– 2.1
Overdrafts 0.3––––– 0.3
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 0.2––––– 0.2
Provisions 7.1(3.8) –––– 3.3
T otal current liabilities 201.5 (3.8) –––– 197.7
T otal liabilities 258.6 – 23.9––– 282.5
T otal equity and liabilities 222.0 – 23.5 – – (0.8) 244.7
94 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 95 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
25 Explanation of transition to Adopted IFRS – Reconciliations – UK GAAP to IFRS continued
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2004
Under Impact of transition to IFRS Under
UK GAAP T ranslation Intangible P&L IFRS
Reclassiﬁed Pension Reserve Assets Reserves
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property , plant & equipment 5.4––– (0.5) – 4.9
Intangible assets –––– 0.5 – 0.5
Investments in joint ventures 19.0–––– (7.4) 11.6
Investments in associates –––––––
Loans to joint ventures 2.6––––– 2.6
Loans to associates 2.7––––– 2.7
Other investments 1.0––––– 1.0
Other debtors – 5.7–––– 5.7
Deferred tax assets – 1.7 29.9––– 31.6
T otal non-current assets 30.7 7.4 29.9 – – (7.4) 60.6
Current assets
Inventories 1.0––––– 1.0
T rade and other receivables 159.7 (7.4) –––– 152.3
Cash and short term deposits 64.1––––– 64.1
T otal current assets 224.8 (7.4) –––– 217.4
T otal assets 255.5 – 29.9 – – (7.4) 278.0
Equity
Share capital 35.3––––– 35.3
Share premium 119.5––––– 119.5
Foreign currency translation reserve – – – (0.2) – (0.2) (0.4)
Retained earnings (191.6) – (0.4) 0.2 – (7.2) (199.0)
(36.8) – (0.4) – – (7.4) (44.6)
Minority interests 0.1––––– 0.1
T otal equity (36.7) – (0.4) – – (7.4) (44.5)
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 0.5––––– 0.5
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 69.2 – 30.3––– 99.5
Other payables 3.0––––– 3.0
Long-term provisions – 3.1–––– 3.1
T otal non-current liabilities 72.7 3.1 30.3––– 106.1
Current liabilities
T rade and other payables 212.1––––– 212.1
Current tax liabilities 2.2––––– 2.2
Overdrafts 0.6––––– 0.6
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 0.4––––– 0.4
Provisions 4.2(3.1) –––– 1.1
T otal current liabilities 219.5 (3.1) –––– 216.4
T otal liabilities 292.2 – 30.3––– 322.5
T otal equity and liabilities 255.5 – 29.9 – – (7.4) 278.0 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
25 Explanation of transition to Adopted IFRS continued
Explanatory notes on the impact of IFRS adjustments to the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2004
IAS 1 Current/non current assets and liabilities
Non-current receivables have been reclassiﬁed on the face of the balance sheet as non-current assets and provisions have been
reallocated to non-current liabilities.
Assets and liabilities relating to deﬁned beneﬁt plans have been classiﬁed as non-current (IAS 19). Assets and liabilities relating to
deﬁned contribution plans normally are current and have been classiﬁed as such.
IAS 19 Employee beneﬁts
Costain Group adopted early the amendments to FRS 17 for UK GAAP reporting and has recognised the deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan
liability (based on the projected unit credit method) in full as at 31 December 2003. The Group has nominated to recognise any
actuarial gains or losses in the statement of recognised income and expense. There are no signiﬁcant accounting differences between
FRS 17 and IAS 19 in relation to accounting for deﬁned beneﬁt pension liabilities where the company has nominated to recognise
actuarial losses directly in equity . However IAS 19 requires employee beneﬁt schemes’ ﬁnancial assets to be valued at fair value. For
relevant ﬁnancial assets this means the bid price whereas FRS 17 speciﬁes using mid market price. This has the effect of reducing
asset values and thereby increasing the deﬁcit by £0.6m. The ﬁnance cost on the pension plan liabilities will be shown separately as a
ﬁnance cost and the expected return on plan assets will be shown as ﬁnance income.
The Group intends to have actuarial updates at each half-year for the deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan and a full actuarial review at least
every 2 years as required by the trust deed.
IAS 12 Income taxes
Costain Group has a signiﬁcant deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme liability . Under UK GAAP , this has given rise to a deferred tax asset
based on the Company’ s UK corporation tax rate, which has been netted against the deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme liability . 
IAS 12 requires that the deferred tax asset be grouped with other deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax assets relating to retirement beneﬁt obligations have been reclassiﬁed from non-current liabilities to non-current assets. 
IAS 21 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates
UK GAAP requires exchange differences on a monetary item forming part of a reporting entity’ s net investment in a foreign operation 
to be taken to the STRGL. Under IFRS, IAS 21 requires such exchange differences to be recognised in a separate component of
equity in the reporting entity’ s consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Cumulative translation differences on foreign operations are deemed to be zero at 1 January 2004. A £0.2m exchange difference
relating to 2004 has been moved from retained reserves to a foreign currency translation reserve.
IAS 38 Intangible assets
Under UK GAAP , computer software costs attributable to major business systems implementations and material software licenses
were capitalised as plant and equipment. Under IFRS, software development, purchased software and software licences should be
classiﬁed as an intangible asset.
At 31 December 2004, under IFRS, computer software of £0.5m has been reclassiﬁed from plant and equipment to intangible assets.
IAS 18 Revenue recognition
The income statement IFRS adjustment required for Alcaidesa revenue recognition causes a reduction in the carrying value of joint
venture net assets of £0.8m at 1 January 2004 and £7.4m at 31 December 2004.
IFRS 2 Share based payments
Under UK GAAP , a provision was recognised for cash settled options based on intrinsic value at the balance sheet date. The options
have been valued at the date of grant and an expense recognised over the period that the service beneﬁt is to be provided by the
employees under the terms of the schemes.
At 31 December 2004, under IFRS, the charge for equity settled options was immaterial and charges will commence in 2005.
96 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 97 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
continued
25 Explanation of transition to Adopted IFRS – Reconciliations – UK GAAP to IFRS continued
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
For the year to 31 December 2004
Under Impact of Under
UK GAAP transition IFRS
to IFRS
Alcaidesa
£m £m £m
Cash ﬂows from operating activities
Proﬁt for the period 15.2 (6.4) 8.8
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 1.1 – 1.1
Investment income (22.9) – (22.9)
Interest expense 22.3 (0.6) 21.7
Share of results of associates (8.7) 9.6 0.9
T ax expense 4.3 (2.6) 1.7
Operating proﬁt before changes in working capital and provisions 11.3 – 11.3
Decrease in inventories 0.6 – 0.6
Increase in receivables (38.3) – (38.3)
Increase in payables 18.8 – 18.8
Decrease in provisions (2.9) – (2.9)
Cash used by the operations (10.5) – (10.5)
Interest paid (0.3) – (0.3)
Net cash used by operating activities (10.8) – (10.8)
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Interest received 2.6 – 2.6
Acquisition of plant (1.7) – (1.7)
Additions to investments (0.4) – (0.4)
Capital repayments by investments 0.2 – 0.2
Dividends received 4.4 – 4.4
Loans to joint ventures and associates (2.8) – (2.8)
Net cash from investing activities 2.3 – 2.3
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Issue of ordinary share capital 0.9 – 0.9
Payment of ﬁnance lease liabilities (0.2) – (0.2)
Net cash from ﬁnancing activities 0.7 – 0.7
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (7.8) – (7.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 71.7 – 71.7
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (0.4) – (0.4)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 63.5 – 63.5 Five-year ﬁnancial summary
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m £m
Restated UK UK UK
IFRS IFRS GAAP* GAAP* GAAP*
Revenue and proﬁt
Revenue (Group and share of joint ventures and associates) 773.2 695.2 650.2 543.4 462.9
Share of joint ventures and associates (95.1) (22.0) (26.7) (21.6) (5.8)
Group revenue 678.1 673.2 623.5 521.8 457.1
Group operating proﬁt 8.7 10.2 5.4 0.5 0.3
Sale of interest in joint venture 3.5 ––––
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 13.4 (0.9) 10.1 7.5 1.9
Proﬁt from operations 25.6 9.3 15.5 8.0 2.2
Finance income 23.5 22.9 19.2 23.1 25.5
Finance costs (24.1) (21.7) (18.6) (19.8) (19.0)
Net ﬁnancing (costs)/income (0.6) 1.2 0.6 3.3 6.5
Proﬁt before tax 25.0 10.5 16.1 11.3 8.7
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 23.6 8.8 13.2 9.5 8.3
Minority interests – ––––
Proﬁt for the period 23.6 8.8 13.2 9.5 8.3
Earnings per share – basic 6.7p 2.5p 3.8p 2.8p 2.5p
Earnings per share – diluted 6.5p 2.5p 3.7p 2.8p 2.5p
Summarised balance sheets
T angible assets 5.9 4.9 4.9 3.3 2.8
Intangible assets 3.5 0.5–––
Investments 35.4 17.9 21.1 17.7 8.8
Pension asset – – – – 13.5
Other non-current assets 41.3 37.3 23.3 10.3 –
86.1 60.6 49.3 31.3 25.1
Current assets 243.7 217.4 196.0 183.1 165.8
T otal assets 329.8 278.0 245.3 214.4 190.9
Current liabilities 238.8 216.4 194.4 190.3 167.6
Pension liability 99.3 99.5 77.8 34.4 –
Other non-current liabilities 14.2 6.6 9.7 10.8 19.0
T otal liabilities 352.3 322.5 281.9 235.5 186.6
Net (liabilities)/assets (22.5) (44.5) (36.6) (21.1) 4.3
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent (22.5) (44.6) (36.7) (21.2) 4.1
Minority interests – 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2
(22.5) (44.5) (36.6) (21.1) 4.3
* As permitted, the audited results for 2001 to 2003 have not been restated under Adopted IFRS, except the pension asset/liability has
been shown separately from the attributable deferred tax.
98 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 99 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Notice of annual general meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the members will be held at One Great George Street, Westminster , London
SW1P 3AA on Thursday 27 April 2006 at 11:00am, for the following purposes:
Ordinary Business
1. T o receive and adopt the Directors’ report and the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005.
2. T o receive, adopt and approve the Directors’ remuneration report for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2005.
3. T o elect the following directors who offer themselves for re-election: a) Mr Andrew Wyllie; b) Mr John M Bryant; c) Mr Saad Shehata
(who will be 80 years old at the time of the Annual General Meeting). Mr Wyllie retires under Article 77 of the Articles of Association
having been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting and Mr Bryant and Mr Shehata retire by rotation under Article 81.
Each re-election will be proposed and voted on as a separate resolution. 
4. T o re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc auditors of the Company .
5. T o authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
Special Business
T o consider and, if thought ﬁt, to pass the following resolutions proposed as follows:
6. As an ordinary resolution: 
THAT , in substitution for all subsisting authorities, the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised 
to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities (within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985)
up to an aggregate nominal amount of £5.935 million provided that this authority shall expire on 26 April 2011 save that the
Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after
such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conﬁrmed
hereby had not expired.
7. As a special resolution:
That, pursuant to the authority conferred on them by resolution number 6, the directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant 
to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities for cash (within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Act) 
as if sub-section (1) of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited:
(a) to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to Article 119 (A) and/or in connection with a rights issue in favour of the
shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all such shareholders are proportionate 
(as nearly as may be) to the respective numbers of shares held by them subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as 
the directors may think ﬁt in connection with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising in connection with the
laws of, or requirements of, any recognised regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory; and
(b) to the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above) of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value 
of £890,000.
and shall expire 15 months following the passing of this resolution or , if earlier , at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting
of the Company after the passing of this resolution save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement
which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in
pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
By Order of the Board
Clive L Franks
Secretary
20 March 2006 Notice of annual general meeting
continued
Notes:
1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote on his behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company . Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in
person if he so wishes.
2. T o be effective, a proxy and the authority (if any) under which it is signed or a notarially certiﬁed or ofﬁce copy of such authority must
be deposited with the Company’ s registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway , Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6LZ no later
than 11 am on T uesday 25 April 2006. A proxy may be delivered by facsimile to the Company’ s registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars
(facsimile number 01903 702341), provided that:
(a) the facsimile is actually received (whether or not it appears to the sender to have been received) by the Company’ s registrars no later
than 11 am on T uesday 25 April, 2006;
(b) the Chairman or the Secretary or any other person authorised by the Board for the purpose determines in his sole discretion 
(such determination to be conclusive) that such facsimile has been transmitted in an acceptable manner including a determination
that such facsimile is complete and is in a clear and legible form; and
(c) the original instrument appointing the proxy and the authority (if any) under which it is executed or a notarially certiﬁed or ofﬁce copy
of such authority must be delivered to the Company’ s registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway , Worthing, West Sussex
BN99 6LZ no later than 10 am on Thursday 27 April 2006.
3. The Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertiﬁed Securities Regulations 2001, speciﬁes that only those shareholders
registered in the register of members of the company at 6 pm on T uesday 25 April 2006 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the
meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time. Changes to entries on the relevant register 
of securities after 6 pm on T uesday 25 April 2006 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote 
at the meeting.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST 
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the
Annual General Meeting to be held on 27 April 2006 and any adjournment(s) thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST
Manual. CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting
service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate action on
their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST
Proxy Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCo's speciﬁcations and must contain the information
required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment
of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so 
as to be received by the issuer's agent (ID 7RA01) by the latest time(s) for receipt of proxy appointments speciﬁed in the notice of
meeting. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message 
by the CREST Applications Host) from which the issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner
prescribed by CREST . After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to 
the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not
make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply 
in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or , if the CREST
member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider(s), to procure that his 
CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted 
by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST
sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular , to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations
of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertiﬁcated
Securities Regulations 2001. 
100 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Costain is an international
engineering and construction
company, seen as an
automatic choice for projects
requiring innovation, initiative,
teamwork and high levels of
technical and managerial skills.
working
together
Financial calendar
Half year results – Announced 31 August 2005
Full year results – Announced 15 March 2006
Report & Accounts – Sent to shareholders 28 March 2006 
Annual General Meeting – T o be held 27 April 2006
Half year results 2005 – T o be announced 30 August 2006
Analysis of Shareholders
Shares
Accounts (millions) %
Institutions, companies, individuals and nominees:
Shareholdings 100,000 and over 156 321.92 90.39
Shareholdings 50,000 – 99,999 93 6.37 1.69
Shareholdings 25,000 – 49,999 186 6.01 1.79
Shareholdings 5,000 – 24,999 1,390 13.78 3.87
Shareholdings 1 – 4,999 12,848 8.06 2.26
14,673 356.14 100.00
Secretary and Registered Office
Secretary Registrar and T ransfer Office
Clive L Franks Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Registered Office Worthing
Costain Group PLC West Sussex
Costain House BN99 6DA
Nicholsons Walk T elephone 0870 600 3984
Maidenhead
Berkshire
SL6 1LN
T elephone 01628 842444
www.costain.com
info@costain.com
Company Number 1393773
Shareholder information
The Company’ s Registrar is Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway , Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. For enquiries regarding 
your shareholding, please telephone 0870 600 3984. Y ou can also view up-to-date information abourt your holdings by visiting 
the shareholder web site at www.shareview.co.uk. Please ensure that you advise Lloyds TSB Registrars promptly of a change of 
name or address.
ShareGIFT
The Orr Macintosh Foundation (ShareGIFT) operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares
whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them. Details of the scheme are available on the ShareGIFT internet site www.sharegift.org.
Lloyds TSB Registrars can provide stock transfer forms on request. Donating shares to charity in this way gives rise neither to a gain
nor a loss for Capital Gains T ax purposes. This service is completely free of charge.
Image: Page 13 Design and production Principal photography Print
Diamond Light Source Ltd. College Design Phil Starling Royle Corporate 
(© Diamond Light Source Ltd, 2006.) www.collegedesign.com Print Being Number One 
Costain Group PLC
Annual Report 2005
Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2005
Costain Group PLC
Costain House
Nicholsons Walk
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 1LN
Telephone 01628 842444
www.costain.com
