 The value of Costain
Fo un d ed 1865
Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 
Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008
PLEASE ADJUST SPIN ACCORDINGLY
Costain Group PLC
Costain House
Vanwall Business Park
Maidenhead
Berkshire
SL6 4UB
 
www.costain.com
Costain the construction brand  01  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com 01  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Welcome to the Costain Group PLC 
Annual Report 2008. In the following 
pages, we will underline how our values, 
operations, relationships and financial 
results are all interlinked.
In addition, we have included a  
summary of our Corporate Responsibility 
performance with third party assessment 
from Business in the Community, 
including analysis of areas such as  
Health and Safety and the Marketplace. 
We hope you will find this Annual Report 
informative and a valuable guide to the 
Company’s various facets of operation. 02  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com 03  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Contents
01 Introduction
 06 A responsible approach
 08 All about Costain 
 09 Investing in the future
 12 Delivering responsibly
 12 How we measure ourselves
 14 Health and Safety 
 15 Our People
 16 In the Community
 17 Environmental
 18 Marketplace
 19 The value of Costain
31 Performance
 31 Highlights of the year
 32 Chairman’s statement
 34  Chief Executive’s review 
 38  Business review
 43 Principal Risks and Key Performance Indicators 
 47 Financial review
50 Board of Directors
54 Governance
 54 Corporate Governance statement
 59 Internal controls and Risk management
 62 Directors’ report
 68 Directors’ remuneration report
 76  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect  
of the Annual Report and the financial statements
 77  Independent Auditors’ Report to the members  
of Costain Group PLC
78 Financial statements
 78 Consolidated income statement
 79  Consolidated statement of  
recognised income and expense
 80 Consolidated balance sheet
 81 Company balance sheet  
 82 Consolidated cash flow statement
 83 Company cash flow statement
 84 Notes to the financial statements
 114 Shareholder information
 114 Five-year financial summary
 115 Notice of Annual General Meeting
 IBC Financial calendar 04  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Providing a better tomorrow 05  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com 06  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
A responsible approach
“ ... we must continually bring down  
barriers, build trust and act in a  
responsible manner at all times.” 07  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
“In this publication, we have focused 
not only on our strong financial 
performance but also highlighted our 
Corporate Responsibility programme. 
We see both as fundamental to the 
core of the Company and we believe 
it is vital that the word responsibility 
provides the foundation for all our 
areas of activity. 
“We are delighted that representatives 
of our stakeholder communities  
have contributed to this Report  
and underlined that, without strong 
stakeholder relationships, the Costain 
value is diminished.
“In this increasingly challenging  
world, those who choose a solitary 
stance will struggle to meet the criteria 
necessary for running a successful 
business. Costain’s strategy is aimed at 
achieving business excellence through 
strong relationships with others.  
That means we must continually  
bring down barriers, build trust and 
act in a responsible manner at all 
times. That must be the driving force 
for our future success.” 
Delivering excellence 
“...in the final 
assessment 
there was only 
one winner: 
Costain.”
New Civil Engineer magazine (4 August 2008),  
in conjunction with the Civil Engineering  
Contractors Association, awarded Costain  
Major Contractor of the Y ear.
Andrew Wyllie Chief Executive David Allvey Chairman The Costain values provide the platform for the performance  
of all Costain people. Adherence to these values is paramount. 
They give direction and structure to everything we do. The ability 
to achieve the Costain standard of excellence would be impaired 
without an individual’s commitment to these values. 
Our strategy
‘Being Number One’: a strategy for growth.
We have continued to implement successfully our ‘Being Number 
One’ strategy, which is centred on leadership through focus and 
excellence and which leverages Costain’s core brand values.
We are focused on blue-chip customers who are working with 
fewer contractors on a longer term basis. This allows us to build 
strong market positions by utilising our technical capability and 
exceptional customer service and enables us to build sustainable 
profit streams.
Nowhere is the success of our strategy better reflected than in the 
improved quality of our order book which includes 87% repeat 
business from a range of blue-chip customers.
All about Costain
08 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Customer  
Focused 
Open and  
Honest
Team  
Players
Improving 
Continuously 
and therefore the...
Safe and 
Environmentally 
Aware
Accountable Natural Choice
COSTAIN The Costain Group is targeting sectors with major commitments 
to investment both now and in the future. Below we highlight 
estimated individual spend in each sector:
Investing in the future
09 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
£6bn 
Highways
The Department for Transport has  
a £6 billion programme of major road 
improvements planned up to 2014. 
Civil Engineering
£2.8bn 
Nuclear
Nuclear decommissioning has an 
annual capital expenditure budget  
of £2.8 billion per annum through  
to 2012.
Civil Engineering
£1.95bn 
Marine
The addressable market to 2014 is 
£1.95 billion for private sector clients 
owning and operating the majority of 
UK ports.
Civil Engineering
£1 .6bn 
Retail
Tesco and J Sainsbury both  
continuing with investment in new 
build/refurbishment. J Sainsbury  
is forecasting a £800 million spend for 
2009 with T esco set to spend up to 
£400 million, also in 2009. Marks & 
Spencer is reported to be spending up 
to £400 million on store refurbishment  
in 2009.
Building
£40bn+ 
Rail
The rail capital expenditure spend  
is £40 billion across Network Rail,  
TfL and Crossrail over a period up  
to 2016.
Civil Engineering
£19bn 
Water
To comply with European Union 
standards, this sector has to invest  
in water quality and waste water 
discharge consents from now until 
2015 resulting in a total investment  
of £19 billion. 
Civil Engineering
£3bn 
Health
The investment in this sector over  
the next five years is expected to be 
in the region of £3 billion. That will 
include ProCure 21, the existing 
framework responsible for delivering 
new capital assets and the Express 
Lift capital programme.
Building
£7bn 
Oil, Gas & Process
Gas processing, cryogenics and  
oil and gas activities in Abu Dhabi are 
expected to attract a total investment 
of approximately £7 billion between  
now and 2020. 
£9bn 
Airports
The BAA Complex Building Integrator 
Framework is valued at £1 billion per 
annum over BAA’s seven airports 
through to 2018. 
Civil Engineering
£10-£30bn 
Waste
The Institution of Civil Engineers 
estimates that the total spend in this 
sector ranges between £10-£30 billion 
(2004-2030) including the processing 
and reduction of waste to minimise 
use of landfill.
Civil Engineering
£36. 7bn 
Education
The Building Schools for the  
Future programme and various  
other frameworks for academies  
and Innovation in Excellence will 
account for the majority of the  
expected £36.7 billion spend.
Building Providing a better tomorrow
10 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com 11 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Riverside Resource Recovery Facility, Belvedere, London. Delivering responsibly
A corporate entity must be Responsible. Any judgement of  
an organisation’s ability should encompass a measurement  
of its level of responsibility to stakeholders. Costain has 
embraced Corporate Responsibility (CR) because it gives  
that measurement and also offers a third party assessment 
through an external party – Business in the Community (BITC).
Delivering responsibly
CR defines the way we do business. Our commitment to  
be a responsible business underpins our company values, 
business strategy and is demonstrated by the highest levels  
of management. We strive to integrate fully our CR principles 
into every aspect of our business.
Through review and stakeholder engagement, we have developed 
a CR Policy and Strategy identifying key areas of accountability 
that are material to our business, through which we will drive our 
CR aims and objectives. Our areas of accountability are:
• Health and Safety
• Our People
• In the Community
• Environmental
• Marketplace
How we measure ourselves
To demonstrate our commitment towards CR, we are a 
member of BITC. BITC, one of HRH The Prince of Wales 
Charities, inspires, engages, supports and challenges 
companies on responsible business.
With a membership of more than 850 companies, BITC 
represents one in five of the UK private sector workforce  
and convenes a network of global partners.
BITC is a respected body. It has a well-established  
framework to enable an organisation to assess its ability to 
deliver responsibly. At Costain, we have worked closely with 
BITC to check that the Company is proceeding in the correct 
responsible way with regard to Health and Safety, Our People, 
In the Community, Environmental, and Marketplace.
Measuring and monitoring our CR performance is essential  
in our quest for improvement and excellence. Internally, we 
measure performance through Key Performance Indicators and 
by setting challenging objectives and targets. We believe that in 
order to offer transparency with regard to our ways of working, 
we must open ourselves fully to third party assessment. We 
have done that in our BITC partnership and will continue to do 
so in the future. Externally, we benchmark our CR performance 
against our peers and others by participating in BITC’s 
Corporate Responsibility Index (BITC CR Index).
12 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Costain’s full Corporate Responsibility information can be found at: 
www.costain.com/responsibility
The BITC CR Index is the UK’s leading voluntary benchmark 
for corporate responsibility. It helps companies to integrate and 
improve responsibility throughout their operations by providing  
a systematic approach to managing, measuring and reporting  
on business impacts in society and on the environment.
Feedback from the index assessment allows companies to:
•  Identify risks and opportunities of responsible business. 
•  Challenge whether the business is conducting its activities  
in a systematic and integrated way. 
•  Identify areas of good performance and areas for improvement. 
•  Provide a practical framework for improving performance  
and communicating progress. 
•  Provide credible, independent information to internal  
and external stakeholders, demonstrating a company’s 
commitment to transparency and continuous improvement.
In September 2008, we submitted our third BITC CR Index 
assessment; the results will be announced in June 2009. Our 
results in 2007 showed a 21% improvement over 2006 with a 
score of 83.6% (Silver banding), 5% above the construction 
sector average and only 3% short of the BITC CR Index average. 
Our aim is to achieve Gold banding by 2010.
We are also proud to report that 4Delivery, one of our joint 
venture projects, achieved a score of 72% (Bronze banding)  
in the BITC CR Index for its performance in 2007 .
BITC feedback
The following graphs are extracts from our 2007 BITC CR Index 
assessment benchmarking our performance against other 
companies within our industry sector and all the companies 
who take part in the Index.
The graphs illustrate the extent to which corporate strategy  
is integrated into our business practices; our management 
practices in BITC’s four key areas of corporate responsibility 
(community, environment, marketplace and workplace) and 
performance in environmental and social impact areas (health 
and safety, employee development, climate change, waste  
and resource management, diversity in the workplace and 
unplanned environmental incidents). BITC feedback
Environmental and social impact areas
Strategy, integration and management practices
Focus
Assurance Processes: We will improve the quality of our data and introduce 
further internal and external verification.
Community Management: As a company and across our projects, we are  
actively engaged with local communities. In 2009, we will focus on structuring  
our approach to community management, capturing good practice and 
demonstrating measures of success. 
Environmental Management: By expanding our environmental objectives and 
ensuring their significance to our business, we will demonstrate improvement.
Corporate Strategy: The BITC CR Index assesses our values and principles  
and how they relate to CR: whether these are core to the business strategy; 
whether there are systems to identify environmental and social risks and 
opportunities; whether there is demonstrable high-level commitment and 
leadership within the Company.
Integration: The BITC CR Index assesses whether our CR values, principles 
and strategy are implemented and integrated throughout business practices.
Management Practices (community, environment, marketplace, workplace):  
The BITC CR Index assesses whether we have developed strategies,  
set targets to drive improvement, are monitoring performance and can 
demonstrate improvement in each of the four areas.
Assurance Processes: The BITC CR Index assesses the quality of the data  
that we submit and whether it has been verified internally or externally.
The graph below illustrates our performance in each main component of the BITC CR Index.
The graph below illustrates our performance in key areas of environmental  
and social concern – Environmental impacts: Climate change, waste and 
resource management and unplanned environmental incidents; Social  
impacts: Health, safety and wellbeing, employee development and diversity 
in the workplace; 
Focus
Climate Change: During 2008, we reviewed and refined our approach to  
climate change, defining the scope of our carbon footprint, concentrating 
initially on the measurement and reporting of our direct carbon emissions: 
energy use and business mileage. Throughout the year, we have demonstrated 
a reduction in business mileage of 12%. The next steps are to expand our 
scope of carbon reporting and to continue to reduce our carbon footprint. 
The graph below illustrates our environmental and social performance. 
Unplanned Environmental Incidents: In 2007 and 2008, we raised awareness  
on the classification of environmental incidents and promoted throughout the 
workforce the necessity and value of environmental incident reporting. This has 
led to an increase in reporting of environmental incidents and we have not been 
able to identify performance improvement in some areas. However, the accuracy 
and quality of reporting will enable us to predict any trends and potential issues  
to allow us to respond proactively. 
Diversity in the Workplace: We recognise and will promote the value  
of diversity in the workplace through our policies and procedures and by 
measuring and monitoring our workforce profile.
13 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
1 00%
Corporate
Strategy
93%
97%
90%
76%
88%
81%
71%
86%
84%
85%
89%
97%
75%
88%
1 00%
94%
93%
72%
84%
89%
Integration Community
Management 
Environmental
Management
Marketplace
Management
Workplace
Management
Assurance
Processes
Costain
Construction and Materials sector
BITC CR Index
Costain
Construction and Materials sector
BITC CR Index
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
88%
Health, Safety
and Wellbeing
79%
78%
90%
69%
81%
31%
63%
79%
69%
68%
77%
78%
65%
84%
76%
78%
83%
Employee
Development
Climate Change Waste and
Resource
Management
Diversity in
the Workplace
Unplanned
Environmental
Incidents 14  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Delivering responsibly
continued
Health and Safety is the number one priority in our business. 
During 2008, we continued to focus on promoting a positive 
safety culture, aiming to ensure that our employees, our 
customers, our suppliers and the public are safe and 
environmentally aware.
Tragically, a Costain member of staff suffered a fatal injury  
on one of our sites in April 2008. This had a profound effect  
on everyone at Costain and a thorough investigation  
was undertaken.
2008 Key achievements
•  Our strong Health and Safety performance was recognised  
by the achievement of 45 Royal Society for the Prevention  
of Accidents (RoSPA) Awards: an Order of Distinction, 
President’s Award, 2 Sector Awards, 4 Gold Medals,  
33 Gold Awards and 4 Silver Awards. 
•  Our Health and Safety management system was successfully 
assessed by the British Standards Institution (BSI) and 
upgraded to the new BS OHSAS 18001:2007 standard.
•  We achieved an Accident Frequency Rate (the number of 
reportable accidents per 100,000 man-hours) of 0.17 and  
our Incidence Rate (the number of reportable accidents  
per 100,000 employees) compares favourably with our peers 
within the Major Contractors Group, with the lowest overall 
incidence rate. 
•  We continued to engage with our supply chain who are 
integral to the smooth running and safe delivery of all our 
operations. We initiated a Safety, Health and Environment 
(SHE) audit programme to review the ‘Top 100’ members of  
our supply chain. We organised SHE awareness days, which 
were attended by representatives of our supply chain and 
customer base.
•  Our ongoing programme to offer medicals to all Costain 
employees continued in 2008 with over 700 medicals 
conducted during the year. 
Focus for 2009 
Health and Wellbeing: As part of our commitment to employee 
wellbeing in 2008, we commenced a stress pilot scheme  
based on the Health and Safety Executive model. We aim  
to complete the pilot and review its effectiveness in 2009  
with a view to implementation across the business in 2010. 
Following a consultation process with our staff consultative 
committee, we are conducting ‘random’ drugs and alcohol 
testing in all Costain sites and offices from 1 January 2009. 
Behavioural Safety: Progressing our objective to implement 
Behavioural Management, aimed at changing employees 
perceptions, awareness and attitudes towards Health and 
Safety, 2008 saw individuals from our Executive Board, senior 
management team and SHE Department complete external 
training programmes. To strengthen further our commitment  
to Behavioural Management, we now have a team qualified to 
provide this training in-house. In 2009, we aim to roll-out this 
training across the business. 
Costain donated £5,000 to WaterAid to celebrate 
over two million man-hours without a reportable 
accident on the Thames Water framework. 
Health and Safety
www.costain.com/responsibility
Delivering responsibly/Health and Safety
0 . 17
We have achieved an Accident Frequency  
Rate of 0.17 across the Group. 15  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Our goal is to attract, retain and develop the best people across 
the Costain Group by providing a challenging and stimulating 
working environment, where people enjoy their jobs, fulfil their 
potential and are recognised for their efforts. 
2008 Key achievements
•  We were reaccredited for the Investors in People Standard. 
The assessors recognised our strengths and good practices 
and suggested areas for continual improvement.
•  We have developed and implemented a Talent Management 
programme, identifying the Group’s succession requirements 
and individual development plans for the ‘Top 50’ roles within 
the business.
•  In October, Andrew Wyllie, Chief Executive, and the  
Executive Board undertook a series of roadshows around  
the country to recognise the contribution made by Costain 
people and to obtain feedback. Over 1,000 employees 
attended six regional venues and took part in vibrant question 
and answer sessions. 
•  Our staff consultative committee gives all Costain employees 
the chance to have a say on how to improve the Company. 
Representatives of the committee meet at least twice a year 
with Andrew Wyllie, Chief Executive and four other Executive 
Board members.
•  In 2008, Construction Awards Alliance approved our National 
Vocational Qualification (NVQ) centre for the management  
of NVQs and achieved recognition of our first National Skills 
Academy for Construction at Lewisham, London.
 
Focus for 2009 
Manpower planning: We will deliver efficient and effective 
manpower planning to ensure we get the best people onto 
each project and support organisational change. We will 
continue to promote an inclusive working environment where 
everyone has an equal chance to succeed.
Performance: We will continue to enable performance and the 
achievement of potential. We will maintain our priority on talent 
management through our core competency framework to be 
implemented in summer 2009, enabling employees to plan their 
careers by understanding their competence against those 
required for their next role. 
Skills and Development: Building on the success of our  
High Potential Programme, we have developed two talent 
programmes, namely: the 2020 Board, identifying and 
developing top-performing graduates; and a Project 
Management Academy, linked with the Association of Project 
Managers, for developing our project management capability.
Recognition: The third ‘Celebrating Success’ Awards were  
held on 27 February 2009 to recognise the outstanding 
performance of individuals within the Group.
Edward Basterfield, Costain Graduate Site Manager 
receives the 2007/2008 Sir Ian Dixon Scholarship Award 
from Lady Dixon for his research into ‘The Post  
Study Training and Development of Construction 
Graduates’. The Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB),  
in conjunction with the Worshipful Company of 
Constructors, has run the Sir Ian Dixon Scholarship  
since 1998. The Scholarship, which is awarded annually, 
involves a twelve month study of a Construction 
Management topic which is of mutual interest to the 
scholar’s host company, the Worshipful Company of 
Constructors, the CIOB and the individuals themselves. 
The scholars are the industry’s brightest young talents 
and quickly establish a reputation for consistent 
excellence and professionalism.
Our People
www.costain.com/responsibility
Delivering responsibly/Our People
-
5%
Our staff turnover has decreased  
by over 5% in 2008 to 9.9%. 16  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Delivering responsibly
continued
Our impact on the local communities and environment in which 
we work is extremely important. Whilst we strive to minimise  
the negative aspects, such as noise and disruption, we want to 
make a greater positive impact through our contribution to the 
local economy and our involvement in local school and 
community group projects.
2008 Key achievements 
•  Executive Board sponsorship for our community strategy  
has raised its profile and our commitment to community 
issues within the Group.
•  We have successfully developed and implemented  
a community strategy to support our Community  
Involvement Policy.
•  In 2008, we donated £68,759 to charities and  
community projects.
•  The community projects we initiated during 2008 were all 
favourably received by the local communities. For example, 
working with BITC’s national Cares campaign, a Costain team 
undertook a project to rejuvenate a rundown playground at 
Katesgrove Primary School in Reading.
•  We have demonstrated continuous improvement in 
community engagement, receiving consistently high scores  
on our Projects from the Considerate Constructors Scheme 
and in 2008 we received 11 Awards; 1 Gold, 4 Silver and 
6 Bronze.
Focus for 2009
Work experience and placements: In 2009, we aim to increase 
the number and expand upon the types of work experience and 
placements offered within the Company. 
Building Awareness: Costain has a number of individuals trained 
by Construction Skills as Construction Ambassadors, as part  
of the Company’s Building Awareness campaign. The aim of  
the campaign is to work with schools, colleges and universities 
to promote both the Costain brand and opportunities in the 
Construction Industry. In 2009, we aim to integrate the good 
work of our Construction Ambassadors in relation to community 
and environmental issues.
Rehabilitation Initiative: Our Church Village project is supporting 
a Home Office Initiative, in conjunction with the Community 
Safety Partnership supported by The Welsh Assembly.  
The project will provide employment opportunities for selected 
persistent offenders with a view to weaning them away from a 
life of crime. 
Local Employment Partnership: Costain is working with  
Job Centre Plus to help potential recruits move from welfare to 
sustained employment. In 2009, we will be actively encouraging 
our managers to enter into Local Employment Partnership 
Agreements in the communities in which we work.
The Docklands Light Railway (DLR) Langdon Park 
station in London, a Costain project, won the 
Regeneration Award at the British Construction 
Industry Awards. The completed station enables 
passengers to access Canary Wharf in five minutes 
and will enable new homes to be built and the area 
to be lifted in line with the rest of the former 
Docklands area. The project’s quality of delivery was 
described at the Awards night as ‘outstanding’. The 
Judges said: “DLR Langdon Park has made a 
significant and demonstrable impact on the 
regeneration of its locality.”
In the Community
www.costain.com/responsibility
Delivering responsibly/In the Community
 +
1 %
Our average score in the Considerate  
Constructors Scheme increased from  
33.7 out of 40 in 2007 to 34.1 in 2008. 17  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Environmental
www.costain.com/responsibility
We protect the environment through effective management of 
our impacts, minimising our negative impacts and maximising 
opportunities to enhance the environment in which we work. 
2008 Key achievements
•  Costain received 5 CEEQUAL (Civil Engineering Environmental 
Quality Assessment and Award Scheme) Awards including 
one Interim Award. The levels of awards received were: 2 
excellent, 2 very good and 1 good.
•  We have demonstrated continuous improvement in waste 
management, achieving our 5% target increase in diversion from 
landfill. We increased our percentage waste diverted from landfill 
by 11%, diverting 58% of our total waste generated from landfill.
•  We are constantly looking for ways to reduce our impact  
on climate change. In 2008, we encouraged our employees  
to be accountable for their individual contributions to energy 
saving. For example, our successful focus on business mileage 
has reduced by 12% the average number of business miles  
per driver.
•  We continue to raise awareness of environmental issues  
and to this end our environmental training was reviewed, 
updated and delivered to both our own staff and those of  
our subcontractors, over 340 people received environmental 
training in 2008.
Focus for 2009 
Waste: We will continue to improve our waste management 
performance. Costain has joined the Waste Resources Action 
Programme (WRAP) campaign. The objective of the campaign  
is by 2012, throughout the industry, to reduce by 50% the 
amount of construction waste going to landfill. We have set a 
target for 2009 to achieve a further 5% increase in the waste 
diverted from landfill based on our 2008 figures.
Climate Change: In 2008, Costain, with over 1,000 other 
companies, joined HRH The Prince of Wales May Day Network 
to take action on climate change. We have pledged to measure 
and report our business carbon emissions. We have set a target 
in 2009 to achieve a 5% reduction in our measured carbon 
dioxide emission streams. 
In 2008, we identified high mileage drivers, of which 18% are 
responsible for over 50% of the total business mileage driven in 
the year. A campaign to reduce mileage will be developed and 
implemented in 2009 to support our commitment to reduce 
business mileage by a further 10%.
T owards the end of 2008, we began trialling an ‘Embedded 
Carbon Accounting T ool’ with the Highways Agency (HA) on a 
number of contracts. We define our Embedded Carbon as the 
carbon footprint of the materials we use on site and the delivery 
of those materials to site. The aim is to use the tool to reduce  
the carbon footprint of the projects we deliver from start to 
completion. By working with the tool, we plan to develop and 
deliver a system, which can assist us in making low carbon 
decisions with regards to design, material specification and build. 
The Costain Group received several Institution of 
Civil Engineers (ICE) Awards for its Southern Water
operations. Budds Farm (pictured) and Peel Common 
received the Best Environmental Award at the ICE South 
Construction Awards and the Cross Solent Main project 
won the Major Project category. In the ICE Kent and  
East Sussex Awards, the Margate and Broadstairs Urban 
Wastewater Treatment Scheme won the Brassey Awards 
2008 Water and Environment Project category and was 
runner-up in the Structural section.
Delivering responsibly/Environmental
 +
11%
We increased our percentage waste diverted 
from landfill by 11%, diverting 58% of our 
total waste generated from landfill. 18  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Delivering responsibly
continued
Marketplace
www.costain.com/responsibility
Neil Sutehall, Costain Group Development Manager 
(centre), receives the Business in the Community 
‘Mobilising Business for Good’ award from Sir Stuart 
Rose, Chairman – Business in the Community (left) and 
Stephen Howard – Chief Executive, Business in the 
Community (right).
We recognise the importance of working in conjunction with  
our customers, partners and suppliers. Together, we have the 
potential to make a greater positive impact on our communities 
and the environment. We encourage open, honest and 
respectful communication and the development and 
maintenance of long lasting and mutually beneficial relationships.
2008 Key achievements
•  2008, was a successful year for customer retention with  
an achievement rate of 87% against a target of 80%.
•  As a Group, we run regular customer satisfaction surveys.  
In 2008, we achieved an average score of 8.03 out of a 
maximum of 10.
•  We have continued to develop our relationships with the key 
members of our supply chain who make up our Preferred 
Supplier base. Focus on Strategic and Preferred Suppliers 
allows us to deliver consistency of service in terms of cost,  
time, quality and safety.
Focus for 2009 
Partnership with our customers: In 2009, we will endeavour  
to develop further our customer focus through committed  
and lasting relationships with key customers. Our aim is to 
understand better their needs and concerns in order to help  
us deliver quality services, lasting value and to position Costain 
as the natural choice.
Measuring performance: The introduction of meaningful 
performance reporting to support the 180 and 360 degree 
reporting and feedback sessions will enable us to gather 
business intelligence from our supply chain and our customers. 
Such comprehensive feedback will allow us to identify areas  
to focus on so that we can continuously improve. 
Supplier sponsorship: As we aim to increase our mutual 
commitment, we recognise that alignment is key. We believe  
that allocating sponsors to the ‘Top 100’ suppliers will 
encourage more successful integration. 
Awareness: Costain hosted its second Supply Chain conference 
in March 2009 to ensure that our supply chain is aware of our 
business changes that directly affect them. 
Delivering responsibly/Marketplace
 
+
9%
Repeat order customer at 87%,  
over 9% growth year-on-year. The effectiveness of our relationships  
with Costain stakeholders will determine  
the Company’s future levels of success. 
We must understand their needs. For example, 
customers demand innovation and excellence. 
Shareholders look for financial return and 
continual growth. Our staff want job security 
and opportunity. Each stakeholder has 
different Costain expectations. However,  
they share common ground… a belief in  
the Costain brand and the values which 
embody that brand.
In the next few pages, we have featured 
certain Costain stakeholders and given  
them the opportunity to define the  
Company’s value as they see it... 
The value  
of Costain
19  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com 20  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
“ Our community at St Martin-in-the-Fields 
wanted more than just bricks and mortar. 
We needed a new home and Costain gave 
us just that. ”
 Reverend Nicholas Holtam Vicar 
 St Martin-in-the-Fields
The value of Costain – Community
Costain was responsible for the contract  
to refurbish and renovate St Martin-in-the-
Fields, one of London’s most famous 
churches situated next to Trafalgar Square. 
The Church, which dates back to 1726,  
is a true landmark and has developed  
a reputation for reaching out to many 
communities including the capital’s homeless. 
Costain’s work involved demolition of the 
existing churchyard vaults and replacing  
them with a new two-storey basement 
including shop and cafeteria kitchens.  
For the internal and external refurbishment  
of the Church, restoration stonemasons  
were employed. 21 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com 22  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
“ I expect our Supply Chain Partners to have 
good Corporate Responsibility embedded 
within their business processes and not as 
a bolt-on glossy facade with no substance. 
I also expect these processes to be aligned 
with our requirements as a Client. ” 
 Nirmal Kotecha Major Projects Director 
 Highways Agency
The value of Costain – Customers
Costain is one of the country’s leading contractors in  
the Highways sector. The Group has delivered many of 
the major highways schemes that have benefited  
the nation in recent times. Costain has also, in terms of 
new contracts, secured the two largest early contractor 
schemes awarded to date. In addition, Costain is  
a member of A-one+, the team currently managing  
key routes within the Highways Agency’s road network, 
which further underpins the Group’s commitment  
to being ‘Number One’ in the Highways sector. 23 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com 24  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com Costain has been listed on the London Stock Exchange  
since 1933. In September 2007 , Costain successfully raised 
£60 million by way of a rights issue, confirming shareholders’ 
confidence in the business, its management and strategy.
As a publicly quoted company, Costain is committed to 
providing shareholders with full transparency and disclosure  
of the Company’s activities.
The value of Costain – Shareholders
25  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
“ We are watching with interest the 
implementation by the management team  
of the ‘Being Number One’ strategy which  
has delivered real benefits to Costain.  
The underlying strength of the business  
has markedly improved over the last two  
and a half years as a result of the clear  
focus brought to the operations. ”
 Xavier Gunner Head of Research 
 Arbuthnot Securities*
 *Arbuthnot acts as broker and adviser to Costain and publishes research on the Company. 26  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
The value of Costain – Supply chain
VVB Engineering Services, a specialist 
Mechanical & Electrical Contractor, has 
worked, and continues to work, on a  
number of major civil engineering projects  
with Costain, including the M25 Holmesdale 
Tunnel refurbishment, which was completed  
three months early.
“ Our successful relationship with Costain 
provides strong evidence that the old 
contractor/subcontractor format is a relic  
of the past. Costain allows companies, such 
as VVB, to focus its resources at tender stage 
to provide the winning solution which then 
flows through all phases of the project. ”
 Steve Hinde Managing Director 
 VVB Engineering Services Ltd 27 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com “ The value of Costain as an employer is 
particularly significant in these challenging 
economic times. Costain employees believe  
in the Company’s ability to succeed and, as a 
result, provide a long-term future, including 
training and development. ”
 Hasana Bello-Aliyu Engineer 
 Costain
The value of Costain – Our people
Hasana Bello-Aliyu is one of Costain’s strong young 
team of graduate engineers. She worked on the 
Company’s prestigious joint venture St Pancras project 
before moving to a contract on the Hammersmith and 
City Line at Wood Lane. Now Hasana is part of the 
Costain team at Farringdon Station.
28 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com 29 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com Costain people, in all facets of the business, have a total commitment  
to the Company’s values and its pursuit of excellence.
Our commitment
30 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Alison Rees Proposals Manager
Alan Fawzy Infrastructure Accountant
David Allvey Chairman
Steve Paine Construction Manager 
Paul Snelson Project Manager
Jenny Taylor Business Development Manager
Anthony Robinson General Foreman
Andrew Wyllie Chief Executive
Stephen Wells Group Strategy  
and Business Development Director
Richard Wood Construction Manager
Martin Leach Construction Manager
Tony Bickerstaff Finance Director
Louise Gosling Proposals Manager
Lee Bridges Quantity Surveyor 
Ritchie Burcombe Project Manager
Nav Patel Quantity Surveyor  31 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Highlights of the year
Costain announces a strong performance for 2008 and an increased 
dividend for the year.
 Strategy has delivered profitable growth, a strong net cash balance and 
a record order book by focusing on blue-chip customers with committed 
long-term investment programmes.
•  Profit before tax up 17% to £23.1 million (2007: £19.8 million) 
•  Strong net cash position increased to £146.6 million (2007: £132.8 million)
•  Record year end order book, up 25% at £2.0 billion (2007: £1.6 billion)
 – repeat order customers account for 87%
 – includes £777 million of secured work for 2009
•  Preferred bidder positions over £1 billion (2007: over £800 million)
•  Banking and bonding facilities extended to September 2011 and increased 
by 42% to £285 million
•  Recommended final dividend of 0.5p, increasing total payout for the year 
by 50% to 0.75p (2007: 0.5p) 
Year ended 31 December   2008  2007 Change
Revenue* £996.0m £877 .9m +13%
Profit from operations £18.3m £16.5m +11%
Profit before tax £23.1m £19.8m  +17%
Net cash £146.6m £132.8m +10%
Earnings per share 2.9p** 3.6p -19%
Full year dividend 0.75p 0.5p +50%
*  Including share of joint ventures and associates.
**  2008 EPS reflects the full annualised impact of the September 2007 rights issue.
Performance Chairman’s statement
Overview
I am pleased to report another year of significant progress. 
Our ‘Being Number One’ strategy is driving the Group’s  
success and is providing resilience in these challenging times. 
To finish the year with higher revenues and profits, a robust 
balance sheet, increased banking and bonding facilities, a 
record order book and a growing reputation for delivery is 
a major achievement and one that stands us in good stead  
for the year ahead.
Our clear and focused strategy is ensuring that the Group 
continues to win new business in sectors where there is a 
commitment to expenditure. Our established market positions  
in areas such as infrastructure, water, waste, energy, health  
and education are of critical importance and will ensure that  
we continue to deliver operational progress in 2009.
To take full advantage of market opportunities, the Group has 
been operationally realigned into five divisions: Infrastructure, 
Environment, Oil, Gas & Process, Community and Property 
Development. As Andrew Wyllie highlights in his Chief 
Executive’s review, this will also allow the business to  
broaden its offering within the markets where we have  
identified real potential.
Results
Revenue for the year was £996.0 million (2007: £877 .9 million). 
Profit from operations was £18.3 million (2007: £16.5 million), 
an increase of 11%.
Net financing income amounted to £4.8 million  
(2007: £3.3 million) which incorporated net interest income of  
£5.8 million (2007: £2.4 million) and a pension scheme related 
net interest cost of £1.0 million (2007: £0.9 million income).
Profit before tax was up 17% at £23.1 million  
(2007: £19.8 million). 
Basic earnings per share amounted to 2.9p (2007: 3.6p). The 
2008 earnings per share reflects the full annualised impact of the 
September 2007 rights issue, when the Group raised £60 million. 
The Group has no significant borrowings and net cash balances 
at the year end totalled £146.6 million (2007: £132.8 million), 
including the Group’s share of cash held by construction joint 
venture arrangements of £34.2 million (2007: £28.8 million).  
The average month end net cash balance during the year  
was £117 .4 million.
Dividend
The Board is recommending the payment of a final dividend  
for the year of 0.5p per share. If approved at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting, the dividend, which will be paid on  
22 May 2009 to shareholders on the register as at 24 April 
2009, would take the payment for the full year to 0.75p  
(2007: 0.5p), an increase of 50% over the prior year.
“ Our confidence in the  
future is reflected in the 
Board’s recommendation  
to increase the total  
dividend for the year.”
32 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
David Allvey Chairman 33  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
The Castleford Footbridge, a Costain contract, featured  
in a Channel 4 documentary shown in August 2008.  
The Footbridge was one of the schemes which formed  
the Castleford Project – an urban renewal initiative 
designed to give regeneration and new confidence  
to the former coal mining town. 
Pension
As at 31 December 2008, the deficit in the UK Pension Scheme 
recorded in the Group’s balance sheet in accordance with  
IAS 19 was £36.1 million, net of deferred tax, an improvement 
of £0.3 million from the position as at 31 December 2007 .
Board and Staff
Mr F W Ballard and Mr M A Sulaiman stepped down from  
the Board during the year. I thank them for their contribution 
and we wish them well for the future.
On behalf of the Board, I would also like to thank the 
management and staff at Costain for their continued hard work, 
dedication and loyalty. They can all be very proud of what has 
been achieved over the last year. 
Outlook
These very good results reinforce Costain’s position as one of 
the most successful businesses in the UK’s construction and 
engineering industry.
Our increasing momentum is underlined by over £500 million of 
significant new contract wins already secured in 2009. We have 
more work secured for 2009 at this point in the year than we did 
for 2008 at the comparable time last year. 
Whilst external macroeconomic events, including the fall in equity 
markets and interest rates, will have an impact on net interest, the 
business continues to perform strongly and we are on course to 
deliver the Board’ s expected operating result in 2009.
We remain focused on markets where there are significant  
spend commitments and, with a net cash balance approaching 
£150 million, we have the resources to continue to develop  
the business.
Our confidence in the future is reflected in the Board’ s 
recommendation to increase the total dividend for the year.
David Allvey Chairman
11 March 2009
David Allvey, Costain Chairman (left) with Theresa May,  
MP , Shadow Secretary of State for Work & Pensions  
(centre), and Stephen Wells, Costain Group Strategy  
and Business Development Director, at the Confederation  
of British Industry (CBI) regional dinner. 34  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Chief Executive’s review
Costain is now established as one of the UK’s premier 
construction and engineering businesses.
Clear strategy 
We have benefited from the continued implementation of our 
‘Being Number One’ strategy that deliberately focuses the 
business on major blue-chip customers. As anticipated, these 
large sophisticated organisations, which include a range of 
public, private and regulated enterprises, are seeking to work 
with fewer contractors on a longer term or partnership basis.
We have targeted market sectors where we believe work will  
be undertaken because of its strategic significance to the 
nation. Consequently, we have been working successfully 
towards developing leading positions in markets such as 
highways, water, waste, energy, health and education.
Our strategic focus and high quality customer base has 
significantly lessened our exposure to sectors particularly 
susceptible to the macroeconomic climate and has allowed  
us to secure a record high quality order book. 
In order to provide even greater emphasis on our customers’ 
needs, we have realigned our operational structure into five 
divisions: Infrastructure, Environment, Oil, Gas & Process, 
Community and Property Development. This will allow us to 
respond quickly to the changing requirements of our customers, 
and ensure that Costain continues to allocate its resources 
effectively towards markets with the greatest potential.
Our brand, corporate values and reputation are hugely 
important to us. They set the standards by which we do 
business and have allowed us to attract quality customers, 
suppliers and people to enable us to achieve our growth. 
Delivering a strong performance 
There have been a number of key achievements during  
the year: 
•  Delivered 17% growth in Group profits and 13% growth  
in revenues 
•  Strengthened the balance sheet and enhanced the net cash 
position to £146.6 million
•  Increased the profits and revenues from our civil engineering 
operations
•  Profit from Oil, Gas & Process operations increased, with net 
margins in excess of 6%
•  Actively traded our PFI portfolio to re-invest in bidding for  
new projects 
•  Reduced our overheads and central costs
•  Made key appointments across our executive team as part  
of our succession planning
•  Secured a record high quality order book of £2.0 billion
“ Our brand, corporate values 
and reputation are hugely 
important to us.”
Andrew Wyllie Chief Executive 35  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
•  Paid an interim dividend for the first time in 17 years 
•  Recommended a 50% increase in the total dividend payout 
for the year
However, the Building and Property Development divisions  
are not providing the required level of returns and a number of 
initiatives are in place to improve performance. Further details  
of these are set out in the Business review.
Robust finances
We were successful in achieving our financial objectives  
for the year.
The year end net cash position increased to £146.6 million 
(2007: £132.8 million). The Group has no significant  
borrowings, which is important given the prevailing  
macroeconomic conditions. 
During 2008, banking and contract bonding facilities were 
increased by 42% to £285 million and extended to September 
2011. These facilities provide the headroom needed for us  
to continue to develop the business. 
Record order book
As a direct result of the implementation of our customer  
focused strategy, we have been greatly encouraged by the 
growth in our high quality order book, which increased by 25% 
to a record £2.0 billion at the year end (2007: £1.6 billion).
Despite the more difficult market conditions, we were successful 
in securing over £1.4 billion of quality new orders during the 
year from a range of blue-chip customers. We also ended  
the year with over £1.0 billion preferred bidder positions 
(2007: over £800 million) including preferred contractor for  
the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) on the Greater Manchester 
Waste Disposal Authority’s PFI contract.
Reflecting the strategic focus by Costain on large customers who 
favour the long-term framework or partnership approach, the 
level of repeat business in the order book has increased to 87%.
The year end order book included £777 million for work to be 
carried out in 2009.
During the year, we saw a number of high profile contract wins 
across the business reflecting the breadth of our operations. Of 
particular note was the award by the Highways Agency of their 
Area 7 MAC five-year maintenance contract, the early extension 
of our AMP4 contract at Southern Water into the AMP5 
2010-2015 period, the redevelopment of Felixstowe port for 
Hutchison Port Holdings and the major Riverside waste facility 
for VonRoll. 
These are all examples of work awarded on the basis of 
excellent customer relationships and our growing reputation  
for delivery.
Since the year end, Costain has continued to win a number  
of major contract awards, including Severn Trent AMP5, the 
M53 Bidston Moss viaduct refurbishment and the Port Talbot 
Relief Road. 
The level of tendering and estimating activity remains high 
supporting our belief that our customers remain committed  
to their expenditure plans.
Operations 
Our ability to secure high levels of repeat order business reflects 
our proven track record in delivering projects safely to quality, 
time and budget, often exceeding our customers’ expectations.
Our Civil Engineering operations had an exceptional year, 
increasing profits, revenues, margins and order book. A number 
of projects were completed ahead of schedule generating early 
completion bonuses. Major new contract awards also ensured 
that we have strengthened our position in each of our key target 
market sectors and as a result the order book in the division has 
increased by over 30% in the year. We are well placed to seize 
the opportunities that will be presented by the anticipated future 
investment in major infrastructure and environmental related 
projects; examples include Crossrail, high-speed rail links,  
new nuclear power, waste schemes and airport expansion. 
HRH The Prince of Wales (with Andrew Wyllie, Costain  
Chief Executive (left) and Geoff Hunt, Costain Project 
Manager (centre)) pictured at London’s St Martin-in-the- 
Fields Church in April 2008. The Prince is Patron of the  
St Martin-in-the-Fields Development Trust that commissioned 
the £36 million restoration and renewal project. 36  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Lord Adonis, Minister of State for Transport (fifth  
from right), and Andrew Wyllie, Costain Chief Executive  
(third from right), pictured holding the plaque to 
commemorate the completion of the M27 Improvement 
Schemes. The schemes were completed two months  
ahead of schedule allowing motorists to fully benefit from  
a £36 million scheme to widen 2.5 miles of the motorway  
by providing an additional lane in both directions between 
Junction 3 (M271 to Southampton) and Junction 4  
(M27/M3 Interchange).
Chief Executive’s review 
continued
The Building division’s trading performance was disappointing  
in the year and further actions have been taken to address a 
number of operational issues. This division now accounts for  
just 9% of the order book and we are concentrating on the 
health and education sectors where we expect there to be 
significant spend over the next few years. 
PFI remains a strategically important activity given its 
prominence as a procurement route for major public projects. 
We continued with our policy of trading our PFI equity portfolio 
to reinvest in bidding for new projects and disposed of two 
equity stakes in the year. 
Our Oil, Gas & Process operations made excellent progress 
with increases in profit, revenue and margin. The order book  
is also up and we benefit from specialist expertise in the areas 
of nuclear design, underground gas storage and process 
modularisation. This division is a core part of the Group and  
is well placed to capitalise on the demand for energy related 
projects in the future.
Further progress has been made in closing out the legacy 
projects from our International division. During the year, we 
achieved substantial completion on the Costa Azul project  
in Mexico and the customer has operational use of the facility.  
The results for the year reflect an additional provision for the 
project which is expected to be completed by mid-2009 
following the extension of the project’s scope by the customer. 
Market conditions in Spain remained very difficult as a result  
of the global economic downturn and, as anticipated Alcaidesa, 
our Spanish strategic land development operation in joint 
venture with a subsidiary of Santander Bank, did not complete 
any significant land sales in the year. Construction of the 
800-berth marina is progressing well and is scheduled for 
completion in 2010. There has been a good level of interest  
from potential customers seeking to secure berths. 
There is a more detailed review of each operating division in the 
Business review.
Safety, Health and Environment
The effective management of Safety, Health and Environment 
remains our top priority. 
Further progress was made in the year and we recorded an 
improved Group Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) of 0.17 ,  
once again making us the best performing company in the 
Major Contractors Group (MCG) peer group. 
We received a total of 45 RoSPA safety awards including  
the prestigious Order of Distinction for our Oil, Gas & Process 
operations recognising 15 consecutive annual Gold Awards.  
The consideration we show for the local communities in which 
we work was recognised by the receipt of 11 Awards from the 
Considerate Constructors scheme. 
Southern Water’s £15 million Cross Solent Main project, 
completed over two years by 4Delivery, the joint venture 
between Costain, MWH and United Utilities, won the Major 
Projects Award category at the Institution of Civil Engineers 
Southern Association Construction Awards. The successful 
delivery of this innovative project means that The Isle  
of Wight can now be provided with up to 20 million litres  
of drinking water per day through the new pipeline. 37  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notwithstanding our industry leading safety performance,  
there was a fatal accident on the M25/A2 motorway project. 
This devastating event reinforced the need for continuous 
vigilance and improvement in our safety performance.
As part of our commitment to ensuring the health and welfare  
of our workforce, medical screening was provided to over  
700 employees during the year.
Our efforts to mitigate the environmental and social impacts  
of our operations were rewarded by the receipt of our first  
Silver award following an external assessment by Business  
in the Community.
A series of challenging objectives have been set for 2009,  
which include enhanced performance targets for all activities. 
People
We have achieved our strong business performance by ensuring 
that we employ and retain a highly talented and motivated team 
of people. There was a net increase of over 200 people in the 
business during the year and we have made a significant level  
of investment in training and development at all levels.
A growing business provides plenty of opportunity for our 
people to develop their careers and achieve their full potential. 
Our management development programmes have enabled 
many people to take on new and enhanced responsibilities. 
There were changes of responsibilities and new appointments 
to strengthen the Executive Board, which is the Group’s 
operational Board. These included Alan Kay’s appointment  
in the new role of Chief Operating Officer; Darren James,  
Alex Vaughan and David Jenkins appointments as Managing 
Directors for respectively the new Infrastructure, Community 
and Environment divisions; and the promotion of Tracey Wood  
to HR and Legal Director. 
Our management strength in depth allows us to develop 
succession planning across the whole business.
Supply chain
Progress has been made in further rationalising our supply  
chain as we focus on developing more strategic longer term 
relationships and the number of suppliers used has reduced  
to around 3,000, a sixth of the level on the Group’s database 
three years ago. 
Developing supplier relationships in this mutually beneficial way 
enables us to enhance the service we provide to our customers, 
increase innovation, access the best project teams, improve 
safety and drive out cost from the production process.
We recently hosted an annual supply chain conference  
which was attended by the ‘Top 100’ supply chain partners. 
During the event we set out our objectives, discussed areas  
for collaboration and agreed clear performance targets.
Managing costs
We continue to manage costs robustly and notwithstanding the 
very significant increase in revenue and order book, overhead 
costs in 2008 were held at the same level as the previous year. 
The move to the Group’s new open plan headquarters in 
Maidenhead was successful and has provided the anticipated 
improvements in efficiency and working environment. The 
regional office in Chelmsford has been closed, as it was no 
longer required to support our strategy. 
In addition, we outsourced part of the Group’s IT function and, 
as a result, an enhanced service is provided to the business at  
a lower cost.
Summary
We have achieved a great deal in the last year and delivered  
a strong business performance, despite the very significant 
economic downturn. 
We have a clear strategy, robust finances, a record order book 
and a motivated management team. The Group is benefiting 
from the focus our strategy is bringing to everything we do. We 
are deliberately targeting the key market sectors that we believe 
will be of strategic importance to the nation and that will receive 
significant investment over the next few years. 
No company can be immune from the current uncertain 
environment but Costain is demonstrating resilience in these 
turbulent times. 
We are expecting to deliver further progress in operating 
performance during 2009. We are confident about Costain’s 
future which I look forward to reporting on during the year.
Andrew Wyllie Chief Executive
11 March 2009 38  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Business review
Civil Engineering
The Group’s Civil Engineering division, which accounts  
for 85% of the Group’s order book, includes our Infrastructure 
(Highways, Rail, Airports and Nuclear) and Environment  
(Water, Waste and Marine) activities.
Revenue (including share of joint ventures and associates)  
for the year was £620.0 million (2007: £539.3 million), with  
an operating profit of £28.0 million (2007: £20.0 million).  
The division’s year end order book was £1.7 billion  
(2007: £1.2 billion), an increase of 34%.
This strong performance reflects Costain’s position as a leader in 
the delivery of the UK’s infrastructure and environmental projects.
 
Highways 
In 2008, Costain delivered a number of major schemes for  
its customers and significantly strengthened its position in  
the provision of maintenance services.
A strong operational performance was underpinned by 
early deliveries for the Highways Agency on M25 Junctions  
1b to 3 and M27 Junctions 11 to 12 and strong starts on  
the M25 Bell Common Tunnel, A34 Wolvercote Viaduct  
and for Rhondda Cynon Taf the Church Village by-pass.
Our high level of service delivery on the Highways Agency’s  
Area 10 MAC five-year maintenance contract by our A-one+ 
joint venture team was rewarded with the award of the Area  
7 MAC contract, further reinforcing our growing position in  
this area.
In conjunction with joint venture partners, Costain is supporting 
the Highways Agency in developing two of its largest Early 
Contractor Involvement schemes on the M1 Junctions 10  
to 13 and on the A14 Ellington to Fen Ditton.
Rail
Following the completion and acclaimed opening of St Pancras 
International, Costain completed on programme the King’s 
Cross Eastern Range contract for Network Rail. We have also 
been awarded and have commenced work on the first stage  
of the Thameslink upgrade at Farringdon, which will be a key 
hub for Network Rail, London Underground and the future 
Crossrail scheme. 
During 2008, Costain continued to support London 
Underground on the early stages of its important ‘Cooling  
The Tube’ programme and we delivered the first new 
underground station on an existing line for over 70 years  
at Wood Lane. 
The receipt of a British Construction Industry Award for our 
work on the Langdon Park Docklands Light Railway station  
has further enhanced Costain’s reputation in the rail sector.
Bell Common Tunnel on the M25.
Highways
Rail
Airports
Wood Lane Underground Station, opened by the  
Mayor of London, Boris Johnson.
The North Terminal at Gatwick Airport. 39  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Airports
Following Costain’s appointment to the BAA Complex Build 
Integrator Framework, we commenced work on the early stages 
of the planned redevelopment of the North Terminal at Gatwick. 
The Group also secured a contract for the delivery of ground 
investigation work at Stansted and has undertaken further work 
for Manchester Airport Group, delivering airside pavements at 
both Manchester and Bournemouth airports during the year. 
 
Nuclear 
Costain is continuing to build its presence in the nuclear  
sector and is focused on decommissioning opportunities and, 
ultimately, on securing work on the future new build programme.
During the year, there was good progress on major contracts 
including the Evaporator ‘D’ project at Sellafield and the Solid 
Active Waste Bunker Retrieval project at Hunterston. Costain’s 
coverage of the UK nuclear sites continues to strengthen with 
our framework contract at Trawsfynydd being supplemented 
with the award of the Magnox South framework at Berkeley 
and preparatory work at Hinkley.
Water
Costain reinforced its position as the UK’s leading asset 
management contractor in the water sector where we delivered 
an excellent performance across all our frameworks.
As a result of our exceptional delivery, Southern Water awarded 
our 4Delivery joint venture an early extension of our contract 
through the AMP5 period to 2015, providing the Group with 
visibility of a major earnings stream. 
Elsewhere, the Group delivered 500 waste and water schemes 
for Yorkshire Water, achieved all of the delivery targets for 
Welsh Water, completed major schemes at Hornsey, Lane End, 
Wanstead and Beddington for Thames Water and provided  
a diverse range of clean and waste water schemes for  
United Utilities. 
Waste
Costain has significantly expanded its operations in the growing 
waste sector and is focused on leveraging its complementary 
process engineering skills and expertise from its water operations 
to build a major presence in the rapidly expanding UK and 
European regulated marketplace.
Costain was awarded the Riverside Resource Recovery 
Facility energy-from-waste plant project at Belvedere in London, 
a milestone in the division’s expansion. We are also preferred 
bidder for the design and build element of the Greater 
Manchester Waste Authority contract, the largest waste 
services contract in Europe.
We are seeking to build on our success on waste PFI projects 
by bidding in consortium for a number of future contracts. We 
have pre-qualified on the Bradford and Calderdale project and 
will bid for others selectively in 2009.
Trawsfynydd Nuclear Power Station.
Nuclear
W ater
Easington Wastewater Treatment Works, part of Costain’s 
Yorkshire Water AMP4 Framework.
W aste
Riverside Resource Recovery Facility, Belvedere, London. 40  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Business review
continued
Marine
A major achievement during the year was the award of the 
Felixstowe South Reconfiguration Phase One contract by 
Hutchison Port Holdings, where work commenced in May 2008 
and will last for two and a half years. In addition, Costain’s 
established relationship with Canary Wharf Contractors was 
extended with further works secured in joint venture for the 
development at Westferry Circus.
Building
Revenue (including share of joint ventures and associates)  
for the year was £285.6 million (2007: £254.7 million), with  
an operating loss of £5.2 million (2007: £0.8 million profit). 
In line with our stated strategy of actively trading our PFI 
portfolio in order to invest in future opportunities, we disposed 
of our equity stakes in two PFIs during the year resulting in a 
combined profit of £2.7 million.
The disappointing divisional performance reflected provisions 
made for additional costs on a small number of projects, 
in particular on one non-core residential project. We have  
taken decisive actions to improve the performance of the 
division including management changes, reducing overheads, 
strengthening and focusing relationships with the supply  
chain and improving business process implementation.  
We anticipate an improvement in performance in 2009. 
The division’s year end order book was reduced by 26% to 
£181 million (2007: £243 million) reflecting the primary focus  
on health, education and retail opportunities.
Health 
A number of healthcare projects were successfully completed 
including the first of Costain’s 3Shires PFI batch of hospitals. 
Good progress is being made on the two other batch hospitals, 
together with the ProCure 21 schemes in Chertsey, Sheffield 
and Cheltenham.
Following the recent award, Costain has commenced work  
on a redevelopment scheme at Gloucestershire Royal Hospital 
and a number of additional projects have also been progressed 
within the ProCure 21 framework.
Education
Costain, in joint venture partnership, completed on time the  
first three schools in Bradford under the Government’s Building 
Schools for the Future (BSF) programme despite facing a 
number of operational challenges. The joint venture has now 
commenced delivery of a further three new primary schools 
under Phase 2 of the programme and is finalising the design 
development of four secondary schools for commencement  
in the first quarter of 2009.
Marine
Health
Felixstowe South Reconfiguration Phase One.
Finch Road Primary Care Centre, Birmingham.
Sedgehill School, Lewisham, London.
Education 41  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Of the two schools being delivered under the Lewisham BSF, 
one has been completed and the second is scheduled to be 
occupied in April 2009. Three further schemes, under Phase 2 
of this programme, are currently being developed.
Costain also successfully completed a number of school and 
university projects elsewhere around the country including the 
DACI at Shrivenham and the ICMA extension at the University  
of Reading.
Retail
Costain completed a total of seven projects for Tesco and  
J Sainsbury. 
Following the award of the Newbury Parkway project, we  
have commenced the construction of this retail mixed-use 
re-development, part of an extensive re-generation of Newbury 
town centre which is expected to be completed in 2010.
Oil, Gas & Process
Revenue (including share of joint ventures and associates)  
for the year was £83.6 million (2007: £62.3 million) with an 
operating profit of £5.5 million (2007: £1.9 million). The division’s 
order book increased 14% to £115 million (2007: £101 million).
Building on the successful results achieved in 2007 , the division 
performed very well during 2008 and continues to offer 
significant opportunities for future growth.
Our nuclear engineering and design activity has delivered good 
results and we continue to develop this area of expertise as part 
of Costain’s overall approach to this important market. 
Costain secured two significant awards in the important 
underground gas storage sector: firstly, the Brine & Water Plant 
at Gaz de France’s Stublach Underground Gas Storage Facility 
and, secondly, the gas plant for the E.ON Holford Underground 
Gas Storage Facility. 
In International Gas Processing, the division is providing project 
management, engineering and procurement services to a 
number of overseas customers. During 2008, projects were 
successfully completed for BG in Tunisia and Eni in Pakistan.
In the Middle East, where Costain has been active for a  
number of years, the Company is one of only four construction 
contractors based permanently on Abu Dhabi’s Das Island oil 
and gas refinery complex. 
Retail
Tesco Valhalla Foodstore, Braunton, Devon.
Oil, Gas &  
Process
Stublach Underground Gas Storage Facility, Cheshire. 42  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Business review
continued
Property Development
Revenue (including share of joint ventures and associates)  
for the year was £1.1 million (2007: £3.6 million) with a loss  
of £2.3 million (2007: profit £0.2 million).
The Spanish real estate market had a difficult year and Alcaidesa 
Holding SA, Costain’s 50% joint venture with a subsidiary  
of Santander Bank, has not been immune to the economic 
problems impacting the market.
Alcaidesa Holding SA does not undertake direct residential 
development in Spain but has acquired over time a land bank 
for which it seeks to secure Master Plan approval and build 
infrastructure prior to selling on developable land to third  
parties. No significant land sales were achieved in the year.
It is not expected that the market will improve in 2009  
and, consequently, action has been taken to reduce costs.
Work started in August 2008 on the construction of the  
800 berth yacht marina and associated commercial 
development at La Linea de la Concepcion immediately 
adjacent to the Spanish border with Gibraltar. The project  
is progressing and the first phase will be completed in 2010. 
International
Revenue (including share of joint ventures and associates) for 
the year was £5.7 million (2007: £18.0 million) with an operating 
loss of £2.0 million (2007: £Nil).
Following the decision in 2006 to close the International division, 
we continue to workout the two last remaining contracts. During 
the year, we achieved substantial completion on the Costa Azul 
project in Mexico and the customer has operational use of the 
facility. Agreement has been reached with the customer regarding 
the final value and scope of the project and we have taken an 
additional provision of £2.0 million accordingly. The remaining 
outstanding works will be completed in 2009.
All future international projects will be undertaken by the 
appropriate specialist sector teams. 
Order book
We have a high quality order book, standing at £2.0 billion as at 
31 December 2008, of which over £777 million relates to 2009 
and 87% of which is repeat business. We have also grown our 
preferred bidder positions to in excess of £1 billion.
We will maintain our focus on quality of work rather than 
quantity. This approach has resulted in an order book that 
extends through 2015, contains a range of excellent contracts 
and provides a stream of high-quality earnings for the Group. 
Property  
Development
The site for the new yacht marina development in 
southern Spain. 43  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Economic and market cycles and volatility
The Group’s business may be affected by the general  
risks associated with all companies operating in the same 
construction markets as the Group. These markets depend  
on numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Group’s 
control, and the exact effect of which cannot be accurately 
predicted. Such factors include general economic and political 
activities, including the extent of any governmental regulation, 
taxation and interest rates.
Monthly forecasts take place at both the project and Group 
levels, which include the possible impact of a number of major 
factors on the business. A review of risks at various levels helps 
to ensure that the areas are identified properly and appropriate 
mitigation is in place. Management reviews key risks regularly.
Senior management and skilled personnel
The Group is dependent on members of its senior management 
team and a flexible, highly skilled and well-motivated work  
force and believes its future success will depend in part on its 
ability to attract, develop and retain highly skilled management 
and personnel. If the Group does not succeed in attracting, 
developing and retaining skilled personnel, it may not be able 
to grow its business as anticipated. Further, the departure from 
the Group of any of the Executive Directors or certain senior 
employees could, in the short-term, have a material adverse 
effect on the Group’s business.
The Company monitors staff turnover closely, especially  
the reasons for leaving. Pay and conditions of employment  
are reviewed regularly against the prevailing market and 
benchmarked against competitors to ensure that the  
Company remains competitive.
Environmental, health and safety laws, regulations 
and standards
The Group is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations  
and standards, including those relating to pollution, the health 
and safety of employees, protection of the public, protection 
of the environment and the storage and handling of hazardous 
substances and waste materials. These regulations and 
standards are becoming increasingly stringent.
It is the Group’s policy to require that all of its subsidiaries, 
employees, suppliers and subcontractors comply with applicable 
laws, regulations and standards. However, violations of such 
laws, regulations and standards, in particular, environmental  
and health and safety laws could result in restrictions on the 
operations of the Group’s sites, damages, fines or other 
sanctions, increased costs of compliance, potential reputational 
damage and potential loss of future contracts.
The manner in which the Group manages these risks is 
described in the Corporate Governance statement (including 
Internal controls and Risk management) on pages 54 to 61.
The Company has a senior executive with a suitably qualified 
team to ensure that standards and regulations are complied 
with. They are supported by a programme of training courses 
designed to keep staff fully aware of their responsibilities. Site 
audits are carried out monthly and appropriate action is taken 
against any issues identified.
Major incident exposing an inadequate safety regime
The nature of the business conducted by the Group requires  
the adoption and maintenance of a rigorous Health and Safety 
programme. The Group works on a number of significant  
and high profile projects and therefore the Health and Safety 
performance is critical to the success of all areas of the Group’s 
business. The Group takes the management of both operational 
and occupational safety extremely seriously. Any failure in Health 
and Safety performance, which results in a major or significant 
Health and Safety incident, is likely to be costly for the relevant 
business in terms of potential liabilities incurred as a result. 
Furthermore, such a failure could generate significant adverse 
publicity and have a negative impact on the Group’s reputation 
and its ability to win new business, which in turn could adversely 
affect the operating, financial and share price performance.
Regular Safety, Health and Environment visits and on site 
training take place to reduce the risk of human error. Any 
breaches in procedures are reported quickly and acted upon  
as appropriate. Staff are encouraged to take responsibility for 
safety in their work areas. Procedures are reviewed regularly 
and amended to take cognisance of new issues that may arise. 
Pension liabilities 
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme,  
which has been closed to new members since 1 June 2005.  
As at 31 December 2008, 806 active members were accruing 
pensionable service. 
The valuation under IAS 19 for the scheme as at 31 December 
2008 valued the scheme’s assets at £385.6 million and 
liabilities at £435.8 million. This leaves a deficit in the scheme  
of £50.2 million. Costain has agreed a plan with the Trustee  
to reduce the deficit over a period of ten years. The annual 
contribution requirement of the Pension Protection Fund 
increases the costs borne by the Group.
The value of the deficit recognised in the Group’s balance sheet 
pursuant to IAS 19 is dependent on certain critical assumptions 
including mortality rates, future salary and pension increases, 
investment returns and inflation and is likely to vary from year  
to year. Recent and prospective changes in the regulatory 
environment and funding requirement principles may lead  
to requirements to increase funding in respect of the scheme  
in future years (possibly to a level in excess of that needed  
to achieve solvency on an IAS 19 basis). The powers of the 
Pensions Regulator may also impact on any plans to make 
returns of capital from the Group to shareholders.  
Principal Risks and Key Performance Indicators 44  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
For example, the Pensions Regulator has powers to levy 
contribution notices and financial support directions in certain 
circumstances in order to ensure that additional contributions 
are paid into a pension scheme or that other financial support  
is put in place to the benefit of a pension scheme. In the event 
that the market value of the scheme’s assets declines in relation 
to its assessed liabilities, the Group may be required to increase 
its contributions to cover any further funding shortfalls. This could 
have an adverse impact on the Group’s operational results and 
cash flow. The fall in global equity values has resulted in a decline  
of the scheme’s assets and consequently this will impact the  
net pension interest figure, which is the difference between the 
expected return on the assets of the scheme and the interest 
cost of the scheme obligations and will have an adverse effect 
on the Group’s results unless equity values improve.
The Board reviews the options regarding what actions  
Costain could take to limit its long-term exposure and consults 
professional advisors, as necessary. 
Change of Government policy
Certain of the Group’s operations are dependent on the current 
UK Government’s policy with regard to improving public 
infrastructure, buildings and services, notably in the Education, 
Highways, Health and Nuclear sectors. The UK Government may 
decide in future to change its priorities and programmes, including 
reducing present or future investment in transport, health or other 
areas in which the Group would expect to compete for work.  
Any reduction in such government investment and funding would 
be likely to adversely affect the Group’ s future revenues and 
profitability in the relevant sectors.
Key factors, which may affect the Company strategy, are kept 
under regular review by senior management and action taken 
where potential workload shortfalls are identified. 
Risk of incorrectly budgeting/costing  
long-term contracts
If the Group is unable to accurately estimate the overall  
risks, revenues or costs on a particular contract, then a lower 
than anticipated profit may be achieved or a loss incurred on 
such contracts. The Group generally enters into four principal 
types of contracts with clients: fixed price contracts; ‘cost plus’ 
contracts; framework contracts with clients that span a number 
of years and incorporate an agreed mechanism for bearing 
costs and sharing profits; and long-term PFI projects.
A significant proportion of the Group’s business depends for its 
profit on costs being controlled and projects being completed 
on time, such that costs are contained within the pricing 
structure of the relevant contract.
‘Target costs’ and ‘cost plus’ contracts provide for 
reimbursement of the costs required to complete a project, but 
generally have a lower base fee and an incentive fee based on 
cost and/or scheduled performance. If actual costs exceed the 
revenues available under such a contract or are not allowable 
under the provisions of the contract, Costain may not receive 
reimbursement for all of these costs 
Cost overruns, whether due to inefficiency, poor design (where 
the contractor has design responsibilities), faulty estimates, cost 
escalation, and/or cost overruns by subcontractors or other 
factors, result in lower profit or a loss on a project. A significant 
number of contracts are based in part on cost estimates  
that are subject to a number of assumptions. If estimates  
of the overall risks, revenues or costs prove inaccurate or 
circumstances change, then a lower profit or a loss on the 
contract may result.
To mitigate this risk, experienced and qualified staff are  
used to prepare bids and these are subject to internal review  
before submission. A clear understanding of the customers’ 
expectations and a sound relationship with key suppliers  
is the basis of this approach. During the life of a contract, 
regular Project Manager’s Report (PMR) meetings take  
place to discuss progress, quality, cost, safety, risks, etc. 
Failing to win contracts
If the Group failed to win major work from a key client or funding 
was not available on projects where the Company had been 
appointed preferred bidder, this could cause short-term revenue 
and profitability issues. The Group is always aware of this and 
seeks a balanced client base.
Contract negotiations
The Group’s contracts may require extra or change order work 
as directed by the customer even if the customer has agreed 
in advance on the scope or price of the work to be performed. 
This process may result in negotiations over whether the work 
performed is beyond the scope of the work included in the 
original project plans and specifications or, if the customer 
agrees that the work performed qualifies as extra work, the 
price the customer is willing to pay for the extra work. Even 
when the customer agrees to pay for the extra work, the Group 
may be required to fund the cost of such work for a period  
of time until the change order is approved and funded  
by the customer.
The financial status of all contracts is reviewed regularly and 
terms and conditions checked to ensure variations can only  
be issued that cover a similar type of work. 
Principal Risks and Key Performance Indicators
continued 45  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Risk of missing deadlines
The construction industry is highly schedule driven, and failure 
to meet schedule requirements within contracts could adversely 
affect the Group’s reputation and/or exposure to financial 
liability. Many of the Group’s contracts are subject to specific 
completion schedule requirements with liquidated damages 
charged in the event the construction schedules are not 
achieved. Failure to meet any such schedule requirements  
could damage the Group’s reputation within the industry and 
client base, as well as incurring significant liquidated damages.
The monthly PMR review discusses progress against 
programme, reasons for any delay and actions that need to  
be taken to avoid liquidated damages.
Competition
Contractors are required to compete for new work, which is 
won through a process of competitive tendering or bilateral 
negotiation. A contractor’s reputation, prior experience  
with the client and pricing will all have a bearing on gaining  
new work. The failure by the Group to compete effectively  
on these criteria could reduce the Group’s profitability.
Costain, by completing projects ahead of, or on programme, 
safely, to quality and cost, seeks to be awarded new contracts 
by its clients through consistently performing to a high standard. 
These issues are monitored monthly through the PMR and 
clients are asked to complete performance questionnaires  
so that any shortcomings can be rectified. 
Sub-contractor and supplier failure 
The Group is reliant on its supply chain. If a subcontractor or 
supplier of goods or services failed financially or was responsible 
for late or inadequate delivery or poor quality of work on a 
project then it could damage the Group’s reputation and/or 
cause it to suffer financial losses.
The list of preferred suppliers is reviewed regularly and amended 
where appropriate. In addition, measures are in place, both at 
site and at Group level to take action in the case of a failure in 
the supply chain. Risk registers are updated monthly and 
include mitigation actions. 
Loss of IT systems 
The Group is dependent on IT systems for the delivery of its 
business. The Group believes that its IT systems are reliable and 
well protected but recognises that such systems need constant 
updating and maintenance because their failure could cause 
financial loss to the Group as well as damage to its brand and 
reputation.
A senior executive is responsible for the IT systems and has  
a suitably qualified team in support. Critical areas are subject  
to testing and include rapid recovery as well as sound data 
backup procedures. 
Insurance 
The Group believes it has robust, comprehensive and adequate 
insurance cover but recognises that a claim could be made 
against it, which exceeds the limits of insurance cover or is in 
respect of a matter that is uninsurable or the insured incident is 
subject to a large deductible. In those circumstances, the Group 
could suffer financial loss.
Insurance deductibles and any difference in cover are 
considered at tender stage. Through following Costain’s best 
practice processes, insurable incidents should be reduced. 
Procedures are in place to ensure potential claims are reported 
quickly for assessment. 
Procurement delays
Certain government-related projects on which the Group may 
work may require relevant approvals from government ministers 
or senior civil servants. It is possible that, due to difficulties in 
obtaining such approvals, projects may be delayed before 
procurement has started, during the tender stage or during the 
period between the appointment of a preferred bidder and the 
exchange of contracts. These matters are likely to be beyond 
the control of the Group and any resulting delays could affect 
future revenue streams of the Group and have an adverse 
impact on the Group’s businesses, results of operations and 
financial condition.
 
Costain operates in several sectors and for a number of 
blue-chip companies. Future market trends are monitored  
by the Group Strategy and Business Development Director  
and where shortcomings are seen, further work is sought  
or we turn to other sectors. 
Availability of Bonding and Banking Facilities
The Group’s long-term contracting business is dependent  
on it being able to supply performance and other bonds as 
necessary. This means maintaining adequate facilities from 
banks and surety bond providers to meet the current and 
projected usage requirements. During 2008, the Group 
renegotiated its contract bonding and banking facilities with  
its relationship banks and surety companies. The facilities  
were increased to £285 million and extended to a maturity  
date of 30 September 2011. 46  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Key Performance Indicators
The Group uses a range of performance indicators across  
its business units. These start with a formal three-year business 
plan, which sets out clear strategic targets and objectives  
and which forms the basis of the budget for the following 
financial year.
The Board considers the following Financial and Non-financial 
Key Performance Indicators are the most effective measures  
for monitoring its objectives:
Non-financial Key Performance Indicators
•  Accident Frequency Rate 
Safety is the number one priority in the Group. We have  
both corporate and individual responsibility to ensure that our 
operations are managed in a safe, healthy and environmentally 
controlled manner. The common measure in the construction 
sector for measuring safety performance is the Accident 
Frequency Rate (AFR), which measures the number of lost 
time incidents per 100,000 of hours worked. The AFR for 2008 
for the Group was 0.17 (2007: 0.14). Whilst an increase in the 
year, this still represents upper quartile safety performance in 
the construction sector.
•  Staff retention 
The retention of staff is fundamental in delivering a quality 
service to customers. The Group undertakes a number  
of important initiatives to retain key staff, including closely 
managing their career development. Following staff surveys 
carried out in 2006 and 2007 , clear action plans were put  
in place to address items such as customer satisfaction, 
health and safety, reward, training and development and job 
satisfaction identified in the survey results. The ‘concerned 
leavers’ turnover rate was 9.9% for 2008, which fared 
positively against the 2007 level and target of 16%.
Financial Key Performance Indicators
•  Profit before tax 
The level of profitability is a key measure of performance 
across all areas and divisions of the Group. The reported  
profit before tax of £23.1 million in 2008 compares favourably 
to the £19.8 million profit reported for 2007 . 
•  Order book 
The level of secured orders on which work is to be carried  
out is a key measure for achieving continued profitability  
and growth. At the end of 2008, the order book for the Group 
was £2.0 billion, this represented a 25% increase on the  
£1.6 billion level as at 31 December 2007 . The increase results 
from a number of significant contract awards in the year. 
•  Net cash balance 
The Group has a positive net cash balance and close 
monitoring and measurement of cash resources is carried  
out as part of the performance measurement process. As at 
31 December 2008, the net cash balance of the Group was  
£146.6 million compared to the £132.8 million balance  
as at 31 December 2007 . 
The Group produces every month for each project a  
Project Manager’s Report (PMR) that contains a number  
of indicators regarding the performance of the project, 
specifically information on:
•  Health and Safety – record of any accidents or incidents  
and safety inspection scores
•  Customer service – feedback from the customer on the 
Company’s performance
•  Programme – measurement of actual progress against 
planned progress
•  Financial performance – anticipated financial outcome  
on the project, including analysis of costs to date and  
to completion compared to the original budget
•  Claims and variations
•  Cash management – measurement of the cash flows  
on the project
•  Resource levels – measurement of the number of direct staff 
and subcontract staff compared to the level budgeted
•  Risk management – analysis of the key risks and opportunities 
on the project
The Group’s divisional and senior management teams review 
the PMRs each month.
Principal Risks and Key Performance Indicators
continued 47  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Financial review
Results
Profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2008 was 
£23.1 million (2007: £19.8 million) on revenue (including the 
Group’s share of joint ventures and associates) of £996.0 million 
(2007: £877 .9 million).
Basic earnings per share amounted to 2.9p (2007: 3.6p).  
During 2007 , the Group raised £60 million (net of expenses) by 
way of a rights issue of new ordinary shares. Consequently, the 
2008 earnings per share figure included the full year’s impact of 
the dilution arising from the rights issue as compared to only a 
partial impact in 2007 .
The Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review and 
Business review provide further information on the key  
aspects of the Group’s results for 2008.
Interest
Net financing income amounted to £4.8 million 
(2007: £3.3 million).
The Group has a strong positive cash balance and in 2008, 
earned interest income from bank deposits and other loans  
and receivables amounting to £5.8 million (2007: £2.4 million).  
In addition, the net financing income included the difference 
between the expected return on the pension scheme’s assets 
of £28.3 million (2007: £26.7 million) and the interest cost on the 
present value of the pension scheme’s liabilities of £29.3 million 
(2007: £25.8 million); the net difference in 2008 was, therefore, 
a pension scheme related interest cost of £1.0 million  
(2007: £0.9 million income).
Cash Flow and Borrowings
The net cash position at 31 December 2008 of £146.6 million 
(2007: £132.8 million) included £0.7 million of borrowings 
(2007: £0.6 million) and cash held by jointly controlled 
operations of £34.2 million (2007: £28.8 million).
The positive cash flow in the year reflected close management 
of working capital and an improvement in the maximisation of 
cash generation. 
The cash position is affected by monthly and contract specific 
cycles and, in order to accommodate these cyclical flows, the 
Group seeks to maintain a base cash balance. The high net 
cash balance reflected the favourable timing of cash flows at  
the balance sheet date. The average month end cash balance 
during 2008 was £117 .4 million.
“ The Group has a strong set  
of financial results for 2008; 
profit before tax was up by 1 7%, 
the year end net cash balance 
increased to £146.6 million and 
the order book increased by 
25% during the year.”
Tony Bickerstaff Finance Director 48  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Order Book
Order book increased by 25% during the year to £2.0 billion 
(2007: £1.6 billion). The increase resulted from a number of 
significant contract awards in the year.
Shareholders’ Equity
Shareholders’ equity increased in the year to £33.6 million 
(2007: £27 .4 million). The movements in shareholders’ equity  
are detailed in Note 22 to the financial statements. The most 
significant changes were increases in the level of retained 
earnings and an exchange gain arising from the translation  
of investments in foreign entities, primarily the joint venture  
in Spain. These have been partially offset by the negative 
movement in the hedging reserve as a result of changes in  
the fair value of hedging instruments, primarily interest rate 
swaps, held in joint ventures and associates.
Pensions
At 31 December 2008, the Group’s pension scheme  
deficit, net of deferred tax, under IAS 19 was £36.1 million 
(2007: £36.4 million). Owing to volatility in global equity markets  
during the year, the pension scheme’s asset value fell but this 
was offset by reduced liabilities as a result of an increase in the 
liability discount rate and a reduction in inflationary expectations. 
Full details of the pension scheme are included in Note 20 to the 
financial statements.
The most recently completed actuarial valuation of the scheme 
was performed by the Scheme Actuary as at 31 March 2007 
and a contribution plan that is expected to eliminate the deficit 
over a ten year period has been agreed with the Trustee of the 
Scheme. The next full actuarial review is scheduled to be 
undertaken as at 31 March 2010.
Dividend
The Board recommends a final dividend for the year of  
0.5p per share to bring the total for the year to 0.75p per share, 
an increase of 50% over last year’s dividend of 0.5p per share. 
As previously reported, the Group intends to make to the 
pension scheme an additional cash contribution equal to  
the amount of dividend paid to shareholders. 
Subject to confirmation at the Annual General Meeting,  
on 7 May 2009, the dividend will be paid on 22 May 2009  
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on  
24 April 2009.
Tax 
The Group’s effective rate of tax was 21.2% of profit before  
tax (2007: 19.2%). There were benefits during the year arising 
from the profit on sales of joint ventures and associates which 
has been relieved from the charge to corporation tax and the 
decrease in temporary timing differences, being the utilisation  
of brought forward tax losses and taxed provisions.
Treasury
The Group’s treasury and funding activities are undertaken by a 
centralised treasury function, its primary activities are to manage 
the Group’s liquidity, funding and financial risk, principally arising 
from movements in interest rates and foreign currency 
exchange rates. The Group’s policy is to ensure that adequate 
liquidity and financial resources are available to support the 
Group’s growth development, while managing these risks.  
The Group’s policy is not to engage in speculative transactions. 
Group Treasury operates as a service centre with clearly defined 
objectives and controls and is subject to periodic review by 
Internal Audit.
 
Foreign Currency Exposure
Translation Exposure: the results of the Group’s overseas 
activities are translated into sterling at rates approximating  
to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the 
transactions. The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries  
are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance 
sheet date. 
Transaction Exposure: the Group has transactional currency 
exposure arising from subsidiaries’ commercial activities 
overseas in currencies other than the subsidiaries’ operating 
currencies. In such circumstances, and where appropriate,  
the Group requires its subsidiaries to use forward currency 
contracts to minimise the currency exposure unless a natural 
hedge exists elsewhere within the Group.
Financial review
continued 49  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Interest Rate Risks and Exposure
The Group holds financial instruments for two main purposes: 
to finance its operations and, currently, only within its PFI 
investments, to manage the interest rate risks arising from  
its operations and its sources of finance. Various financial 
instruments (for example, trade receivables and trade payables) 
arise directly from the Group’s operations. With the Group’s 
cash balances and low level of borrowings, the main exposure 
to interest rate fluctuations within the Group’s operations arises 
from surplus cash, which is generally deposited with the 
Group’s relationship banks. Within the investments in joint 
ventures and associates, interest rate movements will affect  
the value of swaps classified as cash flow hedges and this  
will impact the Group’s equity.
Liquidity Risk
The Group finances its operations primarily by a mixture of 
working capital, funds from shareholders and retained profits. 
The directors monitor regularly cash usage and forecast usage 
to ensure that projected financing needs are supported by 
adequate cash reserves or bank facilities.
Contract Bonding and Banking Facilities
The Group’s long-term contracting business is dependent  
on it being able to supply performance and other bonds as 
necessary. This means maintaining adequate facilities from 
banks and surety bond providers to meet the current and 
projected usage requirements. During 2008, the Group 
renegotiated its contract bonding and banking facilities with  
its relationship banks and surety companies. The facilities  
were increased to £285 million and extended to a maturity  
date of 30 September 2011.
Going Concern
The directors believe, after due and careful enquiry, that  
the Group has sufficient resources for its present requirements 
and, therefore, consider it appropriate to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the 2008 financial statements. 
Tony Bickerstaff Finance Director
11 March 2009
Tony Bickerstaff, Costain Finance 
Director, with members of the King’s 
Cross Station Costain project team  
(from left) Isabel Coman, Sergio 
Alarcon, Tony Bickerstaff, Richard 
Stuart and Polly Bowman. 50  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Mohd Hussein bin Abdul Hamid Michael Alexander 
Saad Shehata James Morley
John Bryant
Board of Directors
David Allvey Andrew Wyllie Tony Bickerstaff 51  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
James Morley BSc, FCA
1 2 3 4
Non-Executive Director (2008)
Age 60. Non-Executive Director, the Innovation Group PLC, 
W S Atkins PLC and Clarkson PLC. Formerly Chief Operating  
Officer, Primary Group Limited (2006-2007), Group Finance 
Director, Cox Insurance Holdings Plc (2002-2005), Group 
Finance Director, Arjo Wiggins Appleton Plc (1999-2001),  
Group Executive Director Finance, Guardian Royal Exchange 
Plc (1990-1999), Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director,  
Avis Europe Plc (1976-1989) and Non-Executive Director, the 
Bankers’ Investment Trust PLC (1994-2008). 
Saad Shehata BSc, Eng 
Non-Executive Director (1997) 
Age 83. Principal in Saad Y Shehata Engineers Office, Cairo, 
Egypt since 1983. Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive of 
Al-Kharafi – Solar Energy. Formerly Industrial Attaché at the 
Egyptian Embassy in Germany (1959-1963), General Manager 
Akaria Construction Company, Egypt (1965-1972), General 
Manager for Construction at MA Kharafi (responsible for Abu 
Dhabi, Saudi Arabia, Yemen and Egypt) (1972-1980) and Deputy 
Director General MA Kharafi (Construction) Kuwait (1980-1983).
Mohd Azman Sulaiman and Frederick William Ballard resigned 
as Non-Executive Directors on 7 May 2008.
Notes
1
 Member of Remuneration Committee
2
 Member of Audit Committee
3
 Member of Nomination Committee
4
 Independent Non-Executive Director
5
 Senior Independent Director
David Allvey FCA, ATII 
3
Non-Executive Director (2001) Chairman (2008)
Age 64. Chairman, Arena Coventry Ltd. Non-Executive Director 
of Intertek Plc, William Hill Plc and Thomas Cook Plc. Formerly, 
Group Finance Director Barclays Bank Plc (1999-2000), Chief 
Operations Officer, Zurich Financial Services AG and Allied Zurich 
Plc (1997-1999), Group Finance Director of BAT Industries Plc 
(1989-1998), Board member of the UK Accounting Standards 
Board (1993-2003), Non-Executive Director of McKechnie 
Group Plc (1993-2000) and Non-Executive Director Resolutions 
Group Plc (2002-2008).
Mohd Hussein bin Abdul Hamid ACMA
Non-Executive Director (2007) Deputy Chairman (2007)
Age 55. Senior Director of UEM Group Berhad and a Director  
of other subsidiaries within UEM Group of companies. Formerly 
worked for several multinational companies (Exxon, Intel, 
Goodyear and Motorola) (1977-1994) in Malaysia. Finance 
Director of Ayer Molek Rubber Company Berhad (1994-1995), 
Corporate Development Director of Costain Group PLC 
(1996-1997), Finance Director of National Steel Corporation, 
Philippines (1998-2000), Chief Financial Officer of PLUS 
Expressways Berhad (2000-2004).
Andrew Wyllie BSc, MBA, FICE, CEng
Chief Executive (2005)
Age 46. Formerly Managing Director of Taylor Woodrow 
Construction Limited (2001 -2005) and a member of the Taylor 
Woodrow plc Executive Committee. Joined Taylor Woodrow  
in 1984 and worked on major contracts in Africa, Middle East,  
Far East and the UK.
Tony Bickerstaff FCCA
Finance Director (2006)
Age 44. Formerly Finance Director of Taylor Woodrow 
Construction Limited (2001 -2006). Joined Taylor Woodrow in 
1982 and undertook a number of senior roles both in the UK 
and overseas including Divisional Operations Director prior to 
becoming Finance Director in 2001.
Michael Alexander BSc, MSc, FIChem.E, FIET,  
FIGM, CEng, CSci 
1 2 3 4
Non-Executive Director (2007)
Age 61. Chairman of the Association of Train Operating 
Companies; Chairman of TGE Marine AG; Independent 
Non-Executive Director of the UK Payments Council; Executive 
Director of Lexican Limited; Advisor to Marwyn Investment 
Management LLP , and Consultant to Landis & Gyr. Formerly 
Chief Executive, British Energy PLC (2003-2005); Executive 
Director, MD British Gas Trading and Chief Operating Officer, 
Centrica PLC (1994-2003); Non-Executive Chairman Goldfish 
Bank Limited (2002-2003); and Non-Executive Director of the 
Energy Savings Trust Limited (1994-2001).
John Bryant MA (Cantab), FREng, FIM, CEng,  
DSc (Hon) 
1 2 3 4 5
Non-Executive Director (2002)
Age 65. Non-Executive Director, Welsh Water Plc and  
Glas Cymru Limited since 2001 . Formerly Chief Executive of 
Corus Group Plc (1999-2000), Chief Executive, British Steel Plc 
(1999), Executive Director, British Steel Plc (1995-1999) and 
Non-Executive Director, Bank of Wales Plc (1996-2001).
Tony Bickerstaff
(Finance Director)
Patrick Bruce
(Group Commercial Director)
Clive Franks 
(Company Secretary)
Alistair Handford
(PFI Director)
Martin Hunter
(Group Financial Controller)
Darren James
(Managing Director  
– Infrastructure)
David Jenkins 
(Managing Director  
– Environment)
Alan Kay 
(Chief Operating Officer)
Charles Sweeney 
(Managing Director  
– Oil, Gas & Process)
Alex Vaughan
(Managing Director  
– Community)
Stephen Wells
(Group Strategy and Business 
Development Director)
Tracey Wood
(HR and Legal Director)
The Executive Board
The Executive Board has primary authority for the day-to-day 
management of the Group’s operations, following policies laid 
down by the Board. It consists of the Executive Directors and 
certain senior managers and is chaired by Andrew Wyllie,  
Chief Executive. The other members of the Executive Board are:  53  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
54 Governance
 54 Corporate Governance statement
 59 Internal controls and Risk management
 62 Directors’ report
 68 Directors’ remuneration report
 76  Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect  
of the Annual Report and the financial statements
 77  Independent Auditors’ Report to the members  
of Costain Group PLC
78 Financial statements
 78 Consolidated income statement
 79  Consolidated statement of  
recognised income and expense
 80 Consolidated balance sheet
 81 Company balance sheet  
 82 Consolidated cash flow statement
 83 Company cash flow statement
 84 Notes to the financial statements
 114 Shareholder information
 114 Five-year financial summary
 115 Notice of Annual General Meeting
 IBC Financial calendar
Contents 54  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Throughout the year to 31 December 2008, except where 
indicated within this report, the Company complied with the 
provisions of the Combined Code on corporate governance 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 and as 
subsequently amended (the ‘Combined Code’). The Company 
is committed to the principles of corporate governance 
contained in the Combined Code and aims to comply with 
established best practice, wherever possible and where it 
is in the Company’s interests.
The Board and Committees
The Board currently comprises two executive directors and  
six non-executive directors of whom one is the Chairman  
and three are independent non-executive directors (one being 
the Senior Independent Director). The Board considers its 
independent non-executive directors to be independent in 
character and judgement. 
No independent non-executive director has:
• been an employee of the Group within the last five years;
•  had within the last three years, a material business relationship 
with the Group;
•  received remuneration other than a director’s fee;
•  had close family ties with any of the Group’s advisers, 
directors or senior employees;
•  held cross-directorships or had significant links with other 
directors through involvement in other companies or bodies;
•  represented a significant shareholder; or
•  served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Combined Code indicates that a Chairman of the Company 
should meet the independence criteria on appointment, and the 
current Chairman did, but thereafter the test of independence 
is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
The remaining two non-executive directors are nominated by 
major shareholders, namely York Place Limited and Mohammed 
Abdulmohsin Al-Kharafi & Sons WLL. During 2008, Daedalus 
Projects Limited, a subsidiary of UEM Builders Berhad 
transferred its shareholding in the Company to York Place 
Limited, another subsidiary of UEM Builders Berhad. The 
transfer was announced to the London Stock Exchange  
on 26 June 2008.
The Company complies with the requirement under provision 
A3.2 of the Combined Code that at least half of the Board, 
excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive 
directors determined by the Board to be independent 
notwithstanding that this requirement is waived in respect 
of smaller companies such as the Company being a  
member of the FTSE small cap companies.
The independent non-executive directors all have terms and 
conditions of appointment, which are available for inspection 
during normal business hours at the Company’s registered 
office. An independent non-executive director’s appointment 
is for an initial period of three years, at the expiry of which  
time, the appointment is reviewed to determine whether the 
appointment should continue. The two nominee non-executive 
directors are appointed by the two major shareholders and they 
are entitled to hold such appointments for so long as those 
shareholders each hold 7% of the aggregate nominal value  
of the then issued ordinary share capital of the Company. 
In consequence, the Company did not comply for the whole 
year completely with provision A7 .2 of the Combined Code, 
which requires that all non-executive directors should be 
appointed for a specific term and be subject to re-election.  
The Company’s Articles of Association require that all directors, 
including nominee non-executive directors, should be subject  
to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their 
appointment and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no  
more than three years, thus complying with provision A7 .1  
of the Combined Code.
Brief biographies of the executive and non-executive  
directors appear on page 51. The biographies illustrate that the 
non-executive directors have a range of business and financial 
experience that is important and relevant to the management  
of the Company.
The Group is controlled through its Board. The Board’s  
main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide 
entrepreneurial leadership of the Group, to approve the Group’s 
strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial 
and other resources are made available to enable the Group  
to meet those objectives. 
Corporate Governance statement 55  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
In addition to the formal Board meetings, the Board held seven 
ad hoc telephone conference meetings through the year. 
At the Annual General Meeting held on 8 May 2008, the 
Company gained shareholder approval to amend the 
Company’s Articles of Association (the ‘New Articles’) primarily 
to reflect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. Under the 
Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation where  
he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts,  
or possibly may conflict, with the Company’s interests. The 
Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to 
authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, 
and where the articles of association contain a provision to this 
effect. The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles of 
association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors’ 
conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty. The New Articles 
give the directors authority to approve such situations. The 
Company sent a questionnaire to directors to ensure that the 
Company had an exhaustive list of the other directorships of 
each director, any material share ownerships, and to identify 
potential conflicts of interest which might need authorising.  
The Board (the unconflicted directors) considered potential 
conflicts of interest in the light of the duty to promote the 
success of the Company and in authorising conflicts considered 
and imposed certain terms and conditions on the authorisation. 
The Company Secretary keeps a record of all disclosures  
by directors of their outside interests and the terms and 
conditions of authorisation of conflicts. The Board will 
periodically review the conflicts authorisation to determine 
whether any authorisation given should continue on the terms 
and conditions upon which it has been granted or whether 
additional terms and conditions should be imposed or whether 
the authorisation should upon reasonable notice be revoked. 
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters specifically 
reserved to itself for decision. The principal matters reserved  
to the Board include: setting Group strategy and approving  
an annual budget and medium-term projections; reviewing 
operational and financial performance; approving major 
acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure; reviewing  
the Group’s systems of financial control and risk management; 
ensuring that appropriate management development and 
succession plans are in place; reviewing the environmental, 
health and safety performance of the Group; approving 
Details of Board members’ attendance at Board meetings, Audit Committee meetings, Remuneration Committee meetings and 
Nomination Committee meetings during the year ended 31 December 2008 are given in the following table:
   Board Audit  Remuneration Nomination
Number of meetings held in the year   9 6 5 2
D P Allvey   9 (Chairman) 5* 1* 2 (Chairman)
M H Hamid    7 – – 1
A Wyllie   9 6* 3* –
A O Bickerstaff   9 6* 1* –
J M Bryant   9 6 5 2
S Y Shehata   4 – – –
M R Alexander   7 5 3 (Chairman) 2
J Morley (appointed 9 January 2008)   8 6 (Chairman) 5 1
F W Ballard (resigned 7 May 2008)   2 1 2 –
M A Sulaiman (resigned 7 May 2008)   – – – –
* By invitation.
appointments to the Board and the appointment of the 
Company Secretary; approving policies relating to executive 
directors’ remuneration and the severance of executive  
directors’ service agreements; and ensuring that a satisfactory 
dialogue takes place with shareholders. The schedule of matters 
reserved to the Board is reviewed periodically. The Company  
has complied with provision A3.3 of the Combined Code by 
appointing John Bryant as Senior Independent Director on 
9 January 2008. The Board decided that the role of the  
Senior Independent Director should encompass the following:
•  Evaluation and appraisal – meet with the other members  
of the Board without the Chairman present on at least an 
annual basis in order to evaluate and appraise the 
performance of the Chairman. 
•  Succession – chair the nomination committee when the 
succession to the role of the Chairman of the Board is  
being considered. 
•  Shareholder/stakeholder contact – act as a point of contact 
for shareholders and other stakeholders with concerns which  
have either not been resolved or which it would not be 
appropriate to raise through the normal channels of the 
Chairman, Chief Executive and/or Finance Director. 
•  Executive director contact – act as an alternative point of 
contact for executive directors, if required, in addition to the 
normal channels of the Chairman and/or Chief Executive.
•  Non-executive director contact – meet with the other 
members of the Board as and when deemed appropriate.  56  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
As required by provision A5.3 of the Combined Code, all 
directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary and a procedure also exists whereby  
any director, wishing to do so in furtherance of his duties, 
may take independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense as required by provision A5.2. In the year ended  
31 December 2008, no director sought independent 
professional advice.
In order to discharge their duties, the directors are provided  
with full and timely access to papers prior to Board meetings 
and the directors are free to seek any further information they 
consider necessary. In addition, between Board meetings, 
non-executive directors have access to the Chief Executive, 
Finance Director and Company Secretary in order to progress 
the Company’s business. The non-executive directors also 
receive a weekly report from the Chief Executive and monthly 
management accounts, internal audit reports and regular 
management reports and information, which enable them 
to scrutinise the Group’s and its management’s performance 
against agreed objectives.
On appointment, the directors, as required by provision  
A5.1 of the Combined Code, take part in an induction 
programme, where they receive information about the Group, 
the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, 
the terms of reference and membership of the principal board 
committees and the powers delegated to the committees,  
the Group’s corporate governance practices and procedures, 
and the latest financial information about the Group. As to  
the continuing education of the executive and non-executive 
directors, a number of Board members, independent of any 
formal training arranged by the Company, attend seminars  
and conferences on issues relevant to their appointment as 
directors of a public company, particularly matters concerned 
with corporate governance and audit issues. 
The Board has established a formal process for the evaluation 
of the performance of the Board and its principal committees. 
Since the process was introduced, the evaluations have  
either been performed using independent advisers or by  
using questionnaires which were generated internally. In 2008, 
the evaluation was conducted using two questionnaires 
produced by the Company. The first questionnaire examined  
the Board’s approach to strategy, the management of Board 
meetings and the management of the Board’s internal 
relationships and their relationships with others, the Board’s 
approach to risk and also examined Board processes. The 
second questionnaire concentrated on the Audit Committee 
and Remuneration Committee, examining terms of reference, 
the resources available to the Committees and the ability of  
the Committees to probe and question management. Both 
questionnaires were prepared and circulated by the Company 
Secretary. The first questionnaire was returned to the HR and 
Legal Director for collating and preparation of a report. The 
second questionnaire was returned to the Chairman of the 
Company for analysis. The reports on both questionnaires  
were discussed in meetings of the Nomination Committee  
and the Board. 
The Company did not comply with parts of provision A6.1 of 
the Combined Code in that the Chairman during 2008 did not 
undertake an individual appraisal of each director. The Chairman 
engaged in regular dialogue with directors, which enabled him 
to refine his assessments of individual directors and guide them 
on future performance. The Company does comply with parts  
of provision A6.1 of the Combined Code in that a performance 
evaluation was undertaken on the Chairman. The Chairman 
does hold meetings with the non-executive directors without  
the executive directors being present, as required by provision 
A1.3 of the Combined Code.
The Chairman’s other significant commitments during 2008  
are disclosed in the Chairman’s biographical details (provision 
A4.3 of the Combined Code). 
In accordance with provision A1.5 of the Combined Code,  
the Company has in place Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance 
in respect of the directors’ duties as directors.
The principal Board Committees are the Audit Committee, 
the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee. 
Current members of the Audit Committee are Mr Morley as 
Chairman, Mr Bryant and Mr Alexander. Mr Allvey resigned  
as Chairman of and a member of the Audit Committee on  
9 January 2008 and Mr Morley was appointed a member of  
the Audit Committee and its Chairman on 9 January 2008.  
Mr Alexander was also appointed a member of the Audit 
Committee on 9 January 2008. Mr Ballard was a member of  
the Audit Committee from 9 January 2008 until his resignation  
as a non-executive director on 7 May 2008. The Company 
complies with provision C3.1 of the Combined Code. The Audit 
Committee has established written terms of reference, which 
were last reviewed, revised and re-issued on 9 September 2008. 
Details of the attendance at Audit Committee meetings in 2008 
are given in the table on page 55. The executive directors, the 
external auditors, the Group Internal Auditor and Group Financial 
Controller attend all meetings by invitation. The Audit Committee 
regularly meets privately with the external auditors and internal 
auditors. The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the  
Audit Committee.
The Company considered that it had in Mr Morley, as  
Chairman of the Audit Committee in 2008, an appropriate 
person possessing what the Smith Report describes as recent 
and relevant experience. Mr Morley, a chartered accountant,  
was Finance Director, Avis Europe PLC (1976-1989), Group 
Executive Director, Finance, Guardian Royal Exchange Plc 
(1990-1999), Group Finance Director, Arjo Wiggins Appleton Plc 
(1999-2001) and Group Finance Director, Cox Insurance 
Holdings Plc (2002-2005).
Corporate Governance statement
continued 57  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee monitors  
the integrity of the Group’s financial statements and any  
formal announcement relating to the Group’s performance.  
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness  
of the external audit process and making recommendations  
to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment  
and remuneration of the external auditors. It is responsible for 
ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group 
and the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing 
non-audit services and fees. The Audit Committee also reviews 
the Group’s system of internal controls and the processes for 
management of the risks facing the Group. The Committee 
reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function and is 
responsible for approving, upon the recommendation of the 
Chief Executive, the appointment and termination of the head  
of that function. The Committee reviews its terms of reference 
and its effectiveness from time to time and recommends to  
the Board any changes required as a result of the review. The 
Committee’s terms of reference are available from the Company 
Secretary and are published on the Company’s website.
In 2008, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by:
•  reviewing the Group’s draft financial statements and interim 
results prior to Board approval and reviewing the external 
auditors’ detailed reports thereon;
•  reviewing the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting 
policies;
•  reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing  
non-audit fees payable to the Group’s external auditors;
•  reviewing the external auditors’ plan for the audit of the 
Group’s accounts (this plan includes the audit scope, key  
risks on the accounts, confirmation of auditor independence 
and the proposed audit fee) and approving the terms of 
engagement for the audit;
•  reviewing and monitoring the external auditors’ independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, 
taking into consideration relevant UK professional and 
regulatory requirements;
•  reviewing the Group’s system of internal controls and its 
effectiveness, reporting to the Board on the results of the 
review and receiving regular updates on key risk areas of 
financial control;
•  reviewing the internal audit function’s terms of reference,  
its work programme, internal audit reports and quarterly 
reports on its work during the year;
•  reviewing the risks associated with the business; and
•  reviewing and monitoring the development of the Group’s 
commercial and financial IT systems.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is one of the individuals 
named in the Company’s Public Interests Disclosure Policy 
(whistle-blowing procedures) to whom employees may 
communicate any wrongdoing at work, which they believe has 
occurred or is about to occur. The Audit Committee has wide 
powers to establish special investigations in the event that any 
wrongdoing is brought to its notice, in particular, in the case of 
defalcations, fraud and theft.
The Audit Committee monitors the non-audit services being 
provided to the Group by its external auditors, and has 
developed a formal policy on the provision of non-audit services 
by the external auditors to check this does not impair their 
independence or objectivity, and that the Group maintains a 
sufficient choice of appropriately qualified audit firms. The policy 
sets out four key principles that underpin the provision of 
non-audit services by the external auditors: the auditors should 
not audit their own firm’s work, make management decisions for 
the Group, have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group, 
or be put in the role of advocate for the Group. Prior approval  
of the Audit Committee is required for any services provided  
by the external auditors where the fee is likely to be in excess  
of £25,000. The Audit Committee reviews all services being 
provided by the external auditors annually to review the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditors, taking 
into consideration relevant performance and regulatory 
requirements so that those are not impaired by the provision  
of permissible non-audit services. 
Full particulars of the Remuneration Committee are given 
in the Directors’ remuneration report, which appears on  
pages 68 to 75. The Company complies with that element  
of provision B2.1 of the Combined Code, which requires that 
all members of the Remuneration Committee are independent 
non-executive directors. Initially, in 2008, the Remuneration 
Committee consisted of four independent non-executive 
directors following Mr Morley’s appointment on 9 January 2008.  
The Remuneration Committee reduced to three members 
following the resignation of Mr Ballard on 7 May 2008. The 
Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference are available  
from the Company Secretary and are published on the 
Company’s website.
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman and  
all non-executive directors. The Chairman is the Chairman of  
the Committee. The Combined Code recommends that the 
majority of members of the Committee should be independent 
non-executive directors. The current structure of the Board is 
such that it is inappropriate to comply with this requirement.  
The Nomination Committee has established written terms of 
reference, which were last reviewed, revised and re-issued  
on 9 September 2008. The Committee’s terms of reference  
are available from the Company Secretary and are published  
on the Company’s website. This Committee meets, as required, 
to select and propose to the Board suitable candidates for 
appointment as executive and non-executive directors.  
The Nomination Committee was charged with finding an 
independent non-executive director with the appropriate recent 
and relevant experience to be Chairman of the Audit Committee.  58  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
The Nomination Committee, with the assistance of an executive 
search consultant and following review and interviewing  
of appropriately qualified candidates, recommended to the  
Board the appointment of James Morley as an independent 
non-executive director. Mr Morley was appointed to the Board 
on 9 January 2008. The Company Secretary is the Secretary of  
the Nomination Committee. In 2008, the Nomination Committee 
met formally on two occasions. Details of the attendance at the 
Nomination Committee meetings in 2008 are given in the table 
on page 55. 
The Financial Services Authority implemented Article 6 of the 
Market Abuse Directive (Directive 2003/6/EC) by publication  
of the Disclosure Rules, which became effective on 1 July 2005. 
The Disclosure Rules are now known as the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules and replaced the Continuous Disclosure 
Obligations under the Listing Rules. The Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules introduced new rules regarding the way 
listed companies manage inside information. In consequence, 
the Company introduced a set of procedures, rules and controls 
to ensure compliance with the Company’s obligations under the 
Listing Rules (including the obligations under the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules) of the United Kingdom Listing Authority 
(UKLA). It is recommended good practice that each listed 
company should have a Disclosure Committee. The Company 
established a Disclosure Committee with its own terms of 
reference that are available from the Company Secretary.  
The members of the Disclosure Committee are the Chairman  
of the Company, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Chief 
Executive, Finance Director and Group Financial Controller. 
The Company Secretary is the Secretary of the Disclosure 
Committee. The procedures also deal with the insider list 
process and a code for dealing in securities. The new Model 
Code is appended to the procedures.
Relationship with institutional investors  
and private investors
The Company continues to increase its communication with 
institutional investors and brokers. Presentations are made to 
brokers’ analysts, the press and institutional investors at the 
time of the announcement of the full year and half-year results. 
In addition, there are meetings with analysts, financial journalists 
and institutional investors throughout the year.
The Company has two key shareholders, who between them 
control the beneficial interest in 43% of the issued share capital 
of the Company and, also, appoint nominees to sit on the 
Board of the Company. However, apart from these two large 
shareholders, the Company has approximately 13,000 other 
shareholders and the Board recognises that not all of the 
Company’s private investors have regular access to market 
information. All shareholders are sent copies of Annual and 
Interim Reports and, where appropriate, circulars and 
prospectuses, and are given notice to enable them to attend  
the Company’s Annual General Meeting. The Annual General 
Meeting is normally attended by all directors, and shareholders 
are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet 
with directors after the formal proceedings have ended. 
Shareholders, whose shares are held by nominees, may receive 
copies of such communications upon request. The Company 
has an internet website www.costain.com on which it publishes 
its magazine (Blueprint), press releases, Stock Exchange 
announcements and other information concerning the 
Company’s business and upon which it also publishes its 
annual and interim results. 
The Company will comply with provision D2.4 of the Combined 
Code by giving 20 working days’ notice of the Annual General 
Meeting. The Company complied with this obligation in respect 
of the notice for the Annual General Meeting in 2008. The 
Company will provide shareholders voting by proxy with the 
option of withholding their vote on a resolution and the 
Company will publish details of proxies lodged on resolutions 
where votes are taken on a show of hands. 
Corporate Governance statement
continued 59  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Review of internal controls 
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
controls and for reviewing its effectiveness. However, such a 
system can only manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, 
but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement  
or loss.
The Board maintains full control over strategic, financial, 
operational and compliance issues. Within the overall objectives 
set by the Board, the management of the Group is delegated  
to the Chief Executive, who is assisted by members of the 
Executive Board. The responsibilities of the Executive Board 
include:
•  the development and recommendation of strategic plans  
for consideration and approval by the Board that reflect the 
longer term objectives and priorities established by the Board; 
•  implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group  
as determined by the Board;
•  monitoring of the operating and financial results against the 
plans and budgets;
•  prioritising the allocation of technical and human resources; 
•  developing and implementing risk management systems; and
•  managing and monitoring health, safety and environmental 
matters. 
The Chief Executive has full authority to act subject to the 
matters reserved to the Board and to the requirements of  
Group Policies. 
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks  
faced by the Group, which has been in place for the year under 
review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.  
This process extends not only to projects undertaken solely  
by subsidiaries of the Group but also to projects undertaken  
in joint venture and by associates. This process is reviewed by 
the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board and accords with 
the Turnbull guidance. 
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
system of internal controls. The review covered all controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls and  
risk management.
Risk management
Risk management has been an important issue within the 
Company for many years but, following the publication of the 
Turnbull guidance, the Company formalised its risk evaluation 
processes and at the same time introduced new procedures  
to assist in the identification and management of risk. These 
procedures included a specific project risk management 
procedure, which among other things requires a Tender Project 
Risk Register and a Commercial Risk Review of the contract to 
be prepared in respect of each contract bid. This identifies key 
risks, the probability of those risks occurring, their impact if they 
do occur and the actions necessary to manage those risks  
to an acceptable level. The risks are divided into four broad 
categories: safety; technical; operational; and environmental. 
They are reviewed by the project manager and commercial 
manager of the project on a continuing basis following  
contract award. 
The Company’s risk register includes opportunities as well as 
risks. The Company has also established sector business risk 
registers, which are monitored and updated regularly.  
The Company has in place a Group Risk/Opportunity Steering 
Group, which operates under the chairmanship of the Group 
Commercial Director. This Steering Group, which reviews the 
significant risks facing the Company, includes senior staff from 
commercial, accounting, internal audit and legal disciplines and 
meets quarterly. The Sector Directors submit quarterly reports  
to the Group Commercial Director on the risks and opportunities 
faced by their respective Sectors. The Group Commercial 
Director analyses these reports and they are then reviewed  
at meetings of the Group Risk/Opportunity Steering Group.  
The Group Commercial Director submits a Corporate Risk/
Opportunity Register to each Executive Board Meeting with  
a summary of the main corporate risks facing the Company. 
This includes a note of actions taken to reduce the risk profile 
since the provision of the last report and the most significant 
risks facing the Company’s operations, naming the person 
responsible for their management and the steps being taken  
to mitigate them. The Group Commercial Director reports on  
the activities of the Group Risk/Opportunity Steering Group  
to the Audit Committee and with the Finance Director submits 
reports to that Committee on the main corporate risks facing 
the Company. 
The Project Manager is responsible for ensuring that an initial 
site workshop takes place and there is a full handover from  
the tender team. The Regional Systems Managers assist with 
the risk management inductions and facilitation. Under the 
Implementing Best Practice (IBP) programme, the Systems 
Managers ensure, by audit, that both the initial workshop and 
close-out workshop happen; if not, these show up on Project 
Performance Assessment Reports.
During the currency of the contract, the Risk/Opportunity 
Registers are updated monthly and the top five risks and 
opportunities are included on the Project Management  
Report (PMR); these are interrogated at the formal monthly  
PMR meeting attended by Group senior management and 
relevant divisional management, including the Managing 
Director, Commercial Director, and, by invitation, representatives 
from site teams. In addition, Internal Audit carries out site 
reviews and comments with further follow-up action. 
The Executive Investment Panel, which has been operating 
since 2005, is a sub-group of the Executive Board. It is 
empowered to review tender bids and risk mitigations in  
respect of those bids, including projects with joint venture 
partners and projects that require equity participation. Part  
of the purpose of the review is to ensure that the Group is  
as selective as possible when it comes to taking on potential 
liabilities or recognising opportunities. This approach has proved 
to be successful and has allowed the Group to build its order 
book in-line with published strategy and its desired risk appetite.
Implementing Best Practice (IBP) remains the Company’s 
risk-based management system focussing on the key  
business areas: work winning; risk/opportunity management; 
planning and programming; design management; supply chain 
management; subcontractor management; temporary works 
management; and corporate accounting and reporting.  
These standards are presented as process flowcharts and  
are supported by tools and guides, which are available to 
employees of the Group on the Costain intranet (iCosNet).  
Internal controls and Risk management 60  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
In 2008, the Company developed a new project management 
process focussing on raising minimum standards in project 
delivery. Induction and refresher training in the IBP Standards 
continued throughout 2008.
To support the new process, a new Project Performance 
Assessment (PPA) was introduced, which addresses 
Leadership, Policy and Strategy, People, Resources and 
Partnerships, as well as Processes (IBP). The PPA scores a 
project on how well the team plans to tackle something, how 
well the team carries out its plans and how well the team reacts 
to the results achieved. Results are issued as graphical reports 
to senior management, with four traffic lights showing how well  
the key areas of Safety, Quality, Programme and Cost are being 
managed. Some of the benefits of the PPA are: there is now 
scope for improvement for those projects that were already 
scoring 100% IBP compliance; all projects irrespective of size 
can be assessed using the same model; and it provides senior 
management with an early warning indication of project 
performance and potential project outcome.
Internal Audit provides the Audit Committee, the remaining 
members of the Board and corporate and project management 
with independent assurance that risks inherent to the business 
processes are reasonably controlled. It assists management in 
assessing the risks the Company faces in its business activities 
and helps management in evaluating the effectiveness of 
internal controls that manage those risks. Internal Audit also 
promotes best practice in risk management processes to 
ensure delivery of corporate objectives.
Internal Audit conducted project and departmental reviews  
in the UK and internationally in 2008 to appraise and report  
on the effectiveness of the risk management processes.  
All reviews carried out were subject to appropriate follow-up  
action, which revisits areas previously subject to audit and 
provides assurance that accepted recommendations have  
been implemented effectively. The overall assessment is that a 
strong risk management culture is continuing to develop within 
the Group.
Internal Audit meets monthly with the Chief Executive, Finance 
Director and Group Financial Controller. In addition to reviewing  
the risk based audit plan, these meetings enable Internal Audit  
to outline key findings from recent reviews and to discuss any 
management actions that may result. The effectiveness of the 
controls in place, including risk management, forms a key 
agenda item. The Group Internal Auditor attends most Audit 
Committee meetings and reports on the activities of Internal 
Audit. The Group Internal Auditor also has unfettered access  
to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
Internal Audit also meets with the Business Systems Group  
on a quarterly basis. These forums allow Internal Audit to inform 
those responsible for developing company systems about key 
issues and trends from audit assignments, in order to maintain  
a continuous improvement feed back process. Internal Audit 
has developed a ‘lessons learned’ register of non-compliances 
identified, which is communicated to business units to ensure 
continuous improvement.
Management reviews the role of insurance in managing risks 
across the Group and brings any important issues to the 
attention of the Board. 
Operational
Controls and procedures are detailed in Group Policy 
Statements, procedure manuals and other written instructions. 
The procedure manuals are reviewed regularly by management 
and are published on iCosNet. A method of navigating the 
various controls is included in training programmes to ensure  
all project managers are aware of their obligations and 
accountability.
In the United Kingdom, the Company has developed 
operational management systems that are accredited to  
ISO 9001: 2000. These systems are designed to set out  
an operating framework that supports management in the 
provision of safe construction processes of the highest quality. 
The IBP standards referred to above are incorporated within  
the Project Management Plan for each new contract and  
this also forms part of the accredited management system.  
The implementation and compliance with the management 
system are monitored and audited by Internal Audit. In order  
to maintain the Company’s accreditation, external audits of  
the management systems are undertaken twice yearly by the 
British Standards Institution.
The monthly Project Management Report (PMR) is the key  
tool for reporting performance at a project level. Each PMR  
is completed by the Project Manager and is copied to the  
Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Commercial Director 
and the operational Managing Director and Commercial Director. 
The information provided in the PMR includes, HSE statistics, 
cash flow, value, cost and profit, claims and variations, risk 
management, progress and staffing levels. Guidance notes  
have been issued on the completion of the PMRs.
All projects operate within a controlled framework of best 
practice, safety, health and environmental guidelines. Execution 
of and compliance with these systems are monitored by the 
project management team and audited by Safety, Health and 
Environmental advisers. 
The Board and Executive Board receive reports at each meeting 
on safety, health and environmental performance and on 
significant operational matters. The responsibility for ensuring 
compliance with the Company’s procedures lies with the 
Executive Board. The Chief Executive is the Board member 
responsible for Health and Safety.
Financial
There is a comprehensive annual budgeting system for each 
business within the Group, which is linked to the annual review 
of strategy. The annual budget is discussed by the Executive 
Board and reviewed by the Chief Executive, Finance Director 
and Group Financial Controller prior to presentation to the 
Board by the Executive Board for approval. The Company 
produces monthly a rolling forecast update for the current  
year, which is compared with the annual budget.
Monthly actual performance of each operation is reviewed by 
management and reported against budget to the Executive 
Board and to the Board. Reports cover profit and loss and  
cash flow with an accompanying narrative on significant issues 
underlying the financial reports.
Internal controls and Risk management
continued 61  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
The Group Treasurer and Group Taxation Manager report to the 
Finance Director, who reports to the Audit Committee, from time 
to time, on any issues of significance to the Group. 
Compliance
The Group’s policies contain a statement on business conduct, 
which emphasises the legal, ethical and moral standards that 
have to be employed in all of the Company’s business dealings. 
The Company expects the highest standards from all 
employees and key suppliers.
Litigation and other legal matters were controlled in 2008 by  
the Head of Legal. A legal report is submitted to the Board in 
the event of a critical legal issue and, subject to that, a review  
of all litigation with a value above £10,000 is submitted to, and 
reviewed by, the Board annually. Significant changes in laws and 
regulations are drawn to the attention of the appropriate staff 
and training is given where necessary.
The processes used by the Audit Committee on behalf of  
the Board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal 
controls include the following:
•  reviewing and agreeing the external and internal audit work 
plans;
•  monitoring the process for formally identifying, evaluating  
and managing any significant risks and opportunities within 
the business; 
•  overseeing the establishment of procedures to identify and 
manage perceived and real risks;
•  consideration of reports from management and internal and 
external auditors on the adequacy and effectiveness of  
the system of internal control, including risk management 
systems and any material control weaknesses;
•  discussion with management of the actions taken on problem 
areas identified by Board members or in management reports 
or in the internal or external audit reports and monitoring the 
follow-up on any agreed remedial action; and
•  a review of the self-certification returns on risks and internal 
controls from the various operations of the Group.
The process of self-certification and hierarchical reporting, which 
is in place, provides for a documented and auditable trail of 
accountability. These procedures are relevant across Group 
operations and provide assurance to senior management and, 
finally, to the Board. Internal Audit also provides assurance as  
to the operation and validity of the systems, processes and 
checks within the internal control environment. 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome  
of the Audit Committee meetings to the Board and all Board 
members receive the minutes of all Audit Committee meetings. 62  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
The directors submit to the members their Report and Accounts 
of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2008. 
The Director’s report of the Company for the year ended  
31 December 2008 is set out on pages 62 to 67 and includes 
the sections of the Annual Report referred to in these pages. 
The Business review (pages 38 to 42) and the Principal Risks  
and Key Performance Indicators (pages 43 to 46) form part  
of this Directors’ report. 
Activities
The principal activities of the Group are Civil Engineering, 
Building, Oil, Gas & Process and Property Development.  
The progress and prospects of the Group’s businesses and  
the main factors which could affect the future development  
and performance of the Group are set out in the Chairman’s 
statement (pages 32 and 33), the Chief Executive’s review 
(pages 34 to 37) and the Business review (pages 38 to 42)  
and in the Principal Risks and Key Performance Indicators 
(pages 43 to 46).
Fixed assets
The Board is of the opinion that the aggregate market value  
of the Group’s land and buildings is in excess of book value  
but that this difference is not significant in relation to the affairs 
of the Group as a whole.
Profit and dividends
The profit after tax for the financial year ending 31 December 2008 
amounted to £18.2 million. An interim dividend of 0.25p per  
share (2007: Nil pence) amounting to £1.6 million (2007: £Nil)  
was paid on 31 October 2008. The directors propose to 
recommend a payment of a final dividend at the rate of 0.5p per 
share (2007: 0.5p) amounting to £3.2 million (2007: £3.1 million). 
The dividend will be paid on 22 May 2009 to shareholders 
registered at close of business on 24 April 2009.
Forward looking statements
This Annual Report contains forward looking statements.  
These forward looking statements are not guarantees of  
future performance. Rather they are based on current views  
and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, 
uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results  
to differ from any future results or developments expressed  
or implied from the forward looking statements. Each forward 
looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular 
statement. 
Directors and directors’ interests 
Brief biographies of the present members of the Board are given 
on page 51.
Mr James Morley was appointed as a non-executive director  
on 9 January 2008.
Both Mr F W Ballard and Mr M A Sulaiman resigned as 
non-executive directors on 7 May 2008. 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association,  
Mr John Bryant, Mr Saad Shehata and Mr Andrew Wyllie, all 
being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual 
General Meeting. Mr Wyllie has a service agreement with the 
Company, but neither of the other retiring directors has a service 
agreement with the Company. No director had any material 
interest in any contract of significance with the Group during  
the period under review. Details of directors’ emoluments and 
interests in shares in the Company including any changes  
in interests during 2008, are contained in the Directors’ 
remuneration report, which appears on pages 68 to 75.
Related party transactions
Details of transactions with related parties undertaken by the 
Group during the year are disclosed in Note 26 to the financial 
statements on pages 112 and 113.
Share capital and major shareholders
As at 31 December 2008, the Company’s issued share capital 
comprised a single class of ordinary shares. Details of the share 
capital of the Company as at 31 December 2008 are set out in 
Note 21 on page 108.
The five-year savings contracts in the Company’s 2002 Save As 
You Earn Plan and the three-years savings contracts in the 
Company’s 2004 Save As You Earn Plan matured in December 
2007 . The Save As You Earn Plans had been approved by 
shareholders at an Annual General Meeting held on 24 May 
2002. The Company made an application for a block listing of 
10,511,630 ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the 
Company on 30 November 2007 of which some 7 ,252,023 
ordinary shares related to the 2002 Plan and 3,259,607 ordinary 
shares related to the 2004 Plan. The number of shares block 
listed was the maximum number of shares at the time required 
to satisfy the options granted to employees under both Plans. 
However, the Company’s share price at the time the 2004 Plan 
matured was below the option price for the 2004 Save As You 
Earn Plan. Since 1 January 2008, a total of 3,679,949 ordinary 
shares of 5p each had been allotted to employees for a total 
consideration of £652,137 .37 .
At the Annual General Meeting in 2008, the shareholders 
approved the introduction of a scrip dividend scheme which 
would authorise the directors to offer and allot ordinary shares  
in lieu of a cash dividend to those members who elect to 
participate in the scrip dividend. A number of shareholders took 
advantage of the scrip dividend scheme and 440,255 ordinary 
shares of 5p each were allotted to shareholders in May 2008  
at the time of the final dividend payment for 2007 , and 377 ,209 
ordinary shares of 5p each were allotted to shareholders in 
October 2008 at the time of the interim dividend payment  
for 2008.
The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 
2008 was £31,668,303.15 consisting of 633,366,063 ordinary 
shares of 5p each. As at 10 March 2009, the Company  
had been notified, in accordance with the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority, 
of the following interests in its ordinary share capital:
Mohammed Abdulmohsin 
Al-Kharafi & Sons WLL 138,544,915 21.87%
York Place Limited*  138,108,505 21.80%
Gartmore Investments Limited  31,148,163 4.92%
* UEM Builders Berhad owns 100% of York Place Limited.
The above holdings are all indirect being held by nominees  
on behalf of the beneficial owners.
Directors’ report 63  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Corporate Responsibility
The Company’s Corporate Responsibility section of this report 
is on pages 12 to 18. 
Group policies
Certain Costain Group policies are addressed in the Corporate 
Responsibility section of this report and details of some of the 
other policies are given below:
•  Business Conduct policy, which covers the legal, ethical  
and moral standards that the Group must adhere to in all its 
business dealings. It covers conflict of interest and lays down 
stringent guidelines for the receiving and the giving of gifts, 
loans and entertainment and makes it clear that the offering  
of a gift (however nominal in value) could constitute bribery 
and corruption. It deals with the statutes covering corruption 
in the United Kingdom and the Anti-Terrorism Crime and 
Security Act 2001, which gives extra-territorial scope to the 
statutes covering the United Kingdom and so covers bribery 
and corruption of a foreign official, notwithstanding the act of 
bribery and corruption is carried out in a country or territory 
outside the United Kingdom. The policy also prohibits 
anti-competitive behaviour. 
•  Community Involvement policy, which recognises that the 
work of the Company impacts on communities throughout  
the world. It is therefore important for the Group to (i) support 
employees involved in the community for both business 
reasons and their personal development; (ii) safeguard both 
the built and natural environment; (iii) create employment;  
(iv) encourage enterprise and promote regeneration in areas  
of need; (v) contribute to education and training through true 
partnerships and (vi) develop awareness of the work and 
values of the Group and the construction industry, as a  
whole, as a resource for education in the wider community;
•  Political and Other Charitable Donations policy, which prohibits 
political donations without Board approval. The Company has 
not made political donations since 1990;
•  Equal Opportunities policy, which provides for non-discrimination 
and equal opportunities. The policy is directed to avoiding 
discrimination based on gender, ethnic origin, religion, age, 
disability or sexual orientation. The policy also contains the 
Company’s code of practice on harassment at work; and
•  Public Interest Disclosure policy (whistleblowing procedure), 
which encourages employees to report wrongdoing by the 
Company or any of its employees that fall short of the 
business principles of the Group and ensures that employees 
who do report wrongdoing are protected. 
Group policies are kept under regular review. 
Employment policies
Employment is addressed in the Corporate Responsibility 
section of this report under the heading ‘Our People’. The 
Company’s vision is to have the right people, with the right 
blend of skills, experience and enthusiasm to exceed the 
Company’s business objectives. To achieve this, the Company 
has developed values, which drive all employment policies. 
Costain’s employees must be Customer focused, Open  
and honest, Safe and environmentally aware, Team players, 
Accountable, Improving continuously and, therefore, the  
Natural choice. 
All employment policies were reviewed in 2008 and are available 
for staff to view on the Company’s intranet.
Capitalising on what is unique about individuals and drawing  
on their different perspectives and experiences will add value  
to the way the Company conducts its business. By attracting, 
recruiting and developing talent from the widest possible talent 
pool, the Company can gain an insight into different markets and 
generate greater creativity in anticipating customer needs. The 
Company constantly strives to create a productive environment, 
representative of, and responsible to, different cultures and 
groups, where everyone has an equal chance to succeed.
The Company is committed to positive policies, which promote 
equal opportunities and diversity in employment. The Company 
believes that it is in its best business interests to offer both 
employees and potential employees a fair and consistent 
environment in which they can contribute their best efforts and 
talent, in the knowledge that the Company will recruit, select, 
promote and train people on the basis of merit.
The Company will not discriminate on the grounds of race, 
gender, disability, nationality, religion, age, sexual orientation, 
family status or any other irrelevant factor and we will build  
a culture that values meritocracy, openness, fairness and 
transparency. Using fair, objective and innovative employment 
practices, the Company will try to ensure that:
•  all employees and potential employees are treated fairly  
and with respect at all stages of their employment;
•  all employees have an equal chance to contribute and  
to achieve their potential; and 
•  all employees have the right to be free from harassment 
and bullying or any other form of unwanted behaviour. 
The Company will support the supply chain and encourage its 
active commitment to our approach on equality and inclusion. 
Although this policy is a fundamental part of the Company’s 
diversity strategy, it will only succeed if it is reinforced by a 
focussed and structured strategic diversity plan. In order to  
do this the Company is committed to: 
•  Developing and cascading policies, benchmarking our 
approach to that of our sector;
•  Recruiting and selecting the most suitable candidates for  
all roles, minimising the need for external recruitment by 
implementing sound development, training, promotion and 
transfer policies and continually reviewing the terms and 
conditions of employment; 
•  Providing offers of employment which ensure that no Group 
employment on work rated as equivalent or on work of equal 
value in terms of effort, skill and decisions made, is treated 
less favourably than another on the basis of gender, marital 
status, age, sexual orientation, disability, religion, colour, 
nationality or race;
•  Providing promotion opportunities and succession planning;
•  Offering training and development on a fair basis to all 
employees to support them in their jobs, improve performance 
and develop the skills necessary for the future of the business; 
•  Support the continuing employment, to the extent practicable, 
of employees who have become disabled whilst employed by 
the Company, providing training and reasonable adjustments 
where possible; and
•  Monitoring progress against objectives set by the  
Executive Board. 64  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Employee involvement
The Company provides information to its employees, both  
of a general company nature and to encourage awareness  
of financial and economic factors, which affect the Company  
in various ways. These include a monthly update to all staff  
from the Chief Executive, an in-house magazine, information  
via our electronic mail system, circulation of press releases, 
management briefings on Company results and a report  
to employees on the annual accounts of the Company. 
Participation and involvement are encouraged through regular 
management meetings with employees. The Company also 
encourages the involvement of employees in the Company’s 
performance through the Save As You Earn Plan referred  
to in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 72. A large 
proportion of the employees who participated in the Save  
As You Earn Plan, which matured in 2005 and 2007 , have 
retained their shares in the Company.
The Company has a established duly elected Staff Consultative 
Committee whose objective is:
•  To enable staff to obtain a better understanding of, and wider 
interest in, matters affecting the organisation as a whole;
•  To permit staff and management jointly to examine and 
discuss problems of concern to both and to seek, where 
possible, mutually acceptable solutions through a genuine 
exchange of views and information; 
•  To provide the opportunity for members of staff to suggest 
areas for performance improvement or innovation to enhance 
the competitive position of the Company; and
•  To consult on matters that are specifically covered by UK 
statute, particularly in relation to health and safety, continuity 
of employment and transfer of undertakings.
Policy and practice on payment of suppliers
As a result of the nature of the Group’s business, the contractual 
relationships with suppliers of goods and services and with 
sub-contractors vary according to circumstances. It is the 
Group’s policy to enter into an appropriate form of contractual 
agreement on payment terms when agreeing the terms of each 
transaction and to pay according to those terms. The Group 
does not follow any particular code or practice for the payment 
of creditors. In practice, the Group makes every effort to pay 
accordingly when it can be confirmed that the supplier has 
provided the goods or services in accordance with the relevant 
terms of the contract. The amount for trade creditors of the 
major subsidiary trading companies represents 60 (2007: 60) 
days of average daily purchases. The Company has no trade 
creditors (2007: Nil).
Significant agreements
The directors are not aware of any significant agreements to 
which the Company and/or any of its subsidiaries or associates 
is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change  
of control of the Company following a takeover bid, save that  
a subsidiary that ceased to be a subsidiary of the Company 
would cease to benefit from the Company’s financing 
arrangements.
There are no agreements between the Company and its 
directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of 
office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid. 
Donations
Group charitable donations of £68,759 (2007: £35,533) were 
made during the year. Further details of charitable donations 
can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of this 
report. No political donations were made (2007: £Nil).
Donations of £200 or more were made to the following:
 £
WaterAid 21,799
Build a School 500
Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Association 200
Children Safety Education  330
Red Cross 1,200
The Lighthouse Club 1,000
Royal Marsden Cancer Campaign 2,000
Keech Cottage Children’s Hospice 500
St Kentigern Hospice 500
Naomi House Hospice 2,000
Crash 7 ,800
St John’s Ambulance 290
Cancer Research 1,500
Bexley & Lewisham Sea Cadet Unit 500
Help a South Wales Child 18,750
British Heart Foundation 250
Rhondda Calendar Society 300
The Foundation for Public Service Interpreting 1,000
Community 4,150
Sport 2,390
BUPA 500
Coins 3 Peaks Challenge 1,000
Disclosure of information to auditors
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is  
no relevant audit information of which the Company’s external 
auditors are unaware; and each director has taken all the  
steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that  
the Company’s external auditors are aware of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the 
Companies Act 1985.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in 
office, as independent auditor of the Company and a resolution 
to re-appoint will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting.
Directors’ Indemnity
There are no subsisting indemnities in favour of directors.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
There are procedures in place to deal with directors’ conflicts  
of interest arising under Section 175 of the Companies  
Act 2006 and such procedures have operated effectively  
from 1 October 2008. 
Directors’ responsibilities
The directors’ responsibilities for the financial statements 
contained within this Annual Report and the directors’ 
confirmations required under DTR 4.1.12 are set out  
on page 76.
Directors’ report
continued 65  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
The Takeover Directive requires the disclosure of certain 
information in the Directors’ report. To the extent not disclosed 
elsewhere in the report, this information is set out below. 
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
Subject to applicable statutes (in this section the ‘Companies 
Acts’), any resolution passed by the Company under the 
Companies Acts and other shareholders’ rights, shares may  
be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may 
by ordinary resolution decide, or (if there is no such resolution or 
so far as it does not make specific provision) as the Board may 
decide. Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and other 
shareholders’ rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of  
the Board.
Voting
Every member and every duly appointed proxy present at a 
general meeting or class meeting has, upon a show of hands, 
one vote and every member present in person or by proxy has, 
upon a poll, one vote for every share held by him. In the case  
of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders  
a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the 
exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this 
purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which 
the names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
Restrictions on voting
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or 
class meeting in respect of any share held by him if any call or 
other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains 
unpaid or if a member has been served with a restriction notice 
(as defined in the Articles) after failure to provide the Company 
with information concerning interests in those shares required 
to be provided under the Companies Acts.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders 
of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Dividends and Other Distributions
The Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time 
declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended  
by the Board. Subject to the Companies Acts, the Board  
may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, 
whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion 
of the Board, justifies its payment. If the directors act in good 
faith, they are not liable for any loss that shareholders may  
suffer because a lawful dividend has been paid on other  
shares which rank equally with or behind their shares.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any 
dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Company’s 
shares from a person with a 0.25 per cent interest in a class  
of the Company’s shares if such a person has been served  
with a restriction notice after failure to provide the Company  
with information concerning interests in those shares required  
to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Variation of Rights
Subject to the Companies Acts, rights attached to any class of 
shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of 
not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares 
of that class (calculated excluding any shares held as treasury 
shares), or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at  
a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.  
At every such separate general meeting (except an adjourned 
meeting), the quorum shall be one or more persons holding or 
representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value  
of the issued shares of the class (calculated excluding any 
shares held as treasury shares). The rights conferred upon  
the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly 
provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed  
to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking 
pari passu with them.
Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the 
Company, except:
•  that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by 
laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws); and
•  pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require 
the approval of the Company to deal in the Company’s 
ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between  
holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities. 
Amendment of Articles of Association
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles  
of Association of the Company, the Company’s Articles  
of Association may be amended by a special resolution  
of the Company’s shareholders.
Appointment and replacement of directors
The directors shall be not less than four and not more than 
eighteen in number. The Company may by ordinary resolution 
vary the minimum and/or maximum number of directors.  
A director shall not be required to hold any shares in the 
Company. Directors may be appointed by the Company  
by ordinary resolution or by the Board. A director appointed  
by the Board holds office only until the next following Annual 
General Meeting of the Company and is then eligible for 
re-appointment. The Board or any committee authorised by  
the Board may from time to time appoint one or more directors 
to hold any employment or executive office for such period and 
on such terms as they may determine and may also revoke or 
terminate any such appointment.
At every Annual General Meeting of the Company, any director 
who has been appointed by the Board since the last Annual 
General Meeting, or who held office at the time of the two 
preceding Annual General Meetings and who did not retire at 
either of them, or who has held office with the Company, other 
than employment or executive office, for a continuous period  
of nine years or more at the date of the meeting, shall retire  
from office and may offer himself for re-appointment by the 
members. The Company may by special resolution remove any 
director before the expiration of his period of office. The office  
of a director shall be vacated if: (i) he resigns or offers to resign 
and the Board resolve to accept such offer; (ii) his resignation  
is requested by all of the other directors and all of the other 
directors are not less than three in number; (iii) he is or has  
been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the Board 
resolves that his office be vacated; (iv) he is absent without the 
permission of the Board from meetings of the Board (whether  
or not an alternate director appointed by him attends) for six 
consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office  
is vacated; (v) he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his 
creditors generally; (vi) he is prohibited by a law from being  
a director; (vii) he ceases to be a director by virtue of the 
Companies Acts; or (viii) he is removed from office pursuant  
to the Company’s Articles. 66  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Powers of the directors
Subject to the Company’s Memorandum of Association, the 
Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by the 
Company by special resolution, the business of the Company 
will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers 
of the Company, whether relating to the management of the 
business of the Company or not. In particular, the Board may 
exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money,  
to guarantee, to indemnify, to mortgage or charge any of its 
undertaking, property, assets (present and future) and uncalled 
capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to  
give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company 
or of any third party. 
Powers in relation to the Company issuing  
its own shares
The directors were granted authority at the last Annual General 
Meeting to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 
£10,470,000. That authority will apply until the conclusion of  
this year’s Annual General Meeting. At this year’s Annual General 
Meeting, shareholders will be asked to grant an authority to  
allot relevant securities (i) up to a nominal amount of £10,556,101, 
and (ii) comprising equity securities up to a nominal amount  
of £21,112,202 (after deducting from such limit any relevant 
securities allotted under (i)), in connection with an offer by way  
of a rights issue, (the ‘section 80 authority’), such section 80 
authority to apply until the end of next year’ s Annual General 
Meeting (or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2010).
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the 
directors’ power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash in 
connection with rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal 
amount of £1,583,415.
The directors did not request authority to repurchase the 
Company’s ordinary shares at the last Annual General Meeting 
and they do not propose to do so at this year’s Annual General 
Meeting.
Major shareholders
Details of the major shareholders of the Company are given  
on page 62 of the Directors’ report.
Securities carrying special rights 
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special 
rights with regard to control of the Company. 
Rights under the employee share schemes
ExcellerateHRO Share Plan Services (Guernsey) Limited, as 
Trustee of the Costain Group Employee Trust, holds 0.008%  
of the issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 
2008 on trust for the benefit of ‘good leavers’ from the 
Company who are members of any Save As You Earn Plans 
and leave the employment of the Company before the  
scheme matures.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held in 
the East Room at Tate Modern, Bankside, London, SE1 9TG 
(via the River Entrance) on Thursday 7 May 2009 at 11.00 am. 
At previous Annual General Meetings, the Company has  
sought shareholder approval to renew the directors’ authority  
to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 
of the Companies Act 1985 up to a value equal to one third  
of the nominal value of the current issued ordinary share  
capital of the Company in accordance with the guidance  
of the Association of British Insurers (ABI). In addition, the 
Company also previously sought shareholder approval by  
way of special resolution to renew the directors’ authority  
(i) to make pre-emptive offers (including by way of rights issues) 
and (ii) to issue a limited number of shares for cash, in either 
case otherwise than in compliance with the pre-emption 
requirements contained in Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985. 
At this Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the 
guidance of the ABI, approval is again sought to renew the 
directors’ authority to issue shares non pre-emptively up  
to a nominal value equal to 5 per cent of the current issued  
share capital of the Company. Authority is also sought to  
make pre-emptive offers otherwise than in accordance with 
Section 89 Companies Act 1985, subject to the below.
The ABI has issued fresh guidance to listed companies and  
this follows the recommendations of the Rights Issue Review 
Group which was set up by the Treasury and of which the ABI  
is a member. The ABI guidance, which replaces previously issued 
guidance by the ABI, is that the overall allotment headroom that 
shareholders should normally be invited to approve be increased 
from one-third to two-thirds of the nominal value of a company’ s 
issued share capital. However, the additional one-third headroom 
may only be applied to fully pre-emptive rights issues and the 
authorisation shall be valid for one year only. 
The Company intends to seek this increased authority from 
shareholders and shareholders are referred to Resolutions  
7 , 8 and 9 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page  
115 and the further explanation of these resolutions below. 
(a)  Resolution 7 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution  
that the authorised share capital of the Company be 
increased from 1,014,788,000 to 1,200,000,000 
representing a percentage increase of approximately 
18.25%. This increase is being sought in order to give  
the Company sufficient authorised share capital to take  
full advantage of the ability to allot ordinary shares under  
the authorities proposed in Resolution 8.
Directors’ report
continued 67  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
(b)  Paragraph (A) of Resolution 8 would give the directors the 
authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal 
amount equal to £10,556,101 (representing 211,122,020 
ordinary shares of 5p each). This amount represents 
approximately one-third of the issued ordinary share capital 
of the Company as at 9 March 2009, the latest practicable 
date prior to publication of this notice. Paragraph (B) of 
Resolution 8 would give the directors authority to allot 
ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour  
of ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount 
equal to £21,112,202 (representing 422,244,040 ordinary 
shares), as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares 
issued under paragraph (A) of this Resolution. This amount 
(before any reduction) represents approximately two-thirds  
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at  
9 March 2009, the latest practicable date prior to publication 
of this notice. The authorities sought under paragraphs (A) 
and (B) of Resolution 8 will expire at the earlier of 30 June 
2010 (the last date by which the Company must hold an 
annual general meeting in 2010) or the conclusion of the 
annual general meeting of the Company held in 2010.  
As at 9 March 2009, the latest practicable date prior to  
the publication of this notice, the Company held no shares  
in treasury.
(c)  Except as stated below, the authority to dis-apply pre-
emption rights under Resolution 9 would, similar to previous 
years, be limited to allotments or sales in connection with 
pre-emptive offers and offers to holders of other equity 
securities if required by the rights of those shares or as  
the Board otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise up  
to an aggregate nominal amount of £1,583,415 (representing 
31,668,300 ordinary shares). This aggregate nominal amount 
represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share 
capital of the Company as at 9 March 2009, the latest 
practicable date prior to publication of this notice. Allotments 
made under the authorisation in paragraph (B) of Resolution 
8 would be limited to allotments by way of a rights issue  
only (subject to the right of the board to impose necessary  
or appropriate limitations to deal with, for example, fractional 
entitlements and regulatory matters). The authority will expire 
at the earlier of 30 June 2010 (the last date by which the 
Company must hold an annual general meeting in 2010)  
or the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the 
Company held in 2010.
However, the directors have no current intention of exercising 
the authorities under Resolutions 8 and 9 other than in 
connection with satisfying options under the Save As You Earn 
Plan, granting and satisfying options under the Long-Term 
Incentive Plan and the operation of the Company’s scrip 
dividend scheme. 
With regard to the resolution to disapply pre-emption rights,  
the Company confirms that it will adhere to the Pre-Emption 
Group’s Statement of Principles that in the case of cumulative 
usage of authorities within a rolling three year period that usage 
will be restricted to 7 .5% of the current issued share capital of 
the Company unless prior consultation has taken place with 
shareholders. 
Article 5.1 of the EU Shareholder Rights Directive requires listed 
companies to call general meetings on at least 21 clear days’ 
notice. The deadline for implementing the EU Shareholder 
Rights Directive is 3 August 2009. The Companies Act 2006 
enables listed companies to call a general meeting (other than 
an AGM) on 14 clear days’ notice. There is an option for the  
EU Member States to permit listed companies to call meetings 
on shorter notice (minimum 14 days). It is understood that  
the United Kingdom will take up this option. The option will be 
subject to certain conditions. These are (a) that shareholders 
have approved the holding of general meetings on 14 clear 
days’ notice by passing an appropriate resolution at an AGM; 
(b) that the Company offers the facility for shareholders to  
vote by electronic means accessible to all shareholders. The 
Company considers that it should continue to be able to call  
a general meeting on 14 clear days’ notice after 3 August 2009 
and so has introduced a resolution to preserve that right at 
Resolution 10.
With regard to the re-election of directors, the Chairman  
has confirmed that, following a performance evaluation,  
Mr John Bryant, Mr Saad Shehata and Mr Andrew Wyllie each 
continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment  
to their respective roles, including commitment of time for Board 
and Committee meetings and their other respective duties.
Further information on these directors is set out on page 51  
of this document 
Mr James Morley, the Chairman of the Audit Committee  
and Mr Mike Alexander, the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board
Clive L Franks Company Secretary
11 March 2009  68  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Remuneration Committee
During the financial year, the members of the Remuneration 
Committee were Mr Alexander as Chairman and Mr Bryant  
and Mr Morley as members throughout the year and Mr Ballard 
until he resigned as a non-executive director on 7 May 2008. 
The Company complies with that element of Provision B2.1  
of the Combined Code which requires that all members of  
the Remuneration Committee are independent non-executive 
directors. Further details of the members of the Remuneration 
Committee are given on page 51. The Group Chairman, the 
Chief Executive and the HR Director are normally in attendance 
at Remuneration Committee meetings although in the case  
of the Chief Executive he is always excluded when his own 
performance and remuneration are under review. Details of 
attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings in 2008  
is given in the table on page 55. The Company Secretary  
acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee. 
The Remuneration Committee has established written terms  
of reference, which were last reviewed, revised and re-issued  
on 13 October 2006. 
The Remuneration Committee is entitled to access independent 
advice from external consultants on individual remuneration 
packages or the Company’s remuneration practices in general. 
During 2008, the Remuneration Committee took advice from 
The Hay Group Management Limited (the Hay Group) and 
Hewitt New Bridge Street (HNBS). The Hay Group was 
appointed by and reported directly to the Remuneration 
Committee but the information was shared with the Company. 
The Hay Group prepared and submitted to the Remuneration 
Committee the following reports: ‘Rights Issue – Consequence 
for EPS Performance Condition’ and ‘Analysis of Remuneration 
Competitiveness for the Senior Executive Team’ and a 
representative attended one Remuneration Committee meeting 
to discuss a paper the Hay Group had prepared and to advise 
generally. Later in the year, the Remuneration Committee, 
following a review of potential advisors, decided to appoint 
HNBS. HNBS reports directly to the Remuneration Committee 
but the information is shared with the Company relating to 
senior executives. During the latter part of 2008, HNBS 
prepared and submitted to the Remuneration Committee a 
number of papers and a representative of HNBS attended one 
Remuneration Committee meeting to discuss papers they had 
prepared and to advise the Remuneration Committee generally. 
The papers submitted to the Remuneration Committee were: 
‘Review of Senior Executive Incentive Provisions’, ‘Review of 
Non-executive Chairman’s Fees’ and ‘Review of Non-executive 
Director’s Fees’. In 2008, neither the Hay Group nor HNBS had 
any other connection with the Group. 
Save as disclosed, the Remuneration Committee did not take 
any other independent advice during the financial year ended  
31 December 2008. The Remuneration Committee did take 
advice from the HR Director and the Company Secretary.
The Remuneration Committee sets the overall remuneration 
policy of the Group and makes recommendations to the Board 
on the specific remuneration packages for each of the executive 
directors and the Company Secretary. In addition, the 
Remuneration Committee reviews and considers on behalf  
of the Board, the terms of employment of senior management 
of the Group (in particular, those who report directly to the  
Chief Executive), including basic salary, performance related 
bonus arrangements, benefits in kind, long-term incentives and 
pension benefits. The Remuneration Committee, in consultation 
with the Chief Executive, determines and recommends to the 
Board the annual fee payable to the Chairman of the Board. The 
Chairman of the Board, in consultation with the Chief Executive, 
determines and recommends to the Board the fees payable to 
the non-executive directors. Further details on the remuneration 
of the non-executive directors are given on pages 74 and 75.
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy for executive directors and other  
senior management is designed to attract, retain and motivate 
executives of the appropriate calibre and experience so that 
the Company is managed successfully for the benefit of its 
stakeholders. The Remuneration Committee is, however,  
aware that it should avoid paying more than is appropriate  
or necessary. Accordingly, in the early part of 2008, the Hay 
Group, for the benefit of the Remuneration Committee, carried 
out an exercise to benchmark remuneration packages and their 
constituent elements with those of comparable organisations, 
primarily within the UK-based contracting sector, to ensure  
that the remuneration packages within the Group bear 
reasonable comparison with those of other companies of a 
similar size. HNBS is carrying out a similar exercise for 2009. 
The Remuneration Committee is, however, conscious that  
such comparisons must be viewed with caution in order to 
avoid the risk of an upward ratchet of remuneration levels 
without corresponding improvement in performance levels.  
The analysis and comparison exercises referred to earlier are 
only one element to assist the Remuneration Committee in 
exercising its judgement; the Remuneration Committee also 
takes into account personal performance.
As indicated in last year’s Directors’ remuneration report, the 
Remuneration Committee has undertaken, with the assistance 
of the HR Director and HNBS, a review of the reward structure 
for the executive and senior management. As a result of the 
review, certain changes to weightings as between different 
performance targets and the spread of targets for the  
annual bonuses have been made, including the introduction  
of stretched targets. It has also been decided to introduce  
a Deferred Share Bonus Plan, which would replace part of  
the Long-Term Incentive Plan for the executive directors  
and replace part of the Phantom Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(Phantom). The Phantom was introduced for the benefit of 
members of the Executive Board (excluding the Chief Executive 
and Finance Director) and other members of senior management. 
The Deferred Share Bonus Plan would be for the benefit of 
the Chief Executive, Finance Director, other members of the 
Executive Board and other members of senior management. 
Further details of the Deferred Share Bonus Plan are given  
later in this report. 
Directors’ remuneration report 69  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Remuneration components 
The Remuneration Committee considers that annual bonuses 
and long-term incentive plans are an important part of the  
total remuneration package of an executive director or other 
member of senior management and are used to drive and 
reward performance and so it aligns the incentives of executive 
directors and other members of senior management with  
the interests of shareholders. Accordingly, the Remuneration 
Committee aims to impose challenging performance targets  
for both annual bonuses and long-term incentive plans.
The main components of executive directors’ and other senior 
management’s remuneration packages comprise basic salary, 
which forms the major element of remuneration, an annual 
bonus, which is dependent on the achievement of short-term 
objectives approved by the Remuneration Committee,  
long-term incentive arrangements by way of the Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (which going forward continues to benefit  
only the Chief Executive and Finance Director) and the  
Phantom (which benefits the Executive Board (excluding the 
Chief Executive and Finance Director) and other members  
of senior management) and a Deferred Share Bonus Plan, 
membership of the pension scheme (which includes life cover  
of four times salary for death in service), a company car or car 
allowance (and in certain cases the provision of a fuel benefit) 
and the provision of health insurance.
The Remuneration Committee gives due consideration to  
the provisions of B1, B1.1 to B1.4 and Schedule A of the 
Combined Code in formulating the remuneration policy of the 
Group and has noted and taken account of the requirements  
of provisions B1.5 and B1.6 with regard to service contracts 
and compensation. The Company does comply with provisions 
B2, B2.1 to B2.4 of the Combined Code with regard to the 
establishment and procedures of the Remuneration Committee. 
The changes made to the remuneration policies of the 
Company during the year are described later in this report. 
The Company’s policy on the remuneration for executive 
directors and other senior management for 2009 and 
subsequent financial years will follow substantially the policy  
laid down herein, save as where otherwise noted.
Further details of the main components of executive directors’ 
and other senior management’s remuneration packages are 
given below:
Basic Salary – Salary is the major element of the remuneration 
package. The Remuneration Committee reviews in February/
March of each year the salaries of the executive directors and 
the Company Secretary, having reviewed the performance of 
the individuals and, at the same time, gives guidance to the 
Chief Executive as to the matters to be taken into account in  
the salary review of other senior management of the Group. 
Salaries for executive directors are based on market rates and 
take account of an executive’s experience, responsibilities and 
performance. The remuneration of other senior management, 
including the Company Secretary, is determined in the light of 
the levels of remuneration generally within the Company and 
other companies in the UK-based construction sector. A salary 
increase, if awarded, is effective from 1 April in each year.
From April 2008, Mr Wyllie’s basic salary was increased from 
£345,000 to £375,000 per annum and Mr Bickerstaff’s basic 
salary was increased from £193,000 to £220,000 per annum.  
In the case of Mr Bickerstaff, the Remuneration Committee  
was advised by HNBS that his salary was below the market 
median and so the Remuneration Committee decided to 
increase his salary to £240,000 per annum. These remain the 
current salaries because it has been decided that no salary 
increases will be awarded in April 2009 to the members of the 
Executive Board. This is considered a prudent step in the light  
of the current economic climate.
Annual Bonus – An annual bonus scheme is a further 
component of the remuneration package for executive directors 
and other senior management. The targets for the annual bonus 
are set at the beginning of the year by the Remuneration 
Committee and are reviewed with appropriate input from the 
Audit Committee at the end of the year. The Chief Executive has 
a maximum bonus potential of 100% of basic salary and the 
Finance Director has a maximum bonus potential of 80% of 
basic salary. This has not been changed in respect of 2009. 
For the year ended 31 December 2008, 90% of the executive 
director’s annual bonus metrics were set as measurable 
financial targets. These metrics included Group profit before  
tax, Group overhead costs, committed revenue, claims 
management and health and safety targets. The remaining  
10% of the bonus was linked to the succession planning 
process and personal development goals. Notwithstanding 
the economic conditions experienced towards the end of the 
year, substantially all of these pre-set targets were met in full. 
No discretion has been used and no financial targets have  
been amended during the year. This has resulted in Mr Wyllie 
being awarded a bonus of £343,125 and Mr Bickerstaff being 
awarded a bonus of £166,320 for 2008.
These bonus payments are not pensionable and are payable  
in cash.
Long-Term Incentive Arrangements – The Long-Term Incentive 
Plan (LTIP) was approved by shareholders on 24 May 2002.  
The LTIP was designed to reward executive directors and 
originally other senior management by reference to the 
performance of the Group. The LTIP allows for conditional 
awards to a participant with a maximum face value of up to 
100% of basic annual salary at the date of grant of the award.  
In respect of all outstanding awards, the Chief Executive and 
Finance Director are entitled to a number of shares calculated 
by reference to 100% of their annual salary at the time of grant. 
The performance condition for each award was earnings per 
share (EPS) as the Remuneration Committee considers this to 
be the most appropriate performance target in order to focus 
on achieving a demanding business plan. 
Following the Rights Issue in 2007 , the Remuneration 
Committee, in respect of each outstanding LTIP at that time, 
adjusted the number of shares each participant could receive 
and the EPS was adjusted to take account of the benefits of 
additional capital raised from the Rights Issue. The EPS figures 
given below are the adjusted EPS figures. 70  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
The performance conditions for unvested awards are as follows:
Awards granted on 21 April 2006 and 10 October 2006:
•  In the event that an EPS of 3.25p was achieved for the 
financial year ended 31 December 2009, 25% of the award 
would vest;
•  In the event that an EPS of 3.69p was achieved for the 
financial year 31 December 2009, 100% of the award would 
vest; and
•  In the event that an EPS was achieved above 3.25p but below 
3.69p for the year ended 31 December 2009, an award would 
vest on a sliding scale between 25% and 100% pro rata to 
the EPS actually achieved.
Award made on 18 April 2007:
•  In the event that an EPS of 3.27p was achieved for the 
financial year ended 31 December 2010, 25% of the award 
would vest;
•  In the event that an EPS of 3.71p was achieved for the 
financial year 31 December 2010, 100% of the award would 
vest; and
•  In the event that an EPS was achieved above 3.27p but below 
3.71p for the year ended 31 December 2010, an award would 
vest on a sliding scale between 25% and 100% pro rata to 
the EPS actually achieved.
Award made on 21 April 2008:
•  In the event that an EPS of 3.09p was achieved for the 
financial year ended 31 December 2010, 25% of the award 
would vest;
•  In the event that an EPS of 3.43p was achieved for the  
year ended 31 December 2010, 100% of the award would 
vest; and
•  In the event that an EPS above 3.09p but below 3.43p was 
achieved for the financial year ended 31 December 2010, an 
award would vest on a sliding scale between 25% and 100% 
pro rata to the EPS actually achieved. 
Following the introduction of the Deferred Share Bonus Plan this 
year, the Remuneration Committee decided that the entitlement 
of the Chief Executive and Finance Director to conditional 
awards under the LTIP should be reduced from 100% of their 
basic salary at the date of grant of award to 50% of their basic 
salary at the date of grant of the award.
In May 2007 , The Remuneration Committee introduced a 
Phantom Long-Term Incentive Plan (Phantom) for members  
of the Executive Board (excluding the Chief Executive and 
Finance Director) and other members of senior management. 
The rules of the Phantom closely follow those of the LTIP but, 
whereas the LTIP normally results in the award of shares if 
performance conditions are met, the Phantom results in the 
award of cash if the performance target is met. The Phantom  
is driven by a notional award of shares in the same way as the 
LTIP but the cash received by the participant is calculated by 
converting to cash at the time the award matures the value  
of the notional number of shares that the participant would  
have received if the performance target is met. The Phantom,  
which did not require shareholder approval, was adopted  
by the Company on 9 May 2007 . Awards have been made  
on 14 June 2007 and 21 April 2008 with the same performance 
targets as applying to the share based awards made to the 
executive directors in the same year.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued 71  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Details of the executive directors’ participation in the LTIP are as follows:
Maximum number of shares subject to award
    Granted Lapsed Vested 
  Date At 1 Jan during during during At 31 Dec Exercisable 
Name of Director  Granted 2008 the year the year the year 2008 from
A Wyllie  19.09.05 777 ,715 – – – 777 ,715* March 2009
  21.04.06 696,855 – – – 696,855 March 2010
  18.04.07 775,998 – – – 775,998  March 2011
  21.04.08 – 1,546,391 – – 1,546,391 March 2011
       
A O Bickerstaff  10.10.06 382,376 – – – 382,376 March 2010
  18.04.07  434,109 – – – 434,109  March 2011 
  21.04.08 – 907,216 – – 907,216 March 2011
Notes
a) The awards, which are expressed as options, are subject to an exercise price of £1.
b)  The average closing middle market price of ordinary shares of 5p each in the Company for the dealing day immediately preceding 
the date of the grant for the first 2006 award was 53.5p, for the second 2006 award was 54p, for the 2007 award was 51p and 
for the 2008 award was 24.25p.
c)  The number of ordinary shares of 5p each still outstanding and the subject of the first 2006 award is 3,673,109  
(2007: 3,773,456), the second 2006 award is 661,102 (2007: 661 ,102) and the 2007 award is 1,210,107 (2007: 1,210,107)  
and the 2008 award is 2,453,607 . 
d)  At 31 December 2008, the derived mid-market price of the ordinary shares of the Company, as advised by the Company’s 
Brokers, was 19.75p. The range of the share price of the ordinary shares during 2008 was 18.75p to 28.5p.
*  The award to Mr Wyllie of 777 ,715 ordinary shares of 5p each in the Company lapsed when it became apparent in March 2009 that the performance target 
had not been met. 
The contingent award to Mr Bickerstaff made in October 2006 over 401,495 ordinary shares of 5p each in the Company lapsed 
when it became apparent in March 2009 that the performance targets had not been met. 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan
As a result of the review of the remuneration structure undertaken by the Remuneration Committee, the Company is introducing  
a Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP) which was approved by the Board in March 2009. The intention is that the DSBP will replace 
part of the awards under the LTIP for executive directors and part of the awards under the Phantom for other members of the 
Executive Board and for other senior management. 
The first performance period for the DSBP is the financial year commencing 1 January 2009. The performance target will be 
Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) targets for the Group. The performance period will be one year. So in respect of the first 
performance period, once the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 have been approved and assuming the 
performance target has been met, the number of shares to which each participant in the DSBP will be entitled will be calculated  
on the basis of the monetary value of the deferred bonus divided by the average closing share price for the Group during the  
month of December 2009. The grant of the deferred bonus will be made in the six weeks following the preliminary announcement  
of the results for the financial year ended 31 December 2009. The deferred bonus will vest on the second anniversary of the date  
of grant. The shares to satisfy the deferred bonus will be purchased by a trust on behalf of the Group and so the DSBP does not 
lead to any dilution of shareholder interests. A condition of the vesting of the deferred bonus is that the participants must be in 
employment with the Company and not under notice of termination (either given or received) on the date of vesting. There are 
carve-outs for good leavers (eg death, disability, redundancy, etc). However, if employment ceases for other reasons then the  
award lapses. 
The advantages of the DSBP include: it is a more focused incentive arrangement in that executives are rewarded for delivering  
good performance in the shorter term; it is more retentive in that executives know the value of the awards after one year; 
it promotes greater alignment with shareholders because after the grant of the deferred share award the executives own a  
direct interest in shares; and it has a lower expected accounting cost for the Company. This last advantage arises because the 
Remuneration Committee has applied a discount factor when converting previous LTIP awards to DSBP potential. For example,  
in 2008, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director were granted an LTIP award over shares worth 100% of salary, whereas  
in 2009 they will be granted an LTIP award over shares worth 50% of salary and will be given a maximum potential of 35% of 
salary under the DSBP in respect of results for 2009.
To avoid giving a market forecast, the Remuneration Committee is not disclosing the EBIT targets that it has set for the DSBP  
in 2009, but is giving the commitment that it will disclose this on a retrospective basis. For example, in next year’s Directors’ 
remuneration report, the EBIT range set for 2009 will be disclosed, together with the EBIT achieved and the value of the DSBP 
awards granted.  72  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Save As You Earn
A Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme (the Plan) was approved by shareholders at the 2002 Annual General Meeting. All eligible 
employees and executive directors are entitled to participate in the Plan. The option prices of the shares under the Plan that were 
impacted by the 2007 rights issue were adjusted in 2007 .
The Company granted options on 22 October 2002 at an option price of 17 .43p per share and the entitlement to participate  
was subject to the proviso that the eligible employee had been in the employment of the Company for 12 months. The Company 
granted options on 21 October 2004 at an option price of 29.29p and participants were not subject to any service qualification.  
The Company granted options on 18 May 2007 at an option price of 33.30p and participants were not subject to any service 
qualification. The Company granted options on 23 May 2008 at an option price of 19.60p. Mr Wyllie and Mr Bickerstaff participated 
in the 2007 Plan but withdrew from that Plan and participated in the 2008 Plan. The participation of Mr Wyllie and Mr Bickerstaff  
in the 2007 Plan is shown as having lapsed. The details are given below: 
Number of Options
  At Granted Exercised Lapsed  At 
 Date 1 Jan during during during 31 Dec Exercise Exercisable 
Name of Director granted 2008 the year the year the year 2008 price from
A Wyllie 18.05.07 28,377  – 28,377 –  33.30p  Jul-Dec 2010
 23.05.08 – 47 ,959 – – 47 ,959 19.60p Jul-Dec 2011
A O Bickerstaff  18.05.07  28,377  –  28,377 –  33.30p Jul-Dec 2010
 23.05.08 – 47,959 – – 47,959 19.60p Jul-Dec 2011
 
Details of the grants made under the Plan are shown in Note 20 to the financial statements on pages 107 and 108.
No payments were made to or benefits received by the executive directors during the year under any long-term incentive scheme.
Benefits – Benefits comprise primarily of the provision of a company car or car allowance, fuel and medical insurance and the 
amounts stated exclude the pension and life assurance costs identified separately under ‘Pension Arrangements’. The amounts 
stated also exclude the cost of permanent health insurance, which is provided by the Group to all staff employees under a general 
policy with no separately-identifiable cost in respect of individual beneficiaries. The premiums attributable to Messrs Wyllie and 
Bickerstaff in respect of permanent health insurance, based on a proportion of total cost, were respectively £1,837 (2007: £2,689) 
and £1,066 (2007: £1,500). 
Pension Arrangements – neither executive director is a member of the Group’s main registered UK pension scheme. Senior 
management participate in the executive section of the Group’s main registered UK pension scheme. This section provides 
enhanced benefits in respect of accrual rate and spouse pension and early retirement ages (e.g. 60 for executive directors and other 
members of senior management). In addition to a maximum pension of two-thirds of final salary, the scheme provides a lump sum 
death in service benefit of four times basic salary and pensions for dependants of members. All senior management participate on  
a contributory basis.
The Group’s main registered UK pension scheme is a defined benefit scheme, which was closed to new members with effect from 
31 May 2005. Members of senior management joining the Company on or after 1 June 2005 will be offered pension provision on a 
defined contribution basis, which will carry with it a lump sum death in service benefit of four times basic salary but with no provision 
for spouse pensions.
In the case of Mr Wyllie, he is entitled, under his terms of engagement, to an annual pension allowance of 22% of his basic salary. 
The Company contributes the pension allowance to the Scottish Widows Plc stakeholder pension scheme. The Company 
contributed a sum of £80,850 (2007: £74,800) towards Mr Wyllie’s pension provision during the year. Mr Bickerstaff is entitled,  
under his terms of engagement, to an annual pension allowance of 22% of his basic salary. The Company contributes the pension 
allowance to the Winterthur Life stakeholder pension scheme. The Company contributed a sum of £46,915 (2007: £41,745)  
towards Mr Bickerstaff’s pension provision during the year.
Life assurance cover of four times basic salary is provided through the Costain Life Assurance Scheme. The annual premiums 
payable in respect of life assurance for Mr Wyllie and Mr Bickerstaff were respectively £4,410 (2007: £2,886) and £2,559  
(2007: £1,609). 
Contracts of Service – The executive directors have service contracts that can be terminated by either party on the giving of one 
year’s notice. The Remuneration Committee considers that such notice periods are reasonable and fair in the interests of the Group 
and the individual concerned, having regard to prevailing practice amongst public companies both in the industry in which the 
Group operates and elsewhere.
Directors’ remuneration report
continued 73  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
There is no provision for payment of predetermined compensation in case of wrongful termination by the Group. The Remuneration 
Committee also believes that a robust line should be taken on reducing compensation to reflect departing directors’ obligations  
to mitigate loss.
Mr Wyllie’s service agreement is dated 25 April 2005 and provides for him to serve the Company as Chief Executive or in such 
capacity of a like status as the Company may require from a date no later than four months after the date of the service agreement. 
Mr Wyllie’s service agreement terminates automatically when he reaches normal retirement age of 60 years. Subject to that,  
Mr Wyllie’s engagement as Chief Executive can be terminated on 12 months’ notice given at any time.
Mr Bickerstaff’s service agreement is dated 3 March 2006 and provides for him to serve the Company as Finance Director  
or in such other capacity of a like status as the Company may require from a date no later than three months after the date of the 
service agreement. Mr Bickerstaff’s service agreement terminates automatically when he reaches normal retirement age of 60 years. 
Subject to that, Mr Bickerstaff’s engagement as Finance Director can be terminated on 12 months’ notice given at any time. 
Outside Appointments – In principle, the Company encourages executive directors to take outside appointments, with the prior 
consent of the Company, in the belief that such appointments broaden their skills and the contribution, which they can make to  
the Company’s performance. However, not more than one such appointment may be undertaken except in special circumstances. 
There must be no conflict of interest, and the time to be devoted to the outside appointment must be reasonable in relation to  
the individual’s commitment to the Company. Fees paid for outside appointments may be retained by the individual concerned.  
At present, neither executive director holds an outside appointment. 
Performance graph as required by the Companies Act 1985 Schedule 7A
The graph below shows the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance compared to the FTSE All-Share Index TSR 
over the last five years, namely the period from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2008. TSR is defined as share price growth plus 
reinvested dividends. The FTSE All-Share Index TSR has been rebased so that it starts at the same TSR point as the Company on  
1 January 2003. As a broad index is required for a comparison, the Board is of the opinion that the FTSE All-Share Index is the most 
appropriate for the Company as the Company is a constituent part of that index.
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
Jan-04 Dec-08 Jul-04 Jan-05 Jul-05 Jan-06 Jul-06 Jan-07 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08
Costain
FTSE All Sha re 74  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Directors’ remuneration
The aggregate directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2008 was £1,475,552 as set out in the following table:
    Salary/fee Bonus Benefits 2008 2007 
Name of Director    £ £ £ Total £ Total £
Executive Directors        
A Wyllie    367 ,500 343,125  13,009 723,634 663,679
A O Bickerstaff    213,250 166,320  11,709 391,279 355,830
Non-Executive Directors        
D P Allvey    120,000 – – 120,000 43,500
M H Hamid    39,000  –  – 39,000 33,578
M R Alexander    44,250  –  – 44,250 16,256
F W Ballard
2
    13,750 – – 13,750 36,000
J M Bryant     44,250 – – 44,250 41,000
J Morley
1
    46,750  –  – 46,750  – 
S Y Shehata    39,000 –  –  39,000 36,000
M A Sulaiman
2
    13,639 – – 13,639 36,000
Former Directors    – – – – 114,897
Total    941,389  509,445 24,718 1,475,552 1,376,740
1
 Appointed 9 January 2008.
2
 Resigned 7 May 2008.
The Company discloses the bonuses above on a payable basis.
Mr Wyllie is entitled to a performance related bonus for 2008 of £343,125. Mr Bickerstaff is entitled to a performance related  
bonus for 2008 of £166,320. No payments were made to or benefits received by executive directors during the year under any 
Long-Term Incentive Plan.
No compensation was paid to a former director for loss of office during 2008 (2007: £Nil).
Payments made to third parties in respect of directors’ services amounted to £52,639 (2007: £71,975). This figure is included within 
the directors’ emoluments.
There are no alternate directors.
The emoluments of the highest paid director were £723,634 (2007: £663,679); both figures exclude attributable pension contributions.
Directors’ interests
Directors’ interests recorded by the Company are as follows: 
        
Name of Director       At 01.01.08 At 31.12.08
D P Allvey      a 52,500 52,500
M H Hamid       –  –
A Wyllie      a 210,000 268,009*
†
      b 777 ,715 777 ,715
      c 458,852 –
      d 696,855 696,855
      h 775,998 775,998
      i 28,377 –
      j – 1,546,391
      k – 47,959
A O Bickerstaff      a 70,000 120,000*
      e 382,376 382,376
      f 137 ,656 –
      g 401,495 401,495
      h 434,109 434,109
      i 28,377 –
      j – 907 ,216
      k – 47,959
F W Ballard      a 15,739 15,739
+
J M Bryant       a 87,500 90,194
†
M R Alexander      a 40,000 41,232
†
J Morley      a –º 50,000
S Y Shehata       – –
M A Sulaiman       – –
+
Directors’ remuneration report
continued 75  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notes to Directors’ interests
a) Costain PLC ordinary shares of 5p each.
b)  Options granted on 19 September 2005 to acquire Costain 
Group PLC ordinary shares of 5p each under the 2005 
Long-Term Incentive Plan. This option lapsed in 2009.
c)  Options granted on 19 September 2005 to acquire Costain 
Group PLC ordinary shares of 5p each. This option lapsed  
in 2008.
d)  Options granted on 21 April 2006 to acquire Costain Group 
PLC ordinary shares of 5p each under the 2006 Long-Term 
Incentive Plan.
e)  Options granted on 10 October 2006 to acquire Costain 
Group PLC ordinary shares of 5p each under the 2006 
Long-Term Incentive Plan.
f)  Options granted on 10 October 2006 to acquire Costain 
Group PLC ordinary shares of 5p each. This option lapsed  
in 2008.
g)  Options granted on 10 October 2006 to acquire Costain 
Group PLC ordinary shares of 5p each. This option lapsed  
in 2009.
h)  Options granted on 18 April 2007 to acquire Costain Group 
PLC ordinary shares of 5p each under the 2007 Long-Term 
Incentive Plan.
i)  Options granted on 18 May 2007 to acquire Costain Group 
PLC ordinary shares of 5p each under the 2007 Save As 
You Earn Share Option Plan. Mr Wyllie and Mr Bickerstaff 
withdrew from this plan in 2008.
j)  Options granted on 21 April 2008 to acquire Costain Group 
PLC ordinary shares of 5p each under the 2008 Long-Term  
Incentive Plan.
k)  Options granted on 23 May 2008 to acquire Costain Group 
PLC ordinary shares of 5p each under the 2008 Save As 
You Earn Share Option Plan.
º At date of appointment.
+
 At date of resignation.
*  Mr Wyllie and Mr Bickerstaff each purchased 50,000 ordinary shares  
in Costain Group PLC on 10 January 2008.
†
  Messrs Alexander, Bryant and Wyllie participated in the Scrip dividend 
scheme and during the course of the year were respectively issued with 
1,232, 2,694 and 8,009 ordinary shares of 5p each. 
All interests are beneficial. Particulars of directors’ options are 
contained in the register of directors’ interests. The basis on 
which executive directors participate in Long-Term Incentive 
Plans is decided by the Remuneration Committee, except for 
the Costain SAYE Scheme which is open to all relevant UK 
employees. Non-executive directors do not participate in any  
of these schemes.
No options were exercised by directors during the year.
Details of all outstanding options are set out in Note 20 to the 
financial statements on pages 106 to 108.
The Company’s external auditors are required to report to the 
shareholders on the information contained in sections relating 
to ‘Long-Term Incentive Plan’, ‘Save As You Earn Share Option 
Scheme’, ‘Pension’, ‘Sums paid to third parties’ and on the 
tables relating to directors’ remuneration and directors’  
interests section of this report. Other elements of the Directors’ 
remuneration report are unaudited.
Non-executive directors
The independent non-executive directors have contracts of 
appointment. These cover, amongst other things, the initial 
terms for which the independent non-executive directors are 
appointed, a general statement on their role and duties, and 
the fees they will receive as a director.
A non-executive director’s initial period of appointment is  
until the time comes to retire by rotation under the Company’s 
Articles. This is intended to be three years and will be treated  
as being three years, notwithstanding that, because of changes 
that have taken place on the Board, their term to retire by 
rotation may arise in under three years. The appointment of  
an independent non-executive director can be terminated by 
reasonable notice on either side. At the end of the initial period, 
the appointment may be continued by mutual agreement. 
Messrs Allvey, Alexander, Bryant and Morley are not entitled  
to compensation for loss of office.
The nominee non-executive directors, as indicated in the  
Report of the directors, hold office for as long as the 
shareholder nominating them holds a specific percentage  
of the issued share capital of the Company. The nominee 
non-executive directors are nevertheless required to stand  
for re-election in the usual way and are not entitled to 
compensation for loss of office.
Under the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, 
the fee of the Chairman is determined and recommended to  
the Board following consultation between the non-executive 
directors acting through the Remuneration Committee and the 
Chief Executive. The fees payable to all other non-executive 
directors are recommended to the Board following consultation 
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive. The fees of the 
Chairman and the other non-executive directors will be reviewed 
annually in October and on the second anniversary from when 
the fees were last raised or benchmarked, there will be a 
benchmark review by an independent remuneration consultant. 
A review was undertaken by the Hewitt New Bridge Street in 
2008 to determine the appropriate level of fees for the Chairman 
and non-executive directors of the Company. As a result of the 
advice received from Hewitt New Bridge Street, it was decided 
that the fees paid to the Chairman and the non-executive 
directors would not be adjusted as they had been adjusted 
during the course of 2007 . However, it was agreed that in  
light of the additional work burden on the Chairmen of the 
Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee and  
the Senior Independent Director, they would each receive  
an additional fee of £1,000 per annum. The increases would  
be effective from 1 October 2008. 
This report was approved by the Board of directors  
on 11 March 2009 and has been signed on its behalf by:
Michael R Alexander Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
11 March 2009 76  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect  
of the Annual Report and the financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the group and parent company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and 
parent company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law, they are required to prepare the group financial 
statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU 
and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent 
company financial statements in accordance with UK 
Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
The group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position  
and the performance of the group; the Companies Act 1985 
provides in relation to such financial statements that references 
in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving  
a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair 
presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law  
to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent 
company.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial 
statements, the directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•  make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
•  for the group financial statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by  
the EU;
•  for the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the parent company financial statements; and
•  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the parent company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 1985. They have general responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are  
also responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ 
remuneration report and Corporate Governance statement 
that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may  
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
•  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or 
loss of the company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and 
•  the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face. 
On behalf of the Board
David Allvey Chairman
Andrew Wyllie Chief Executive
11 March 2009 77  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members  
of Costain Group PLC
We have audited the group and parent company financial 
statements (the ‘financial statements’) of Costain Group PLC  
for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the 
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and  
Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and 
Parent Company Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated  
and Parent Statement of Recognised Income and Expense,  
and the related notes. These financial statements have been 
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have 
also audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 
1985. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and 
the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report 
and the group financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent 
company financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting 
Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice)  
are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  
on page 76.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the 
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in 
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements  
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance  
with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also 
report to you whether in our opinion the information given in  
the Directors’ Report is consistent with the financial statements.  
The information given in the Directors’ Report includes  
that information presented in the Business Review that  
is cross-referred to the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has 
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all 
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration 
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement 
reflects the company’s compliance with the nine provisions  
of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the 
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report  
if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the 
board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and 
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s 
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control 
procedures. We read the other information contained in the 
Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the 
audited financial statements. We consider the implications for 
our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements 
or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.  
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing 
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test  
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the 
significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in  
the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the group’ s and company’ s 
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 
information and explanations which we considered necessary  
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from 
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other 
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the 
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the 
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
•  the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state  
of the group’s affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit 
for the year then ended;
•  the group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation;
•  the parent company financial statements give a true and fair 
view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice, of the state of the parent company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2008;
•  the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
1985; and
•  the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent 
with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
London
11 March 2009 78  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
        2008 2007 
       Notes £m £m
Revenue (Group and share of joint ventures and associates)    3 996.0 877.9
Share of joint ventures and associates      13 (93.4) (130.3)
Group revenue       902.6 747.6
Cost of sales       (861.3) (716.2)
Gross profit       41.3 31.4
    
Administrative expenses       (21.8) (21.7)
Group operating profit       19.5 9.7
    
Profit on sales of investments       – 2.7
Profit on sales of interests in joint ventures and associates      2.7 3.2
Share of results of joint ventures and associates     13 (3.9) 0.9
Profit from operations      3 18.3 16.5
Financial income      7 34.8 29.6
Finance costs      7 (30.0) (26.3)
Net financing income       4.8 3.3
Profit before tax      4 23.1 19.8
Income tax expense      9 (4.9) (3.8)
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent     18.2 16.0
Earnings per share – basic      8 2.9p 3.6p
Earnings per share – diluted      8 2.9p 3.5p
During the year and the previous year, no businesses were acquired. In the previous year, the impact on the results of the 
businesses disposed was not material and, therefore, all results are classified as arising from continuing operations.
        2008 2007
Dividends per ordinary share:      10  
Final 2007 – paid 2008       – 0.50p
Interim 2008 – paid 2008       0.25p –
Final 2008 – proposed       0.50p –
The Notes on pages 84 to 113 form part of these financial statements.
Consolidated income statement
Year ended 31 December 79  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
        2008 2007 
       Note £m £m
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations      9.7 2.0
Cash flow hedges:    
 Effective portion of changes in fair value (net of tax) during year – Group    0.7 (0.1)
 Effective portion of changes in fair value (net of tax) during year – joint ventures and associates   (10.9) (0.3)
 Joint ventures and associates disposed of during year      (0.7) 0.2
Change in fair value of assets classified as available for sale     – (2.6)
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme     (10.5) 11.7
Tax recognised on actuarial (losses)/gains recognised directly in equity     3.0 (3.3)
Tax rate adjustment to brought forward actuarial losses recognised directly in equity   – (1.7)
Net (loss)/income recognised directly in equity      (8.7) 5.9
Profit for the year       18.2 16.0
T otal recognised income and expense for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 22 9.5 21.9
Statement of recognised income and expense – Company
The Company does not have any recognised income and expense other than the loss for the year of £0.8 million  
(2007: £1.8 million).
The Notes on pages 84 to 113 form part of these financial statements.
Consolidated statement of recognised  
income and expense 
Year ended 31 December 80  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
        2008 2007 
       Notes £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant & equipment      11 7.7 3.5
Intangible assets      12 1.8 2.7
Investments in joint ventures      13 32.2 29.0
Investments in associates      13 0.1 2.2
Loans to joint ventures      13 9.5 7.3
Loans to associates      13 0.9 1.6
Other receivables      14 6.0 6.7
Deferred income tax assets       9 18.9 21.2
Total non-current assets       77.1 74.2
Current assets
Inventories       1.6 2.0
Trade and other receivables      14 180.3 150.3
Cash and cash equivalents      15 147.3 133.4
Total current assets       329.2 285.7
Total assets       406.3 359.9
Equity
Share capital      21 31.7 31.4
Share premium       1.7 1.1
Foreign currency translation reserve       10.6 0.9
Hedging reserve       (12.7) (1.8)
Retained earnings       2.3 (4.2)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent    22 33.6 27.4
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Retirement benefit obligations      20 50.2 50.6
Other payables      18 2.4 3.7
Provisions for other liabilities and charges      19 8.0 5.0
Total non-current liabilities       60.6 59.3
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables      18 305.0 268.1
Income tax liabilities       9 1.7 1.8
Overdrafts      15 0.4 –
Interest bearing loans and borrowings      16 0.3  0.6
Provisions for other liabilities and charges      19 4.7 2.7
Total current liabilities       312.1 273.2
Total liabilities       372.7 332.5
Total equity and liabilities       406.3 359.9
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 March 2009 and were signed on its behalf by:
A Wyllie Director  A O Bickerstaff Director
The Notes on pages 84 to 113 form part of these financial statements.
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 81  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
        2008 2007 
       Notes £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries      13 113.3 112.8
Total non-current assets       113.3 112.8
Current assets
Trade and other receivables      14 1.9 3.8
Cash and cash equivalents      15 66.7 60.1
Total current assets       68.6 63.9
Total assets       181.9 176.7
Equity
Share capital      21 31.7 31.4
Share premium       1.7 1.1
Non-distributable reserve       1.2 0.7
Retained earnings       47.7 53.2
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent     22 82.3 86.4
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Provisions       19 1.6 1.2
Total non-current liabilities       1.6 1.2
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables      18 96.0 86.9
Income tax liabilities       1.7 1.7
Provisions      19 0.3 0.5
Total current liabilities       98.0 89.1
Total liabilities       99.6 90.3
Total equity and liabilities       181.9 176.7
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 March 2009 and were signed on its behalf by:
A Wyllie Director  A O Bickerstaff Director
The Notes on pages 84 to 113 form part of these financial statements.
Company balance sheet 
As at 31 December 82  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
        2008  2007 
       Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the year       18.2 16.0
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation      4 3.1 2.8
Financial income      7 (34.8) (29.6)
Finance costs      7 30.0 26.3
Share-based payments expense      5 0.6 0.2
Income tax      9 4.9 3.8
Profit on sales of investments      4 – (2.7)
Profit on sales of interests in joint ventures and associates     4 (2.7) (3.2)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates     13 3.9 (0.9)
Amounts written off equity and loan to associate     13 0.4 –
Cash from operations before changes in working capital and provisions    23.6 12.7
Decrease in inventories       0.4 0.4
(Increase)/decrease in receivables       (24.7) 13.3
Increase in payables       35.5 1.9
Movement in provisions and employee benefits      (11.5) (8.0)
Cash from operations       23.3 20.3
Interest paid       (0.7) (0.5)
Income tax paid       – (0.3)
Net cash from operating activities       22.6 19.5
Cash flows used by investing activities
Interest received       6.5 2.8
Dividends received from joint ventures       0.7 –
Additions to property, plant & equipment      11 (5.8) (0.8)
Additions to intangible assets      12 (0.1) (0.2)
Additions to investments      13 – (0.2)
Disposal of subsidiary, net of cash disposed       – (1.4)
Proceeds from sales of investments and interests in joint ventures and associates    5.0 9.4
Loans to joint ventures and associates      13 (11.7) (10.1)
Net cash used by investing activities       (5.4) (0.5)
Cash flows (used by)/from financing activities
Issue of ordinary share capital       22 0.7 65.0
Share issue costs      22 – (4.5)
Ordinary dividends paid      22 (4.5) –
Repayment of borrowings       (0.3) (1.0)
Payment of finance lease liabilities       – (0.1)
Net cash (used by)/from financing activities      (4.1) 59.4
Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts      13.1 78.4
Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts at beginning of the year    15 133.4 55.0
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes       0.4 –
Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts at end of the year    15 146.9 133.4
The Notes on pages 84 to 113 form part of these financial statements.
Consolidated cash flow statement 
Year ended 31 December 83  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
        2008  2007 
       Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Loss for the year      22 (0.8) (1.8)
Adjustments for:
Financial income       (2.5) (1.0)
Finance costs       1.1 3.0
Income tax       (0.6) (3.2)
Cash used by operations before changes in working capital and provisions    (2.8) (3.0)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables       (0.6) 0.1
Increase/(decrease) in payables       10.8 (28.7)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions       0.2 (0.7)
Cash from/(used by) operations       7.6 (32.3)
Interest paid       (2.8) (2.7)
Income taxes received       3.1 1.0
Net cash from/(used by) operating activities      7.9 (34.0)
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received       2.5 0.9
Net cash from investing activities       2.5 0.9
Cash flows (used by)/from financing activities     
Issue of ordinary share capital       22 0.7 65.0
Share issue costs      22 – (4.5)
Ordinary dividends paid      22 (4.5) –
Net cash (used by)/from financing activities      (3.8) 60.5
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents       6.6 27.4
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year     15 60.1 32.7
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year      15 66.7 60.1
The Notes on pages 84 to 113 form part of these financial statements.
Company cash flow statement
Year ended 31 December 84  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
1 General information
Costain Group PLC (the Company) is a public limited  
company incorporated in the United Kingdom. The address of 
its registered office and principal place of business is disclosed 
in the back of the Annual Report. The principal activities of the 
Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the 
Group) are described in Note 3.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the 
year ended 31 December 2008 comprise the Group and the 
Group’s interests in associates and jointly controlled entities. The 
parent company financial statements present information about 
the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the 
directors on 11 March 2009.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies
Both the Company financial statements and the Group 
consolidated financial statements have been prepared and 
approved by the directors in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (Adopted 
IFRS). On publishing the parent Company financial statements 
here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is 
taking advantage of the exemption in s230 of the Companies Act 
1985 not to present its individual income statement and related 
notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
Basis of preparation
These financial statements are presented in Pounds sterling, 
rounded to the nearest hundred thousand. They are prepared on 
the historical cost basis, except that financial assets and derivative 
financial instruments are stated at their fair value as required.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
Adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the application of  
policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income 
and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions  
are based on historical experience and various other factors  
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances,  
the results of which form the basis of making the judgements  
about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not  
readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ 
from these estimates. Judgements made by management in  
the application of Adopted IFRS that have significant effect on 
the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of 
material adjustment in the next year are discussed in Note 27.
The Group’s business activities and the factors likely to affect its 
future development, performance and position are set out in the 
Business review on pages 38 to 42. The financial position of the 
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing and bonding 
facilities, use of financial instruments and hedging activities, 
exposure to credit risk and its objectives, policies and processes 
for managing its capital and financial risk are described in the 
Financial review on pages 47 to 49 and in Note 17. 
The Group uses cash balances provided from shareholders’ 
capital and retained earnings to meet its day-to-day working 
capital requirements and committed facilities from banks and 
surety companies to finance its bonding requirements. These 
facilities have financial covenants, including a profit-based one, 
which are tested quarterly. Having reviewed the latest 
projections for the Group, whose principal business comprises 
long-term contracts with a number of customers, mainly across 
the United Kingdom, the directors believe that the Group is well 
placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the 
current economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors believe that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing  
the Annual Report and Accounts.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise 
stated, been applied consistently by the Group and the 
Company to all periods presented in these financial statements.
(a) Interpretations effective in 2008.
•  IFRIC 14, ‘IAS 19 – The limit on a defined benefit asset, 
minimum funding requirements and their interaction’, provides 
guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount  
of the surplus that can be recognised as an asset. It also 
explains how the pension asset or liability may be affected by 
a statutory or contractual minimum funding requirement. The 
adoption of this interpretation had no impact on the Group’s 
financial statements for 2008. The Group has a pension deficit 
and is not subject to any minimum funding requirements.
•  IFRIC 11, ‘IFRS 2 – Group and treasury share transactions’, 
provides guidance on whether share-based transactions 
involving treasury shares or involving group entities should be 
accounted for as equity-settled or cash-settled share-based 
payment transactions in the stand-alone accounts of the 
parent and group companies. This interpretation does not 
have an impact on the Group’s financial statements.
(b)  Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing 
standards that are not yet effective and have not been  
early adopted by the group.
•  IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ is applicable for the Group’s 
financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2009. 
The application of IFRS 8 would not have affected primary 
statements as the only impact of the standard is on 
disclosure. 
•  IFRS 2 (Amendment), ‘Share-based payment’ (effective from  
1 January 2009). The amended standard deals with vesting 
conditions and cancellations. It clarifies that vesting conditions 
are service conditions and performance conditions only. All 
cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should 
receive the same accounting treatment. 
•  IFRIC 12 ‘Service Concession Arrangements’ is relevant from 
2008 and would impact the way in which the Group accounts 
for its Private Finance Initiative (PFI) investments. IFRIC 12  
has not been adopted as it is yet to be endorsed by the EU 
but it is currently not expected to have a significant impact on 
reported profit. See PFI investments policy Note on page 86.
•  IAS 23 (Amendment), ‘Borrowing costs’ (effective from  
1 January 2009). The amendment requires an entity  
to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset 
(one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready  
for use or sale) as part of the cost of that asset. The option  
of immediately expensing those borrowing costs will be 
removed. IAS 23 (Amendment) will be applied retrospectively 
from 1 January 2009, any impact will relate to the Group’s 
investments in joint ventures and associates.
Notes to the financial statements 85  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
2  Summary of significant accounting policies 
– continued
•  IAS 1 (Revised), ‘Presentation of financial statements’ 
(effective from 1 January 2009). All non-owner changes  
in equity will be required to be shown in a performance 
statement, but entities can choose whether to present one 
performance statement (the statement of comprehensive 
income) or two statements (the income statement and 
statement of comprehensive income). The Group will apply  
IAS 1 (Revised) from 1 January 2009. It is likely that both the 
income statement and statement of comprehensive income 
will be presented.
•  IAS 28 (Amendment), ‘Investments in associates’ (and 
consequential amendments to IAS 32, ‘Financial Instruments: 
Presentation’, and IFRS 7, ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’) 
(effective from 1 January 2009). An investment in associate  
is treated as a single asset for the purposes of impairment 
testing. Any impairment loss is not allocated to specific  
assets included within the investment, for example, goodwill. 
Reversals of impairment are recorded as an adjustment to the 
investment balance to the extent that the recoverable amount 
of the associate increases. The Group will apply the IAS 28 
(Amendment) from 1 January 2009.
•  IAS 19 (Amendment), ‘Employee benefits’ (effective  
from 1 January 2009). The amendment clarifies that a plan 
amendment that results in a change in the extent to which 
benefit promises are affected by future salary increases is  
a curtailment, while an amendment that changes benefits 
attributable to past service gives rise to a negative past  
service cost if it results in a reduction in the present value  
of the defined benefit obligation. The definition of return on plan 
assets has been amended to state that plan administration 
costs are deducted in the calculation of return on plan assets 
only to the extent that such costs have been excluded from 
measurement of the defined benefit obligation. The Group 
will apply the IAS 19 (Amendment) from 1 January 2009.
•  IFRIC 15, ‘Agreements for construction of real estates’ (effective 
from 1 January 2009). The interpretation, which has not been 
endorsed by the EU, clarifies whether IAS 18, ‘Revenue’, or  
IAS 11, ‘Construction contracts’, should be applied to particular 
transactions and is likely to result in IAS 18 being applied to  
a wider range of transactions. As the majority of the Group’s 
operations account for revenue under IAS 11, the adoption  
of IFRIC 15 is not expected to have any significant impact.
Basis of consolidation
(a)  The Group’s financial statements include the accounts  
of Costain Group PLC and subsidiaries controlled by the 
Company. Control exists where the Company has the power, 
directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating 
policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are 
exercisable are taken into account. The financial statements 
of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date that control commences until  
the date that control ceases.
(b)  Associates are operations over which the Group has  
the power to exercise significant influence but not control, 
generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 
50% of the voting rights. Associates are accounted for using 
the equity method. If the Group’s share of losses equals its 
investment, the Group does not recognise further losses, 
except to the extent that the Group has amounts receivable 
that may not be recoverable or has further commitments to 
provide funding. 
(c)  Jointly controlled entities are those joint ventures over  
whose activities the Group has joint control, established  
by contractual agreement. Jointly controlled entities are 
accounted for using the equity method from the date that  
the jointly controlled entity commences until the date that 
joint control of the entity ceases. The Group’s share of profits 
or losses are recognised in the income statement. If the 
Group’s share of losses equals its investment, the Group 
does not recognise further losses, except to the extent  
that the Group has amounts receivable that may not be 
recoverable or has further commitments to provide funding.
(d)  Jointly controlled operations are those joint ventures over 
which the Group has joint control, established by contractual 
agreement, which are not entities. Where a Group company 
is party to a jointly controlled operation, that company 
accounts for the assets it controls, the liabilities and 
expenses it incurs and its share of income. Such jointly 
controlled operations are reported in the consolidated 
financial statements on the same basis.
(e)  Intra-group balances and transactions together with any 
unrealised gains arising from intra-group transactions are 
eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with jointly 
controlled entities and jointly controlled operations are 
eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the entity or 
operation. The Group’s share of unrealised gains arising from 
transactions with associates and joint ventures is eliminated 
against the investment in the associate or joint ventures. The 
Group’s share of unrealised losses is eliminated in the same 
way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is 
no evidence of impairment.
Currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign 
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the 
balance sheet date are translated to Pounds sterling at the 
foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange 
differences arising on translation are recognised in the income 
statement. 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill 
and fair value adjustments, are translated to Pounds sterling  
at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The 
revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to 
Pounds sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange 
rates ruling at the dates of these transactions.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net 
investment in foreign operations and of related hedges are 
recognised directly in equity and those that have arisen since  
1 January 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRS, are 
presented as a separate component of equity. Cumulative 
exchange differences are released into the income statement 
upon disposal. Translation differences that arose before the date 
of transition to Adopted IFRS in respect of all foreign operations 
are not presented as a separate component.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable, net of value added tax and includes  
the Group’s share of revenue of jointly controlled operations. 86  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notes to the financial statements
continued
2  Summary of significant accounting policies 
– continued
Revenue from construction contracts is described below.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the  
Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of 
ownership of the goods to the buyer, the amount of revenue 
can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic 
benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. 
Revenue in respect of property development sales is recognised 
on the transfer to the buyer of the significant risks and rewards 
of ownership. This is typically achieved when the legal title is 
transferred. If at the time that the sale reaches legal completion 
there remain infrastructure works to complete, the nature and 
extent of the Group’s continuing involvement is assessed to 
determine whether it is appropriate to recognise revenue. Where 
the conditions for revenue recognition are met, an appropriate 
amount is recognised. Amounts deferred in respect of 
infrastructure works are only recognised when such works are 
substantially complete. 
Rental income is recognised in the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives 
are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income  
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Construction contracts
Revenue arises from increases in valuations on contracts. 
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated 
reliably and it is probable that the contract will be profitable, 
revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage  
of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date. 
Stage of completion is assessed by reference to the proportion 
of contract costs incurred for the work performed to date 
relative to the estimated total costs, except where this would 
not be representative of the stage of completion. 
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed 
total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised 
as an expense immediately.
Variations and claims are included in revenue where it is 
probable that the amount, which can be measured reliably,  
will be recovered from the customer.
When the outcome of a construction contract cannot be 
estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent 
of contract costs incurred where it is probable those costs will 
be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period  
in which they are incurred.
Construction work in progress is stated at cost plus profit 
recognised to date less a provision for foreseeable losses and 
less amounts billed and is included in amounts due from 
customers for contract work. Cost includes all expenditure 
related directly to specific projects and an appropriate allocation 
of fixed and variable overheads incurred in the Group’s 
contracting activities based on normal operating capacity. 
Amounts valued and billed to customers are included in trade 
receivables. Where cash received from customers exceeds the 
value of work performed, the amount is included in credit 
balances on long-term contracts.
Pre-contract costs
Costs associated with bidding for contracts are written off as 
incurred. When it is probable that a contract will be awarded, 
usually when the Group has secured preferred bidder status, 
costs incurred from that date to the date of financial close are 
carried forward in the balance sheet and included in amounts 
due from customers for contract work.
When financial close is achieved on PFI contracts, costs are 
recovered from the special purpose vehicle and pre-contract 
costs within this recovery that were not previously capitalised are 
credited to the income statement. When the Group retains an 
interest in the special purpose vehicle and accounts for its interest 
as an associate or joint venture, the credit is recognised over the 
life of the construction contract to which the costs relate.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses. Amortisation begins when 
an asset is available for use and is calculated on a straight-line 
basis to allocate the cost of assets over their estimated useful 
lives (computer software – generally 3 to 5 years). Subsequent 
expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only 
when it increases the future economic benefits embodied 
in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure  
is expensed as incurred.
Property, plant & equipment
Property, plant & equipment is carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. Where parts of an item  
of property, plant & equipment have different useful lives,  
they are accounted for as separate items. Cost comprises 
purchase price and directly attributable costs. Freehold land  
is not depreciated. For all other property, plant & equipment, 
depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate 
cost less residual values of the assets over their estimated 
useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings  50 years
Leasehold buildings  Shorter of 50 years or lease term
Plant & equipment   Remaining useful life  
(generally 3-12½ years)
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed,  
and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.  
When revalued assets are sold, the amounts included in  
other reserves are transferred to retained earnings.
Investments – Company
Company investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less 
impairment losses less any pre-acquisition dividends received.
PFI investments
As IFRIC 12 is yet to be endorsed by the EU, the Group has 
opted to continue to apply elements of the approach set out  
in UK Financial Reporting Standard 5, ‘Reporting the substance 
of transactions’ in accounting for its interests in PFI projects, 
which are all undertaken by jointly controlled entities or 
associates. The Group recognises the FRS 5 finance debtors 
relating to concession arrangements at amortised cost, as 
defined by IAS 39. FRS 5 fixed assets relating to concession 
arrangements are accounted for in accordance with IAS 16 
property, plant & equipment. The impact of adopting IFRIC 12  
is not expected to be significant.  87  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
2  Summary of significant accounting policies 
– continued
The PFI associates and jointly controlled entities use derivatives 
to manage the financial risks to which they are exposed in 
relation to changes in interest rates and the Retail Price Index 
(RPI). Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments 
that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows 
are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in the income statement. Changes  
in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not 
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income 
statement as they arise. Losses are recognised only to the 
amount of the carrying value of the investment, including loans, 
except if the Group has future funding commitments, losses  
are recognised to the level of that commitment.
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, other than 
inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each 
balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication 
of impairment. If any such indication exists, the assets’ 
recoverable amount is estimated. 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying  
amount of an asset, or its cash-generating unit, is less than  
the recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised  
in the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change  
in the estimates resulting in the recoverable amount rising above 
the impaired carrying value of the asset. An impairment loss  
is reversed only to the extent that the carrying amount of the 
assets does not exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no 
impairment loss had been recognised.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the  
Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits  
will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, 
provisions are determined by discounting the expected future 
cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and, where 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the 
expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract 
are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations 
under the contract.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable 
and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the 
year. Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in 
the income statement because it excludes items of income or 
expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it 
further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.  
The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates 
and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable 
on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding  
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is 
accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.  
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all temporary 
differences except for those specific exemptions set out below 
and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it  
is probable that future taxable profits will be available against 
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.  
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at  
each balance sheet date. Such assets and liabilities are not 
recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial 
recognition of goodwill or other assets and liabilities (other than 
in a business combination) in a transaction that affects neither 
the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for temporary differences 
arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint 
ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal 
of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred  
tax is calculated at the tax rates based on those enacted or 
substantially enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax 
is charged or credited in the income statement except when it 
relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which 
case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Additional taxes arising from the distribution of dividends are 
recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related 
dividend.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases where substantially  
all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the 
Group. Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the 
lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the 
present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments 
are apportioned between the liability and finance charge to 
produce a constant rate of interest on the finance lease balance 
outstanding. Assets capitalised under finance leases are 
depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or  
the lease term and adjusted for impairment losses. The interest 
expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in 
the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
Leases other than finance leases are classified as operating 
leases. Payments made under operating leases are recognised 
as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term. Any incentives to enter into operating 
leases are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over  
the lease term on a straight-line basis. Operating lease income 
is credited to the income statement as it is earned.
Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts  
to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its 
Group, the Company considers these to be insurance 
arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, 
the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent 
liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company 
will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. 88  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notes to the financial statements
continued
2  Summary of significant accounting policies 
– continued
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs 
directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are 
shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised as distributions to equity holders in 
the period in which they are declared. Dividends proposed but 
not declared are not recognised but are disclosed in the notes 
to the financial statements.
Share-based payments
The Group has equity-settled and cash-settled share-based 
compensation plans. 
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair  
value at the date of grant and the fair value is expensed over the 
vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of awards that 
will eventually vest. For cash-settled share-based payments,  
a liability equal to the portion of the services received is 
recognised at its current fair value determined at each balance 
sheet date. Fair value is measured by the use of the Black-
Scholes option pricing model.
IFRS 2 has been applied, in accordance with IFRS 1, to equity 
settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 and not 
vested at 1 January 2005. 
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to  
the employees of its subsidiaries, it recognises in its individual 
financial statements an increase in the cost of investment in 
its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based 
payment charge recognised in its subsidiaries’ financial 
statements, with the corresponding credit being recognised 
directly in equity.
Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a pension scheme in the United Kingdom 
providing benefits based on pensionable salary. The assets of 
the scheme are held separately from those of the Group.
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values. 
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit 
method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high 
quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the 
liability. The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect  
of the defined benefit pension scheme is the present value of 
the defined benefit obligations less the fair value of scheme 
assets at the balance sheet date. 
The increase in the present value of the liabilities of the  
Group’s defined benefit pension scheme expected to arise  
from employee service in the period is charged to profit from 
operations. The expected return on the scheme’s assets and 
the increase during the period in the present value of the 
scheme’s liabilities arising from the passage of time are included 
in financial income and finance costs respectively. Actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated statement 
of recognised income and expense. 
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension 
plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement  
as incurred.
Financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the 
Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to 
the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets
Financial assets are classified as available-for-sale financial 
assets, loans and receivables and financial assets classified  
as at fair value through profit and loss. The classification 
depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets  
and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
De-recognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows from that asset expire;  
or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
Effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the 
amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest 
income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate  
is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts 
(including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral 
part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other 
premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the financial 
asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period. Income is 
recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have 
fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an  
active market are classified as loans and receivables. Loans  
and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest income 
is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for 
short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would 
be immaterial.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables do not carry interest and are stated 
at their initial value less impairment losses. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call 
deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and 
form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are 
included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for  
the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on trade  
date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under  
a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment  
within the timeframe established by the market concerned. 
Investments are measured initially at fair value, plus transaction 
costs, except financial assets classified as at fair value through 
profit or loss, which are measured initially at fair value. 89  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
2  Summary of significant accounting policies 
– continued
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at 
each balance sheet date. Financial assets are impaired where 
there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more 
events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial 
asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have 
been impacted.
Objective evidence of impairment could include:
•  significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty; or
• default or delinquency in interest or principal payments; or
•  it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy 
or financial re-organisation.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of 
the impairment is the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, 
discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced  
by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets. If,  
in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss 
decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to  
an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the 
previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through  
the income statement. It is reversed only to the extent that the 
carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment 
is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would 
have been had the impairment not been recognised.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured  
at fair value, net of transaction costs. Financial liabilities are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, with interest expense recognised on an 
effective yield basis. Where borrowings are the hedged item  
in an effective fair value hedge relationship, the carrying value  
is adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with 
the hedged risk.
De-recognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises financial liabilities only when the 
Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments in order to 
manage risks arising from changes in foreign exchange rates, 
interest rates and inflation. 
Derivative financial instruments are measured at their fair  
value and those utilised by the Group or its investments include 
interest rate and RPI swaps and forward foreign exchange 
contracts. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their 
quoted market value at the balance sheet date. The fair value 
of interest rate and RPI swaps is the estimated amount that  
the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the 
balance sheet date. Valuations for forward exchange contracts 
and interest rate and RPI swaps are determined using valuation 
techniques supported by reference to market values for similar 
transactions.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as 
hedges in line with the Group’s risk management policies. 
Hedges are classified as follows:
•  Fair value hedges that hedge the exposure to changes  
in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
•  Cash flow hedges that hedge exposure to variability in cash 
flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated 
with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from re-measuring the 
hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the income 
statement and any gain or loss on the hedged item is adjusted 
against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly 
recognised in the income statement.
For cash flow hedges, the portion of the gain or the loss on  
the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective 
hedge is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion in  
the income statement. When hedged cash flows result in the 
recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated 
gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in 
the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For all other cash 
flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity 
are transferred to the income statement in the same period  
in which the hedged cash flow affects the income statement.
 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument previously recognised in equity is retained  
in equity until the hedged transaction occurs. If the hedged 
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative 
gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income 
statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of 
derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges  
are recognised in the income statement.  90  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notes to the financial statements
continued
3 Business and geographical segment information by origin
In the opinion of the directors, the business segments are Civil Engineering, Building, Oil, Gas & Process and International, which 
undertake engineering and construction projects, Property Development operations in Spain and Central costs. PFI investments are 
allocated to the appropriate segment depending on the nature of the construction element within the concession. These represent 
the Group’s primary segments. Secondary segments are presented geographically.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a 
reasonable basis. Central costs comprise mainly corporate expenses. Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during 
the period to acquire segment assets that are expected to be used for more than one period.
       Property   
   Civil  Oil, Gas  Inter- Develop- Central  
   Engineering Building & Process national ment costs Total 
Year ended 31 December 2008  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Group revenue  554.5 267.7 79.7 0.7 – – 902.6
Share of revenue of JVs and associates   65.5 17.9 3.9 5.0 1.1 – 93.4
Total revenue  620.0 285.6 83.6 5.7 1.1 – 996.0
       
Group operating profit/(loss)  28.2 (8.5) 5.5 – – (5.7) 19.5
Profit on sales of JVs and associates  – 2.7 – – – – 2.7
Share of results of JVs and associates   (0.2) 0.6 – (2.0) (2.3) – (3.9)
Segment result  28.0 (5.2) 5.5 (2.0) (2.3) (5.7) 18.3
Net financing income        4.8
Income tax expense        (4.9)
Profit for the year         18.2
Group assets  141.4 27.5 26.0 2.5 – – 197.4
Investments in and loans to JVs and associates 0.2 1.3 0.3 5.7 35.2 – 42.7
Segment assets  141.6 28.8 26.3 8.2 35.2 – 240.1
Unallocated assets        166.2
Total assets        406.3
Group liabilities  (208.3) (63.6) (35.0) (4.9) – (0.5) (312.3)
Provisions against JVs and associates  – (7.8) – – – – (7.8)
Segment liabilities  (208.3) (71.4) (35.0) (4.9) – (0.5) (320.1)
Unallocated liabilities         (52.6)
Total liabilities        (372.7)
Capital expenditure  3.7 1.0 1.2 – – – 5.9
Depreciation/amortisation  1.9 0.7 0.5 – – – 3.1 91  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
3 Business and geographical segment information by origin – continued
       Property   
   Civil  Oil, Gas  Inter- Develop- Central  
   Engineering Building & Process national ment costs Total 
Year ended 31 December 2007  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Group revenue  441.4 249.7 53.8 2.7 – – 747.6
Share of revenue of JVs and associates   97.9 5.0 8.5 15.3 3.6 – 130.3
Total revenue  539.3 254.7 62.3 18.0 3.6 – 877.9
Group operating profit/(loss)  16.9 (2.3) 1.7 (0.2) – (6.4) 9.7
Profit on sale of investment  – 2.7 – – – – 2.7
Profit on sales of JVs and associates  3.0 – – 0.2 – – 3.2
Share of results of JVs and associates   0.1 0.4 0.2 – 0.2 – 0.9
Segment result  20.0 0.8 1.9 – 0.2 (6.4) 16.5
Net financing income        3.3
Income tax expense        (3.8)
Profit for the year        16.0
Group assets  115.0 29.4 17.9 2.9 – – 165.2
Investments in and loans to JVs and associates 1.6 8.8 0.1 3.4 26.2 – 40.1
Segment assets  116.6 38.2 18.0 6.3 26.2 – 205.3
Unallocated assets        154.6
Total assets        359.9
Group liabilities  (168.5) (77.3) (24.4) (5.0) – (0.6) (275.8)
Provisions against JVs and associates  (0.8) (2.7) (0.2) – – – (3.7)
Segment liabilities  (169.3) (80.0) (24.6) (5.0) – (0.6) (279.5)
Unallocated liabilities        (53.0)
Total liabilities        (332.5)
Capital expenditure  0.3 0.1 0.5 0.1 – – 1.0
Depreciation/amortisation  1.7 0.8 0.2 0.1 – – 2.8
 Revenue Segment result
  
      2008 2007 2008 2007 
      £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom     969.6 833.8 20.6 16.3
Spain     1.1 3.6 (2.3) 0.2
Rest of the world     25.3 40.5 – –
      996.0 877.9 18.3 16.5
     
 Segment assets Capital expenditure
  
      2008 2007 2008 2007 
      £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom     181.4 167.4 5.0 0.6
Spain     35.2 26.2 – –
Rest of the world     23.5 11.7 0.9 0.4
      240.1 205.3 5.9 1.0 92  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notes to the financial statements
continued
4 Other operating expenses and income
        2008 2007 
        £m £m
Profit before tax is stated after charging:
Depreciation (Note 11)       2.1 1.9
Amortisation (Note 12)       1.0 0.9
Hire of plant and machinery       30.1 30.7
Rent of land and buildings       4.2 3.2
and after crediting:
Income from rents of land and buildings       1.7 1.6
Profit on sales of interests in joint ventures and associates (see below)     2.7 3.2
Profit on sales of investments (see below)       – 2.7
In 2008, the Group sold its interest in the associate, Kent Education Partnership Ltd and in its joint venture Seafort Holdings Ltd,  
for a net aggregate cash consideration of £9.4 million generating profits on disposal of £1.6 million and £1.1 million respectively.
In 2007, the Group sold its investment in Bridgend Custodial Services Ltd and its interest in the joint venture, Sirhowy Enterprise 
Way (Holdings) Ltd, for a net aggregate cash consideration of £8.4 million generating profits on disposal of £2.7 million and  
£3.0 million respectively. 
In 2007, the Group also disposed of its interests in Nigeria. These comprised the Group’s associate Costain (West Africa) Plc,  
sold for a net cash consideration of £1.0 million, generating a profit of £0.2 million and the Group’s subsidiary undertaking,  
Richard Costain Construction & Engineering Ltd. The consideration and net assets for this subsidiary undertaking at the date  
of sale were both £Nil.
Auditor remuneration
        2008 2007 
        £m £m
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor for the audit of the annual accounts    0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for other services:
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation     0.4 0.4
Other services relating to corporate finance transactions      0.1 0.4
        0.6 0.9
Amounts paid to the Company’s auditors and their associates in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the 
Company’s financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required to be disclosed on a consolidated basis.
5 Employee benefit expense
Group
        2008 2007 
        £m £m
Wages and salaries       113.1 104.0
Social security costs       10.5 9.6
Pension costs (Note 20)       7.4 8.1
Share options granted to directors and employees      0.6 0.2
        131.6 121.9
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year was:
        2008 2007 
        Number Number
Civil Engineering       1,855 1,667
Building       570 515
Oil, Gas & Process       1,074 702
International       307 714
Central costs       23 24
        3,829 3,622
Company
The Company does not employ any personnel, except for the directors considered in Note 6. 93  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
6 Remuneration of directors
Details of directors’ remuneration, pension entitlements, LTIPs, contingent awards and share options are included in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 68 to 75.
7 Net financing income
        2008 2007 
        £m £m
Interest income from bank deposits       5.6 2.4
Interest income on loans to related parties       0.9 0.5
Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets     28.3 26.7
Financial income       34.8 29.6
Interest expense       (0.7) (0.5)
Interest cost on the present value of the defined benefit obligations     (29.3) (25.8)
Finance costs       (30.0) (26.3)
Net financing income       4.8 3.3
Interest income on loans to related parties relates to shareholder loan interest receivable from the Group’s investments in joint 
ventures and associates.
8 Earnings per share
The calculation of earnings per share is based on profit attributable to equity holders of the parent of £18.2 million  
(2007: £16.0 million) and the number of shares set out below: 
        2008 2007 
         Number ( m ) Number ( m )
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic earnings per share calculation   631.9 449.5
Dilutive potential ordinary shares:
SAYE Scheme         2.1 5.4
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for diluted earnings per share calculation  634.0 454.9
In 2007, the weighted average number of shares and the number of dilutive potential ordinary shares were adjusted to take account 
of the bonus element of the additional equity raised by way of a rights issue in that year.
9 Income tax
        2008 2007 
        £m £m
On profit for the year:
United Kingdom corporation tax at 28.5% (2007: 30.0%)       – 0.1
Adjustments in respect of prior years       0.1 0.8
Overseas taxation       – (0.3)
Current tax credit for the year       0.1 0.6
Deferred taxation       (5.0) (4.0)
Adjustments in respect of prior years       – (0.4)
Total income tax expense in the income statement      (4.9) (3.8)
        2008 2007 
        £m £m
Tax reconciliation:
Profit before tax       23.1 19.8
Income tax at 28.5% (2007: 30.0%)        (6.6) (5.9)
Rate adjustments relating to overseas profits       0.5 0.4
Share of results of joint ventures and associates at 28.5% (2007: 30.0%)    (1.1) 0.3
Disallowed provisions and expenses       (0.8) (0.5)
Non-taxable gains and profits relieved by capital losses       0.8 1.8
Unrelieved overseas tax       – (0.2)
Decrease/(increase) in temporary differences       2.1 (0.4)
Rate adjustment relating to deferred tax       0.1 0.3
Adjustments in respect of prior years       0.1 0.4
Total income tax expense in the income statement      (4.9) (3.8) 94  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notes to the financial statements
continued
   
9 Income tax – continued
The income tax above does not include any amounts for joint ventures and associates, whose results are disclosed in the income 
statement net of tax.
The current tax liabilities of £1.7 million (2007: £1.8 million) represent the amount of income taxes in respect of current and  
prior periods.
Accumulated tax losses carried forward, mainly in the United Kingdom, are estimated at £14.2 million (2007: £17.0 million).
The elements of deferred taxation are as follows:
        2008 2007 
        £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances       2.3 1.9
Short-term temporary differences       2.5 5.1
Retirement benefit obligations       14.1 14.2
Deferred tax asset       18.9 21.2
The movements in the deferred taxation balance were as follows:
        2008 2007 
        £m £m
Asset at 1 January       21.2 30.6
Amount charged to the income statement       (5.0) (4.0)
Adjustments in respect of prior years       – (0.4)
Amount credited/(charged) to equity       2.7 (5.0)
Asset at 31 December       18.9 21.2
        2008 2007 
        £m £m
Deferred tax recognised in the income statement:
Accelerated capital allowances       0.4 0.5
Short-term temporary differences       (2.3) (3.4)
Retirement benefit obligations       (3.1) (1.5)
        (5.0) (4.4)
Deferred tax recognised directly in equity:
Relating to defined benefit pension scheme       3.0 (3.3)
Relating to cash flow hedges       (0.3) –
Tax rate adjustment to brought forward amounts      – (1.7)
        2.7 (5.0)
Factors that may affect future tax charges are:
(a)  No deferred tax has been recognised on the un-remitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where 
remittances are expected.
(b)  The Group has potential deferred tax assets in its UK operations that have not been recognised at 31 December 2008 on the 
basis that their future economic benefits were not assured at the balance sheet date.
The full potential deferred tax assets not recognised at 31 December 2008 at 28.0% (2007: 28.0%) were:
 Group Company
  
      2008 2007 2008 2007 
      £m £m £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances     1.0 1.0 – –
Short-term temporary differences     4.3 5.6 0.1 0.1
Trading tax losses     4.8 5.6 – –
Management expenses and charges     15.9 15.9 15.9 15.9
Total temporary differences     26.0 28.1 16.0 16.0
Surplus ACT     9.7 9.6 – –
Capital losses     77.3 77.8 67.5 68.0
 
The utilisation of unrecognised temporary differences and capital losses was £2.6 million of which £2.1 million related to the current 
year as shown in the tax reconciliation.
There are no expiry dates and tax relief will be obtained if suitable profits arise in future accounting periods. 95  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
10 Dividends per share
During the year, the 2007 final dividend of 0.50p (2006: Nil pence) per share was paid to shareholders (£3.0 million in cash  
and £0.1 million via scrip alternative). The Company also paid an interim 2008 dividend of 0.25p (2007: Nil pence) per share  
(£1.5 million in cash and £0.1 million via scrip alternative).
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008 of 0.50p per share, amounting to a dividend of £3.2 million, 
is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. If approved, the dividend is expected to be paid on 22 May 2009. These financial 
statements do not reflect this dividend payable. The payment will be matched by a contribution to the Group’s defined benefit 
pension scheme.
11 Property, plant & equipment – Group
       Plant and 
     Land and buildings  equipment Total
   
     Freehold Leasehold
  
      Over 50 50 years   
      years and under   
     £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2007    1.2 0.4 0.1 14.6 16.3
Currency realignment    – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Additions    – – 0.1 0.7 0.8
Disposals    – (0.1) – (0.2) (0.3)
Disposal of subsidiary    – – – (1.3) (1.3)
At 31 December 2007    1.2 0.3 0.2 13.5 15.2
At 1 January 2008    1.2 0.3 0.2 13.5 15.2
Currency realignment    – – 0.1 0.6 0.7
Additions    – – 0.1 5.7 5.8
Disposals    – – – (0.9) (0.9)
At 31 December 2008    1.2 0.3 0.4 18.9 20.8
Depreciation     
At 1 January 2007    0.1 0.2 – 10.3 10.6
Currency realignment    – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Provided in year    – – – 1.9 1.9
Disposals    – (0.1) – (0.2) (0.3)
Disposal of subsidiary    – – – (0.4) (0.4)
At 31 December 2007    0.1 0.1 – 11.5 11.7
At 1 January 2008    0.1 0.1 – 11.5 11.7
Currency realignment    – – – 0.2 0.2
Provided in year    – – 0.1 2.0 2.1
Disposals    – – – (0.9) (0.9)
At 31 December 2008    0.1 0.1 0.1 12.8 13.1
Net book value     
At 31 December 2008    1.1 0.2 0.3 6.1 7.7
At 31 December 2007    1.1 0.2 0.2 2.0 3.5
At 1 January 2007    1.1 0.2 0.1 4.3 5.7
Freehold land and buildings includes land of £0.7 million (2007: £0.7 million) on which no depreciation has been charged. 96  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notes to the financial statements
continued
12 Intangible assets – Group
        2008 2007 
        £m £m
Cost
At 1 January       5.0 4.8
Additions       0.1 0.2
Disposals       (0.2) –
At 31 December        4.9 5.0
Amortisation   
At 1 January       2.3 1.4
Provided in year       1.0 0.9
Disposals       (0.2) –
At 31 December        3.1 2.3
Net book value   
At 31 December       1.8 2.7
At 1 January       2.7 3.4
Net book value of intangible assets comprises £1.7 million (2007: £2.5 million) relating to software development costs and  
£0.1 million (2007: £0.2 million) relating to software licences. 97  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
13 Investments 
      Loans 
    Joint  to joint Loans to Other  
    ventures Associates ventures associates investments Total 
Group   £m £m £m  £m £m £m
Cost or fair value      
At 1 January 2007   21.2 0.5 9.7 5.8 3.6 40.8
Currency realignment   1.6 – – – – 1.6
Additions   – 0.2 9.3 0.8 – 10.3
Disposals   – (0.4) (1.8) (4.6) (3.6) (10.4)
At 31 December 2007   22.8 0.3 17.2 2.0 – 42.3
      
At 1 January 2008   22.8 0.3 17.2 2.0 – 42.3
Currency realignment   7.3 0.1 0.5 – – 7.9
Additions   – – 6.0 5.7 – 11.7
Disposals   – – (2.5) (2.7) – (5.2)
At 31 December 2008   30.1 0.4 21.2 5.0 – 56.7
      
Share of post-acquisition reserves      
At 1 January 2007   (6.9) (3.2) – – – (10.1)
Currency realignment   0.5 – – – – 0.5
Disposals   0.1 1.3 – – – 1.4
Profit for the year   0.6 0.3 – – – 0.9
Cash flow hedges   (2.4) 2.3 – – – (0.1)
At 31 December 2007   (8.1) 0.7 – – – (7.4)
At 1 January 2008   (8.1) 0.7 – – – (7.4)
Currency realignment   0.4 – – – – 0.4
Disposals   (0.5) (0.7) – – – (1.2)
Dividends   (0.7) – – – – (0.7)
Loss for the year   (3.7) (0.2) – – – (3.9)
Cash flow hedges   (3.5) (8.1) – – – (11.6)
At 31 December 2008   (16.1) (8.3) – – – (24.4)
Amounts written off      
At 1 January 2007   – (0.2) – (2.7) – (2.9)
Disposals   – 0.2 – 2.7 – 2.9
At 31 December 2007   – – – – – –
At 1 January 2008   – – – – – –
Additions   – (0.2) – (0.2) – (0.4)
At 31 December 2008   – (0.2) – (0.2) – (0.4)
Reclassification (see page 98)      
At 1 January 2007   10.7 4.1 (6.4) (1.1) – 7.3
During the year   3.6 (2.9) (3.5) 0.7 – (2.1)
At 31 December 2007   14.3 1.2 (9.9) (0.4) – 5.2
At 1 January 2008   14.3 1.2 (9.9) (0.4) – 5.2
During the year   3.9 7.0 (1.8) (3.5) – 5.6
At 31 December 2008   18.2 8.2 (11.7) (3.9) – 10.8
Net book value      
At 31 December 2008   32.2 0.1 9.5 0.9 – 42.7
At 31 December 2007   29.0 2.2 7.3 1.6 – 40.1
At 1 January 2007   25.0 1.2 3.3 2.0 3.6 35.1 98  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notes to the financial statements
continued
13 Investments – continued
Presentation in the balance sheet in respect of joint ventures and associates restricts the minimum carrying value to £Nil. If the 
carrying value becomes negative, the corresponding value of any loans or other advances to those investments is reduced or, where 
future funding obligations exist, a provision is made. These transfers are shown within the reclassifications.
The analysis of the Group’s share of joint ventures and associates is set out below:
 2008 2007
  
  Alcaidesa Other joint   Alcaidesa Other joint   
  Holding SA ventures Associates Total Holding SA ventures Associates Total 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 1.1 71.8 20.5 93.4 3.6 118.9 7.8 130.3
        
(Loss)/profit before tax (3.3) (1.3) (0.1) (4.7) 0.4 0.3 0.9 1.6
Income tax 1.0 (0.1) (0.1) 0.8 (0.2) (0.1) (0.4) (0.7)
(Loss)/profit for the year (2.3) (1.4) (0.2) (3.9) 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.9
        
Non-current assets 13.3 73.9 71.8 159.0 7.7 72.5 45.4 125.6
Current assets 40.6 21.1 15.2 76.9 31.0 67.5 13.7 112.2
Current liabilities (2.9) (41.5)  (7.8) (52.2) (1.9) (47.0) (6.9) (55.8)
Non-current liabilities (19.2) (53.1) (79.1) (151.4) (10.6) (90.2) (50.0) (150.8)
Investments in joint ventures  
and associates 31.8 0.4 0.1 32.3 26.2 2.8 2.2 31.2
Financial commitments 5.8 3.5 4.7 14.0 – 10.3 – 10.3
Capital commitments – 0.2 10.5 10.7 – 50.8 – 50.8
Net interest payable by joint ventures and associates in 2008 was £2.8 million (2007: £0.3 million payable). The applicable interest 
rates are income of 0.5% – 5.0% per annum (2007: 3.0% – 5.4%) and expense of 4.5% – 12.5% per annum (2007: 4.5% – 12.5%).
The financial commitments relate to Alcaidesa Holding SA and joint ventures and associates involved in PFI schemes and the capital 
commitments to construction work being undertaken by the Costain Group. All figures are the Group’s share.
The analysis of the total revenue, income, assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates in which the Group has an interest  
is set out below:
 2008 2007
  
  Alcaidesa Other joint   Alcaidesa Other joint 
  Holding SA ventures Associates Total Holding SA  ventures Associates Total 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2.1 173.7 65.5 241.3 7.2 284.7 29.7 321.6
        
(Loss)/profit before tax (6.6) (2.6) (0.8) (10.0) 0.7 0.5 3.2 4.4
Income tax  2.1 (0.2) (0.4) 1.5 (0.4) (0.1) (1.5) (2.0)
(Loss)/profit for the year (4.5) (2.8) (1.2) (8.5) 0.3 0.4 1.7 2.4
        
Non-current assets 26.7 147.6 226.1 400.4 15.3 183.6 150.0 348.9
Current assets 81.1 48.4 55.2 184.7 62.0 153.1 58.0 273.1
Current liabilities (5.8) (88.9) (29.5) (124.2) (3.9) (107.0) (29.6) (140.5)
Non-current liabilities (38.4) (106.1) (251.5) (396.0) (21.1) (222.7) (169.4) (413.2)
Equity 63.6 1.0 0.3 64.9 52.3 7.0 9.0 68.3
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates are shown in Note 25.
In the 2007 comparatives analysis, after due consideration, the split of assets between current and non-current categories  
has been revised to better reflect the underlying relationships and transactions. This re-analysis has had no effect on either  
the profit reported or the assets recognised in the year. 99  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
13 Investments – continued
Company
Investments in subsidiaries        £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2007        388.1
Additions        0.2
At 31 December 2007        388.3
Additions        0.5
At 31 December 2008        388.8
 
Amounts written off 
At 1 January 2007, 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2008      275.5
 
Net book value 
At 31 December 2008        113.3
 
At 31 December 2007        112.8
 
At 1 January 2007        112.6
Additions relate to the application of IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2.
 
14 Trade and other receivables
 Group Company
  
      2008 2007 2008 2007 
      £m £m £m £m
Amounts included in current assets:       
Trade receivables     94.3 83.8 – –
Other receivables     9.5 8.2 – –
Amounts due from customers for contract work    68.5 45.8 – –
Prepayments and accrued income     4.9 4.9 0.6 0.7
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates    3.1 7.6 – –
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings     – – 1.3 3.1
      180.3 150.3 1.9 3.8
Amounts included in non-current assets:
Other receivables     6.0 6.7 – –
 
At 31 December 2008, amounts due from customers for contract work falling due within one year and other receivables falling due 
after more than one year included retentions of £16.3 million (2007: £15.9 million) relating to construction contracts in progress.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value. Based on prior 
experience, the directors believe that the trade receivables are recoverable and, other than as disclosed in Note 26, there is no 
allowance for doubtful debts (2007: £Nil).
The average credit period within trade receivables on amounts billed for construction work and on sales of goods is 38 days  
(2007: 41 days). The analysis of the due dates of the trade receivables was £50.9 million (2007: £50.1 million) due within 30 days, 
£42.8 million (2007: £32.7 million) due between 30 and 60 days and £Nil (2007: £1.0 million) due after 60 days.
Included in the Group’s trade receivables balance are debtors, excluding amounts due from jointly controlled operations that 
eliminate on consolidation, with a carrying amount of £1.6 million (2007: £3.7 million), which are past due at the reporting date 
for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are considered 
recoverable. The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) for all contracts in progress at the  
balance sheet date was £2,090.1 million (2007: £1,796.2 million). Progress billings and advances received from customers under 
open construction contracts amounted to £1,974.2 million (2007: £1,658.3 million). Advances for which work has not started,  
and billings in excess of costs incurred and recognised profits are presented in credit balances on long-term contracts. 100  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notes to the financial statements
continued
15 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents are analysed below, and include the Group’s share of cash held by jointly controlled operations of  
£34.2 million (2007: £28.8 million).
 Group Company
  
      2008 2007 2008 2007 
      £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents     147.3 133.4 66.7 60.1
Bank overdrafts     (0.4) – – –
Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts in the cash flow statement   146.9 133.4 66.7 60.1
16 Interest bearing loans and borrowings – Group
        2008 2007 
        £m £m
Current liabilities:
Bank loans       0.3  0.6
Total interest bearing loans and borrowings       0.3 0.6
17 Financial instruments
The Group’s centralised treasury function manages the Group’s financial risk, principally arising from movements in foreign  
currency rates, interest rates and inflation rates, and liquidity and funding risks, in accordance with policies agreed by the directors. 
To manage these risks, the Group uses forward foreign currency sale and purchase contracts in respect of its foreign currency 
requirements and its PFI investments have entered into interest rate and RPI swaps. The Group does not enter into speculative 
transactions. The Company does not have any forward foreign currency contracts or other derivatives.
Interest rate risk
The Group has cash balances in the United Kingdom and overseas and has borrowings overseas.
The Group and its subsidiary undertakings are currently undertaking no interest rate hedging. The Group’s PFI investments have 
entered into interest rate derivatives as a means of hedging interest rate risk. The PFI investments’ policy is to fix the interest cost  
on variable rate financing on specific PFI projects by taking out floating to fixed interest rate swaps; these swaps are designated  
to underlying debt obligations and are expected to be effective for cash flow hedge accounting purposes. 
A 1% rise in interest rates would have increased the annual net interest income on the Group’s cash balances by £1.2 million.
Inflation risk
The Group’s PFI investments have entered into RPI derivatives as a means of hedging inflation risk. These RPI swaps hedge  
the variability of inflation over the concession period. The unitary payment received as revenue is 100% RPI linked, thus in order  
to hedge this potential movement a proportion of the unitary payment is fixed in order to match the underlying fixed cost within  
the project. The proportion of revenue that is fixed will vary from project to project but will ensure that neither debt servicing nor 
shareholder returns vary too widely.
Foreign currency risk
The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from sales or purchases by its operating companies in currencies other 
than the operating company’s measurement currency. Its current strategy is to hedge both committed and forecast foreign currency 
exposures, where applicable, and where the transaction timing and amount can be determined reliably and no natural hedge exists. 
The Group only enters into forward contracts when a contractual commitment exists in respect of the foreign currency transaction 
and its policy is to negotiate the terms of the hedge derivatives to match the terms of the hedged item to maximise hedge 
effectiveness.
At 31 December 2008, the net monetary assets denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the operation 
involved were Hong Kong dollar denominated net liabilities of £0.1 million (2007: £0.6 million), US Dollar denominated net assets  
of £9.0 million (2007: £2.6 million) and Euro denominated net assets of £Nil (2007: £0.3 million) in the books of sterling companies. 
A 10% strengthening in the US Dollar would have improved the results by £0.1 million (2007: £0.1 million). A 10% strengthening in 
the Euro would have adversely impacted the results by £0.3 million (2007: £Nil).
 
Cash flow hedges
At 31 December 2008, the Group held one foreign currency contract designated as a hedge of future sales to customers for which 
the Group has firm commitments. The Group also had seven foreign currency contracts outstanding at 31 December 2008 
designated as hedges of expected future purchases.
The Group classifies forward exchange contracts, which hedge forecast transactions, as cash flow hedges and states them at fair 
value. The fair value of the outstanding contracts at 31 December 2008 was £0.6 million asset (£0.9 million less tax of £0.3 million) 
(2007: £Nil). These amounts were recognised as fair value derivatives. The terms of the foreign currency contracts match the terms 
of the commitments. There were no ineffective hedges at 31 December 2008 (2007: Nil). 101  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
17 Financial instruments – continued
At 31 December 2008, the Group’s PFI investments held the following interest rate swaps, which related to the fixing of the interest 
cost on variable rate debt and are being used to reduce the exposure to interest rate risk, and RPI swaps being used to hedge 
inflation risk. The Group classifies these swaps as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value. The net fair value of these swaps 
at 31 December 2008 was £13.3 million (liability) (£18.4 million less tax of £5.1 million) (2007: £1.7 million (liability) (£2.4 million less 
tax of £0.7 million)), comprising assets of £0.3 million (2007: £2.0 million) and liabilities of £13.6 million (2007: £3.7 million). These 
amounts were recognised within the value of the investment or within provisions, as appropriate, as fair value derivatives. There were 
no ineffective hedges at 31 December 2008 (2007: Nil).
 2008 2007
  
     Between      Between  
   Within one and After  Within one and After  
  Total one year five years five years Total one year five years  five years 
PFI swap obligations (before tax) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest rate swaps 16.6 0.6 2.5 13.5 1.0 – 0.1 0.9
RPI swaps 1.8 0.1 0.3 1.4 1.4 0.1 0.2 1.1
  18.4 0.7 2.8 14.9 2.4 0.1 0.3 2.0
Liquidity and funding risk
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity and funding risk rests with the Board of directors, which has put in place a monitoring and 
reporting framework to manage the Group’s requirements. The Group manages liquidity risk by monitoring actual and forecast  
(both short and medium term) cash flows and the maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities and by maintaining adequate  
cash reserves. The nature and timing of the contract cash flows causes the cash balances to vary over the month with the balance 
usually highest at the month end. In addition, the Christmas shutdown within the construction industry in the United Kingdom 
means that the year-end cash balance is usually the peak. The average month end cash balance during the year was  
£117.4 million.
In addition, long-term contracting requires the Group to have the facility to provide performance and other bonds, where necessary, 
to customers. Therefore, the Group is reliant on its ability to secure bank and surety bonds and monitors usage and regularly 
updates forecast usage of its banking and surety bonding facilities.
In 2007, the Group raised £59.8 million (net of expenses) by way of a rights issue to increase liquidity and negotiated increased 
banking and surety bonding facilities. In 2008, it negotiated an increase in these facilities and extended their term.
The Group and Company has the following unsecured bonding facilities available:
        2008 2007 
        £m £m
Expiring within one year       15.0 –
Expiring between one and two years*       – 200.0
Expiring between two and five years*       285.0 –
* Element of above facilities available for borrowings      5.0 25.0
Financial liabilities and assets 
The currency and maturity of the Group’s financial assets were as follows:
 2008 2007
  
    Between    Between  
   Within one and After  Within one and After 
  Total one year five years five years Total one year five years five years 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents:
Pounds sterling 140.8 140.8 – – 128.9 128.9 – –
UAE Dirham 4.2 4.2 – – 2.5 2.5 – –
US Dollar 1.5 1.5 – – 0.4 0.4 – –
Other 0.8 0.8 – – 1.6 1.6 – –
  147.3 147.3 – – 133.4 133.4 – –
Loans to JVs and associates: 
Pounds sterling 10.4 5.6 3.4 1.4 8.9 2.6 0.2 6.1
Trade and other receivables:
Pounds sterling 108.0 102.0 6.0 – 97.9 91.2 6.7 –
Other 1.8 1.8 – – 0.8 0.8 – –
  267.5 256.7 9.4 1.4 241.0 228.0 6.9 6.1 102  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notes to the financial statements
continued
17 Financial instruments – continued
The Group’s financial liabilities were denominated in the following currencies and had the following maturities:
 
 2008 2007
  
      Between   Between 
     Within one and  Within one and 
    Total one year five years Total year five years 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank overdraft – Hong Kong Dollar   0.4 0.4 – – – –
Bank loan – Hong Kong Dollar   0.3 0.3 – 0.6 0.6 –
    0.7 0.7 – 0.6 0.6 –
        
Trade and other payables:        
Pounds sterling   165.8 163.4 2.4 151.7 148.0 3.7
Other   6.6 6.6 – 3.6 3.6 –
    173.1 170.7 2.4 155.9 152.2 3.7
The bank loans and overdrafts are at floating rate and are unsecured.
The effective interest rates of financial assets and liabilities are:
        2008 2007 
        % %
Financial assets:
Cash and cash equivalents       0.0 – 6.1 0.0 – 6.1
Loans to JVs and associates       8.4 – 12.0 8.4 – 12.0
Financial liabilities:
Overdrafts       6.0 –
Bank loans       6.7 6.0
The Company’s financial assets comprised cash at bank of £66.7 million (2007: £60.1 million) denominated in Pounds sterling and 
maturing within one year.
There are no significant differences between the carrying values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities and their fair values.
Credit risk
Before entering into a contract with a customer, the Group uses an external credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s 
credit quality. Only if that assessment is satisfactory will the Group enter into the contract. Deposits in the United Kingdom are 
placed with the Group’s bank facility providers or, in jointly controlled operations, with banks agreed by the partners. Overseas 
deposits are placed with major banks operating in those countries. Transactions involving derivative financial instruments are with 
counter-parties with whom the Group has a signed netting agreement as well as sound credit ratings. Given their high credit ratings, 
management do not expect any counter-party to fail to meet its obligations.
At the balance sheet date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is 
represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, in the balance sheet.  
For further information see Note 14.
18 Trade and other payables
 Group Company
  
      2008 2007 2008 2007 
      £m £m £m £m 
Current liabilities:
Trade payables     144.3 119.3 – –
Other payables     22.0 29.0 – –
Social security     3.7 3.3 – –
Credit balances on long-term contracts     29.2 7.2 – –
Accruals and deferred income     105.5 109.0 0.1 0.2
Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates    0.3 0.3 – –
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings     – – 95.9 86.7
      305.0 268.1 96.0 86.9
Non-current liabilities:       
Other payables     2.4 3.7 – –
At 31 December 2008, credit balances on long-term contracts included advance payments from customers of £23.8 million  
(2007: £Nil).
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place that seek to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe. 103  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
19 Provisions
      Engineering &  Void PFI 
     Construction space investments Other Total 
Group     £m  £m  £m  £m £m
Current
At 1 January 2007    6.5 0.8 0.2 0.7 8.2
Provided    – 0.1 0.6 0.4 1.1
Utilised    (6.1) (0.7) – (0.1) (6.9)
Transfer    0.8 – – – 0.8
Reversed    (0.2) – – (0.3) (0.5)
At 31 December 2007    1.0 0.2 0.8 0.7 2.7
At 1 January 2008    1.0 0.2 0.8 0.7 2.7
Provided    – 1.4 2.2 0.4 4.0
Utilised    – (1.0) – (0.2) (1.2)
Transfer    (0.8) – – – (0.8)
At 31 December 2008    0.2 0.6 3.0 0.9 4.7
Non-current
At 1 January 2007    1.5 0.2 1.4 1.0 4.1
Provided    – 0.2 1.5 – 1.7
Transfer    (0.8) – – – (0.8)
At 31 December 2007    0.7 0.4 2.9 1.0 5.0
At 1 January 2008    0.7 0.4 2.9 1.0 5.0
Currency alignment    – – – 0.5 0.5
Provided    – – 1.9 0.4 2.3
Utilised    (0.6) – – – (0.6)
Transfer    0.8 – – – 0.8
At 31 December 2008    0.9 0.4 4.8 1.9 8.0
       Obligations to   
       non-trading   
       overseas   
       subsidiary Other Total 
Company      £m £m £m
Current
At 1 January 2007      0.1 0.6 0.7
Provided      – 0.1 0.1
Transfer      0.3 – 0.3
Utilised      (0.1) (0.5) (0.6)
At 31 December 2007      0.3 0.2 0.5
At 1 January 2008      0.3 0.2 0.5
Utilised      – (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 December 2008      0.3 – 0.3
Non-current
At 1 January 2007      1.6 0.1 1.7
Provided      – 0.2 0.2
Transfer      (0.3) – (0.3)
Utilised      (0.4) – (0.4)
At 31 December 2007      0.9 0.3 1.2
At 1 January 2008      0.9 0.3 1.2
Provided      0.4 – 0.4
At 31 December 2008      1.3 0.3 1.6
Engineering & Construction provisions are in respect of liabilities incurred on long-term contracts and most should be utilised over 
the next two years. 104  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notes to the financial statements
continued
19 Provisions – continued
Void space provisions relate to costs of vacant properties and will be utilised over the next four years.
PFI investment provisions relate to interest rate and other swaps entered into by PFI investments, where the resulting carrying value 
of the investment is negative and the Group has an obligation to provide further funding. The provisions are expected to reverse over 
the lives of the concessions, which can extend up to thirty-one years.
Other provisions, mainly comprise remedial costs and litigation provisions, most of which will be utilised over the next year and a 
provision for staff benefits payable to the staff of an overseas subsidiary company, which will be utilised over the next five years.
Provisions in the Company relate mainly to funding obligations to a non-trading overseas subsidiary. The provision eliminates  
on consolidation.
20 Employee benefits 
Pensions
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme in the United Kingdom and a number of defined contribution type pension 
plans in the United Kingdom and overseas. Contributions are paid by subsidiary undertakings and employees. The total pension 
charge for the Group in the Consolidated income statement was £8.4 million (2007: £7.2 million). The Company does not operate  
a pension scheme. 
Defined benefit scheme
The defined benefit scheme was closed to new members on 31 May 2005 and from 1 April 2006 future benefits were calculated  
on a Career Average Revalued Earnings basis. A full actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out at 31 March 2007 and was 
updated to 31 December 2008 by a qualified independent actuary.
       2008 2007 2006 
       £m £m £m 
Present value of defined benefit obligations      (435.8) (511.1) (509.4)
Fair value of scheme assets      385.6 460.5 440.7
Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations     (50.2) (50.6) (68.7)
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligations:
        2008 2007 
        £m £m 
At 1 January       511.1 509.4
Current service cost       4.7 5.8
Past service cost       1.2 1.2
Interest cost       29.3 25.8
Actuarial gains       (94.6) (15.9)
Benefits paid       (19.8) (19.5)
Contributions by members       3.9 4.3
At 31 December       435.8 511.1
Movements in fair value of scheme assets:
        2008 2007 
        £m £m 
At 1 January       460.5 440.7
Expected return on scheme assets       28.3 26.7
Actuarial losses       (105.1) (4.2)
Contributions by employer       17.8 12.5
Contributions by members       3.9 4.3
Benefits paid       (19.8) (19.5)
At 31 December       385.6 460.5
Expense recognised in the income statement:
        2008 2007 
        £m £m 
Current service cost       4.7 5.8
Past service cost       1.2 1.2
Interest cost on defined benefit obligations       29.3 25.8
Expected return on scheme assets       (28.3) (26.7)
Total       6.9 6.1 105  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
20 Employee benefits – continued
The expense is recognised in the following line items in the income statement:
        2008 2007 
        £m £m 
Cost of sales       5.2 6.2
Administrative expenses       0.7 0.8
Financial income       (28.3) (26.7)
Finance costs       29.3 25.8
Total       6.9 6.1
The history of the scheme for the last four years is as follows:
Experience adjustments:    2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Experience gain/(loss) on scheme liabilities (£m)   – 6.5 – 10.2 (9.0)
     – 1% – 2% (2%)
Change in assumptions on scheme liabilities (£m)   94.6 9.4 8.5 (48.3) (25.2)
     19% 2% 2% (11%) (6%)
Experience adjustments on scheme assets (£m)   (105.1) (4.2) 17.5 38.3 11.4
     (27%) (1%) 4% 10% 3%
Total (loss)/gain (£m)    (10.5) 11.7 26.0 0.2 (22.8)
Cumulative gain/(loss) (£m)    4.6 15.1 3.4 (22.6) (22.8)
Cumulative actuarial gains have been reported in the statement of recognised income and expense since 1 January 2004, the 
transition date to Adopted IFRS.
The fair value of the scheme assets and the return on those assets were as follows:
        2008 2007 
        £m £m 
Equities       201.1 262.2
Government bonds       112.4 118.7
Corporate bonds       47.5 49.3
Absolute return funds and cash       24.6 30.3
        385.6 460.5
Actual return on scheme assets        (76.8) 22.5
The pension scheme does not have any assets invested in the Group’s financial instruments or property (or other assets) used by 
the Group.
Principal actuarial assumptions (expressed as weighted averages):
        2008 2007 
        % %
Discount rate       6.60 5.80
Expected rate of return on scheme assets       6.07 6.14
Future salary increases       2.85 3.40
Future pension increases       2.85 3.40
Inflation assumption       2.85 3.40
The expected rate of return on scheme assets is determined by reference to relevant indices. The overall expected rate of return  
is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the scheme’s investment portfolio.
 
Weighted average life expectancy from age 65 as per mortality tables used to determine benefits at 31 December 2008 and  
31 December 2007 is:
 2008 2007
  
      Male Female Male Female 
      (years) (years) (years) (years)
Currently aged 65     20.3 23.1 20.2 23.0
Non-retirees     21.3 24.0 21.2 24.0
The scheme is closed to new entrants and with time the average age of the remaining members will increase. Under the projected 
unit method, the service cost will increase as the average age of members’ increases. 106  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notes to the financial statements
continued
20 Employee benefits – continued
The discount rate, inflation and pension increase and mortality assumptions have a significant effect on the amounts reported. 
Changes in these assumptions would have the following effects on the Group’s defined benefit scheme:
        Pension  Pension 
        liability  cost  
        £m £m
Decrease discount rate by 0.25%, increases pension liability and pension cost by:    16.2 0.4
Decrease inflation (and pension increases) by 0.25%, decreases pension liability and pension cost by:  14.2 1.3
Increase life expectancy by one year, increases pension liability and pension cost by:   10.1 0.8
The Group expects to contribute approximately £16.7 million to its defined benefit scheme in the next financial year.
Defined contribution plans 
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans. The total expense relating to these plans in the current year 
was £1.5 million (2007: £1.1 million).
Share-based payments 
The amounts recognised in the income statement (before taxes) for share-based payment transactions with employees is  
£0.6 million (2007: £0.2 million).
In 2007, the number of shares granted under the option schemes, the fair value per granted instrument and, where applicable,  
the exercise price, were adjusted to take account of the bonus element of the rights issue completed in that year.
Long-term incentive plans
The following outstanding grants, made after 7 November 2002, arrange for the grant of shares to executive directors and senior 
management at an exercise price of £1 per individual grant. They have been valued using a Black-Scholes valuation model assuming 
2% dividend yield on the 2008 schemes (2% on the 2007 schemes, 0% pre-2007) and 20% volatility. The expected volatility for the 
share option arrangements uses historical volatility, determined by the analysis of daily share price movements over the past three 
years, as a basis for estimating the future volatility. In 2007, the EPS targets in respect of all outstanding grants were adjusted to 
take account of the capital raised in that year and the increased number of shares in issue.
Arrangement    LTIP 2006 LTIP 2006 LTIP 2007
Date of grant    21 April 2006 10 October 2006 18 April 2007
Number of instruments initially granted    3,818,449 576,310 1,054,901
Share price at date of grant    53.5p 54.0p 51.0p
Contractual life    4 Years 3 Years 4 Years
Vesting conditions    3 year service  3 year service 3 year service 
     period & EPS  period & EPS period & EPS 
     targets of  targets of targets of 
     between 3.25p between 3.25p between 3.27p 
     and 3.69p and 3.69p and 3.71p 
      in 2009 in 2009  in 2010
Settlement    Shares Shares Shares
Normally exercisable in periods to    20 April 2016 9 October 2016 17 April 2017
Expected option life at grant date    4 Years 4 Years 4 Years
Risk-free interest rate    5.0% 5.0% 4.5%
Fair value per granted instrument determined at the grant date  12.8p 11.7p 8.4p
Number of ordinary shares – 2007    3,773,456 661,102 1,210,107
Number of ordinary shares – 2008    3,673,109 661,102 1,210,107 107  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
20 Employee benefits – continued
Arrangement    LTIP 2007 LTIP 2008 LTIP 2008
Date of grant    14 June 2007 21 April 2008 21 April 2008
Number of instruments initially granted    4,139,642 2,453,607 10,489,905
Share price at date of grant    48.8p 25.00p 25.00p
Contractual life    4 Years 2.5 Years 2.5 Years
Vesting conditions    3 year service  3 year service 3 year service 
     period & EPS  period & EPS period & EPS 
     targets of  targets of targets of 
     between 3.27p  between 3.09p between 3.09p 
     and 3.71p  and 3.43p and 3.43p 
     in 2010 in 2010  in 2010
Settlement    Cash Shares Cash
Normally exercisable in periods to    13 June 2017 20 April 2018 20 April 2018
Expected option life at grant date    4 Years 3 Years 3 Years
Risk-free interest rate    4.5% 3.85% 3.85%
Fair value per granted instrument determined at the grant date  7.1p 23.7p 18.7p
Number of ordinary shares – 2007    4,614,013 – –
Number of ordinary shares – 2008    4,369,058 2,453,607 10,030,937
During the year, two participants in the LTIPs left the employ of the Group and ceased to participate in the April 2006 LTIP , the 2007 
cash LTIP and the 2008 cash LTIP (2007: three participants left the employ of the Group). The only new grants in the year were the 
2008 LTIPs.
The options outstanding at the year end have a weighted average contractual life of 2 years.
Save As You Earn Plans
The following outstanding Save As You Earn Plans, made after 7 November 2002, have been valued using a Black-Scholes 
valuation model assuming 2% dividend yield (2% on the 2007 schemes, 0% pre-2007) and 20% volatility. 
     SAYE 2004 SAYE 2007 SAYE 2007 
Arrangement    5 Year 3 Year 5 Year
Date of grant    22 October 2004 18 May 2007 18 May 2007
Number of instruments initially granted    3,173,116 5,854,721 4,132,235
Exercise price    29.29p 33.30p 33.30p
Share price at date of grant    42.0p 47.75p 47.75p
Contractual life    5 Years 3 Years 5 Years
Vesting conditions    5 year service 3 year service 5 year service 
     period & savings period & savings period & savings 
     requirement requirement requirement
Settlement    Shares Shares Shares
Normally exercisable in periods to    1 June 2010 31 December 2010 31 December 2012
Expected option life at grant date    5 Years 3 Years 5 Years
Risk-free interest rate    4.5% 4.5% 4.5%
Fair value per granted instrument determined at the grant date  14.28p 11.27p 12.63p
Number of ordinary shares – 2007    2,316,405 6,356,539 4,560,142
Number of ordinary shares – 2008    1,781,590 3,175,048  1,910,779 108  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notes to the financial statements
continued
20 Employee benefits – continued
      SAYE 2008 SAYE 2008 
Arrangement     3 Year 5 Year
Date of grant     23 May 2008 23 May 2008
Number of instruments initially granted     12,838,252 7,594,368
Exercise price     19.60p 19.60p
Share price at date of grant     24.50p 24.50p
Contractual life     3 Years 5 Years
Vesting conditions     3 year service 5 year service 
      period & savings period & savings 
      requirement requirement
Settlement     Shares Shares
Normally exercisable in periods to     31 December 2011 31 December 2013
Expected option life at grant date     3 Years 5 Years
Risk-free interest rate     3.85% 3.85%
Fair value per granted instrument determined at the grant date   6.40p 7.08p
Number of ordinary shares – 2008     12,293,449 7,318,692
In accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 1 and IFRS 2, the recognition and measurement principles in IFRS 2 were not 
applied to share option arrangements granted before 7 November 2002. At 31 December 2008, there were no share options 
outstanding under these arrangements.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options issued under all LTIP and SAYE Plans is as follows:
   LTIPs  SAYE Plans  Total 
  Price (p) Number (m) Price (p) Number (m) Price (p) Number (m)
Outstanding at the 1 January 2007 51.3 7.1 26.2  12.5 36.0  19.6 
Adjustment for bonus element of Rights Issue  1.7   1.8   3.5
Forfeited during the year 48.0 (1.4) 29.1 (2.9) 35.2 (4.3)
Exercised during the year – – 17.6 (4.2) 17.6 (4.2)
Granted during the year 26.1 5.2 33.3 11.5 30.8 16.7
Outstanding at 31 December 2007 39.8  12.6 29.5  18.7 33.6  31.3
Forfeited during the period 38.1 (3.1) 30.8 (8.9) 32.7 (12.0)
Exercised during the period – – 17.8 (3.7) 17.8 (3.7)
Granted during the period 20.7 12.9 19.6 20.4 20.0 33.3
Outstanding at 31 December 2008 28.6  22.4  22.9  26.5 25.5  48.9 
Exercisable at the end of the period – – – – – –
The share options exercised during the year related to the SAYE 2002 5 year Plan and the SAYE 2004 3 year Plan.
21 Share capital of Costain Group PLC
 2008 2007
  
  Number Nominal value Number Nominal value 
   £  £
Authorised share capital – 
Ordinary shares of 5p each 1,014,788,000 50,739,400 1,014,788,000 50,739,400
Shares in issue at beginning of year – 
Ordinary shares of 5p each, fully paid 628,868,650 31,443,433 357,231,292 17,861,565
Issued in year (see below) 4,497,413 224,870 271,637,358 13,581,868
Shares in issue at end of year – 
Ordinary shares of 5p each, fully paid 633,366,063 31,668,303 628,868,650 31,443,433
During the year, the Company issued 3,679,949 ordinary shares under the five-year 2002 Save As You Earn plan and three-year 
2004 Save As You Earn plan, both of which matured in December 2007. The Company also issued 440,255 ordinary shares in  
May 2008 and 377,209 ordinary shares in October 2008 under the scrip dividend scheme put in place by the Company.
All shares rank pari passu regarding entitlement to capital and dividends.
The share options outstanding at 31 December 2008 are shown in Note 20. Details of the performance conditions and the options 
granted to Executive Directors are given in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 70 to 72. 109  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
22 Capital and reserves
  Share Share Special Fair value Translation Hedging Merger Retained Total 
  capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve Reserve earnings equity 
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2007 17.9 0.6 12.8 2.6 (1.2) (1.6) – (86.3) (55.2)
Total recognised  
income & expense – – – (2.6) 2.1 (0.2) – 22.6 21.9
Equity-settled  
share-based payments – – – – – – – 0.2 0.2
Shares issued (Note 21) 13.5 0.5 (12.8) – – – 46.5 12.8 60.5
Transfer – – – – – – (46.5) 46.5 –
At 31 December 2007 31.4 1.1 – – 0.9 (1.8) – (4.2) 27.4
At 1 January 2008 31.4 1.1 – – 0.9 (1.8) – (4.2) 27.4
Total recognised  
income & expense – – – – 9.7 (10.9) – 10.7 9.5
Equity-settled  
share-based payments – – – – – – – 0.5 0.5
Shares issued (Note 21) 0.2 0.5 – – – – – – 0.7
Dividend paid 0.1 0.1 – – – – – (4.7) (4.5)
At 31 December 2008 31.7 1.7 – – 10.6 (12.7) – 2.3 33.6
      Non-    
   Share Share Special distributable Merger Retained  Total 
   capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings equity 
Company  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
1 January 2007  17.9 0.6 12.8 0.5 – (4.3) 27.5
Total recognised income & expense  – – – – – (1.8) (1.8)
Equity-settled share-based payments  – – – 0.2 – – 0.2
Shares issued (Note 21)  13.5 0.5 (12.8) – 46.5 12.8 60.5
Transfer  – – – – (46.5) 46.5 –
At 31 December 2007  31.4 1.1 – 0.7 – 53.2 86.4
1 January 2008  31.4 1.1 – 0.7 – 53.2 86.4
Total recognised income & expense  – – – – – (0.8) (0.8)
Equity-settled share-based payments  – – – 0.5 – – 0.5
Shares issued (Note 21)  0.2 0.5 – – – – 0.7
Dividend  0.1 0.1 – – – (4.7) (4.5)
At 31 December 2008  31.7 1.7 – 1.2 – 47.7 82.3
There are no significant restrictions on the ability to remit overseas reserves.
Special reserve
On 18 May 2005, Court approval of a capital restructuring was granted under which the deficit on the Company’s retained earnings 
was eliminated using a special reserve created from restructuring the share capital and the share premium. This reserve could be 
released to the extent the Company issued new shares; the balance on the reserve was released in 2007 .
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
operations that are not integral to the operations of the Company, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Group’s 
net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments 
related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Non-distributable reserve
Costain Group PLC (the Company) grants three of its subsidiaries rights to its equity instruments. The Group adopted IFRIC 8 in 
2007 in order to recognise these grants in the Parent Company. The impact is recognised within the non-distributable reserve.
Merger reserve
In 2007, the Company raised £59.8 million (net of expenses) through a rights issue, which was effected through a structure that 
resulted in a merger reserve arising under Section 131 of the Companies Act. Following the receipt of the cash proceeds through 
the structure, the excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of the share capital issued was transferred to retained earnings. 110  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notes to the financial statements
continued
23 Contingent liabilities
 Group Company
  
      2008 2007 2008 2007 
      £m £m £m £m
Under guarantees of bank overdrafts and loans:    
To subsidiary undertakings     – – 0.7 0.5
Group
Certain subsidiary undertakings have entered into cross-guarantees for overdraft facilities made available to the Group.  
At 31 December 2008, these liabilities amounted to £Nil (2007: £Nil).
There are also contingent liabilities in respect of:
• creditors of jointly controlled operations, which are less than the book value of their assets;
• performance bonds and other undertakings entered into in the ordinary course of business;
• legal claims arising in the ordinary course of business.
It is not anticipated that any material liabilities will arise from the contingent liabilities other than those provided for.
Company
The Company has guaranteed the obligations of the subsidiary companies that are participating employers of The Costain Pension 
Scheme, the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme in the United Kingdom.
24 Other financial commitments 
Group
Capital commitments
        2008 2007 
        £m £m
Property, plant and equipment       1.8 –
Capital commitments relate to the purchase of tunnelling machinery. 
Operating lease commitments
Leases as lessee
 2008 2007
  
       Other  Other 
      Land and operating Land and operating 
      buildings leases buildings leases 
      £m £m £m £m
Future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable leases are as follows:
No later than one year     5.0 2.0 4.0 2.2
Between one and five years     15.5 1.5 15.6 1.7
Later than five years     12.9 – 15.5 –
      33.4 3.5 35.1 3.9
Leases as lessor 
  Land and buildings
  
        2008 2007 
        £m £m
Future aggregate minimum lease income under non-cancellable leases expiring:
No later than one year       1.6 1.6
Between one and five years       5.2 5.4
Later than five years       0.4 1.1
        7.2 8.1
Company
The Company does not have any financial commitments (2007: £Nil). 111  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
25 Principal subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities, associates and jointly controlled operations
   Percentage of Country of 
  Activity equity held incorporation
Subsidiary undertakings
Costain Abu Dhabi Co WLL Process Engineering 49
^
* UAE
Costain Building & Civil Engineering Ltd Civil Engineering & Building 100
^
 UK
Costain Ltd Civil Engineering & Building 100
^
 UK
Costain Engineering & Construction Ltd Holding Company & Service Company 100 UK
Costain International Ltd Civil Engineering & Building 100
^
 UK
Costain Oil, Gas & Process Ltd Process Engineering 100
^
 UK
Richard Costain Ltd Service Company 100 UK
   Issued  
   share Percentage 
   capital of equity Country of Reporting 
  Activity £m held incorporation date
Jointly controlled entities
ACM Health Solutions Ltd Construction of Hospitals – 33
^
 UK 31 Dec
Alcaidesa Holding SA Property Development 12.2 50
^
 Spain 31 Dec
Arden Partnership (Derby) Holdings Ltd Construction & Operation – 50
^
 UK 31 Dec 
  of Hospital
Arden Partnership (Leicester) Holdings Ltd Construction & Operation – 50
^
 UK 31 Dec 
  of Hospital
Arden Partnership (Lincolnshire) Holdings Ltd Construction & Operation – 50
^
 UK 31 Dec 
  of Hospital
China Harbour-Costain Mexico S de RL de CV Civil Engineering – 50
^
 Mexico 31 Dec
Costain Petrofac Ltd Process Engineering – 50
^
 UK 31 Dec
4Delivery Ltd Civil Engineering  – 40
^
 UK 31 Mar
Integrated Care Solutions (East Kent) Holdings Ltd Operation of Care Homes 0.1 50
^
 UK 31 Dec
Integrated Care Solutions (Shropshire) Holdings Ltd Operation of Care Homes 0.1 50
^
 UK 31 Dec
Seafort Holdings Ltd** Construction & Operation – 45
^
 UK 31 Mar 
  of Schools 
Associates
Coast to Coast Holdings Ltd Asset Management 0.5 20
^
 UK 31 Mar
C2C Services Ltd Asset Management – 20
^
 UK 31 Mar
Integrated Bradford LEP Ltd Construction & Operation – 40
^
 UK 31 Dec 
  of Schools
Integrated Bradford SPV One Ltd Construction & Operation 0.1 29
^
 UK 31 Dec 
  of Schools
Kent Education Partnership Ltd** Operation of Schools – 30
^
  UK  31 Dec
Lewisham Schools for the Future LEP Ltd Construction & Operation 0.1 40
^
 UK 31 Mar 
  of Schools
Lewisham Schools for the Future SPV Ltd Construction & Operation – 40
^
 UK 31 Mar 
  of Schools
Prime Care Solutions (Kingston) Holdings Ltd Operation of Hospital – 40
^
 UK 31 Dec
^ Equity capital held by subsidiary undertakings. 
* Treated as subsidiary undertakings due to Costain having power to influence and control of the composition of the board of directors.
** Sold during the year.
All undertakings operate mainly in the country of incorporation, with the exception of Costain Ltd, which operates inside and outside 
of the UK and Costain Building & Civil Engineering Ltd and Costain International Ltd, which operate outside the UK. All holdings are 
of ordinary shares except Richard Costain Ltd, where Costain Group PLC holds 100% of the ordinary and preference shares. A full 
list of Group companies will be included in the Company’s annual return. 112  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notes to the financial statements
continued
25  Principal subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities, associates and jointly controlled operations 
– continued
   Percentage of Country of 
  Activity equity held incorporation
Major jointly controlled operations   
A-one+ Integrated Highway Services – MAC 10 Civil Engineering 25 UK
Black & Veatch-Costain Joint Venture – Margate & Broadstairs Civil Engineering 50 UK
Costain-Bachy Soletanche – Canary Wharf Civil Engineering 50 UK
Costain-China Harbour-Aarsleff Joint Venture Civil Engineering 45 Hong Kong
Costain-Carillion Joint Venture – M1 Widening & A5/M1 Link Civil Engineering 50 UK
Costain-O’Rourke-Bachy-Emcor Rail Consortium – 
CTRL 105 (Combined) Civil Engineering 27 UK
Costain-Taylor Woodrow – King’s Cross Civil Engineering 50 UK
Educo UK Joint Venture – Bradford Schools Building 50 UK
Galliford-Costain-Atkins Joint Venture – United Utilities Civil Engineering 42 UK
Stream Three Joint Venture – Costain-VWS (UK) Ltd Civil Engineering 50 UK
Costain-Skanska Joint Venture – A14 Civil Engineering 50 UK
Costain-Laing O’Rourke Joint Venture – Farringdon Civil Engineering 50 UK
Costain-Laing O’Rourke Joint Venture –  
King’s Cross Eastern Range Civil Engineering 50 UK
26 Related party transactions
The Group has a related party relationship with its major shareholders, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, jointly controlled 
operations and with its directors and executive officers.
      Joint Jointly  
     Major ventures and controlled  
     shareholders associates operations Total 
2008    £m £m £m £m
Sales of goods and services to related parties:
Staff    – 15.9 26.5 42.4
Construction services and materials    – 94.8 0.5 95.3
     – 110.7 27.0 137.7
Balances with major shareholders at 31 December 2008: 
Amounts due from related parties       6.7
Provision (see below)       (6.7)
        –
 
       Joint Jointly  
      Major ventures and controlled  
      shareholders associates operations Total 
2007     £m £m £m £m
Sales of goods and services to related parties:
Staff     0.1 25.7 22.6 48.4
Construction services and materials     – 77.3 2.0 79.3
      0.1 103.0 24.6 127.7
Balances with major shareholders at 31 December 2007:
Amounts due from related parties        6.7
Provision (see below)        (6.7)
         –
The amount due from a major shareholder relates to work carried out under a subcontract. Discussions among all the parties 
continue but, due to uncertainty of recovery, full provision was made. 
Balances with joint ventures and associates are disclosed elsewhere in these accounts. Balances with jointly controlled operations 
are eliminated on consolidation.
The Company has no transactions with related parties (2007: none).
Major shareholders
Mohammed Abdulmohsin Al-Kharafi & Sons WLL and York Place Limited are regarded as related parties of Costain Group PLC. 
Transactions with key management personnel
The Directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control 0.1% of the voting shares of the Company. 
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to executive directors and executive officers and contributes 
to defined contribution pension plans in respect of the executive directors and a defined benefit pension scheme in respect of the 
other executive officers. Executive directors and executive officers are eligible to retire at age 60 or 62½. 113  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
26 Related party transactions – continued
Executive officers also participate in the Group’s share options programmes (Note 20).
The compensation of key management personnel (including the directors) is as follows:
  Group
  
        2008 2007 
        £m £m
Directors’ emoluments       1.5 1.3
Executive officers’ emoluments       2.6 1.5
Post retirement benefits       0.2 0.4
Share-based payments       0.1 0.2
        4.4 3.4
Total remuneration is included in ‘employee benefit expense’ (Note 5).
27 Significant areas of judgement
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised  
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods 
if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The Group believes that the most critical accounting policies and significant areas of judgement and estimation arise from  
the accounting for defined benefit pension schemes under IAS 19 Employee benefits, for long-term contracts under IAS 11 
Construction contracts and assessments of the carrying value of land.
Defined benefit pension schemes require significant judgements in relation to the assumptions for inflation, future salary and pension 
increases, investment returns and member longevity that underpin the valuation. Each year in selecting the appropriate assumptions, 
the directors take advice from an independent qualified actuary. The assumptions and resultant sensitivities are set out in Note 20.
The majority of the Group’s activities are undertaken via long-term contracts and these contracts are accounted for in accordance 
with IAS 11, which requires estimates to be made for contract costs and revenues. In many cases, these contractual obligations 
span more than one reporting period. Also the costs and revenues can be affected by a variety of uncertainties that depend on the 
outcome of future events and often need to be revised as events unfold and uncertainties are resolved.
Management bases its judgements of costs and revenues and its assessment of the expected outcome of each long-term 
contractual obligation on the latest available information, this includes detailed contract valuations and forecasts of the costs  
to complete. The estimates of the contract position and the profit earned to date or the forecast loss are updated regularly and 
significant changes are highlighted through established internal review procedures. The impact of the changes in accounting 
estimates is then reflected in the ongoing results.
The construction contracts undertaken by the Group may require it to perform extra or change order work and this can result  
in negotiations over the extent to which the work is outside the scope of the original contract or the price for the extra work. 
In addition, many contracts specify the completion schedule requirements and allow liquidated damages to be charged in the event 
of failure to achieve that schedule; on these contracts, this could result in the Group incurring liquidated damages. In assessing the 
result to be included in the financial statements for each contract, the directors consider the status of negotiations with the customer 
and the reliability with which the estimated recoverable amounts can be measured.
In a contracting environment judgements are made on all projects. In the prior year the Group highlighted two specific legacy 
contracts as representing potential risks:
Costa Azul Breakwater, Mexico (joint venture between Costain and China Harbour Engineering Company) – significant progress  
has been made during the year and the customer has operational use of the facility. In the year, negotiations have resolved a number 
of the key commercial issues, the completion certificate has been issued and, as a result of the agreement reached, the residual  
risk has significantly reduced. Further contract works will be undertaken as agreed with the customer; these are weather related  
and may be affected by sea conditions, consequently, there remains some residual risk. However, the directors remain confident 
that the current loss provisions taken on the contract are adequate.
Pemex Nitrogen Rejection Unit, Mexico – Costain is a sub-contractor on this contract, which suffered substantial delays and cost 
overruns. Costain and Techint SA de CV , the main contractor, are working together towards its conclusion. Although, if either party 
fails to meet its respective obligations, the matter may be subject to protracted legal dispute, the directors believe the provision 
made in previous years remains appropriate.
Alcaidesa Holding SA (Alcaidesa), one of the Group’s joint ventures, operates in the Spanish real estate market and the company 
holds land and property within current and non-current assets. At 31 December 2008, a review of the net realisable value of each  
of the company’s land holdings was undertaken, including the use of external valuations, and no provision was considered necessary. 114  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Five-year financial summary
     2008 2007  2006  2005  2004  
     £m £m  £m  £m  £m
Revenue and profit
Revenue (Group and share of joint ventures and associates)  996.0 877.9 886.3 773.2 695.2
Share of joint ventures and associates    (93.4) (130.3) (137.9) (95.1) (22.0)
Group revenue    902.6 747.6 748.4 678.1 673.2
Group operating profit/(loss)    19.5 9.7 (58.4) 8.7 10.2
Profit on sales of investments    – 2.7 3.6 – –
Profit on sales of interests in joint ventures and associates   2.7 3.2 – 3.5 –
Amounts written off loans to associate    – – (2.7) – –
Share of results of joint ventures and associates    (3.9) 0.9 (7.0) 13.4 (0.9)
Profit/(loss) from operations    18.3 16.5 (64.5) 25.6 9.3
Financial income    34.8 29.6 26.7 23.5 22.9
Finance costs    (30.0) (26.3) (23.9) (24.1) (21.7)
Net financing income/(costs)    4.8 3.3 2.8 (0.6) 1.2
Profit/(loss) before tax    23.1 19.8 (61.7) 25.0 10.5
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 18.2 16.0 (54.0) 23.6 8.8
Earnings/(loss) per share – basic    2.9p 3.6p (13.2)p 5.8p 2.2p
Earnings/(loss) per share – diluted    2.9p 3.5p (13.2)p 5.7p 2.2p
Dividends per ordinary share:
Final 2007 – paid 2008    – 0.50p – – –
Interim 2008 – paid 2008    0.25p – – – –
Final 2008 – proposed    0.50p – – – –
Summarised consolidated balance sheets
Property, plant & equipment    7.7 3.5 5.7 5.9 4.9
Intangible assets    1.8 2.7 3.4 3.5 0.5
Investments    42.7 40.1 35.1 35.4 17.9
Other non-current assets    24.9 27.9 40.7 41.3 37.3
     77.1 74.2 84.9 86.1 60.6
Current assets    329.2 285.7 219.4 243.7 217.4
Total assets    406.3 359.9 304.3 329.8 278.0
Current liabilities    312.1 273.2 280.1 238.8 216.4
Pension liability    50.2 50.6 68.7 99.3 99.5
Other non-current liabilities    10.4 8.7 10.7 14.2 6.6
Total liabilities    372.7 332.5 359.5 352.3 322.5
Net assets/(liabilities)    33.6 27.4 (55.2) (22.5) (44.5)
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent   33.6 27.4 (55.2) (22.5) (44.6)
Minority interests    – – – – 0.1
     33.6 27.4 (55.2) (22.5) (44.5)
The figures for 2004 were restated under IFRS from UK GAAP . 115  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the 
members will be held in the East Room, Level 7, Tate Modern, 
Bankside, London, SE1 9TG (via the River Entrance) on 
Thursday 7 May 2009 at 11.00 am. You will be asked to 
consider, and if thought fit, to pass the resolutions below. 
Resolutions 9 and 10 will be proposed as special resolutions.  
All other resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
 
Ordinary resolutions
1.  To receive and adopt the Directors’ report and the audited 
accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008.
2.  That a dividend of 0.5p per share in respect of the year 
ended 31 December 2008 be and is hereby declared  
due and payable on 22 May 2009 to shareholders on  
the register at 6.00 pm on 24 April 2009. 
3.  To elect the following directors who all retire by rotation 
under Article 80 and offer themselves for re-election:  
(a) Mr John Bryant; (b) Mr Saad Shehata; and (c) Mr Andrew 
Wyllie. Each re-election will be proposed and voted on as  
a separate resolution. 
4.  To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company.
5.  To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration  
of the Auditors.
6.  To receive, adopt and approve the Directors’ remuneration 
report for the year ended 31 December 2008.
7.  Increase in authorised share capital:
   the authorised share capital of the Company be increased 
to £60,000,000 by the creation of 185,212,000 additional 
ordinary shares of 5p each.
8. General power to allot: 
  The Board be authorised, in substitution for the authority 
conferred on it on 8 May 2008, to allot relevant securities  
(as defined in the Companies Act 1985):
 (A)  up to a nominal amount of £10,556,101; and
 (B)  comprising equity securities (as defined in the 
Companies Act 1985) up to a nominal amount of 
£21,112,202 (including within such limit any shares 
issued under (A) above) in connection with an offer  
by way of a rights issue:
  (i)  to ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as 
may be practicable) to their existing holdings; and
  (ii)  to people who are holders of other equity securities  
if this is required by the rights of those securities or,  
if the Board considers it necessary, as permitted by 
the rights of those securities, 
   and so that the Board may impose any limits or 
restrictions and make any arrangements which it 
considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury 
shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, 
regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws  
of, any territory or any other matter,
  such authorities to apply until the end of next year’s AGM 
(or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2010 but, 
in each case, so that the Company may make offers and 
enter into agreements during the relevant period which 
would, or might, require relevant securities to be allotted 
after the authority ends and the Board may allot relevant 
securities under any such offer or agreement as if the 
authority had not ended.
Special Resolutions
9.  General power to disapply pre-emption rights:  
That if Resolution 8 is passed, the Board be given power  
to allot equity securities (as defined in the Companies Act 
1985) for cash under the authority given by that resolution 
and/or where the allotment constitutes an allotment  
of equity securities by virtue of section 94(3A) of the 
Companies Act 1985, free of the restriction in section 89(1) 
of the Companies Act 1985, such power to be limited:
 (A)  to the allotment of equity securities in connection  
with an offer of equity securities, or a scrip dividend 
alternative (but in the case of the authority granted  
under resolution (B) of Resolution 8, by way of a rights 
issue only):
  (i)  to ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as 
may be practicable) to their existing holdings; and
  (ii)  to holders of other equity securities, as required  
by the rights of those securities or as the Board 
otherwise considers necessary,
   and so that the Board may impose any limits or 
restrictions and make any arrangements which it 
considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury 
shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, 
regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws  
of, any territory or any other matter; and
 (B)  in the case of the authority granted under resolution  
(A) of Resolution 8, to the allotment (otherwise than 
under (A) above) of equity securities up to a nominal 
amount of £1,583,415,
  such power to apply until the end of next year’s AGM  
(or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2010 
but during this period the Company may make offers, and  
enter into agreements, which would, or might, require  
equity securities to be allotted after the power ends and  
the Board may allot equity securities under any such offer  
or agreement as if the power had not ended.
10.  That the Company shall be authorised to hold general 
meetings on 14 clear days’ notice notwithstanding the 
coming into force of the EU Shareholders Rights Directive 
on 3 August 2009. 
By Order of the Board
Clive L Franks Secretary
11 March 2009
 
Notes:
1.  A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled 
to appoint a proxy or proxies (who need not be a member of 
the Company) to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, 
speak and vote at the meeting. A shareholder may appoint 
more than one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each 
proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different 
share or shares held by that member.
2.  To be effective, a proxy and the authority (if any) under  
which it is signed or a notarially certified or office copy of such 
authority must be deposited with the Company’s registrars,  116  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex 
BN99 6RS no later than 11.00 am on Tuesday 5 May 2009. A 
proxy may be delivered by facsimile to the Company’s registrars, 
Equiniti (facsimile number 01903 854258), provided that:
 (a)  the facsimile is actually received (whether or not it appears 
to the sender to have been received) by the Company’s 
registrars no later than 11.00 am on Tuesday 5 May 2009;
 (b)  the Chairman or the Secretary or any other person 
authorised by the Board for the purpose determines  
in his sole discretion (such determination to be conclusive) 
that such facsimile has been transmitted in an acceptable 
manner including a determination that such facsimile  
is complete and is in a clear and legible form; and
 (c)  the original instrument appointing the proxy and the authority 
(if any) under which it is executed or a notarially certified or 
office copy of such authority must be delivered to the 
Company’ s registrars, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer 
Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6RS no later than  
10.00 am on Thursday 7 May 2009.
3.  The Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated 
Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those 
shareholders registered in the register of members of the 
Company at 6.00 pm on Tuesday 5 May 2009 shall be entitled 
to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of 
shares registered in their name at that time. Changes to entries 
on the relevant register of securities after 6.00 pm on Tuesday  
5 May 2009 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of 
any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
4.  In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at  
the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting 
so that:
 (a)  if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of 
the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions 
to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of 
the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at 
the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives 
will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman 
will vote (or withhold a vote) as corporate representatives  
in accordance with those directions; and
 (b)  if more than one corporate representative of the same 
corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the 
corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of 
the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated 
corporate representative will be nominated, from those 
corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a 
poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting 
directions to that designated corporate representative. 
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators 
on proxies and corporate representatives – www.icsa.org.
uk – for further details of this procedure. The guidance 
includes a sample form of representation letter if the 
Chairman is being appointed as described in (a) above.
5.  Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person that 
has been nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 
2006 to enjoy information rights (a ‘nominated person’) does 
not have a right to appoint a proxy. However, a nominated 
person may, under an agreement with the registered 
shareholder by whom they were nominated, have a right to be 
appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy for 
the AGM. Alternatively, if a nominated person does not have 
such a right, or does not wish to exercise it, they may have  
a right, under any such agreement to give instructions to the 
registered shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
6.  As at 10 March 2009 (being the last business day prior to  
the publication of this Notice) the Company’s issued share 
capital consisted of 633,366,063 ordinary shares, carrying  
one vote each. Therefore, the total number of voting rights 
in the Company as at 10 March 2009 is 633,366,063.  
The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
7.  Copies of the executive directors’ service contracts and  
the non-executive directors’ letters of appointment will be 
available for inspection at the AGM from 15 minutes prior  
to the meeting and until it ends.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies  
through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may  
do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 May 2009  
and any adjournment(s) thereof by using the procedures described 
in the CREST Manual. CREST Personal Members or other CREST 
sponsored members, and those CREST members who have 
appointed a voting service provider(s), should refer to their CREST 
sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the 
appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using  
the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message 
(a ‘CREST Proxy Instruction’) must be properly authenticated 
in accordance with EUROCLEAR UK & IRELAND LIMITED’s 
specifications and must contain the information required for such 
instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message, 
regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy  
or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously 
appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so  
as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID RA19) by the latest 
time(s) for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice  
of meeting. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be  
the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message 
by the CREST Applications Host) from which the issuer’s agent is 
able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner 
prescribed by CREST. After this time any change of instructions  
to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated  
to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors  
or voting service providers should note that EUROCLEAR UK & 
IRELAND LIMITED does not make available special procedures  
in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings and 
limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy 
Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned 
to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member  
or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider(s),  
to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) 
take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message 
is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular 
time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, 
their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, 
in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning 
practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction  
in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the 
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. 
 
Notice of Annual General Meeting
continued IBC  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 / www.costain.com
Financial calendar
Financial calendar*
Full year results 11 March 2009
Annual Report mailing 1 April 2009
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 22 April 2009
Final dividend record date 24 April 2009
Interim Management Statement 7 May 2009
Annual General Meeting 7 May 2009
Final dividend payment  
  (subject to shareholder approval) 22 May 2009
Half-year end 30 June 2009
Half-year results 2009 26 August 2009
Interim Management Statement October 2009
Financial year end 31 December 2009
*  The financial calendar may be updated from time to time throughout the  
year. Please refer to our website www.costain.com for up to date details.
Scrip dividend scheme
A scrip dividend scheme will be offered in respect of the dividend. 
Those shareholders who have already elected to join the scheme 
will automatically have their dividend sent to them in this form. 
Shareholders wishing to join the scheme for the dividend (and all 
future dividends) should return a completed mandate form to the 
Registrar, Equiniti by 30 April 2009. Copies of the mandate form 
and the scrip dividend brochure can be downloaded from the 
Company’s website www.costain.com or obtained from Equiniti 
by telephoning 0871 384 2268.
Analysis of Shareholders
  Shares 
 Accounts (millions) %
Institutions, companies,  
individuals and nominees:
Shareholdings 100,000 and more 224 583,991,991 92.20
Shareholdings 50,000-99,999 197 14,004,757 2.21
Shareholdings 25,000-49,999 289 10,012,052 1.58
Shareholdings 5,000-24,999 1,601 17,651,220 2.79
Shareholdings 1-4,999 10,617 7,706,043 1.22
 12,928 633,366,063 100.00
Secretary and Registered Office
Secretary
Clive L Franks
Registered Office
Costain House, Vanwall Business Park, Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 4UB
Telephone 01628 842444
www.costain.com
info@costain.com
Company Number 1393773
Registrar
Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Telephone 0871 384 2250
Calls to this number are currently charged at 8p per minute from  
a BT landline. Other telephony provider costs may vary.
Unsolicited mail
The Company is legally obliged to make its share register 
available to the general public. Consequently some shareholders 
may receive unsolicited mail, including correspondence from 
unauthorised investment firms. Shareholders who wish to  
limit the amount of unsolicited mail they receive can contact:
The Mailing Preference Service
Freepost (LON20771)
London W1E 0ZT
Shareholder information
The Company’s Registrar is Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer 
Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. For enquiries 
regarding your shareholding, please telephone 0871 384 2250. 
You can also view up to date information about your holdings  
by visiting the shareholder website at www.shareview.co.uk. 
Please ensure that you advise Equiniti promptly of a change  
of name or address.
ShareGift
The Orr Macintosh Foundation (ShareGift) operates a charity 
share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels  
of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them. 
Details of the scheme are available on the ShareGift website 
www.sharegift.org. Equiniti can provide stock transfer forms on 
request. Donating shares to charity in this way gives rise neither 
to a gain nor a loss for Capital Gains Tax purposes. This service 
is completely free of charge. 
Designed and produced by The College  www.thecollege.uk.com
 
Costain photographers: Mike Doherty – Pages 4, 15, 16, 18, 22, 23, 24, 
26, 27, 28, 29, 33, 35, 40 and 49. Phil Starling – Pages 2, 21, and 38.
Additional photography: Ian Routledge – Pages 6, 32, 34, 47 and 50; 
page 10, www.adderley.net; page 17 , www.marktupper.com; page 20, 
Philip Ashley; page 33, www.jontywilde.co.uk; page 38, Wood Lane 
Station, Mike O’Flaherty/Costain; page 38, North Terminal at Gatwick 
Airport, www.baa.com/photolibrary; page 39, Trawsfynydd Nuclear 
Power Station, Magnox Electric Ltd; page 39, Riverside Resource 
Recovery Facility, Philip Lane Photography/Costain; page 40, Felixstowe 
South Reconfiguration Phase One, www.airshots.co.uk; page 41, Tesco 
Valhalla Foodstore, Jon Dargue/Costain; page 41, Stublach Underground 
Gas Storage Facility, www.webbaviation.co.uk. All other images provided 
by Costain Group PLC.   
The printers are ISO 14001 accredited and Forest Stewardship Council 
(FSC) chain of custody certified. (ISO 14001 – Is a pattern of control for  
an environmental management system against which an organisation  
can be credited by a third party. FSC ensures there is an audited chain  
of custody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the 
finished document in the printing factory.) 
This Annual Report has been printed on Revive 50:50 gloss paper  
and Soporset Premium Offset Paper. Revive uses 25% de-inked 
post-consumer waste, 25% unprinted pre-consumer waste and  
50% virgin fibre and Soporset, wood fibre from fully sustainable forests. 
Both papers have FSC certification.
 
If you have finished reading the Report and no longer wish to retain it, 
please pass it on to other interested readers, return it to Costain Group 
PLC or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste. Thank you.
This Annual Report is available at: www.costain.com 
DO NOT USE THIS PAGE The value of Costain
Fo un d ed 1865
Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008 
Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2008
PLEASE ADJUST SPIN ACCORDINGLY
Costain Group PLC
Costain House
Vanwall Business Park
Maidenhead
Berkshire
SL6 4UB
 
www.costain.com
Costain the construction brand
