 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Source: 
Carbon footprint data evaluated by FactorX in accordance 
with the Bilan Carbone® methodology. Calculations are 
based on a comparison between the recycled paper 
used versus a virgin fibre paper according to the latest 
European BREF data (virgin fibre paper) available. 
By printing 4,000 copies of this
publication on Cocoon recycled
papers, the environmental impact
was reduced by:
Results are obtained according to technical information and are subject 
to modification.  
2,915 kg of landfill
60,268 litres of water
5,857 kWh of electricity
397 kg CO 2 and greenhouse gases
4,736 kg of wood
Visit www.costain.com
Costain Group PLC
Costain House
Vanwall Business Park
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 4UB
United Kingdom
Engineering 
Tomorrow 
Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012 Who we are
At Costain we are continually progressing our business  
to become the engineering solutions provider of choice. 
Our customers demand a seamless world-class service  
– from initial consultancy and advice to construction  
and engineering solutions, and long-term asset care and  
maintenance support.
We can never stand still. Throughout our history of  
almost 150 years we have been driven by the need  
to seek continually new and innovative ways to meet  
the challenges of delivering ever more complex solutions.
Our vision 
Our vision is to be one of the UK’s top engineering 
solutions providers. We must be the best for technical, 
innovative expertise and sustainable solutions.
What we do
We focus on intelligent solutions to meet national needs. 
As a Tier One engineering solutions provider, we provide 
front-end engineering consultancy, construction and 
ongoing care and maintenance services across market 
sectors including water, waste, power, rail, hydrocarbons 
and chemicals, highways and nuclear process.
How we operate
We are committed to operating our business both 
sustainably and responsibly. We are focused on one 
simple but powerful message – ‘Costain Cares’.  
This is not a slogan: it is an attitude of mind. It is integral  
to everything we do and a touchstone against which  
we can evaluate and measure our performance.  
Costain Cares about relationships, our environment  
and the future.
How we create value
Our ‘Choosing Costain’ strategy is designed to meet 
national needs by upgrading and maintaining the  
UK’s infrastructure and aiding economic recovery and 
growth. Value is created by our drive for innovation and  
we are committed to a constant quest for improvement. 
We are confident that our robust business model and  
our strategic focus will continue to deliver shareholder 
value in the years ahead.
Find us online
Our Annual Report 2012 is available 
in both printed form and within the 
‘Investors’ section of the Costain 
website at www.costain.com/
investors. Effective communication 
with our shareholders is vital to our 
continued success and we would 
welcome feedback on either or  
both versions of this Annual Report 
– contact us at info@costain.com
Designed and produced by The College www.the-college.com
 
Costain photographers: Mike Doherty, front cover and page 124 
(Catherine Warbrick), pages 1, 10, 11 (Bidston Moss Viaduct), pages 49 
and 124 (Tracey Wood); Phil Starling, front cover (Dave Johnson and  
Shuly Choudhury), pages 1 and 8 (Dave Johnson), pages 1 and 10  
(Oliver O’Brien), pages 1 and 12 (Winny Oshodi), page 4 (Great Ormond 
Street Hospital), page 5 (Investor Relations Society Award); Ed Tyler, 
pages 6, 14, 44, 49, 51 (Costain Board Directors), page 124 (Graham Read); 
Ian Routledge, pages 48, 49, (Costain Board Directors); and Gustavo 
Ferrari, Pro Light Studio, page 49 (Samer G. Younis).
 
Additional photography: Matt Aston, pages 1, 8, 9 (Reading Station); 
Courtesy of Curtis Photography and Southern Water, page 26 (cleaner 
seas to Sussex); Darren Ruane, page 27 (M1 Junction 10-13 scheme); 
Brian Sherwen, www.briansherwen.co.uk page 32 (Bridges to schools 
event); and Tandem TV & Film, page 35 (Achieving Excellence Awards).
The Annual Report is printed by an FSC (Forest Stewardship Council),  
ISO 14001 and Carbon Neutral certified printer using vegetable  
based inks. (ISO 14001 is a pattern of control for an environmental 
management system against which an organisation can be credited  
by a third party. FSC ensures there is an audited chain of custody from  
the tree in the well-managed forest through to the finished document  
in the printing factory.)
This Report has been printed on Cocoon 50% Gloss and Cocoon  
100% Offset – both are recycled papers. They contain 50% recycled 
waste and 100% recycled waste respectively, are FSC certified and 
produced at a mill with ISO 14001 certification. Recycled fibres used  
are Process Chlorine Free.
PAS2020
ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE
CERTIFIED
CERTIFYING BODY
If you have finished reading the Annual Report and no longer wish  
to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or return it  
to Costain Group PLC or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.  
Thank you.
 
This Annual Report is available at www.costain.com Financial statements Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  01
Contents
Overview
02 2012 highlights 
 02 Financial highlights 
 03 Operational highlights
 04 Environmental and social highlights
Directors’ Report – Business review
This section provides greater focus on our strategy and our sustainable 
investment proposition. We explain how our strategy is underpinned by our 
commitment to Corporate Responsibility, how our business is organised and 
how it has developed over the year, and we provide details of our financial 
performance. We also review our strategic objectives, principal risks and key 
performance indicators.
06 Chairman’s statement
08 Consulting, Project delivery, Care
14 Chief Executive’s review
18 Business model
25 Performing responsibly
 26 Divisional performance
 29  Our Corporate Responsibility framework  
and approach
 30 Costain Cares
  30 Relationships
  37 Our Environment
  39 The Future
40 Principal risks
42 Key performance indicators 
44 Group Finance Director’s review
48 Board of Directors
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
This section explains our Corporate Governance and decision-making 
processes. We detail the committees and our accountability and  
audit procedures. 
50 Corporate Governance
52 Corporate Governance statement
60 Other statutory information
65 Directors’ remuneration report
75 Directors’ responsibilities statement
76  Independent Auditor’s report to the members 
of Costain Group PLC
Financial statements
This section contains the detailed financial statements and other information 
that our stakeholders find useful including the financial calendar and 
shareholder services.
78  Consolidated income statement
79  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  
and expense
79  Company statement of comprehensive income  
and expense
80 Consolidated statement of financial position
81 Company statement of financial position
82 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
82 Company statement of changes in equity
83 Consolidated cash flow statement
84 Company cash flow statement
85 Notes to the financial statements
121  Five-year financial summary
Other information
122 Financial calendar and other shareholder information
124 Contact us
 Designing intelligent solutions
 08-09
 Delivering programme excellence
  1 0-1 1
 Maximising whole-life value
  1 2-1 3 02  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Overview 
2012 highlights
Strategy delivering results
0
300
600
900
1,200
Revenue
1
£m
08 09 10 11 12
996.0
1,061.1
1,022.5
986.3
934.5
0
7.5
15.0
22.5
30.0
Underlying operating profit
2
£m
08 09 10 11 12
19.5
22.0
17.4
24.1
25.1
0
10
20
30
40
Adjusted profit from operations
3
£m
08 09 10 11 12
18.3
20.8
29.4
23.6
31.4
0
40
80
120
160
Net cash balance
£m
08 09 10 11 12
146.6
120.5
144.3
140.1
105.7
0
12
24
36
48
Adjusted earnings per share
3
Pence
08 09 10 11 12
29.0
23.0
36.4
31.1
41.4
0
3
6
9
12
Dividends per share
Pence
08 09 10 11 12
7.5
8.25
9.25
10.0
10.75
Year ended 31 December  2012 2011
Revenue
1
£934.5m £986.3m
Operating profit
 Underlying
2
£25.1m £24.1m
Profit from operations
 Adjusted
3
£31.4m £23.6m
 Reported £28.0m £22.0m
Profit before tax
 Adjusted
3
£29.5m £25.5m
 Reported £26.1m £23.9m
Basic earnings per share
 Adjusted
3
41.4p 31.1p
 Reported 37.1p 29.2p
Net cash
Year-end cash balance £105.7m £140.1m
Average month-end cash balance £103.4m £130.4m
Dividend per share 10.75p 10.0p
1
 Including share of joint ventures and associates.
2  Underlying operating profit (before amortisation  
of acquired intangible assets and employment 
related acquisition consideration of £3.4 million)  
in 2012 excludes the £2.8 million one-off costs 
resulting from pension scheme liability actions.
3  Results stated before amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets and employment related 
acquisition consideration and after £10.5 million  
profit arising from transfer of PFI assets into  
the Group’s pension scheme and £2.8 million  
one-off costs resulting from pension scheme 
liability actions.
Financial highlights Financial statements Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  03
•	 	 Underlying operating profit
2
 up 4% to £25.1 million  
(2011: £24.1 million)
•	 	 I n c r e a s e 	 o f 	 1 6% 	 i n 	 a d j u s t e d 	 p r o fi t 	 be f o r e 	 t a x
3
 to  
£29.5 million (2011: £25.5 million)
•	 	 A d j u s t e d 	 b a s i c 	 e a r n i n g s 	 pe r 	 sh a r e
3
 up 33%  
to 41.4 pence (2011: 31.1 pence), reflecting increased  
profits and a non-recurring tax timing benefit 
•	 	 £ 1 05 . 7 	 m i l l i o n 	 y e a r - e n d 	 n e t 	 c a sh 	 b al a n c e	 
(2011: £140.1 million) and average month-end cash 
balance of £103.4 million (2011: £130.4 million)
•	 	 H i g h 	 q ual i t y 	 f o r w a r d 	 o r de r 	 b oo k 	 o f 	 £ 2 . 4 	 b i l l i o n , 	 i n 	 e x c es s	
of 90% from repeat orders including new awards and 
extensions to existing contracts (2011: £2.5 billion)
•	 	 I n c r e a s e 	 t o 	 o v e r 	 £ 7 00 	 m i l l i o n 	 o f 	 r e v e n ue 	 s e c u r e d 	 f o r	 
2013 as at 31 December 2012 (2011: over £650 million 
secured for 2012)
•	 	 R e co m m e n de d 	 i n c r e a s e 	 i n 	 fi n al 	 d i v i de n d 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 
sixth successive year, taking the total for the year  
to 10.75 pence, a 7 .5% increase on the prior year
One million man-hours 
injury-free
The Costain Carillion JV reached another 
major safety milestone on the M1 
Junctions 10-13 project. The project, 
which has an inducted workforce of over 
4,000 people, has again achieved one 
million man-hours injury free. It is the 
fourth time the project has reached this 
milestone since work began on the 
project in 2009, and to celebrate the 
team decided to donate £500 to 
Leagrave Primary School in Luton.
The new managed motorway scheme, 
which aims to relieve congestion by 
using technology to vary the speed limit, 
went live between Junctions 10 and 11 
in July 2012.
Chairman’s statement  pages 06-07
Chief Executive’s review pages 14-17
Business model pages 18-24
Group Finance Director’s review pages 44-47
Board of Directors pages 48-49
Find out more:
Major milestones 
reached at London 
Power Tunnels
Costain has reached a number of 
significant milestones in the construction 
of three deep level tunnels as part of the 
London Power Tunnels contract for 
National Grid.
Evelyn dug its way to its first destination, 
a pre-prepared shaft deep below 
National Grid’s Channel Gate Road 
offices, after beginning its journey from 
Willesden Substation earlier this year.
Cleopatra is digging the other 13km  
of the route and is approximately a 
kilometre away from her launch site in 
Har inge y . 	 T unne lling 	 w or k 	 is 	 scheduled	
for completion in 2014.
David Luetchford, National Grid’s  
He ad 	 o f 	 Cable 	 T unne ls , 	 said : 	 “ T he	
breakthrough represents another major 
step towards the completion of this vital 
project. Our breakthrough at Channel 
Gate Road is just one part of a much 
bigger story which involves us deploying 
the best talent and technology available 
to help ensure the lights stay on.”
A8 Belfast to Larne 
underway
The Northern Ireland Minister for 
Regional Development, Danny Kennedy 
MLA, has signalled the start of the  
A8 Belfast to Larne Dualling (a Costain 
joint venture project) by cutting the first 
sod of the £102 million scheme.
T he 	 Minist e r 	 said : 	 “ T he se 	 w ork s , 	 which	
will take 34 months to complete, are of 
significant importance to the economic 
development of Northern Ireland.”
Started in August 2012, the works are 
expected to be completed in spring 2015.
Costain appointed to 
£288 million Magnox 
framework contract
Magnox has awarded a framework 
contract worth around £288 million  
for the delivery of construction, 
infrastructure and maintenance projects 
across all ten sites which are operated  
by Magnox on behalf of the Nuclear 
Decommissioning Authority.
It is estimated that 55,000 tonnes  
of concrete, 1,300 tonnes of steel 
reinforcement and 310,000 tonnes of 
bituminous material will be used for the 
scheme, which will lead to an increase  
in demand for local suppliers of 
construction material.
Operational highlights 04  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Overview 
2012 highlights
continued
Focused on  
 o ur re sponsibili tie s
Platinum status
Costain’s commitment to being a 
responsible business was underlined  
by the retention of Platinum status in 
Business in the Community’s (‘BITC’s’) 
2012 Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) 
Index. 
“I 	 congra tula t e 	 Costain 	 on 	 achie ving	
Platinum in the 2012 BITC Corporate 
Responsibility Index. The CR Index has 
helped to highlight clearly those best 
practice examples that bring to life in a 
powerful way what integrated responsible 
practice really looks like. As we celebrate 
ten years of our CR Index it has given 
me great pleasure to witness each 
company’s responsible business journey 
and the transformations they are making 
both within their businesses and the 
impact they have in our communities.”
Stephen Howard
Chief Executive
Business in the Community
Environmental and social highlights
£1 71,142
Donated to charitable causes in 2012, including 
£22,000 to Great Ormond Street Hospital
C o sta i n ’ s 	 S a ra h 	 B a r t o n , 	 L is a 	 B ra v e r y 	 a n d 	 M a r tin 	 H u nt e r 	 p re s e nt e d 	 a 	 c h e q u e 	 t o	 
G re at 	 O r m o n d 	 S tre et 	 H o s p i ta l ’ s 	 C h r istin a 	 P a n a y i o t o u 	 ( s e c o n d 	 f ro m 	 r i g ht ) .
38
RoSPA Awards
Cos t ain ’ s 	 Health 	 and 	 Sa fe t y 	 per f ormance	
was recognised by the achievement  
o f 	 He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y 	 A w ards . 	 T he	 
Group received 38 RoSPA Awards, 
including two Orders of Distinction,  
one President’s Award, five Gold Medals  
and 19 Gold Awards.
27% 
Reduction in measured 
carbon emissions over 
the last four years
Costain donated over £22,000 to Great 
O rmond 	 Str e e t 	 Hospital ’ s 	 ‘ Raising 	 the	
Roof’ appeal, which will go towards 
upgrading the hospital’s world-renowned 
neuroscience centre.
Earlier this year, Costain instigated an 
enhanced transfer value offer and  
a pension increase exchange offer  
to members of The Costain Pension 
Scheme. This aimed to offer scheme 
members greater choice and flexibility 
regarding their pension entitlement and 
gave Costain the opportunity to reduce 
the overall pension liabilities and risk 
remaining within the scheme.
Costain considered it important that all 
members fully understood the offer and 
that they sought financial advice. The 
Company decided to make a donation 
o f 	 £ 1 0 	 t o 	 G r e a t 	 O r mond 	 Str e e t 	 Hospital	
for each member who contacted the 
appointed independent financial adviser, 
Oval Financial Services Limited. During 
the offer period, 2,246 members 
contacted Oval, generating a donation  
of over £22,000.
93% 
Waste diverted from 
landfill Financial statements Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  05
Costain receives 
accreditation for 
carbon footprint
Costain has received independent 
accreditation for reducing its carbon 
footprint, following an external audit by 
Achilles to the Certified Emissions 
Measurement and Reduction Scheme 
(‘CEMARS’).
Accreditation to CEMARS means 
Costain’s commitment over the last 
three years to accurately report and 
reduce its carbon emissions has been 
officially recognised. The CEMARS 
standard includes a yearly review to 
ensure the Company continues to meet 
its reduction goals.
Costain’s target is to achieve a 55% 
reduction in emission intensity by 2020 
against a 2009 baseline, by actively 
engaging with its employees, customers 
and supply chain. 
CEEQUAL award for 
Crossrail project
In October, the C330 Royal Oak Portal 
contract in west London, for which a 
Costain Skanska joint venture (‘CSJV’) 
was the contractor, won Crossrail’s  
first ‘Whole Project Award’ under the 
Civil Engineering Environmental  
Quality Assessment and Award Scheme 
(‘CEEQUAL ’).
CEEQUAL is the assessment and award 
scheme for improving sustainability in 
civil engineering and the public realm.  
It aims to demonstrate the commitment 
of the civil engineering industry to 
environmental quality and social 
performance.
CSJV Project Manager Dr Vicknayson 
Thevendran said examples of 
sustainability on the project included 
recycling aggregates for temporary and 
permanent works, using rainwater for 
the wheel-wash for vehicles leaving the 
site, and installing solar panels to power 
monitoring equipment. 
Costain launches supply chain academy
Costain Annual Report wins Investor  
Relations Society Award
In November, Costain was recognised  
at a prestigious investor relations award 
ceremony in London for its 2011 Annual 
Report.
Costain won the ‘Most Effective Overall 
Annual Report (Printed and Online) 
Award’, in the SmallCap & AIM category 
at the Investor Relations Society’s  
(‘IRSs’) Best Practice Awards held at  
The Pavilion, Tower of London, on  
20 November.
Now in their 12th year, the IRS Best 
Practice Awards recognise and reward 
best practice in investor communications, 
both online and in print.
The awards, which were attended by 
approximately 450 people from across 
the investor relations and corporate 
communications industry, were compered 
and presented by former Conservative 
cabinet minister Michael Portillo.
The IRS is the professional body for 
those involved in investor relations and  
is the focal point for investor relations in 
the UK.
The awards’ winners are determined 
through a robust, three-part review 
process. All entries are reviewed and 
scored against a checklist, based on the 
IRS’s best practice guidelines and the 
specific criteria for each award, set out  
in the awards entry form.
Commenting on the award, the judges 
said : 	 “ Costain 	 G r oup 	 pr e se n t ed 	 a 	 cle ar	
and easy-to-navigate report with the 
Remuneration Committee content being 
a particular feature.”
Investor relations is a strategic 
management function that incorporates 
finance, communication, marketing  
and strict compliance with Stock 
Exchange listing rules to enable the 
most effective two-way communication 
between a company, its shareholders 
and stakeholders, and the financial 
community.
Costain started to integrate its financial 
and corporate responsibility reporting 
into its Annual Report five years ago.
This allowed shareholders and other 
stakeholders to better gauge how the 
company performed financially and, 
through the successful implementation 
of the Costain Cares initiative launched 
in May 2011, to see how it conducted  
its business in the communities in which 
it operated.
In September, Costain officially opened 
its supply chain academy, a new  
initiative that aims to support and 
develop small to medium-sized 
enterprises.
The Company welcomed 15 suppliers 
on 3 September 2012 to attend the first 
of 19 modules covering business 
administration, commercial and financial 
be st 	 practice , 	 insurance , 	 He alth 	 and	
Safety, behavioural safety and quality.
The academy has been launched to 
align the Company’s supply chain 
partners with the high standard of 
training and development adopted 
across the Group.  06  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Business review
 C hairm a n ’ s s ta t e m en t
Delivering  
 e x c e l l e nt r es u l ts
Overview & Strategic Update
Costain has delivered another strong performance.
As a result of the implementation of our ‘Choosing Costain’ 
strategy, the Group is one of the UK’s leading engineering 
solutions providers, delivering integrated consulting, project 
delivery and operations and maintenance services to major 
blue-chip customers in targeted market sectors. 
Our success is the direct result of our focus on major 
customers who are continuing to invest billions of pounds  
in capital, operations and maintenance contracts to address 
essential national infrastructure requirements across the 
transport, energy, water and waste sectors.
During 2012, we increased the proportion of revenues from 
support service related activities to 29%. To meet the 
demands of major customers for an increasingly integrated 
service, we must continue to enhance and broaden the  
range of services we offer. The ongoing drive to develop  
our services particularly across engineering consultancy, and 
operations and maintenance will remain a key priority in 2013. 
The spending plans of our customers provide a major 
opportunity to grow the business further. With a strong  
cash position, robust balance sheet and banking and bonding 
facilities in place, we have the resources to continue to grow 
the business organically and by acquisition.
Performance
Revenue, including the Group’s share of joint ventures  
and associates, for the year was £934.5 million  
(2011: £986.3 million). Our focus on higher margin activities  
led to an increase of 4% in Group underlying operating profit  
of £25.1 million (2011: £24.1 million). Adjusted profit before  
tax increased by 16% to £29.5 million (2011: £25.5 million). 
Adjusted basic earnings per share were up 33% to 41.4 pence 
(2011: 31.1 pence), reflecting increased profits and a 
non-recurring tax timing benefit. 
As a result of the Group’s ongoing strategic focus on major 
blue chip customers who increasingly utilise a target cost 
based form of contract, our net cash position includes  
a lower level of advanced payments typically paid on lump 
sum contracts. Additionally, our increasing emphasis on 
support service related activities and changing industry cash 
flow trends, together with the cash flow timing implication  
of a delayed contract completion, accounted for the reduction 
in net cash to £105.7 million (2011: £140.1 million). We expect 
these trends will continue to be reflected in a lower average  
net cash position.
David Allvey
Chairman Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  07
The Group has flexible financing in place 
with total banking and bonding facilities 
of £465 million with a maturity date of  
30 September 2015.
We were successful in securing  
a number of major new contract awards 
and extensions to existing contracts. 
Consequently, the order book, as at  
31 December 2012, was £2.4 billion 
(2011: £2.5 billion). We have increased  
to over £700 million the revenue secured 
for 2013 (2011: over £650 million secured 
for 2012) and it is encouraging to have 
started the new financial year with such 
long-term visibility.
Dividend
Reflecting another successful year  
and our continuing confidence in the 
long-term prospects for the Group, the 
Board is recommending a 7.4% increase 
in the final dividend, the sixth successive 
year of increase. If approved, the  
7.25 pence per share (2011: 6.75 pence) 
final dividend will be paid on 24 May 2013  
to shareholders on the register as at  
the close of business on 19 April 2013. 
This would bring the total dividend for 
the full year to 10.75 pence per share  
(2011: 10.00 pence), an increase of  
7.5% over the prior year.
Board & Staff
The Board was pleased to announce  
the appointment of Jane Lodge as  
a Non-Executive Director with effect 
from 1 August 2012. Jane has also been 
appointed Chair of the Audit Committee, 
succeeding James Morley who became 
Senior Independent Director. James 
succeeded John Bryant who retired 
from the Board at the end of 2012 after 
nearly 11 years as a Board member.  
We would like to thank John for his 
considerable contribution over that time. 
There were a number of operational 
management changes and these are 
covered in the Chief Executive’s Review.
On behalf of the whole Board, I would 
like to place on record our recognition 
and appreciation of the excellent 
colleagues we have at Costain who 
continue to play a major role in our 
success. 
Group Pension Scheme
The deficit on the Group’s legacy 
Costain Pension Scheme (‘CPS’) at  
31 December 2012 was £40.0 million  
net of deferred tax (2011: £39.7 million). 
The assumptions and sensitivities used 
in the valuation of the pension scheme 
are set out in the notes to the financial 
statements.
Costain has in place a deficit recovery 
plan based on the latest actuarial 
position as at 31 March 2010, agreed 
with the Pension Scheme Trustee, 
expected to eliminate the deficit over  
a period of less than ten years and 
continues to take various decisive 
actions in that regard. Additionally,  
in February 2012, the Group announced 
two further actions being taken to 
manage the obligations in the CPS 
(further detail is provided within the 
Financial Review). In accordance with 
the requirement for a tri-ennial review, 
another full actuarial valuation of the CPS 
will be carried out as at 31 March 2013.
Summary & Outlook 
Costain has delivered another strong 
performance in 2012, and our confidence 
in the Group’s future is reflected in the 
Board’s recommendation to increase  
the final dividend for the sixth successive 
year.
Costain has delivered another 
strong performance in 2012, 
and our confidence in the 
Group’s future is reflected in 
the Board’s recommendation 
to increase the final dividend 
for the sixth successive year.”
Our progress in recent years, despite 
challenging economic conditions, is  
a reflection of the Group’s strategic  
focus on meeting the complex needs  
of customers by ensuring that Costain 
provides integrated consulting, project 
delivery and operations and 
maintenance capability. 
The Group believes that, driven by 
innovation, the strategic development  
of the business will be accelerated as  
we work with customers on their future 
programmes. 
With a robust balance sheet, positive net 
cash position and banking and bonding 
facilities in place, we have the resources 
to continue to grow the business 
organically and by acquisition.
David Allvey
Chairman
6 March 2013
“ 08  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
The depth and breadth of Costain’s expertise 
enables the Company to develop innovative 
solutions across its business sectors. These 
range from concrete gravity bases for offshore 
wind turbines, or completely redeveloping an 
operational railway station, to a study – with 
partners – of a new treatment for the UK’s 
100,000 tonnes of irradiated graphite from 
decommissioned nuclear power stations.
Designing  
 i nt e l l ig e nt s ol u t io n s
Consulting
Directors’ Report – Business review Financial statements Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  09
Reading is one of the busiest railway 
stations outside London, handling  
17 million passengers annually.  
A 	 C o sta i n / H o c hti ef 	 J o i nt 	 V e ntu r e 	 i s	
undertaking an £80 million project  
to redevelop and expand it.
This includes increasing the number  
of platforms from ten to 15, roofing the 
station and installing a new ‘transfer 
deck’ across the tracks. The latter 
involves replacing the existing footbridge 
and stairs with a higher capacity 
structure complete with escalators 
down to the platforms. The project has 
been designed to allow all this to take 
place while rail services through the 
station continue uninterrupted.
The new 100-metre transfer deck was 
constructed in three sections at a site 
beside the tracks. The first 50-metre 
section was pushed 28 metres out over 
the railway over four nights in July 2012, 
while the second section was jacked 
into position over five nights in the period 
between the Olympic and Paralympic 
Games. It took two nights to slide the 
second section 18 metres over the 
track, then a further three nights to 
lower it just 100mm into its final position.
The 1,100-tonne section was lowered 
25mm at a time in a series of steps to 
ensure it fitted exactly onto its bearings.
This particular part of the project was 
carried out over an operational railway 
rather than during a possession when 
ra i l 	 s e r v i c e s 	 a r e 	 s u s p e n d e d . 	 “ T h i s	
demonstrated both Network Rail and 
First Great Western’s confidence in  
the team after the earlier bridge slide, ” 
commented Site Agent Dave Forbes. 10  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Construction involves much more than simply 
building an asset accurately and efficiently  
to plan. Costain has to understand clients’ 
requirements and work collaboratively with 
them to create the most effective solution  
to balance performance for users with 
long-term maintenance requirements. During 
construction it means having teams with the 
right levels of competence and leadership  
to pull together extensive supply chains and 
negotiate complicated interfaces.
Delivering  
 p r o gr am me e x c e l len c e
Project delivery
Directors’ Report – Business review Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  11
Bidston Moss Viaduct is a 3.7km-long 
structure carrying the M53 motorway 
over a railway line and major roundabout 
on the Wirral peninsula. It is a 37-span 
box girder bridge built in the late  
1960s and, by the early ‘noughties’,  
like many structures of that vintage  
and construction method, structural 
deterioration had set in.
The viaduct had laboured under weight 
restrictions from 2005 and was under 
threat of closure if structural weaknesses 
were not addressed. It carries 63,000 
v e hicle s 	 daily , 	 including 	 5 , 0 0 0 	 HG V s 	 –	
closure would have had a severe  
effect on the economic life of the Wirral.
Costain, as principal contractor, installed 
400 tonnes of reinforcement steel within 
the 	 hollo w 	 bo x 	 girde r 	 str uctur e 	 – 	 all 	 while	
traffic flow was maintained overhead.
Much of the structure had not been 
opened up since 1969. This meant 
Costain and its subcontractors had  
to create or improve access into  
602 individual box girder compartments. 
Costain had to co-ordinate multiple 
trades working together in extremely 
confined spaces. 
A lean engineering team was set up, 
using techniques similar to those in the 
car industry, to ensure the work was 
undertaken with maximum efficiency. 
The viaduct’s concrete piers were also 
strengthened and refurbishment of the 
deck and carriageway was undertaken 
as part of the £89.9 million contract  
f or 	 the 	 High w a ys 	 A ge ncy .
The viaduct was restored to full structural 
capacity three months ahead of deadline. 
The project won a plethora of awards  
for excellence in both construction and 
safety standards. 12  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Over the past decade, Costain has  
greatly expanded the services it offers 
clients. As well as its long-established 
project delivery expertise in construction 
and engineering, it now provides whole-life 
services, from consultancy and design 
work at the start of a project to the 
post-construction operation, maintenance 
and eventual decommissioning of assets.
Maximising
 whole- l if e v al ue
Care
Directors’ Report – Business review Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  13
Water, nuclear and highways are three 
areas where this change has been  
most apparent. 
Under Asset Management Programme 
(‘AMP’) contracts being undertaken  
with several of the UK’s largest water 
utilities, for example... Costain is advising 
upfront, doing the work and supplying 
ongoing support and maintenance. 
Costain also provides maintenance 
services for approximately a third of 
England’s motorways and major trunk 
routes under Managing Agent Contractor 
arrangements with the Highways Agency.
In nuclear, as the UK’s first-generation 
Magnox nuclear reactors close down, 
Costain is helping care for the sites as 
they enter the lengthy decommissioning 
process. A £288 million framework 
contract lasting up to ten years is 
emblematic of the emphasis the 
Company is placing on creating value 
beyond its traditional activities.
Costain is also handling enabling works 
at the Berkeley and Trawsfynydd sites, 
installing infrastructure that will allow 
decommissioning to proceed. This 
includes the reconfiguration of buildings 
and access roads, plus creation of 
facilities for the decommissioning 
workforce. Additionally, Costain is also 
designing and constructing plant to deal 
with radiological waste and assembling 
the team to operate it.
On the roads, Costain has worked  
with the Highways Agency to retro-fit  
a more efficient service delivery system 
to existing contracts. The modified 
contracts are based around what 
actually needs to be done to keep the 
network functioning as opposed to the 
previous, prescriptive level of intervention 
where Costain delivered a suite of works 
to a pre-set budget. 14  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Business review 
 Chief Executive’s review
Engineering value  
 is our business
Against a backdrop of changing industry dynamics and 
ongoing challenging economic conditions, 2012 was another 
year of progress at Costain.
Our focus on providing innovative and cost effective solutions 
to increasingly complex and large-scale national needs, along 
with our partnership approach, is enabling Costain to build 
new and extend existing long-term relationships with a range 
of major customers. As a result, during the year we secured 
new contracts and extensions of some £900 million and our 
year-end total order book stood at £2.4 billion. 
Reflecting the increasing quality of our customer relationships, 
over 90% of that order book now comprises repeat orders. 
The order book also provides good long-term visibility with 
over £700 million of revenue secured for 2013, and in excess  
of a further £1.7 billion of revenue secured for 2014 and 
beyond. In addition, the Group has maintained a strong 
preferred bidder position of over £400 million. 
Trends & Developments
During the year we saw a continuing trend amongst our major 
customers to consolidate their supply chains, as they seek to 
derive business benefits by working in a much more strategic 
and collaborative manner with a reduced number of preferred 
Tier One service providers who have the ability to deliver the 
entirety of their service needs.
Engineering  
solutions to 
meet national  
needs
1
Focusing on 
the needs of 
major blue-chip 
customers
2
Our market 
focus
3
Our business model
Andrew Wyllie
Chief Executive
Page 18 Page 18 Page 19 Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  15
As a consequence, our customers  
are rapidly changing their procurement 
approach, consolidating a broader range 
of services across consulting, project 
delivery and operations activities into 
larger, longer-term contracts. As 
examples of this trend, in 2012 we were 
appointed by Magnox as one of two 
service providers under a 10-year 
framework contract that now covers  
all ten of their UK nuclear sites, and  
we were appointed by the Oil & Pipelines 
Agency on a 3-year operations and 
maintenance contract that now covers 
the whole of their estate. 
In this changing and competitive 
environment, it is essential that Costain 
is able to demonstrate that it has the 
scale, skills, experience and financial 
strength necessary to secure, and then 
deliver, a strong performance on these 
increasingly large and complex 
contracts. The Costain Group has been 
transformed in recent times to meet  
our customers’ evolving requirements.  
Our progress in recent years, despite 
economic conditions, is a reflection of the 
Group’s strategic focus on meeting the 
complex needs of customers by ensuring 
the Costain provides integrated consulting, 
project delivery and operations and 
maintenance capability.”
David Allvey
Chairman
We now deliver Engineering services 
across the full asset life-cycle, from 
advisory and design to operations  
and maintenance. Developed both 
organically and by acquisition, 29% of 
our revenue in 2012 was derived from 
support service activities.
The provision of an increasing range  
of skills and services, along with the 
recognised capability of our team, our 
acknowledged engineering expertise 
and reputation for reliable safe delivery 
has enabled us to secure large, 
integrated and complex projects: the 
contract from Network Rail for the 
London Bridge Redevelopment, a key 
part of the Thameslink programme; the 
Evaporator D project, one of the largest 
nuclear decommissioning projects in  
the UK, where we are utilising innovative 
modularisation techniques used in our  
oil and gas operations to deliver units  
to site; the Greater Manchester Waste 
project, one of Western Europe’s  
largest waste PFI contracts; and with  
the 	 High w a ys 	 A ge ncy , 	 whose 	 o wn	
assessment rates Costain as a leading 
supply chain partner. 
During the year, we secured our  
first highways technology framework 
contract for the Welsh Government, an 
important contract given the increased 
levels of investment in technology 
expected in the highways sector. We 
also recently secured, in joint venture, 
our first rail electrification contract for 
Network Rail, with electrification forming 
a key part of their £37 billion investment 
programme. 
Costain’s growing in-house ability to 
design, procure and deliver projects  
is being utilised by Centrica for the 
delivery of its gas plant at Easington  
to serve the York field in the North Sea. 
As a result of successful delivery on the 
new plant, we have just been appointed 
by Centrica to develop the Front End 
Engineering design (‘FEED’) for a similar 
project at Barrow. The Aberdeen based 
ClerkMaxwell specialist oil and gas 
FEED consultancy, acquired by Costain 
in 2011, has almost doubled in size since 
acquisition. 
Our 
‘Choosing 
Costain’ 
strategy
4
Strategic 
priorities  
and progress 
in 2012
5
Our business 
divisions  
6
Our business 
architecture 
7
Operating 
effectively and 
responsibly
8
Investing in...
9
Delivering 
shareholder 
value
10
Page 20 Page 20 Page 21 Page 22 Page 23 Page 24 Page 24
“ 16  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Business review 
 Chief Executive’s review
 continued
‘Engineering Tomorrow’
Engineering excellence runs through  
our DNA and ‘Engineering Tomorrow’  
is the Costain commitment to identifying, 
developing and implementing innovative 
solutions to major national needs. 
Our customers are increasingly looking 
to their preferred supply chain partners 
such as Costain for innovative products 
and services that will shorten lead times, 
enhance the quality of project delivery 
and, above all, provide cost-effective 
solutions. To remain a preferred Tier One 
supplier, we need to stay one step ahead 
of our peer group. 
We have increased our investment  
in Research and Development, and  
have introduced the Costain Start-Up 
initiative to encourage and support 
entrepreneurial members of staff to 
develop their ideas into business 
opportunities. The ‘Mario’ asset 
management tool was one such idea, 
which is now being sold commercially  
to rail and highways customers as an 
addition to Costain’s range of services. 
We are currently undertaking consulting 
projects to develop Plasma Vitrification 
and Graphite Gasification technologies 
as potential solutions for addressing the 
treatment and storage of intermediate 
level nuclear waste. We are also 
undertaking work on behalf of the 
Energy Technology Institute to develop  
a prototype process for carbon capture. 
‘Costain Cares’
One of our competitive advantages is 
the recognition some time ago of the 
increasing importance customers were 
placing 	 on 	 the 	 “ good 	 citiz e n ” 	 cr ede n tials	
of their supply-chain partners. Failure  
to embrace and deliver on what our 
customers regard as vital components 
of corporate and social responsibility 
means non qualification for tender lists. 
We passionately share these values  
and Costain believes that investment  
in corporate social responsibility  
capital is a vital investment in the 
Group’s future success. 
Core to our transformation and our  
value proposition to customers is our 
‘Costain Cares’ programme which 
places responsible, effective and 
collaborative stakeholder relationships  
at the core of everything we do. 
We received a Platinum award from 
Business in the Community, recognising 
our proactive commitment to mitigating 
the environmental and social aspects  
of our operations. 
Costain places the highest priority on the 
e f fe ctiv e 	 manage me n t 	 o f 	 Sa fe t y , 	 He alth	
and Environment. Further progress was 
made in the year and we again recorded 
an improved Group Accident Frequency 
Rate (‘AFR’) reducing from 0.11 to a new 
record low of 0.09, which continues  
to compare favourably with our major 
Tier One peer group. We also received 
19 Gold Awards from RoSPA and  
two prestigious Orders of Distinction. 
Teamwork
The results generated by Costain in 2012 
were delivered by an outstanding team. 
During the year, we increased our 
training and development programmes 
across the organisation so that we have 
the requisite skills and resources. There 
was a further increase in the number  
of apprentices across the Group.
There were also a number of 
adjustments to the senior executive 
team. Mark Rogerson MBE, who joined 
the Group in June from Serco in the  
new role of Chief Development Officer, 
has since been appointed Managing 
Director of the new Natural Resources 
division. Mark has a track record of 
successfully managing and growing 
support service businesses. The 
Infrastructure division will continue to be 
led by Managing Director Darren James.
Alan Kay, previously Managing Director 
of the Environment Division, and who 
recently completed the Advanced 
Manage me n t 	 P r ogramme 	 a t 	 Har v ard	
Business School, was appointed in 
November to the new role of Group 
Technical & Operations Director on the 
Executive Board to drive innovation, 
operational and engineering excellence 
across the Group. 
T im 	 Bo w e n , 	 pr e viously 	 High w a ys	 
Sector Director, was appointed to the 
Executive Board to develop our 
consulting and operations activities  
for major customers in the Middle East.  
The senior management team was 
further strengthened by the appointment 
o f 	 Fiona 	 W ar e 	 as 	 Human 	 Re sour ce s	
Director. 
Engineering value  
 is our business Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  17
A New Structure
One of the strengths of Costain is the 
ability to focus group-wide resources  
to meet specific customer requirements, 
address opportunities and optimise 
returns for the Company as a whole 
irrespective of divisional structure. 
In November, the Group announced the 
formation of the new Natural Resources 
operating division, encompassing the 
W a t e r , 	 Hy dr oc ar bons 	 & 	 Chemicals ,	
Nuclear Process and Waste sectors, 
combining most of the existing Energy  
& Process and Environment Divisions 
and some support service activities 
previously in Infrastructure. This new 
divisional structure will enable the  
Group to align itself more closely with  
its customers’ evolving requirements  
and to combine further its front end 
process engineering, project delivery, 
and operations capability into an 
integrated service for customers.
The Natural Resources division will 
operate alongside the Infrastructure 
division which will now also include all 
power activities as well as the Group’s 
activities in the highways, rail, and airports 
sectors. The new divisional structure 
took effect from 1 January 2013.
The Future
Costain has delivered another strong 
performance and demonstrated again 
that it has the right strategy to drive 
profitable growth even through the most 
challenging of economic conditions.
We entered 2013, having already 
secured over £700 million of work for  
the year and we continue to benefit  
from a strong pipeline and high levels  
of tendering activity. 
Looking forward, we expect the rate  
of change in Costain to accelerate as  
we take further steps to broaden our 
services and enhance our product 
range. We believe that we will continue 
to be successful by further increasing 
the agility of the business to react to 
customer’s changing requirements and 
by driving innovation and new technology 
across all of our operations in line  
with our commitment to ‘Engineering 
Tomorrow’.
I look forward to reporting on further 
progress during the year.
Andrew Wyllie
Chief Executive
6 March 2013 18  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Creating value through our
 cu s t o m e r - f o cu se d s t r at e g y
Engineering  
solutions to 
meet national  
needs
Focusing on the needs of 
major blue-chip customers
Health and Safety
Our focus on safety remains our highest priority. We achieve 
this by providing a safe working environment where the  
health and wellbeing of our people are protected and actively 
promoted.
Intelligent solutions
Providing solutions that are agile and responsive to the needs 
of our customers remains essential in our chosen markets.  
Our experience and knowledge in the application of the right 
solutions remain critical to informing decisions at all stages  
of the asset life-cycle.
Cost-competitiveness
In a challenging global economy, businesses continue to  
come under pressure to drive down costs. We concentrate  
not just on solutions that deliver the best value for customers 
but also on how we deliver these solutions. This requires  
an unrelenting focus on our customers’ costs and our own 
operating procedures.
Corporate Responsibility
Our commitment to delivering services responsibly and 
sustainably is vitally important to the Group. We believe  
that responsible business is central to delivering greater  
value to our customers and all other stakeholders.
Innovation and technology
Today’s environment requires businesses to innovate  
at a faster rate than ever before. The need to continually  
innovate and apply new technology in creating solutions  
to meet national and customer needs is now a base 
requirement of operating in this market place. We focus  
on developing intelligent solutions and providing the latest 
technology in all activities that we undertake. 
Partnering and collaboration
Partnering and collaboration form a central part of an 
approach which has become essential to deliver complex 
engineering and services. Our customers and suppliers  
value the importance of this partnership approach and  
we often work in collaboration to deliver required projects  
and services.
1 2
Directors’ Report – Business review
 Busi ne ss m o del Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  19
Our market focus
The markets we operate in remain robust and aligned to planned investment 
programmes underpinned by regulated spend and national needs. 
Targeting £billions worth of committed spend (based on estimated annual industry spend).
£
11
bn
Water
Committed spend continues in the  
UK water market as a result of rising 
environmental standards and continued 
threat of water scarcity. The sixth asset 
management plan cycle, proposed  
£4.1 billion London super-sewer project 
and legislation-driven £3 billion water 
retail markets are examples of the 
growth in this market.
£
5.4
bn
Nuclear process
In addition to the Nuclear 
Decommissioning Authority’s £49.5 billion 
investment in cleaning up the UK’s 
nuclear legacy, generating new nuclear 
power is seen as vital to UK energy 
security, with an estimated investment  
of circa £60 billion to build up to 16GW 
of capacity.
£
9.5
bn
Waste
Environmental and legislative obligations 
continue to shape the UK waste 
management sector, which is predicted 
to grow around 3% by 2014. The market 
continues to be transformed to focus  
on reuse, recycling and recovery of 
waste. This reflects the UK’s ambition  
to achieve a zero-waste economy and  
to divert waste from landfills, estimated 
to be circa 50% of all local authority 
collected waste.
£
17
bn
Rail
The national infrastructure plan sets out 
a robust plan for investment in the UK 
rail network. This is a priority area for  
the Government to stimulate economic 
growth, and to meet future demands  
for an additional 225 million passengers 
and 355,000 more trains per year.  
£37 .5 billion is set to be invested over  
five years on national rail networks in 
areas including electrification, track and 
network upgrades and the proposed 
High Speed 2 (‘HS2’).
£
8
bn
Highways 
UK road networks are under pressure, 
with longer average delays and 
increases in traffic volumes year on  
year. Congestion is predicted to cost  
the economy £22 billion a year by 2025  
if road networks are not upgraded.  
To overcome these challenges, billions  
of pounds are being spent improving 
road networks, including plans to invest 
£9.7 billion to extend the life and quality 
of the UK strategic road network.
£
9.5
bn
Power
The UK’s challenge is to secure its 
energy future while meeting carbon 
reduction commitments and coping 
with an ageing infrastructure. This  
will be underpinned by investment  
in cleaner and more reliable sources  
of energy and bigger and smarter 
infrastructure, including renewables, 
nuclear power and fossil fuels with 
Carbon Capture Storage (‘CCS’) 
technology. Around £110 billion of 
investment is anticipated by 2020.
£
23
bn
 
Hydrocarbons and 
chemicals
Significant activity in the UK upstream 
market is expected to continue. This 
will be primarily driven by investment 
of over £10 billion in offshore deep 
drilling and the optimisation of mature 
assets in the North Sea. In addition, 
rising energy demands, unstable oil 
prices and cheaper energy sources are 
boosting investment in gas exploration.
£
6
bn
 
Airports
The UK is recognised as one of the 
world’s leading business centres. 
However, there is growing pressure on 
the UK to increase capacity within its 
aviation infrastructure to accommodate 
economic growth. It is estimated that a 
lack of capacity at Heathrow is costing 
the UK economy £14 billion a year. 
3
1 Engineering solutions to meet national needs page 18
2 Focusing on the needs of major blue-chip customers page 18
3 Our market focus page 19
4 Our ‘Choosing Costain’ strategy page 20
5 Strategic priorities and progress in 2012 page 20
6 Our business divisions  page 21
7 Our business architecture  page 22
8 Operating effectively and responsibly page 23
9 Investing in... page 24
10 Delivering shareholder value page 24
Find out more: 20  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Our ‘Choosing 
Costain’ strategy
We continue to develop our strategy 
by broadening our offer and focusing 
on developing solutions to meet the 
needs of our customers. 
Our focus is in our target markets  
of highways, rail, power, airports, 
waste, water, nuclear process  
and hydrocarbons and chemicals.  
Our geographical focus remains 
primarily in the UK whilst developing 
international consultancy services 
through strategic partnerships  
in the Middle East.
Having successfully pursued this 
approach for the last two years  
we are strengthening our market 
position and delivering engineering 
solutions across the entire asset 
life-cycle.
We provide advisory and design 
services designing intelligent 
solutions, complex engineering 
delivering programme excellence 
and operations and maintenance 
maximising whole-life value.
Costain’s ambition remains to  
double profits in the medium term. 
Customer focus
Broadening our services across the 
asset life-cycle, enhancing the quality  
of our earnings and the value to our 
customers and the end user.
Progress
•	 90% repeat business in 2012
•	 47% of new order book through 
existing contract arrangements
Developing a best-in-class 
management team
Providing new solutions through insight 
and innovation requires a leadership 
team at all levels of the business closely 
aligned to our customers’ needs and  
our ability to deliver these solutions.
Progress
•	 51 new recruits in senior positions, 
including nine key senior-level recruits  
(six external, three internal)
•	 Two new appointments to the 
Executive Board
Operational efficiency
To meet our customers’ needs we 
continue to focus on our cost base, 
ensuring that we are providing best 
value through implementing a ‘lean’ 
strategy throughout the business.
Progress
•	 Appointment of Group Technical & 
Operations Director to the Board
•	 Reduction in operational overhead
Innovation
We continue to invest significantly in 
innovation, research and technology that 
will provide new services to customers 
and address national needs where new 
markets are emerging. 
Progress
•	 36 patents and patents pending  
to improve customers’ business 
performance
•	 Over £2 million deployed annually to 
solve technical challenges and bring 
innovative solutions to market
•	 Directly over £8 million of government 
investment
Operating responsibly 
In contributing to the sustainable 
development of the UK’s infrastructure,  
it is important that we approach  
our business in a responsible way. 
Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) is core  
to our business. We are committed  
to delivering projects and services 
responsibly and sustainably, ensuring 
that we meet our customers’ and 
society’s needs while managing the 
social, environmental and economic 
impacts of our business.
Progress
•	 Retained Platinum status in Business 
in the Community’s 2012 CR Index
•	 Please see pages 30 to 39 for further 
details of our progress in 2012
Partnerships
In a market where collaboration 
continues to deliver value, Costain 
focuses on developing strategic 
partnerships to support the development 
of broader services and technology.
Progress
•	 Alstom Babcock Costain joint venture 
wins first electrification project
Strategic priorities and progress in 2012
4 5
Directors’ Report – Business review
 Busi ne ss m o del
 continued
Creating value through our
 cu s t o m e r - f o cu se d s t r at e g y Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  21
Our business divisions  
Natural Resources
The Natural Resources division delivers engineering solutions  
in water, nuclear process, waste and hydrocarbons and 
chemicals, whilst also delivering legacy projects in education.
Water
A leading provider of capital framework and maintenance 
framework programmes under the current AMP 5 
arrangements. Providing water services to commercial  
and industrial customers.
Nuclear process
Major frameworks and capital schemes delivered across  
a number of the UK’s strategic assets.
Waste
Delivering major waste schemes across the UK. 
6
1 Engineering solutions to meet national needs page 18
2 Focusing on the needs of major blue-chip customers page 18
3 Our market focus page 19
4 Our ‘Choosing Costain’ strategy page 20
5 Strategic priorities and progress in 2012 page 20
6 Our business divisions  page 21
7 Our business architecture  page 22
8 Operating effectively and responsibly page 23
9 Investing in... page 24
10 Delivering shareholder value page 24
Find out more:
In November 2012, we announced  
a restructuring of our business divisions  
by creating a new Natural Resources 
operating division as part of the further 
transformation of the Costain Group. 
We now have two operating divisions: 
Natural Resources and Infrastructure.
The new division will encompass the 
water, hydrocarbons and chemicals, 
nuclear process and waste sectors by 
combining the existing Energy & Process 
and Environment divisions. The division 
will enable Costain to combine further  
its front-end processing engineering, 
project delivery and operations capability 
into an integrated service for customers.
Hydrocarbons and chemicals
Developing and implementing solutions for the upstream  
and downstream oil and gas and chemical sectors in the  
UK and Middle East.
Infrastructure
The Infrastructure division delivers engineering solutions  
for principal infrastructure providers in rail, highways,  
power and airports.
Rail
A leading provider of multi-disciplinary projects for Network  
Rail, Crossrail and LUL. Currently delivering major projects 
principally focused on transportation hubs, most recently at 
London Bridge, Reading and Bond Street.
Highways
De liv e r ing 	 major 	 pr ogramme s 	 f or 	 the 	 High w a ys 	 A ge ncy ,	 
Welsh Government and local authorities. Maintenance  
under the current MAC contracts and Early Contractor 
Involvement works.
Power
Focusing on thermal generation, new nuclear, offshore wind, 
transmission and distribution. Currently delivering major 
tunnelling works for National Grid.
Airports
Delivering programmes of work across airport assets  
a t 	 He a thr o w , 	 Ga t wick 	 and 	 Manche st e r .
Find out more on pages 26-28 22  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Our business architecture 
Consulting
Advisory  
and design
Pre-investment advisory
•	 Investment appraisals and  
business cases
•	 Feasibility and concept design
•	 Intelligent infrastructure solutions
•	 Optioneering and value management
Complex programme 
advisory
•	 P r o gr a mme ma na g e me n t  
and governance
•	 Performance assurance and controls
•	 Risk and opportunity management
•	 Contractual consultancy services
•	 Commercial controls
•	 Asset commissioning planning
Operational excellence
•	 Lean engineering
•	 Cost planning and reduction
•	 Procurement and supply chain 
solutions
•	 Asset management and optimisation
•	 Decommissioning and reclamation
Sustainability and  
energy advisory
•	 Engineering consultancy, advice and 
support across the asset life-cycle
Design
•	 Concept outline through to detailed 
design
•	 Front-end engineering studies
•	 Feasibility and options
Construction
Complex programme 
delivery
Programme leadership
•	 Detailed design management  
and control
•	 C on s t r uct i on me t h odol o g y  
and strategy
•	 Planning and programme management
•	 Resource allocation and optimisation
•	 Construction management
Sustainable delivery
•	 Behavioural safety and environmental 
assurance
•	 Quality assurance management
•	 Energy and waste management
•	 Community engagement and liaison
Asset operation integration
•	 Network management system
•	 Network technology integration
•	 Service assurance
•	 Stakeholder management
Construction and 
engineering compliance
•	 Risk control management
•	 CDM standards and control 
management
•	 Construction systems and process 
assurance
•	 People development and 
communication
Care
Operations  
and maintenance
Infrastructure network 
management 
•	 Control centre staffing
•	 Call centre operations
•	 Live ‘on network’ emergency
•	 Sustainable operational excellence
Asset management  
and maintenance
•	 Asset knowledge acquisition
•	 Asset monitoring, testing and 
inspection
•	 Planned preventative maintenance
•	 ‘Non-scheduled’ defect solutions
•	 Life-expired asset renewal
•	 Decommissioning
Facilities management
•	 Building fabric maintenance and 
renewal
•	 Mechanical and electrical repair  
and renewal
•	 Support service staffing and 
resourcing
•	 C omme r cia l cle a ni n g ,  
catering and security
•	 Grounds maintenance
Compliance services
•	 Behavioural and process safety
•	 Fire systems maintenance
•	 HV A C 	 installa t ion 	 and 	 main t e nance
•	 Water hygiene and monitoring
•	 Energy efficiency management
7
Directors’ Report – Business review
 Busi ne ss m o del
 continued
Creating value through our
 cu s t o m e r - f o cu se d s t r at e g y Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  23
Relationships
We encourage open, honest and 
respectful communication. We believe  
in strong, long-lasting relationships that 
are mutually beneficial.
We will:
•	 provide a safe working environment 
free from harm;
•	 provide a healthy working environment 
for all our people;
•	 support the local communities in 
which we operate, ensuring we leave  
a lasting legacy;
•	 provide sustainable solutions and the 
highest standards of service for our 
customers;
•	 attract, retain and develop the best 
people for the Costain Group; and
•	 operate a collaborative, responsible 
supply chain where our partners 
support us in delivering efficient, 
innovative and sustainable solutions.
Find out more on pages 30-36
Our Environment
We operate in the built environment, 
where we meet national needs for 
strategic investment in infrastructure.  
We compete in the economic 
environment, where we must deliver 
value for customers and shareholders. 
We have to deliver responsibly to the 
natural environment for the benefit  
of everyone.
We will:
•	 work with our customers and supply 
chain to, where possible:
–	 	 r educe 	 our 	 impact 	 on 	 clima t e 	 change ;
–	 	 conse r v e 	 na tural 	 r e sour ce s 	 thr ough	
effective waste management, 
minimising water consumption and 
sustainably sourcing materials; and
–	 pr o t e ct 	 and 	 e nhance 	 the 	 e n vir onme n t .	
Find out more on pages 37-38
The Future
We play an important role in the 
provision of infrastructure vital for  
the UK economy. The benefits of 
investment in infrastructure today  
will be felt for many years to come.
We will:
•	 be one of the UK’s top engineering 
solutions providers;
•	 provide a sustainable return on 
investment for our shareholders;
•	 invest in innovation to provide 
solutions for tomorrow’s challenges;
•	 work with our customers and  
supply chain to develop skills  
to respond to future needs within  
our sector; and
•	 contribute to economic growth  
by supporting our supply chain, 
including small and medium-sized 
enterprises.
Find out more on page 39
Operating effectively  
and responsibly
8
1 Engineering solutions to meet national needs page 18
2 Focusing on the needs of major blue-chip customers page 18
3 Our market focus page 19
4 Our ‘Choosing Costain’ strategy page 20
5 Strategic priorities and progress in 2012 page 20
6 Our business divisions  page 21
7 Our business architecture  page 22
8 Operating effectively and responsibly page 23
9 Investing in... page 24
10 Delivering shareholder value page 24
Find out more: 24  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Investing in...
Health and Safety
Ensuring that we provide a safe working environment where 
the health and wellbeing of our people is protected and 
actively promoted.
Find out more on pages 30-32
Our people
Attract, retain and develop the best people and, in doing  
so, support the delivery of our strategy. A focus on key roles  
to deliver our broadening offer into our chosen markets.
Find out more on pages 33-35
Developing customer insight
Developing customer relationships through a greater focus  
on business development and early project engagement.
Additional capability
Strategic acquisitions to support the ‘Choosing Costain’ 
strategy in our chosen markets.
Find out more on pages 14-17
Work-winning
Maximising our return on investment through focus and 
developing relationships with key partners to extend our  
offer to our customers. Providing greater capability, service 
and technology solutions.
Innovation and technology
Delivering intelligent solutions through the effective  
deployment of direct investment, research funding and 
customer-led innovation.
Responsible business and sustainability 
Building a longer-term sustainable business that creates 
economic, environmental and social value.
Providing sustainable solutions and the highest standards  
of service for our customers.
Find out more on pages 29-39
Delivering 
shareholder value
9 10
0
3
6
9
12
Dividends per share
Pence
08 09 10 11 12
7.5
8.25
9.25
10.0
10.75
Directors’ Report – Business review
 Busi ne ss m o del
 continued
Creating value through our
 cu s t o m e r - f o cu se d s t r at e g y
Reflecting another 
successful year and our 
continuing confidence 
in the long-term 
prospects for the 
Group, the Board is 
recommending a 7.4% 
increase in the final 
dividend, the sixth 
successive year of 
increase.
David Allvey
Chairman Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  25
Natural resources
The Natural Resources division delivers engineering 
solutions in water, nuclear process, waste and hydrocarbons 
and chemicals, whilst also delivering legacy projects  
in education.
Water
Nuclear process
Waste
Hydrocarbons and chemicals
Infrastructure
The Infrastructure division delivers engineering solutions  
for principal infrastructure providers in rail, highways, power 
and airports.
Rail
Highways
Power
Airports
Directors’ Report – Business review
   Performing responsibly 
 P er f orm ing res pons ibly 
is integral to our success and sustainability
This is the fifth year we have 
combined our Financial and 
Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) 
reporting, demonstrating that 
responsible business is core  
to our Company. Our aim is  
to deliver a totally integrated 
approach to our reporting. 
Our operational reporting 
framework
Relationships
We encourage open, honest and respectful communication. 
We believe in strong, long-lasting relationships that are 
mutually beneficial.
Our Environment
We operate in the built environment, where we meet  
national needs for strategic investment in infrastructure.  
We compete in the economic environment, where we must 
deliver value for customers and shareholders. We have to 
deliver responsibly to the natural environment for the benefit 
of everyone.
The Future
We play an important role in the provision of infrastructure 
vital for the UK economy. The benefits of investment in 
infrastructure today will be felt for many years to come.
Our CR reporting framework
Water
Rail
Power
Waste
Nuclear Process
Highways
Airports
Hydrocarbons
and Chemicals 
Highways
Power Rail
Hydrocarbons
and Chemicals 
Water
Waste
Local
Authorities
Local Authorities
Nuclear Process
Nuclear
Infrastructure
Natural Resources
The Future
Relationships
Our Environment
Water
Highways 26  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
The Infrastructure division, which 
incorporated activities in the highways, 
rail, and airports sectors, had a very 
successful year in which revenue 
(including share of joint ventures and 
associates) increased to £562.3 million 
(2011: £466.0 million) as investment 
 in business development enabled the 
Group to take advantage of a number  
of major opportunities in the market.  
As a result, adjusted profit from 
operations rose to £26.1 million (2011: 
£10.2 million). The significantly improved 
profit performance reflects strong 
operating returns and additional gains  
on successfully completed and final 
accounted projects. The order book  
for the division has grown to £1.6 billion 
(2011: £1.5 billion) and the level of 
tendering activity remains high.
In Rail, during the period, the Group, in 
joint venture, secured its fifth contract 
with Crossrail for the construction and  
fit out of the intermediate shafts and 
headhouses at Eleanor Street and  
Mile End Park in London, along with  
the connecting adits to the main running 
tunnels. Work is also progressing well  
on the major London Bridge Station 
redevelopment project for Network Rail, 
in which Costain is providing integrated 
services including design, construction, 
logistical and environmental operations 
whilst ensuring the station remains open 
throughout.
Costain continues to be a leading 
supplier 	 t o 	 the 	 High w a ys 	 A ge ncy 	 and	
significant progress is being made  
with the large portfolio of professional 
services, construction and maintenance 
contracts in which it is engaged for this 
customer. New contract awards during 
the period under review include the 
upgrade of the A8 Belfast to Larne 
carriageway for the Northern Ireland 
Roads Service, appointment to both lots 
o f 	 the 	 High w a ys 	 A ge ncy 	 As se t 	 Suppor t	
Framework and a four-year technology 
contract awarded by the Welsh 
Government for the maintenance of 
Road Network Communications and 
Tunnel Systems across Wales, involving 
the maintenance and fault repair of 
complex technology systems such  
as CCTV cameras, variable messaging 
signs (‘VMS’), emergency telephones  
and traffic signals along major strategic 
routes.
The Riverside Resource Recovery 
Energy from Waste facility at Belvedere 
is now fully operational and the final 
account has been agreed. 
Divisional performance
Directors’ Report – Business review
   Performing responsibly 
 continued
New wastewater 
infrastructure brings 
cleaner seas to Sussex
A new wastewater treatment works, two 
pumping stations, an 11-kilometre sewer  
tunnel and a 2.5-kilometre-long sea outfall  
for client Southern Water is bringing cleaner 
seas to the Sussex coast.
The project is being delivered by 4Delivery,  
a consortium made up of Costain, Veolia Water 
and 	 MWH . 	 A 	 ne w 	 se w er 	 tunnel , 	 bor ed 	 thr ough	
the local chalk, takes wastewater from 
Peacehaven, Telscombe, Saltdean, Rottingdean, 
O vingde an 	 and 	 Brigh t on 	 and 	 Ho v e 	 t o 	 a 	 ne w	
wastewater treatment works. Located on  
the edge of the South Downs National Park,  
the works nestle in a dry valley and is covered  
by one of the largest green roofs in the UK, 
blending it into the surrounding landscape. 
Once fully operational the works will treat  
95 million litres of wastewater each day to  
the latest EU standards.
Infrastructure Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  27
The Environment division focused on  
the water and waste markets as well as 
the specific requirements of a number  
of long term customers. Customer 
spend in this market is underpinned by 
regulatory and legislative requirements 
and we expect this to grow over the 
medium and long term as the market  
in the UK undergoes major change.
Revenue (including share of joint 
ventures and associates) in the division 
for the year was £232.6 million  
(2011: £375.4 million), with profit from 
operations, including the profit on  
PFI transfers, of £15.0 million  
(2011: £17.5 million). The reduction in 
revenue has been influenced by our 
strategic priority on other activities in the 
Group. Operating profits in this division 
declined significantly in the period 
following the one-off margin benefits 
from successful close-out of a number 
of legacy issues well within our 
allowances in the comparative period 
and as a result of additional costs to 
complete a project. The division finished 
the year with a forward order book of 
£0.6 billion (2011: £0.8 billion), with the 
reduction again reflecting the Group’s 
strategic focus on other opportunities.
In the water sector, the Group is making 
good progress on the AMP5 framework 
contracts with Northumbrian Water, 
Severn Trent, Southern Water, United 
Utilities and Welsh Water. During the 
period the Group was also awarded a 
contract by Severn Trent Water to replace 
its largest covered service reservoir sited 
near Ambergate in Derbyshire.
Costain’s position in the water sector 
gives the Group a strong platform to  
win new contracts and extensions as  
the water sector prepares for the next 
regulatory review period, commencing  
in 2014. 
In the waste sector, the Group is 
completing the PFI contract for the 
Greater Manchester Waste Disposal 
Authority. The majority of the facilities  
on the scheme, which utilises a range  
of sophisticated waste management 
technologies, have been handed over 
with the remainder in an extended 
commissioning phase and commercial 
discussion regarding completion 
continuing.
2012 highlights  pages 02-05
Business model pages 18-24
Our Corporate Responsibility framework and approach pages 29-39
Find out more:
Improving the flow and 
efficiency of the M1
Costain is heavily involved in maximising the 
capacity of one of the UK’s biggest infrastructure 
assets, the M1 motorway.
When the Managed Motorways scheme is 
complete in spring 2013, motorists travelling  
on a 15-mile stretch of the motorway between 
Junctions 10 and 13 will, when signs indicate,  
be able to use the hard shoulder as a traffic  
lane 	 dur ing 	 bus y 	 periods 	 – 	 incr e asing 	 capacit y	
and improving journey times. 
Costain has also recently been awarded  
similar contracts for Junctions 28 to 32 and 
Junctions 32 to 35.
Costain is involved in every stage of the 
programme. With a position in the Managed 
Motorways programme office, it manages 
development of the schemes, takes them 
through public inquiries, physically reconfigures 
and rehabilitates these 1950s/60s/70s assets, 
then provides aftercare for the carriageways.
Environment 28  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Divisional performance
Energy  
& Process
The Energy & Process division undertook 
work in the hydrocarbons and chemicals, 
nuclear process and power sectors.
Revenue (including share of joint 
ventures and associates) in the division 
for the year was £137.7 million  
(2011: £143.4 million) with adjusted  
profit from operations of £2.5 million 
(2011: £4.7 million). During the year, the 
profits in the division have been impacted 
by the reduced revenue, higher business 
development costs, restructuring costs 
and additional costs to complete on two 
projects. The division finished the year 
with a forward order book of £178 million 
(2011: £215 million).
In 	 Hy dr oc ar bons 	 & 	 Chemicals , 	 the	
Group is continuing to carry out projects 
for a number of customers both in the 
UK and overseas. We have benefitted 
greatly from ClerkMaxwell, acquired in 
2011, which is enabling us to take 
advantage of a number of exciting 
opportunities in the high growth 
upstream oil and gas service sector.
During the period the Group also 
secured a three-year £60 million asset 
support contract, awarded by the Oil 
and Pipelines Agency for the operation 
and maintenance of the Government 
Pipeline and Storage System. The 
additional support services capabilities 
afforded the Group by the acquisition  
of Promanex in August 2011, were 
instrumental in securing this contract 
and demonstrates the value in 
enhancing existing capabilities through 
targeted acquisition.
In Nuclear Process, we continued to 
make good progress during the course 
of the year in our various projects across 
the UK, including Evaporator D at 
Sellafield, one of the UK’s largest nuclear 
decommissioning projects, which has 
seen the delivery of further modules to 
site during the period. The Group was 
also appointed, as one of two suppliers, 
to the Magnox framework contract, for 
the delivery of construction, infrastructure 
and maintenance projects across all  
ten sites which are operated by Magnox 
on behalf of the Nuclear Decommissioning 
Authority. The project work which 
Costain will deliver includes: the design, 
construction and maintenance of 
permanent buildings and structures, 
infrastructure maintenance and extension 
works incorporating construction, civil 
engineering structures and ground 
works projects.
In Power, the Group continues its work 
with the Energy Technologies Institute, 
developing carbon dioxide reduction 
technology for use in coal fired power 
stations, a critical factor in the UK’s 
ability to meet its stated climate change 
targets. 
Our non-core Land Development activity 
in Spain continued to be subject to 
challenging market conditions. Revenue 
was £1.9 million (2011: £1.5 million)  
and the loss after tax was £2.3 million 
(2011: £2.0 million). As anticipated, no 
significant land sales were completed in 
the year and we continue our moratorium 
on development activity on our land-bank 
until the market improves and maximum 
shareholder value can be secured for  
the assets. Our activities during the  
year have been focused on our leisure 
businesses of golf courses and our 
600-berth yacht marina adjacent to 
Gibraltar which has reported increased 
levels of activity during the year.
Directors’ Report – Business review
   Performing responsibly 
 continued
Land  
Development Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  29
Our Corporate Responsibility
 framework and approach
Our approach
We are committed to delivering projects 
and services responsibly and sustainably, 
ensuring that we meet our customers’ 
and society’s needs while managing  
the social, environmental and economic 
impacts of our business.
We recognise that by working with  
our customers, supply chain partners, 
employees and other stakeholders  
we can make a greater contribution  
to a more sustainable society.
The Board is responsible and the 
Executive Board is accountable for all 
aspects of Corporate Responsibility 
(‘CR’), including setting policy and 
strategy and providing leadership  
to drive our CR programme. We have 
established CR champions, consisting  
of directors and senior managers with 
direct responsibility for key aspects of 
our CR performance. Every employee  
is expected to work in a responsible  
and sustainable way.
Listening to our 
stakeholders
We have a wide range of stakeholders, 
including customers, joint venture 
partners, supply chain partners, 
employees, investors, regulators, 
government, community and 
environmental groups and other 
interested parties. The views of our 
stakeholders inform and guide our 
policies and reporting. For more 
information on how we engage and 
respond to our stakeholders, please  
see our website www.costain.com
Your comments are important to  
us and we would welcome your 
feedback. Please visit our website  
and complete a short online survey at 
www.costain.com/responsibility, or, 
email us at corporate.responsibility@
costain.com
Key responsibilities
There is a wide range of social, 
environmental and economic issues  
that impact our business, either directly 
or through our supply chain. Through 
stakeholder engagement and by 
assessing our impacts and level of 
influence, we have identified issues that 
are material to our business. In 2011 we 
launched Costain Cares, our Corporate 
Responsibility strategy and vision to 
build a longer-term sustainable business 
that creates economic, environmental 
and social value. Costain Cares is based 
on three fundamental pillars:
Relationships
We encourage open, honest and 
respectful communication. We believe  
in strong, long-lasting relationships that 
are mutually beneficial.
Our Environment
We operate in the built environment, 
where we meet national needs for 
strategic investment in infrastructure.  
We compete in the economic 
environment, where we must deliver 
value for customers and shareholders. 
We have to deliver responsibly to the 
natural environment for the benefit  
of everyone.
The Future
We play an important role in the 
provision of infrastructure vital for the  
UK economy. The benefits of investment 
in infrastructure today will be felt for 
many years to come.
Measuring our 
performance
We measure our performance and 
benchmark ourselves against our  
peers and other companies in the wider 
marketplace by participating in Business 
in the Community (‘BITC’) CR Index.  
The CR Index illustrates how companies 
integrate responsible business at 
strategic and operational levels. In June 
2012, we received the results of the BITC 
CR Index 2012 and are proud to have 
retained Platinum status, achieving 95%. 
Our BITC CR Index feedback report is 
available to download on our website.
50
70
80
90
100
Business in the Community 
Responsibility Index performance 
and band thresholds
%
07 08 09 11 12
■ Bronze ≥ 70.00% 
■ Silver ≥ 79.76%
■ Gold ≥ 89.76% 
■ Platinum ≥ 94.76%
 In 2011, BITC renamed the CR Index 2010 as CR Index
 2011 to reflect the year the results were published.
60
84
88
93
95 95 30  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Health and Safety: providing a safe 
working environment free from harm
T he 	 He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y 	 o f 	 our 	 w ork f or ce	 
are of paramount importance. We are 
committed to providing a safe working 
environment, where the health and 
wellbeing of our people are both 
protected and actively promoted.
In 2012, we achieved an Accident 
Frequency Rate (‘AFR’) of 0.09, which 
represents a reduction of 18% over the 
previous year and a 47% reduction over  
the last five years.
We are dedicated in our drive towards 
zero accidents and incidents. We focus 
this drive on the following three areas: 
compliance, competence and culture.
0
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
Group annual Accident Frequency Rate
Number of reportable accidents per 
100,000 man-hours
08 09 10 11 12
■ Trendline
0.17
0.16
0.15
0.11
0.09
0.09 
Group AFR, a 47% reduction in the last  
five years
We encourage open, honest, respectful 
communications. We believe in strong, 
long-lasting relationships that are 
mutually beneficial.
Compliance
Health and Safety management 
O ur 	 He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y 	 manage me n t	
s y st em 	 is 	 accr edit ed 	 t o 	 BS 	 OHS A S	
18001. This provides our stakeholders 
with the reassurance they need that  
our system meets and exceeds the 
r equir eme n ts 	 o f 	 all 	 r e le v an t 	 He alth 	 and	
Safety legislation, codes of practice and 
guidelines.
Our standards are maintained by 
continually monitoring compliance  
to systems and benchmarking 
performance through an established 
audit and inspection regime, undertaken 
by both external parties and our own 
He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y 	 pr o fe s sionals . 	 A ll	
findings are reviewed at the highest  
level and where necessary changes are 
made to our policies or procedures, or 
innovations captured and implemented 
Company-wide in the spirit of continual 
improvement.
In March, Costain was prosecuted in 
respect of an accident that occurred  
on the A2/M25 site on 8 April 2008. The 
Company pleaded guilty to breaching 
Se ct ion 	 2 ( 1 ) 	 o f 	 the 	 He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y 	 
at Work Act 1974 and was fined 
£250,000 plus £45,000 costs. Following 
the judgement, work stopped on all sites 
to enable a safety stand-down to be 
conducted with a view to disseminating 
the lessons learnt across the Costain 
business to try to ensure that a similar 
situation is never experienced again  
on one of our sites. The stand-down 
focused on raising awareness of 
behavioural issues, and in particular  
the impact of behaviours on our safety, 
he alth 	 and 	 e n vir onme n t 	 ( ‘ SHE ’ )	
performance. In addition the managing 
director for the Infrastructure division  
and 	 the 	 G r oup 	 SHE 	 dir e ct or 	 unde r t ook	 
a series of briefings at various Costain 
forums to reinforce the message to all 
operational management. 
In October, a Prohibition Notice was 
served on Costain relating to confined 
space 	 w or k ing 	 on 	 our 	 T ie r 	 1 	 COM AH	
site at Purton in contravention of  
Se ct ion 	 3 ( 1 ) 	 o f 	 the 	 He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y 	 
at Work Act 1974 and Regulation 4 of 
the Confined Spaces Regulations 1997. 
Immediately following the notice, all 
works ceased on the site concerned to 
enable our procedures to be reviewed 
and strengthened. Suitable control 
measures were subsequently 
implemented at Purton and all other 
sites within the framework and the  
notice was lifted six days later when 
work recommenced under the new  
safe system of work. 
0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
Group average score in monthly 
SHE scored inspection
Score
08 09 10 11 12
6.0
7.2
7.9 7.9 8.0
8.0 
G r oup 	 a v e rage 	 SHE 	 pe r f or mance 	 scor e
Process safety management 
In 2012, we reviewed and strengthened 
our process safety management 
systems which now align to the industry- 
recognised Energy Institute framework. 
In addition members of our PLC and 
Executive Boards attended process 
safety awareness training sessions.
Costain Cares
Relationships
Directors’ Report – Business review
   Performing responsibly 
 continued Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  31
Relationships continued
Management of road risk
An enhanced procedure for the 
management of road risk was drawn up 
in 2012. This included the launch of an 
online drivers’ risk assessment tool in 
June. Under the new regime all Costain 
personnel who are engaged to drive  
on Company business are required  
to undertake a risk assessment and, 
dependent on the resultant risk rating, 
may be required to agree a course of 
action with their line manager to control 
the degree of risk that may exist while 
driving. 
In 2013 we will continue to develop  
our systems and processes relating to 
transport logistics and will be launching 
a minimum standard for specific types  
of vehicle that access our sites. 
Competence
A safe site is one where all workers are 
qualified to carry out the tasks to which 
they are assigned. For this reason we 
insist on a fully qualified workforce and 
provide ongoing training and development 
for both our own employees and those 
of our supply chain partners.
The role of front-line supervisors is a  
k e y 	 fact or 	 in 	 impr o ving 	 He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y 	
performance, and in September we 
dedicated a week-long campaign to 
supervision in the workplace. A total  
of 562 front-line supervisors, across  
the Group, took part in the event.  
The aim of the initiative was to achieve  
a premier standard of front-line 
supervision performance through the 
use of a number of techniques including 
workshops, assessments and feedback 
sessions. 
Culture
We promote a culture where our 
managers are expected to lead by 
example and our people are expected  
to demonstrate personal leadership  
in 	 He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y . 	 O ur 	 v alue s 	 o f	
teamwork and accountability actively 
encourage our workforce to engage  
and interact with their colleagues, 
customers and supply chain partners 
alike so that we learn from one another, 
explore different methods of working 
and promote best practice and 
innovation.
During 	 2 0 1 1 –2 0 1 2 , 	 1 2 7 	 dir e ct ors 	 and	
senior managers attended a two-day 
‘ L e a ding 	 Sa fe t y , 	 He alth 	 and 	 En vir onme n t 	
in Costain’ course. All attendees 
subsequently developed an individual 
leadership action plan by assessing  
their own leadership performance 
against the criteria set out in the Institute 
of Directors safety leadership guidance. 
Our ongoing drive to improve the  
He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y 	 cultur e 	 within 	 the 	
Group continued during 2012 with  
the development and delivery of a 
be spok e 	 He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y 	 course	
aimed at middle management. Further 
courses are planned for 2013 as we 
con tinue 	 t o 	 c asc ade 	 our 	 He alth 	 and	
Safety leadership principles throughout 
our business. 
In 2012, all Costain operational directors 
were required to carry out a minimum of  
six engagement tours, the primary focus 
of which was to enter into discussions 
with 	 the 	 w or k f or ce 	 r e garding 	 sit e 	 He alth 	
and Safety issues while also checking 
physical conditions on site. In 2013, we 
have set a target for all our operational 
directors to receive 360-degree feedback 
from their direct reports on their 
leadership style. Subsequent personal 
leadership improvement plans will be 
developed. 
Following third-party accreditation in 
2011, we continued to promote our 
Costain Behavioural Safety Programme 
(‘CBS’) during 2012. The aim is to 
significantly influence the delivery of 
sustained safety improvements which 
focus on safety leadership and the 
development of a culture where the 
people who work for us do the right 
things ‘because they want to’.
Building on the internal success of  
CBS, we have developed a behavioural 
safety and management consultancy 
and are currently engaged with a 
number of external clients in supporting 
them to deliver their own behavioural 
safety programmes.
In 2013, we will be using the behavioural 
science principles of our CBS programme 
to develop and enhance our approach  
to and delivery of our business and 
quality systems.
We continue to build on our already 
well-established links with our supply 
chain, which we consider to be 
fundamental to the smooth running  
and safe delivery of all our operations.  
In 	 2 0 1 2 , 	 biannual 	 He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y	
meetings were held with our preferred 
subcontractors in seven different 
disciplines. These meetings have 
provided an effective forum for an 
exchange of views and the sharing of 
best practice and lessons learnt with  
our strategic partners.
2012 highlights  pages 02-05
Business model pages 18-24
Find out more: 32  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
We continued to offer voluntary 
wellbeing medicals to all staff during  
the year, and have introduced a monthly 
wellbeing clinic in our head office,  
which is open to employees working  
in local sites as well as all head office 
staff. The take-up of these medicals 
increased during the year as employees 
recognised the value and benefits of 
regular health checks.
Our proactive approach to health 
promotion was maintained in 2012 with 
the introduction of blood pressure 
testing kits at all sites and offices to 
enable all members of the workforce 
(including our subcontractors) to 
regularly test their own blood pressure. 
In addition, we ran a skin cancer 
awareness/summer working campaign 
Company-wide with support from 
Macmillan Cancer Support.
Furthermore, Costain signed up to the 
P ublic 	 He alth 	 Re sponsibilit y 	 De al , 	 a	
Depar tme n t 	 o f 	 He alth 	 initia tiv e 	 which	
taps into the potential for businesses 
and other organisations to improve 
public health and tackle health 
inequalities through their influence over 
food, physical activity, alcohol and health 
in the workplace. As a Responsibility 
Deal partner, we have signed up to  
five core commitments and supporting 
pledges and have made an individual 
pledge 	 within 	 the 	 He alth 	 a t 	 W or k 	
category which relates to health checks 
for staff.
During 2013, we will continually review 
the management of health and wellbeing 
in the workplace as we strive to raise 
standards further. Our proactive stance 
with regard to health promotion in the 
workplace will continue with the delivery 
of regular themed campaigns, for 
example the issuing of pedometers 
which are aimed at encouraging our 
workers to exercise and thereby improve 
health and fitness in a sociable and 
enjoyable way. We will also continue to 
work closely with external organisations 
such as the UK Contractors Group and 
the Rail Safety and Standards Board 
with a view to sharing best practice and 
raising standards.
Costain Cares
Relationships continued
Health: providing a healthy working 
environment for all our people
The health and wellbeing of our people 
remained a key focus area during 2012. 
O ur 	 ongoing 	 ‘ Be 	 He alth y ’ 	 campaign	 
was enhanced in the spring with the 
development of a logo which now 
appears on all health-related 
documentation.
Our vision is to provide a working 
environment which impacts positively  
on the health of our workers. Our health 
management system is focused on  
the prevention of work-related ill-health  
and the protection of workers with 
existing health conditions. In addition, 
the wellbeing and good health of the 
workforce is actively promoted and 
maintained.
Directors’ Report – Business review
   Performing responsibly 
 continued
In December, Costain organised a STEM event which gave over 240 pupils an insight into civil engineering, pictured are pupils from St James Junior 
School who took part in the Bridges to Schools event. Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  33
Communities: supporting the local 
communities in which we operate, 
ensuring we leave a lasting legacy
We recognise that our work affects  
the communities in which we operate. 
Ho w 	 w e 	 manage 	 our 	 r ela tionships 	 and	
work together with these communities 
and other stakeholders is vital. We  
are committed to developing and 
maintaining excellent relations with local 
communities.
We strive to minimise the negative 
aspects of our work, such as noise  
and disruption, and our goal is to have  
a greater positive impact, by focusing  
on the following key areas:
•	 Community engagement
•	 Local employment and skills
•	 Charitable giving and volunteering.
Community engagement
In 2012, 86% of our projects developed 
and implemented community 
engagement plans, which identify 
specific socio-economic issues 
associated with the local community,  
note the positive impacts that Costain 
makes, and develop an action plan  
to work in partnership with the local 
community.
As an associate member of the 
Considerate Constructors Scheme,  
we are committed to the principles set 
out in the Considerate Constructors 
Code of Considerate Practice. In 2012, 
the Group achieved an average score  
of 35 out of 40. The average score  
of all sites registered with the scheme  
is approximately 33.2 (December 2012).  
In addition, our performance was 
recognised by the receipt of 17 Awards 
from the Considerate Constructors 
Scheme: four Gold Awards, four  
Silver Awards and nine Bronze Awards.
0
10
20
30
40
Considerate Constructors 
Scheme performance 
Group average score
08 09 10 11 12
34.2 34.7 35.0 35.1 35.0
35
Average score in the Considerate 
Constructors Scheme
Local employment and skills
We work with a range of partners and 
organisations to offer employment and 
training opportunities in the communities 
in which we work. We are a patron of 
The Prince’s Trust, the youth charity  
that helps change young lives, and a 
member of the Trust’s Construction and 
Business Services Leadership Group. 
The Trust works with 13 to 30-year-olds 
who have struggled academically, have 
been in care, are long-term unemployed 
or have been in trouble with the law. 
In 2012 Costain, in collaboration with 
CITB-ConstructionSkills, the National 
Skills Academy for Construction and  
The Prince’s Trust, secured Employee 
Ownership of Skills (‘EOS’) funding, 
matched to the value of £600,000 over 
two years. With this matched funding, 
Costain will provide 100 opportunities  
for individuals to undertake a three-week  
‘Get Into Construction’ programme 
during	201 3 –201 4 .
Charitable giving and volunteering
We continue to support various charities 
both corporately and through local 
donations given by our project teams.  
In 2012, we donated £171,142 to worthy 
causes, including a donation of £22,000 
t o 	 G r e a t 	 O r mond 	 Str e e t 	 Hospital ’ s	
‘Raising the Roof’ appeal, which went 
towards upgrading the hospital’s world- 
renowned neuroscience centre.
Through our employee volunteering policy, 
we provide our employees with the 
opportunity to develop and share skills 
while making a visible and sustainable 
difference to local communities. In 2012, 
our employees volunteered a total  
of 27 days and we are committed to 
continuing this support in 2013.
0
50
100
150
200
Group charitable donations
£000
08 09 10 11 12
69
95 95
135
171
£1 71,142
Donated to charitable causes in 2012
Our People: attracting, retaining 
and developing the best people for 
the Costain Group
Costain Group continues to grow and 
now employs 3,740 people in the UK 
and 1,026 people in the Middle East.  
We have a relatively stable workforce, 
with 49% of staff having been with us  
for over five years and our voluntary  
staff turnover for 2012 was 7.37%.  
We filled 154 vacancies last year, 56%  
of them through internal placements, 
ensuring a mix of employee career 
progression and bringing new 
employees into the organisation. 
Relationships continued
2012 highlights  pages 02-05
Business model pages 18-24
Find out more: 34  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
1
 UK employees
5.1
7.0
7.37
0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
Employee (voluntary) turnover rate
1
%
08 09 10 11 12
9.9
2.9
7.37% 
Employee (voluntary) turnover rate
Building a diverse workforce
We recognise the value of a diverse 
workforce and ensure that all people 
activities continue to be inclusive and 
that we provide fair access to and 
participation in training, promotions, 
reward and recognition. We have 
monitored our diversity profile over the 
last five years. This year, our statistics 
include acquisitions, which have resulted 
in a slight decrease in the proportion of 
female employees to 19.4% (construction 
industry female average: 13%, UK 
Contractors Group (‘UKCG’) average 
female: 16%) and an increase in Black, 
Asian and Minority Ethnic (‘BAME’) 
employees to 8.0% (construction 
industry BAME average: 5%, UKCG 
average BAME: 6%). While these figures 
compare favourably to the industry 
average, we are not satisfied with this 
and our focus for 2013 will be on 
encouraging more women and BAME 
people to join Costain. In 2012, Costain  
became a member of Business in the 
Community’s ‘Opportunity Now’ 
campaign, to share ideas with other 
industries to improve the attraction and 
retention of women in the workplace. 
Opportunity Now empowers employers 
to accelerate change for women in the 
workplace. 
■ Female ■ Over 50
■ BAME ■ Under 30 
1
 UK employees
0
10
20
30
40
Diversity profile
1
% employees
08 09 10 11 12
15.1
25.2
24.2
24.3
21.5
22.6
22.5
21.1
22.2
19.4
6.7 6.5 6.4 6.6
8.0
32.6
26.1
27.3 26.7
28.7
19.4% 
Of our people are female, 8.0% are 
BAME
Developing talent
We continue to invest in training and 
development for all our staff, delivering  
a total of 7 ,988 training days in 2012, 
covering technical and behavioural skills 
and a range of qualification levels. In 
October, over 120 leaders at all levels 
within the Company, from the Board  
to front-line supervisors and trainees, 
attended a Costain leadership 
development day, creating an opportunity 
to engage and develop common 
leadership styles across the Group. 
Costain is now actively working with  
four sector skills academies, covering 
rail, power, nuclear and construction.  
We are working with the academies to 
develop skills and competencies to 
ensure we can meet the evolving needs 
of our customers. 
In 2012, we expanded our commitment 
to the Costain Project Management 
Academy, accredited by the Association 
of Project Management (‘APM’), 
supporting 20 of our project managers 
who are targeting registered project 
professional status with the APM. 
Costain is currently one of only four 
organisations with ten or more registered 
project professionals in the UK. 
Part of our ongoing strategy is to 
increase employment opportunities  
for young people, and we continue to 
invest in our graduate and apprentice 
programmes. During 2012, we 
welcomed 38 new graduates from  
eight discipline areas, bringing our 
current scheme total to 120. This year 
we have placed increased focus on  
our apprentice schemes and have  
seen a doubling in the number of 
apprentices. We currently have  
65 apprentices on Level 3 frameworks 
across 11 disciplines, including new 
areas such as track and signalling, 
tunnelling operation, business 
administration and accounting. 
0.0
17.5
35.0
52.5
75.0
Apprentice totals
Number of Costain apprentices
08 09 10 11 12
5
16
24
31
65
65 
Apprentices on our apprenticeship 
programme
We are aware of the need to encourage 
young people to take an interest in 
science, technology, engineering and 
math (‘STEM’) skills and we are 
encouraging all our graduates and 
apprentices to become STEM 
ambassadors and to use their volunteer 
days to go into schools and encourage 
young children to take an interest in 
these subjects. Please see page 39  
for more information on our work 
developing skills for the future.
Costain Cares
Relationships continued
Directors’ Report – Business review
   Performing responsibly 
 continued Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  35
Employee engagement
Engaging effectively with our people is 
crucial to the success of our business. 
The views of our employees are 
extremely important and we want our 
people to feel valued, listened to and 
rewarded. We run a biennial employee 
engagement survey to understand  
the opinions of our employees, gain 
feedback and target areas where 
improvements can be made. In 2012,  
we continued to act on the results  
of our 2011 survey. 
Our employees told us we needed to 
improve some forms of communication 
across the business. As a result we have 
updated our methods of communication, 
embracing social media (for example 
Twitter) and implementing internal online 
networking forums, where employees 
are encouraged to share their ideas and 
ask for or offer support. 
Feedback from employees also identified 
performance management as an  
area for further improvement. In 2011 
and 2012 we provided performance 
management and leadership training  
to over 150 managers. As a direct result 
of this training there was a shift in  
our performance review scoring, 
demonstrating that our managers are 
improving their performance appraisal 
skills. We surveyed the direct reports of 
the managers who received the training 
and were pleased that their overall 
engagement scores increased by 6%.
Our next employee engagement survey 
will take place in 2013. 
Reward and recognition
In the last 12 months, we have 
recognised 293 employees through 
formal promotion and have facilitated  
the career development of a further  
447 employees through implementing 
cross-project and cross-sector  
transfers to enable them to broaden  
their experience and capabilities. We 
have been developing career paths and 
benchmarking roles externally to ensure 
that we have a robust career and 
grading structure in place, in order to 
improve visibility of career progression 
and to ensure we are rewarding our 
employees competitively in the current 
marketplace. The career paths will be 
rolled out during 2013.
In February 2013, we hosted our 
Achieving Excellence Awards to 
recognise and celebrate the outstanding 
performance and contributions of 
individuals. 
Customers: providing sustainable 
solutions and the highest standards 
of service for our customers
Our aim is to provide sustainable, 
innovative solutions and the highest 
standards of service to our customers. 
We constantly strive to improve our 
performance and actively seek feedback 
from our customers. 
We undertake regular customer 
satisfaction surveys, where we ask  
our customers to rate our performance 
against core values such as safety, 
health and environment, quality, delivery, 
subcontract management and 
relationships. In 2012 we achieved  
an average score of 84%. 
80
81
82
83
84
Customer satisfaction score
%
08 09 10 11 12
80
81
82
81
84
84%
Group average customer satisfaction 
score
 
Supply chain: operating a 
collaborative, responsible supply 
chain where our partners support 
us in delivering efficient, innovative 
and sustainable solutions
We understand the impact of our 
procurement activities and are 
committed to the responsible 
management of our supply chain and 
the economic, environmental and social 
issues within it. We ask our suppliers  
to share our values and standards  
and to support us in delivering efficient, 
innovative, sustainable solutions. In turn, 
Costain is committed to engaging and 
supporting its supply chain to ensure 
compliance, continuous improvement 
and the achievement of mutual goals.
Relationships continued
2012 highlights  pages 02-05
Business model pages 18-24
Find out more:
Costain celebrates the achievements and outstanding performance of its people at its Achieving 
Excellence Awards 2012. 36  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Supply chain management
During 2012, our focus was to 
strengthen the supply chain, ensuring 
that the identified companies were 
sustainable businesses procured in  
a uniform and responsible manner, 
particularly in relation to industry- 
recognised social and ethical trading 
standards/initiatives. In 2011, Costain 
introduced an accreditation scheme for 
assessing the capabilities and values of 
a supplier. During 2012, the percentage 
of our strategic and preferred supplier 
base accredited to the scheme 
increased to 90%, from 59% in 2011.  
An added benefit of implementing the 
scheme is the facility to track and 
analyse the percentage of suppliers  
that have achieved specific standards.
Effective engagement and two-way 
feedback are essential to ensure that  
we perform as one team. We monitor 
and measure our own performance 
biannually via 360-degree feedback 
reviews requested from the elected  
Top 100 supply chain. The results are 
analysed to identify the formation of 
trends or cultures, which are addressed 
accordingly. In 2012, 203 reviews were 
received, which collectively gave Costain 
a feedback review score of 79.7%.
We undertake regular performance 
reviews with our supply chain, 
discussing issues such as supervision, 
competency, communication, teamwork, 
cost, quality, innovation, safety and 
environmental performance. Suppliers 
and project management are 
encouraged to conduct the performance 
review jointly to ensure the performance 
of our supply chain is accurately 
represented. This allows both parties  
to have an input. During 2012, 1,160 
performance reviews were conducted 
on our Top 100 and other business- 
critical supply chain members, resulting 
in an average score across the Group  
of 69% (2011: 65%). We were pleased  
to note that the number of suppliers 
achieving the ‘Costain Blue’ standard  
(a minimum score of 80% in an individual 
performance review) increased to 171 
from 115 in 2011.
0
20
40
60
80
Supply chain performance
%
08 09 10 11 12
52
59
63
65
69
33%
Increase in supply chain performance 
over the last five years
Supply chain engagement
In April 2012, we held our third supply 
chain conference at Warwick University, 
attended by 160 senior representatives 
of our supply chain partners and  
50 of Costain’s senior management.  
The conference offered a chance for 
suppliers to hear about the future of 
working with Costain and to participate 
in a Q&A session with a panel consisting 
of Costain senior management. 
Responsible procurement
Responsible procurement for Costain 
means leading socially, environmentally 
and economically responsible 
procurement to deliver value and 
benefits to stakeholders. 
We have adopted the UK Government’s 
Flexible Framework as the method 
through which we will develop our 
approach and measure our progress. 
We have set a target to achieve Level 3 
of the Flexible Framework in 2013 and 
Level 5 by 2015. 
Costain Cares
Relationships continued
In 2013, we will identify five key 
sustainability focus areas that we will 
promote within our Top 250 suppliers, 
setting timescales for them to meet  
a required standard in these areas. 
To ensure our procurement staff 
approach responsible procurement  
in a uniform manner, our commitment  
in 2013 is to deliver responsible 
procurement training to all our 
procurement personnel. 
In September, we launched the Costain 
supply chain academy, a new initiative 
that aims to support and develop small 
to medium-sized enterprises (‘SMEs’). 
The Company welcomed 15 suppliers  
to the academy, where representatives 
attended 19 learning modules covering 
business administration, commercial  
and financial best practice, insurance, 
He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y , 	 be ha vioural 	 sa fe t y 	
and quality. 
Directors’ Report – Business review
   Performing responsibly 
 continued Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  37
Our Environment
We have to deliver responsibly to the 
natural environment for the benefit  
of everyone.
Our Environmental Management  
System (‘EMS’) is accredited to the 
international standard of environmental 
management ISO 14001:2004. The 
Group Environmental Policy Statement 
outlines our intention to ensure we 
manage all our work and its impacts 
effectively, prevent pollution and 
continuously improve the operation  
and environmental management of our 
activities.
Our commitment is to work with our 
customers and supply chain to, where 
possible:
•	 reduce our impact on climate change;
•	 conserve natural resources through 
effective waste management, 
minimising water consumption and 
sustainably sourcing materials; and
•	 protect and enhance the environment. 
Climate change 
We remain committed to reducing  
our measured carbon emissions and,  
in 2012, demonstrated significant 
improvements in the management  
of climate change and our overall 
performance. We achieved external 
accreditation to the Achilles Certified 
Emissions Measurement and Reduction 
Scheme (‘CEMARS’), accrediting our 
data from 2009 to 2011. This highlights  
our ongoing dedication to accurate 
carbon emissions reporting and 
disclosure, in addition to reducing our 
emissions. The CEMARS standard 
includes independent verification of  
our data and a yearly review to ensure 
we continue to deliver reductions in 
emissions. Our method of reporting  
is in accordance with, and certified 
against, ISO 14064-1:2006 and is also  
in line with the Carbon Reduction 
Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme 
reporting guidelines. 
As a result of this verification and 
increased accuracy in our data we have 
reviewed and updated our climate 
change strategy and associated targets. 
Our restated target is to achieve a 55% 
reduction in carbon emission intensity by 
2020, compared with 2009, and to work 
with our customers to provide them with 
low-cost low-carbon solutions.
In 2012, we demonstrated a reduction  
in our absolute emissions compared  
with 2009. We further expanded our 
carbon footprint and associated 
boundaries to include 2011 acquisitions, 
their associated activities and turnover. 
As can be seen from the graph below, 
this has increased both our emissions 
intensity and our absolute emissions 
compared with 2011. While the intensity 
figures are normalised against turnover, 
the activities are different and, therefore, 
an increase is reported. In 2013, we will 
further expand our footprint to include 
joint ventures and international operations.
In 2012, we continued to engage the 
business on climate change, raising  
awareness among our employees 
through dedicated energy awareness 
weeks, sustainable transport plans for 
offices and projects, and the promotion 
of case studies.
0
11
22
33
44
Costain certified CO 2 emissions by scope and emissions intensity
’000 tCO
2
e/tCO
2
e per £m turnover
09 10 11 12 A 12 B
0
10
20
30
40
■ Scope 3 – Indirect emissions such as employee  
 business travel (not included in Scope 1),   
 emissions from water usage and waste disposed  
 of at landfill
■ Scope 2 – Indirect emissions such as electricity
■ Scope 1 – Direct emissions such as fuel   
 combustion, company owned or leased vehicles
■ Emissions intensity (tCO
2
e/£M1) – 2012 A   
 carbon footprint: new reporting boundary   
 including 2011 acquisitions
■ Emissions intensity minus acquisitions   
 (tCO
2
e/£M1) – 2012 B carbon footprint: 2011
 reporting boundary
 Figures are reported in accordance with ISO14064-1:2006 and reflect UK operations within Costain’s direct 
 operational control.
29.24 A
27.93
40.03 39.84
28.66 B
27%
Reduction in measured emissions intensity, compared with 2009
2012 highlights  pages 02-05
Business model pages 18-24
Find out more: 38  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Natural resources
We continue to focus on waste 
management and the reduction of  
waste produced from all our activities.
0
150
300
450
600
Construction waste removed 
from site
’000 tonnes of waste/
tonnes per £100,000 turnover
08 09 10 11 12
0
2
4
6
8
Figures are reported in accordance with WRAP Waste 
Measurement and Reporting Guidance. Turnover figure 
reflect operations reporting waste. 2008–2011 figures relate 
to UK operations excluding MAC joint ventures and 2011 
acquisitions. 2012 figures reflect all operations but exclude 
our MAC 10 joint venture and Alcaidesa operations and 
the associated turnover.
■ ■ Tonnes of waste removed from site
■ Tonnes per £100,000 turnover
56,602
51,554
31,001
24,391
27,066
3.3
4.9
2.9
2.8
6.3
53% 
Reduction in construction waste, 
compared with 2008
Figures are reported in accordance with WRAP Waste 
Measurement and Reporting Guidance. Turnover figure 
reflect operations reporting waste. 2008–2011 figures 
relate to UK operations excluding MAC joint ventures 
and 2011 acquisitions. 2012 figures reflect all operations 
but exclude our MAC 10 joint venture and Alcaidesa  
operations and the associated turnover.
0
25
50
75
100
Waste diverted from landfill
%
08 09 10 11 12
58
67
84
89
93
93% 
Waste diverted from landfill
We successfully met our 2012 target, 
increasing the waste diverted from 
landfill to 93%. In 2008, the Group 
pledged its support to the Waste & 
Resources Action Programme (‘WRAP’) 
‘ Halvi n g 	 W as t e 	 t o 	 Lan dfi l l ’ 	 comm i tmen t , 	
setting a target to achieve a 50% 
reduction in the total tonnage of 
construction, demolition and excavation 
waste we sent to landfill by 2012. By 
2012, we had vastly exceeded this target 
by reducing the total tonnes of waste  
we send to landfill by 92% compared  
with 2008. 
We continue to train key personnel in 
environmental management, in particular 
responsible procurement, materials 
procurement and waste and materials 
management. This training provides 
advice, guidance and knowledge to 
individuals dealing with waste and 
materials on a day-to-day basis. 
Obtaining a greater understanding  
of our water consumption continues  
to be a key focus for the Group. Water 
monitoring and measurement have 
commenced on a number of our projects 
and we continue to develop our reporting 
process to improve the capture of 
information across the business, so that 
we are able to report on our water 
consumption in 2013. 
Protecting the environment
■ Number of major incidents
■ Number of significant incidents
■ Number of minor incidents
 As defined by Costain.
0
25
50
75
100
Environmental incidents
Number of incidents
08 09 10 11 12
34
37 38
24
85
Costain Cares
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Environmental incident 
frequency rate
Number of environmental incidents 
per 1,000,000 man hours
08 09 10 11 12
0.130
0.156
0.137
0.077
0.28
We are committed to minimising our 
impact on the environment by ensuring, 
where possible, that our activities do  
not result in damage and that we reduce 
our overall environmental incidents year 
on year. We ensure that all environmental 
incidents are reported and investigated 
to capture lessons learnt and prevent 
recurrence. 
Our reported environmental incidents 
and the associated environmental 
incident frequency rate (‘EIFR’) have 
increased in 2012. In 2011, we reviewed 
our definition of environmental incidents 
to align our reporting procedure with  
that of our customers and the regulator, 
and have continued to strongly promote 
the reporting of incidents. While our 
reported EIFR has increased in 2012 
compared with 2011, we attribute  
this to an increased awareness and 
reporting of incidents. No major 
incidents have been reported in 2012, 
compared with one in 2011, and no 
environmental prosecutions, cautions  
or notices were received. 
To improve environmental awareness 
across the industry, Costain contributed 
to the development of an industry 
environmental awareness course, the 
Site Environmental Awareness Training 
Scheme (‘SEATS’), for supervisors and 
managers. The scheme will be launched 
in 2013 and will be formally accredited  
to CITB-ConstructionSkills. 
Our Environment continued
Directors’ Report – Business review
   Performing responsibly 
 continued Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  39
76%
CR targets achieved in 2012
The Future
We play an important role in the provision 
of infrastructure vital for the UK economy. 
The benefits of investment in infrastructure 
today will be felt for many years to come.
Developing skills for the future
We recognise the importance of 
engaging with schools, colleges and 
universities to ensure we attract young 
talent into our organisation, build a 
sustainable pipeline of talent for the 
future and support local communities 
where we operate. 
Through our Engineering Futures 
programme, we aim to raise the 
awareness and aspirations of young 
people to find out more about careers  
in engineering and related industries.  
We have numerous ambassadors 
across the Group who volunteer their 
time to go into schools to inspire young 
people in STEM subjects. In addition,  
we offer inspirational work experience  
to young people, aiming to make their 
experience of the world of work more 
accessible and meaningful. In 2012,  
we supported over 90 work placement 
opportunities and were delighted to  
be rewarded by being voted 24th in the 
National Placement and Internship 
Awards 2012. We have set a target to 
increase the number of work experience 
placements we offer across the Group  
in 2013.
We continue to grow and expand  
our apprenticeship programme, with  
65 apprentices on Level 3 frameworks 
across 11 disciplines. In 2012, we also 
undertook a campaign to promote 
apprentices within our supply chain, 
setting a target of 150 apprentices  
within Costain and our supply chain by 
the end of the year. We have achieved  
a total of 169 apprentices across the 
Group and within our supply chain.
Contribute to economic growth 
supporting our supply chain, 
including small and medium-sized 
enterprises (‘SMES’)
We are committed to ensuring that our 
supply chain is accessible to a diverse 
supplier base, including SMEs, and that 
we support SMEs within our supply 
chain, empowering them to achieve  
their potential.
In recognition and support of this aim,  
in September Costain opened its  
supply chain academy, a new initiative 
that aims to support and develop  
SMEs and to align the Company’s 
supply chain partners with the high 
standard of training and development 
adopted across the Group. The 
Company welcomed 15 suppliers to  
the first academy, where representatives 
attended 19 learning modules covering 
business administration, commercial  
and financial best practice, insurance, 
Heal th 	 an d 	 sa fe ty , 	 beha vi o ur al 	 sa fe ty 	 an d	
quality. A further two intakes are planned 
for 2013.
Costain Cares: our vision for 2014
In 2011, we launched our Corporate 
Responsibility strategy, Costain Cares, 
which sets out our vision for 2014, and 
2012 targets against which we measure 
our performance and drive continual 
improvement. We achieved 76% of the 
2012 targets and have developed targets 
for 2013 to drive further improvements 
and deliver our 2014 vision. 
For more information and to download  
a copy of our Costain Cares vision, 
please visit our website at  
www.costain.com
Innovation
Innovation underpins our strategy and 
will contribute to our growth, productivity 
and competitiveness. We are committed 
to providing intelligent solutions to our 
customers that will help them achieve 
their ambitions and aspirations. 
In June, we launched Costain Start-ups, 
a new initiative which creates and 
supports innovative business ideas  
from across the Company. Employees 
are invited to submit their innovative 
business idea; if it is chosen, the 
Company will invest in their idea and 
provide the necessary resources to 
make it a reality. That could mean help 
with 	 finance , 	 HR 	 and 	 le gal 	 is sue s 	 as 	 
well as the technical advice needed to 
bring the idea to life. If successful, the 
candidate will be given the opportunity 
to work on their idea on a full-time  
basis in order to develop it and get it  
off the ground.
2012 highlights  pages 02-05
Business model pages 18-24
Find out more: 40  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Business review
 P rin cip al ri s k s
Risk and Impact Mitigation
Economic outlook
The uncertain outlook for the UK and global 
economy continues. The extent of any changes 
to government and international regulation, 
taxation and interest rates, may also impact the 
Group’s ability to win work and deliver forecast 
returns. The uncertain economic outlook also 
affects our customers’ ability and confidence to 
place orders, potentially impacting the Group’s 
level of opportunities.
The Group regularly monitors the pipeline of opportunities available and 
develops relationships with customers across a range of markets in both 
the private and public sectors. The Group has set out a clear strategy  
to target customers whose spending plans are driven by national need, 
regulatory commitments or essential maintenance requirements. The 
Group continues to broaden its offer in its key sectors.
Change of Government Policy on spending 
Certain of the Group’s operations are dependent  
on government policy with regard to improving  
public infrastructure and services. Any reduction  
in government investment and funding would  
be likely to affect the Group’s future revenues  
and profitability adversely. 
Key factors that may affect Group strategy are kept under regular review 
by senior management and action taken where potential future workload 
shortfalls are identified. 
The Group continues to liaise with government bodies, showcasing  
a wide range of innovative ideas to demonstrate the business as  
a solution provider.
Competition
The failure by the Group to compete effectively, 
resulting in a failure to win work in a competitive 
market, could reduce the Group’s revenue, 
profitability and cash flow. 
The Company’s strategy of targeting customers with committed long-
term capital and operational spending plans will enable us to continue  
to pursue and win work less affected by the downturn. The Company’s 
ongoing drive, both organically and by acquisition, to broaden its services 
across engineering consultancy, construction and operations and 
maintenance, and to provide innovative cost-effective solutions, will also 
provide it with a competitive edge. 
Pension liabilities
The Group operates a defined benefit scheme 
which was closed to new members from  
1 June 2005 and was closed to future accrual  
on 30 September 2009. The current deficit on  
the scheme is £51.9 million net of deferred tax.  
If the market value of the scheme’s assets 
decline in relation to its assessed liabilities, the 
Group may be required to increase its cash 
contributions to cover funding shortfalls which 
could have an adverse impact on the Group’s 
operational results. 
The valuation under lAS 19 for the scheme as at 31 December 2012 valued 
the scheme’s assets at £558.8 million and liabilities of £610.7 million. 
An actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 31 March 2010 was concluded 
during 2010 and Costain agreed a deficit recovery plan with the Trustee. 
The next actuarial valuation is due on 31 March 2013. 
The value of the deficit recognised in the Group’s balance sheet pursuant 
to lAS 19 is dependent on certain critical assumptions, including mortality 
rates, pension increases, investment returns and inflation and is likely to 
vary from year to year. 
The Company reviews the options regarding what actions Costain can 
take to mitigate its long-term risk and consults professional advisers  
as necessary. 
Acquisitions 
Failure to integrate successfully an acquired 
business or recognise and mitigate new and 
related risks could have a damaging impact  
on the Group’s future revenue and profits. 
Full due diligence is carried out before any acquisition is made. Integration 
plans are put in place and managed by a dedicated team.
Strategic and Financial Risk
Managing risk Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  41
Risk and Impact Mitigation
Operational delivery 
Failure to follow best practice guidelines could 
mean that projects are not delivered to time,  
cost , 	 qualit y 	 or 	 appr opria t e 	 He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y	 
and environmental standards and therefore  
do not meet customers’ expectations.  
Failure to follow Company standards, policies, 
procedures and guidelines could adversely  
affect the Group’s reputation and/or expose  
the Group to financial liabilities and adversely 
affect the operational, financial and share price 
performance.
To mitigate the cost risk, experienced and qualified staff are used to prepare 
bids, which are subject to internal review and approval before submission. 
During the life of the contract, regular project manager’s report meetings and 
end forecast meetings take place to discuss safety, progress, quality, cost, 
financial performance, risk, etc. 
Work on site is audited by in-house specialists and reports prepared so  
that corrective action, where required, can be taken. A senior executive  
is responsible for overall quality issues, the updating of best practice and 
ensuring compliance. The senior executive is also responsible for reviewing 
and updating our procedures in line with the changing business.
R eg u l a r 	 H ea l th 	 a n d 	 S a fe ty 	 v i s i ts 	 a n d 	 o n 	 s i t e 	 tr a i n i n g 	 t a k e 	 p l a c e 	 t o 	 r e d u c e 	 th e	
risk of human error. Any breaches in procedures are reported quickly and 
acted upon as appropriate. Employees are encouraged to take responsibility 
for safety in their work areas. 
Loss of IT systems/Key Documentation 
Failure of IT systems, inability to manage and/or 
to integrate IT systems, as well as the failure to 
store key documentation securely, could cause 
financial loss to the Group and expose the 
Company to breaches of legislation and fines. 
A senior executive is responsible for the IT systems and has a suitably 
qualified team in support. Critical areas are subject to testing and include 
rapid recovery as well as sound data backup procedures. Online security 
training is provided for safe usage and storage of documentation.
Subcontractor/supply chain and  
customer failure
If a subcontractor, joint venture partner or  
supplier of goods or services fails financially  
or is responsible for late or inadequate delivery  
or low quality work, it could damage the Group’s 
reputation and/or cause it to suffer financial 
losses. If a customer fails financially, the Group 
could suffer financial losses. 
The Company seeks to ensure that it is not over-reliant on any one 
subcontractor, supplier or joint venture partner. In addition, the Company 
maintains a list of preferred subcontractors and suppliers which is 
reviewed regularly. The Company also undertakes financial monitoring of 
subcontractors and suppliers and endeavours to maintain a dialogue with 
them in order to identify any issue or cause for concern. The Company 
has in use an external audit system to ensure compliance by our 
preferred and strategic suppliers.
The Company focuses on targeting and working with blue-chip customers 
in sectors whose spending activity is underpinned by strategic national 
need, regulatory commitments or essential maintenance requirements.
People
Failure to attract, develop and retain highly skilled 
management or personnel may limit the Group’s 
ability to grow the business as anticipated. 
The Company has in place a well-developed succession planning process 
which is regularly monitored. This process includes carrying out ‘talent 
reviews’ and encouraging ongoing development at all levels. The 
Company seeks to actively engage with employees through engagement 
surveys and its Employee Consultative Committee. 
Pay and conditions of employment are also regularly reviewed against the 
prevailing market and benchmarked against competitors to ensure that 
the Company remains competitive at all levels. 
Operational Risk
Chairman’s statement  pages 06-07
Chief Executive’s review pages 14-17
Group Finance Director’s review pages 44-47
Corporate Governance pages 50-76
Find out more: 42  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Business review
 Key performance indicators
Accident Frequency Rate (‘AFR’) 
Target:
To continually improve safety performance with a zero 
tolerance approach
Safety is the number one priority. Within the Company there  
is both a corporate and individual responsibility to ensure that 
operations are managed in a safe, healthy and environmentally 
controlled manner. The common measure in the construction 
sector for measuring safety performance is the Accident 
Frequency Rate (‘AFR’) which measures the number of serious 
workplace accidents reportable under the Reporting of 
Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 
1995 per 100,000 of hours worked. The further improvement 
achieved in 2012 reflects the continued attention given  
to all areas of safety and represents upper-quartile safety 
performance in the construction sector.
2012 2011 2010 
0.09 0.11 0.15
Non-financial KPIs
The Group uses a range of 
performance indicators across 
its business units. These start 
with a formal three-year 
business plan that sets out 
clear strategic targets and 
objectives and which forms  
the basis of the budget for  
the following financial year. 
The Board considers that the 
following Non-financial and 
Financial key performance 
indicators (‘KPIs’) are the  
most effective measures for 
monitoring its objectives: 
Staff turnover
Target:
To provide initiatives and working conditions in order  
to retain key staff
The retention of staff is fundamental in delivering a quality 
service to customers. The Group undertakes a number  
of important initiatives to retain key staff, including actively 
facilitating their career development. Clear action plans are  
in 	 place 	 t o 	 addr e s s 	 is sue s 	 such 	 as 	 He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y , 	 r e w ard ,	
training and development and job satisfaction. The Group uses 
a ‘voluntary leavers’ turnover rate to monitor staff retention.  
In 2012, staff retention was very strong compared to long-term 
industry norms.
2012 2011 2010 
7.4% 7.0% 5.1%
Supply chain performance
Target:
Average key supplier performance score of greater 
than 50%
The Group has a number of key suppliers and is reliant on  
their performance in carrying out its business. Consequently, 
an internal performance measurement tool is used to assess 
the performance of key suppliers on a regular basis against  
a 	 numbe r 	 o f 	 indic a t ors 	 including 	 He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y , 	
programme, commercial and quality performance. The  
result of the assessment is shown as a percentage score 
which allows comparison against previous scores and other 
suppliers. The assessment and results are then used as  
a basis for discussion with each strategic and preferred 
supplier of their performance and to put in place, where 
necessary, actions to improve performance or, if appropriate, 
reduce the amount of work performed by a supplier. 
In 2012, the average key supplier performance score 
continued to improve. The objective is to ensure that all  
key suppliers have a performance score of at least 50%.  
The Group has also implemented an external accreditation 
system called Achilles (Building Confidence) for its strategic 
and preferred supply chain members. 
2012 2011 2010 
69% 65% 63% Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  43
Financial KPIs
Our Corporate Responsibility framework and approach page 29
Costain Cares pages 30-39
Group Finance Director’s review pages 44-47
Find out more:
Underlying operating profit
Target:
In line with business plan
The level of underlying operating profit (before acquisition 
related other items and pension liability management costs)  
is a key measure of performance for the Group. The measure 
represents the results of the operating elements of the Group’s 
performance and excludes sale of assets and joint ventures. 
The Group’s operating profit in 2011 and 2012 increased as  
a result of the strong performance in the Group during the year. 
2012 2011 2010 
£
25.1
m
  
£
24.1
m
£
17.4
m
Adjusted profit from operations
Target:
In line with business plan
The level of adjusted profit from operations (before acquisition 
related other items) is a key measure of performance across  
all areas and divisions of the Group. The profit from operations 
for each segment of the business is reported in detail in the 
Business review section of the Annual Report. The Group’s 
profit from operations in 2012 increased compared to 2011 
due to the significant profit of £10.5 million from the transfer  
of assets into The Costain Pension Scheme in 2012. 
2012 2011 2010 
£
31.4
m
£
23.6
m
£
29.4
m
Adjusted profit before tax
Target:
In line with business plan
Adjusted profit before tax is a key measure for the Group  
and incorporates the interest from cash deposits held and the 
lAS 19 pension interest. The reported profit before tax in 2012 
included the significant profit of £10.5 million from the transfer 
of assets into The Costain Pension Scheme. 
2012 2011 2010 
£
29.5
m
£
25.5
m
£
27.9
m
Order book
Target:
To build a strong order book in line with strategy
The level of secured orders on which work is to be carried  
out is a key measure for achieving continued profitability and 
growth. At the end of 2012 the order book for the Group has 
decreased from the level at the start of the year. 
2012 2011 2010 
£
2.4
bn
£
2.5
bn
£
2.4
bn
Net cash balance
Target:
Maintain a net cash balance at an appropriate level to suit  
the business requirements 
The Group has a positive net cash balance and close 
monitoring and measurement of cash resources is carried  
out as part of the performance measurement process. The 
reduction in the 2012 year-end cash balance compared to 
2011 reflects the transition to target cost based contracts with 
blue chip customers. The average month-end cash balance 
for the Group during 2012 was £103.4 million compared to 
£130.4 million in 2011. 
2012 2011 2010 
£
105.7
m
£
140.1
m
£
144.3
m 44  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Business review
Group Finance Director’s review
Costain delivered another year of good financial performance.
The Group generated a 4% increase in underlying
1
 operating 
profit for the year to £25.1 million (2011: £24.1 million).  
Profit from operations, before other items
2
, for the year  
was £31.4 million (2011: £23.6 million).
Group revenue, including share of joint ventures and 
associates, was £934.5 million for the twelve months to  
31 December 2012 (2011: £986.3 million). The increased 
profitability, on reduced revenue, reflects the Group’s focus  
on higher margin work.
During the year the Group transferred two PFI investments  
into The Costain Pension Scheme (‘CPS’) at an agreed value 
of £20.3 million which resulted in a profit on the transfer of 
£10.5 million. In addition the Group implemented an Enhanced 
Transfer Value and Pension Increase Exchange offers to the 
members of the CPS which resulted in a one-off accounting 
cost of £2.8 million in the year.
Profit before tax, before other items
2
, for the year ended  
31 December 2012 increased to £29.5 million (2011:  
£25.5 million). Basic earnings per share, before other items
2
, 
amounted to 41.4 pence (2011: 31.1 pence per share), 
reflecting increased profits and a non-recurring tax timing 
benefit. Reported basic earnings per share were 37.1 pence 
(2011: 29.2 pence).
During the year the Group secured a number of new contracts 
and extensions and the Group’s order book stood at  
£2.4 billion (31 December 2011: £2.5 billion).
As a result of the Group’s ongoing strategic focus on major 
blue chip customers who increasingly utilise a target cost 
based form of contract, our net cash position includes a  
lower level of advanced payments typically paid on lump sum 
contracts. Additionally, our increasing emphasis on support 
service related activities, changing industry cash flow trends, 
together with the cash flow timing implication of a delayed 
contract completion, accounted for the reduction in net cash 
to £105.7 million (2011: £140.1 million). We expect these  
trends will continue to be reflected in a lower average net  
cash position.
Focused on a strong 
financial position
Tony Bickerstaff
Group Finance Director
1  Underlying operating profit is before amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets and employment related acquisition consideration and excludes the 
one-off costs relating from pension scheme liability actions.
2  Other items are the amortisation of acquired intangible assets of £1.7 million 
(2011: £0.9 million) and employment related acquisition consideration of  
£1.7 million (2011: £0.7 million). Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  45
The results of the Group’s operating 
divisions are considered in the 
operational review section and are 
shown in the segmental analysis in the 
financial statements.
Interest
Net finance expense amounted to  
£1.9 million (2011: £1.9 million income). 
The interest payable on bank overdrafts 
and other similar charges was £1.8 million 
(2011: £1.7 million) and the interest 
income from bank deposits and other 
loans and receivables amounted to  
£1.0 million (2011: £1.8 million). In 
addition, the net finance expense 
included the difference between the 
expected return on the pension 
scheme’s assets of £26.3 million  
(2011: £32.3 million) and the interest  
cost on the present value of the pension 
scheme’s liabilities of £27.4 million  
(2010: £30.5 million) being a net 
expense of £1.1 million (2011: £1.8 million 
income).
In accordance with IAS 19, the pension 
scheme deficit position was reassessed 
as at 31 December 2012. As a 
consequence of the new requirements 
of IAS 19, requiring a change in the 
method of calculation, the net pension 
interest expense will increase in 2013 to 
£2.1 million.
Tax
The Group’s effective rate of tax was 
7 .3% of the profit before tax (201 1: 21.8%). 
The lower than normal rate of tax arose 
owing to tax relief on the transfer of PFI 
assets to The Costain Pension Scheme, 
Research and Development tax relief 
claims, the utilisation of brought forward 
tax losses, timing differences and capital 
allowances, not previously recognised 
as deferred tax assets, and the effect  
on the brought forward deferred tax 
balances of the reduced rate of 
corporation tax of 23% from 1 April 2013.
Dividend
The Board has recommended a final 
dividend for the year of 7.25 pence per 
share (2011: 6.75 pence per share) to 
bring the total for the year to 10.75 pence 
per share (2011: 10.0 pence per share), 
an increase of 7.5%.
As in previous years, the Group will 
make an additional cash contribution  
to the pension scheme equal to the 
amount of dividend paid to shareholders.
Shareholders’ Equity
Shareholders’ equity increased in the 
year to £31.8 million (2011: £30.8 million). 
The profit for the year amounted to 
£24.2 million and other comprehensive 
expenses to £19. 1 million. The movements 
are detailed in the consolidated 
statements of comprehensive income 
and expense and changes in equity  
in the financial statements. The most 
significant element was the actuarial  
loss on the Group’s defined benefit 
pension scheme.
Pensions
As at 31 December 2012, the Group’s 
pension scheme deficit in accordance 
with IAS 19, net of deferred tax, was 
£40.0 million (2011: £39.7 million). The 
scheme deficit position has increased 
primarily as a result of a reduction in the 
discount rate, based on corporate bond 
yields, used to calculate the liabilities.
In February 2012, the Group announced 
two further actions being taken to 
manage the obligations in the CPS.  
The first of these was the transfer of the 
Group’s interest in two PFI investments 
into the CPS at an agreed value of  
£20.3 million which was completed on 
22 February 2012 and resulted in an 
accounting profit on the transfer of  
£10.5 million. The second action was  
the implementation of Enhanced 
Transfer Value (‘ETV’) and Pension 
Increase Exchange (‘PIE’) offers to the 
members of the CPS. The ETV and PIE 
exercises have resulted in a reduction in 
the scheme liabilities and assets of 
approximately £35 million and have 
resulted in a one-off accounting cost  
of £2.8 million expensed in 2012.
A full actuarial valuation of the CPS was 
last performed by the Scheme Actuary 
as at 31 March 2010 and a recovery plan 
agreed with the Trustee of the Scheme. 
In accordance with the requirement for  
a tri-ennial review, another full actuarial 
valuation of the CPS will be carried out 
as at 31 March 2013.
Cash Flow and Borrowings
The Group has a positive net cash 
balance, which was £105.7 million as at 
31 December 2012 (2011: £140.1 million) 
and included £1.7 million of borrowings 
(2011: £1.6 million) and cash held  
by jointly controlled operations of  
£29.6 million (2011: £33.6 million).
As set out in the consolidated cash flow 
statement, during the year, the Group 
had an operating cash outflow, together 
with outflows for payment of dividends 
and matching pension deficit 
contributions. The average month-end 
cash balance during 2012 was  
£103.4 million (2010: £130.4 million).
The cash position is affected by monthly 
and contract specific cycles and in order 
to accommodate these cyclical flows, 
the Group seeks to maintain a base 
cash balance.
2012 highlights  pages 02-05
Chairman’s statement  pages 06-07
Chief Executive’s review pages 14-17
Corporate Governance pages 50-76
Financial statements p a g e s 7 7 - 1 2 1
Find out more: 46  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Business review
Group Finance Director’s review
 continued
Key Risks and Uncertainties
The principal risks and uncertainties  
of the business, and the factors which 
mitigate these risks, are set out in the 
Group’s Annual Report and include the 
economic outlook, change of government 
policy on spending, competition, 
pension liabilities, acquisition integration, 
operational delivery, loss of IT systems, 
supply chain and customer failure and 
people retention. The Board continuously 
assesses and monitors these risks  
and the Chairman’s Statement, Chief 
Executive’s Review and business and 
operations review in these financial 
statements include consideration of 
uncertainties affecting the Group.
Accounting policies and significant 
areas of judgment and estimation
A summary of the significant accounting 
policies of the Group is set out in the 
Notes to the financial statements. There 
has been no significant change to the 
accounting policies in the year and there 
is no material effect on the Financial 
statements of new accounting standards 
adopted in the period.
The Notes to the financial statements 
also include the significant areas of 
judgment and estimation used in 
preparation of the financial statements.
The most critical accounting policies  
and significant areas of judgment and 
estimation arise from the accounting  
for defined benefit pension schemes 
under IAS 19 Employee benefits, the 
accounting for long-term contracts under 
IAS 11 and assessments of the carrying 
value of land, property, goodwill and 
intangible assets.
Contract Bonding and Banking 
Facilities
The Group’s long-term contracting 
business is dependent on it being able 
to supply performance and other bonds 
as necessary. This means maintaining 
adequate facilities from banks and surety 
bond providers to meet the current  
and projected usage requirements.  
The Group has contract bonding and 
banking facilities of £465 million with  
a maturity date of 30 September 2015 
with its relationship banks and surety 
companies.
Going Concern
The Directors have acknowledged the 
guidance ‘Going Concern and Liquidity 
Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK 
Companies 2009’ published by the 
Financial Reporting Council in October 
2009. The Directors have considered  
the Group’s financial requirements,  
its current order book and future 
opportunities and its available bonding 
facilitie s . 	 Ha ving 	 r e vie w ed 	 the 	 la t e st	
projections, including the application  
of reasonable downside sensitivities,  
the Directors believe that the Group  
is well placed to manage its business 
risks successfully despite the current 
uncertain economic outlook. Accordingly, 
the Group continues to adopt the  
going concern basis in preparing these 
financial statements.
Treasury
The Group’s treasury and funding 
activities are undertaken by a centralised 
treasury function. Its primary activities 
are to manage the Group’s liquidity, 
funding and financial risk, principally 
arising from movements in interest rates 
and foreign currency exchange rates.
Focused on a strong 
financial position
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Revenue £934.5m £986.3m  £1,022.5m  £1,061.1m £996.0m 
Underlying operating profit £25.1m £24.1m  £17.4m £22.0m £19.5m 
Profit from operations £28.0m £22.0m  £29.4m  £20.8m £18.3m 
Profit before tax £26.1m £23.9m £27.9m  £18.1m  £23.1m 
Earnings per share – basic 37.1p 29.2p 36.4p 23.0p 29.0p
Net cash £105.7m £140.1m £144.3m £120.5m £146.9m
Dividends per ordinary share 10.75p 10.00p 9.25p 8.25p 7.50p Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  47
The Group’s policy is to ensure that 
adequate liquidity and financial 
resources are available to support the 
Group’s growth development, while 
managing these risks. The Group’s 
policy is not to engage in speculative 
transactions. Group Treasury operates 
as a service centre within clearly defined 
objectives and controls and is subject  
to periodic review by internal audit.
Liquidity Risk
The Group finances its operations 
primarily by a mixture of working capital, 
funds from shareholders and retained 
profits. The Directors regularly monitor 
cash usage and forecast usage to 
ensure that projected financing needs 
are supported by adequate cash 
reserves or bank facilities.
Foreign Currency Exposure
Translation exposure: the results of the 
Group’s overseas activities are translated 
into sterling at rates approximating to  
the foreign exchange rates ruling at the 
dates of the transactions. The balance 
sheets of overseas subsidiaries and 
investments are translated at foreign 
exchange rates ruling at the balance 
sheet date.
Transaction exposure: the Group has  
a small transactional currency exposure 
arising from subsidiaries’ commercial 
activities overseas and, where 
appropriate, the Group requires its 
subsidiaries to use forward currency 
contracts to minimise any currency 
exposure unless a natural hedge exists 
elsewhere within the Group.
Interest Rate Risks and Exposure
The Group holds relatively minor financial 
instruments for two main purposes:  
to finance its operations and, currently  
only within its PFI investments, to 
manage the interest rate risks arising 
from its operations and its sources of 
finance. Various financial instruments  
(for example, trade receivables and  
trade payables) arise directly from the 
Group’s operations.
With the Group’s cash balances and low 
level of borrowings, the main exposure 
to interest rate fluctuations within the 
Group’s operations arises from surplus 
cash, which is generally deposited with 
the Group’s relationship banks. Within 
the investments in joint ventures and 
associates, interest rate movements will 
affect the value of swaps classified as 
cash flow hedges and this will impact 
the Group’s equity.
Tony Bickerstaff
Group Finance Director
6 March 2013
With a robust balance sheet, positive  
net cash position and banking and 
bonding facilities in place, we have the 
resources to continue to grow the 
business organically and by acquisition.”
David Allvey
Chairman
“ 48  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Business review
 Board of Directors
Experienced leadership
David P. Allvey (67)
FCA, ATII 
3
Non-Executive Chairman
Appointment: November 2001 
Skills and experience: David Allvey was 
appointed Chairman in January 2008 prior  
to which he was Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. With a career that started in  
civil engineering and subsequently as  
a Chartered Accountant, his previous roles 
include Group Finance Director for BAT 
Industries plc, Barclays Bank plc and  
Chief Operating Officer for Zurich Financial 
Services, member of the UK Accounting 
Standards Board, member of the 
International Accounting Standards Insurance 
Group, Non-Executive Director of Thomas 
C o ok 	 plc 	 ( 2 0 0 7 –2 0 1 2 ) , 	 Se nior 	 Non-E x e cu t i v e	
D ire ct or 	 o f 	 Int e r t e k 	 G r oup 	 plc 	 ( 2 0 02 –2 0 1 1 ) ,	
Se nior 	 N on-E x e cu t i v e 	 D ir e c t or 	 o f 	 W illia m 	 Hill	
plc 	 ( 2 0 02 –2 0 1 1 ) , 	 Se nior 	 Ind e p e nd e nt 	 D ir e c t or	
of Friends Life FPG Limited (formerly Friends 
Pr ov id e nt 	 G r ou p 	 plc ) 	 ( 2 0 0 9 –2 0 1 1 ) 	 a nd	
Chairman 	 o f 	 Ar ena 	 Cov en t r y 	 L t d 	 ( 2 006 – 2 0 1 2).
External appointments: Senior 
Independent Director of Friends Life Group plc, 
Non-Executive Director of Clydesdale Bank plc 
and National Australia Group Europe Limited.
Andrew Wyllie (50)
FREng, MBA, BSc, CEng, 
FICE, CCMI 
Chief Executive 
Appointment: September 2005 
Skills and experience: Andrew Wyllie  
was appointed Chief Executive in September 
2 0 0 5 . 	 H e 	 w a s 	 pre v iou s l y 	 M a naging 	 D ire ct o r	
of Taylor Woodrow Construction Ltd 
( 2 0 0 1 –2 0 0 5 ) 	 a nd 	 a 	 m e m b e r 	 o f 	 t h e 	 T ay lo r	
Woodrow plc Executive Committee. Andrew 
joined Taylor Woodrow in 1984 and worked 
on major contracts in Africa, the Middle East,  
the Far East and the UK.
External appointments: Non-Executive 
Director of Scottish Water.
Appointment: June 2006 
Skills and experience: Tony Bickerstaff is 
Group Finance Director, Costain Group PLC 
and has been since June 2006. Tony has 
extensive knowledge of the construction and 
support services sectors both in the UK and 
ov e r se a s . 	 H e 	 is 	 re s po ns ible 	 f o r 	 a ll 	 a s p e c ts 	 o f	
the financial management of the Group as 
well as playing a major role in the Group’s 
strategic and operational development. 
Previously, Tony was with the Taylor 
Woodrow Group, which he joined in 1982.  
H e 	 h e ld 	 a 	 nu m b e r 	 o f 	 se nio r 	 m a n ag e m e nt	 
and financial positions in Taylor Woodrow 
including Finance Director of Taylor Woodrow 
Construction Limited. Prior to becoming 
Finance Director, he was Divisional Operations 
Director in charge of the Group’s PFI projects.
Anthony O. Bickerstaff (48)
FCCA 
Group Finance Director
Former Director
Mr John Bryant retired as a Non-Executive Director 
with effect from 31 December 2012. 
Notes
1
  Member of the Remuneration Committee
2
  Member of the Audit Committee
3
  Member of the Nomination Committee Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  49
James Morley (64)
BSc, FCA 
1 2 3
Senior Independent Director
Appointment: January 2008 
Skills and experience: James Morley 
served as Chairman of the Audit Committee 
from January 2008 until the end of  
October 2012 and was appointed as the 
Senior Independent Director at the start of 
Ja nu a r y 	 2 0 1 3 . 	 H e 	 is 	 a 	 Cha r t e r e d 	 Ac c ounta nt	
with some 27 years’ experience as a board 
member of both listed and private companies. 
Previous roles include Chief Operating Officer 
o f 	 Pr ima r y 	 G r ou p 	 L t d 	 ( 2 0 0 6 –2 0 0 7) , 	 G r oup	
Fina nc e 	 D ire ct o r 	 o f 	 C o x 	 Insura nc e 	 Holdings	
plc 	 ( 2 0 02 –2 0 0 5 ) , 	 G r oup 	 Fina nc e 	 D ir e c t or	 
o f 	 A r jo 	 W ig gins 	 A pplet on 	 plc 	 ( 1 9 9 9 –2 0 0 1 ) ,	
Group Executive Director Finance of 
G u a r dia n 	 Ro y a l 	 E x c ha ng e 	 plc 	 ( 1 9 9 0 – 1 9 9 9 ) ,	
Deputy Chief Executive and Finance  
D ire ct or 	 o f 	 A v is 	 Eur op e 	 plc 	 ( 1 9 7 6 – 1 9 89 ) ,	
Non-Executive Director of the Bankers’ 
In v e stm e nt 	 T r u st 	 plc 	 ( 1 9 94 –2 0 0 8 ) ,	 
Non-Executive Director of WS Atkins plc 
( 2 0 0 1 –2 0 0 9 ) , 	 No n-E x e cu t i v e 	 D ir e c t or 	 o f	 
T rad e 	 Ind e m nit y 	 G r oup 	 plc 	 ( 1 9 9 1 – 1 9 9 6 ) 	 a nd	
Non-Executive Chairman of Acumus Ltd 
( 201 1 –201 2).
External appointments: Non-Executive 
Director of The Innovation Group plc, 
Clark son 	 plc , 	 Speedy 	 Hir e 	 plc , 	 BMS 	 Gr oup 	 L t d	
and BMS Associates Ltd. 
Michael R. Alexander (65)
BSc, MSc, FIChem.E, FIET, FIGM, 
CEng, CSci 
1 2 3
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointment: July 2007 
Skills and experience: Mike Alexander  
has extensive experience of the energy 
market. Previous roles include Chief 
E x e cu t i v e 	 o f 	 B r it is h 	 En e rg y 	 plc 	 ( 2 0 03 –2 0 0 5 ) ,	
Managing Director of British Gas Trading, 
Chief Operating Officer and Executive 
D ire ct o r 	 o f 	 C e nt r ic a 	 plc 	 ( 1 9 94 –2 0 0 3 ) ,	
Non-Executive Chairman of Goldfish Bank Ltd 
( 2 0 02 –2 0 0 3 ) , 	 C h a ir m a n 	 o f 	 T G E 	 M a r ine 	 A G	
( 2 0 0 7 –2 0 1 0 ) , 	 C h a ir m a n 	 o f 	 t h e 	 A s so c i at ion	 
o f 	 T ra in 	 O p e rat o r s 	 ( 2 0 0 8 –2 0 0 9 ) 	 a nd	
Non-Executive Director of the Energy Saving 
T r u st 	 L t d 	 ( 1 9 94 –2 0 0 1 ) .
External appointments: Independent 
Non-Executive Director of Payments Council 
Ltd.; Executive Director of Lexican Ltd  
and Lexican Associates Ltd., member of the 
European Advisory Board for Landis & Gyr, 
Special Adviser at EGS Energy Ltd and 
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent 
Director of Russian Platinum PLC.
Appointment: June 2009 
Skills and experience: Samer Younis  
was appointed as a Non-Executive Director  
in 	 Ju n e 	 2 0 0 9 . 	 H e 	 is 	 V ic e 	 Cha ir ma n 	 a nd	
Managing Director of Kharafi National Group; 
Board Member of ABJ Engineering and 
Contracting Co KSCC (Kuwait), Utilities 
Development Company (Kuwait), Kuwait 
J or d a n ia n 	 Hol d i n g 	 C ompa n y 	 (J or d a n ) ,	 
SSH 	 C o nsulta nts 	 ( Ku w a it ) , 	 G loba l 	 Cle a r ing	
Hou se 	 S yst e ms 	 ( Ku w a it ) , 	 Emirat e s 	 Ut ilit ie s	
C ompa n y 	 H olding 	 ( U A E ) 	 a nd 	 H e av y	
Engineering Industries & Shipbuilding Co 
( HE ISCO ) 	 ( Ku w a it ) ; 	 a nd 	 a 	 T r ust e e 	 o f 	 t he 	 A ra b	
Forum for Environment and Development.
Samer G. Younis (51)
BSc, Grand Officer of the Order  
of the Star of Italian Solidarity 
3
Non-Executive Director 
Appointment: June 2011 
Skills and experience: Tracey Wood  
joined the Company in February 2006.  
She has a construction and commercial law 
background and was formerly a partner at 
H a mm on ds . 	 She 	 ha s 	 r e s p onsibilit y 	 f or 	 le g a l ,	
secretariat and human resources.
Tracey A. Wood (43)
LLB 
Legal Director and Company Secretary
Group Executive Board 
The Executive Board has primary authority 
for the day-to-day management of the 
Group’s operations, following policies laid 
down by the Group Board. It consists of the 
executive directors and other senior 
managers and is chaired by Andrew Wyllie, 
Chief Executive. The members of the 
Executive Board are: 
Andrew Wyllie
Chief Executive
Tony Bickerstaff
Group Finance Director 
Tim Bowen
Regional Development Director
Patrick Bruce 
Group Commercial Director 
Jane A. Lodge (57)
FCA, BSc 
1 2 3 
Independent Non-Executive Director
Appointment: August 2012 
Skills and experience: Jane Lodge was 
appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 
August 2012 and was appointed Chair  
of the Audit Committee with effect from  
the end of October 2012. Prior to this  
Jane spent 35 years at Deloitte LLP (UK),  
25 as an audit partner advising global 
companies, particularly in the manufacturing, 
house-building and property and construction 
sectors. She was senior partner of the 
Birmingham office and the Deloitte UK 
Manufacturing Industry Sector.
External appointments: Non-Executive 
Director and Chair of the Audit Committee, 
Devro Plc, Non-Executive Director, Black 
Country Living Museum Trust Ltd and 
Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit 
Committee, DCC plc.
Martin Hunter 
Group Financial Controller 
Darren James 
M a n aging 	 D ire ct o r 	 – 	 Inf ra st r u ct u re
Alan Kay 
Group Technical and Operations Director
Mark Rogerson
M a n aging 	 D ire ct o r 	 – 	 N at u ra l 	 Re sour c e s
Alex Vaughan 
Corporate Development Director 
Tracey Wood 
Legal Director and Company Secretary  50  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012 50  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Corporate  
Governance
This section explains our Corporate 
Governance and decision-making 
processes. We detail the committees 
and our accountability and audit 
procedures. 
52  Corporate Governance statement
60  Other statutory information
65 Directors’ remuneration report
 75  Directors’ responsibilities statement
76  Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Costain Group PLC
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  51
Dear Shareholder
We believe that great companies  
are built on the foundation of trust. 
Trust is earned by providing open 
and transparent information, 
together with strong compliance 
with both the spirit and letter of the 
law, and by managing the business  
in a responsible and sustainable way. 
At Costain, we are committed to robust corporate governance  
practices and accountability. The Company considers that the principles 
set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code are central to the effective 
management of the business and to maintaining the confidence of  
the investors. 
Our Board is responsible for providing strong leadership to the Costain 
Group. Effective leadership is realised through collaboration between  
the Board and the executive team and my role as Chairman is to ensure 
that we harness the experience and knowledge of the Directors and  
drive a culture of continual improvement in standards, decision-making, 
policies and accountability. 
Governance goes well beyond the boardroom. At Costain, we operate 
with diligence and discipline across the whole business and believe  
it is important to assess continually how we do things. Encouraging 
dialogue with stakeholders helps to guide and shape our approach  
to governance and risk management.
We continually monitor the composition of the Board to ensure we  
have the right level of skills and expertise. The Directors have a deep 
understanding of our business and sector and bring valuable insight  
and experience to the table. 
Our Board is ultimately responsible for the success of Costain and  
we are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance  
to enable us to achieve our vision of becoming one of the UK’s top 
engineering solutions providers.
The way in which the Costain Board and its various committees operates 
and delivers effective corporate governance is detailed in the following 
Corporate Governance statement.
David Allvey
Chairman
Overview Business review Corporate 
Governance
Financial 
statements
Other information
“ 	 T he 	 Board 	 is 	 commit t ed 	 t o	
achieving the highest standards 
of governance. This overview sets 
out our approach to effective 
leadership and best practice.” 
 
David Allvey 
Chairman
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance 52  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
 Corporate Governance statement
The Board of Directors of 
Costain Group PLC is 
committed to achieving  
the highest standards of 
Corporate Governance  
and to managing operations  
in accordance with the 
principles set out in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 
(the ‘Code’)
1
 to which the 
Company is subject. 
These principles are considered to be central to the 
effective management of the business and to maintaining 
the confidence of investors. 
1
 A copy of the Code is publicly available at www.frc.org.uk 
2
 A copy of the schedule is available on the Company’s website at  
 www.costain.com
Responsibilities
The Board has adopted a schedule  
of matters specifically reserved to the 
Board for its approval.
2
 
The principal matters reserved to the  
Board include: 
•	 reviewing the environmental and health and safety 
performance of the Group; 
•	 setting Group strategy; 
•	 approving the annual operating and capital expenditure 
budgets and material changes to them; 
•	 reviewing performance in light of the Group strategy, 
objectives, business plans and budgets and ensuring  
that any necessary corrective action is taken; 
•	 supervising the Group’s operations and financial 
performance; 
•	 approving major acquisitions and divestments; 
•	 reviewing the Group’s systems of financial control  
and risk management; 
•	 ensuring that appropriate management development  
and succession plans are in place; 
•	 approving appointments to the Board and Executive Board 
and the appointment of the Company Secretary; 
•	 approving policies relating to executive directors’ 
remuneration and the severance of executive directors’ 
service agreements; and 
•	 ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place with 
shareholders.  Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  53
Board and Committees 
The role of the Board 
The Group is controlled through its 
Board. The Board’s main role is to create 
long-term value for shareholders by 
providing entrepreneurial and prudent 
leadership of the Company, setting the 
Company’s strategic aims, ensuring  
that the necessary financial and other 
resources are available and that the 
appropriate controls are in place to 
deliver these objectives. 
Who is on the Board? 
The Board currently comprises  
two executive directors and five 
non-executive directors of whom one  
is the Chairman, three are independent 
non-executive directors (one being  
the Senior Independent Director) and 
one is a nominee non-executive director. 
The nominee non-executive director  
is nominated by our major shareholder, 
Mohammed Abdulmohsin AI-Kharafi & 
Sons Co. W.L.L. 
A list of the individual directors and  
their biographies are set out on  
pages 48 to 49. The biographies 
illustrate that the non-executive directors 
have a range of business and financial 
experience that is important and relevant 
to the management of the Company. 
The Board believes that there is an 
appropriate balance between executives 
and non-executives and that this 
balance is enhanced by the varying 
lengths of service of the non-executive 
directors, which are depicted in the  
chart on page 54. 
The Board recognises the importance  
of greater diversity (not just gender 
specific) in the boardroom and 
throughout the business. The Board 
aims to have a broad range of skills, 
backgrounds and experience whilst 
following a policy of ensuring we appoint 
the best people. Within this context,  
and as part of the ongoing process  
of refreshing the Board, the Company 
will continue to encourage and welcome 
interest from candidates drawn from  
a diverse background, who will add to 
the Board’s diversity. With effect from 
August 2012 Jane Lodge was appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director and 
appointed Chair of the Audit Committee 
with effect from the end of October 2012. 
Ha vi n g 	 spen t 	 2 5 	 y ears 	 as 	 an 	 a ud it 	 p ar tner	
at Deloitte LLP (UK), Jane brings 
considerable experience to her role and 
enhances the skill-set of the Board as  
a whole.
Achievements of 2012
What has the Board done during the year? 
Set out below is a summary of the key matters undertaken by the Board in 2012:
Strategic 
discussions  
and investment
The Board continued to undertake wide-ranging 
discussions on key strategic issues which included 
a number of Board workshops attended by 
members of the Executive Board and third-party 
advisers. Discussions were focused on formulating 
a strategy to achieve a step-change in the 
underlying profit of the business and included the 
ongoing consideration of potential acquisitions 
and investments. A business plan for 2013 –2015 
was approved in December 2012 based on the 
‘Choosing Costain’ strategy. 
Monitoring risk
The Board has continued to assess the 
effectiveness of the Group’s reporting controls  
and has ensured that the Group’s risk profile 
reflects the Company’s strategic objectives. 
Visits
The Board attended senior leadership team 
gatherings and visited a number of sites across  
the country to ensure the directors maintain an 
understanding of the operational issues that affect 
the Group. 
Training
The Board has overseen the updating of the 
Company’s Competition Law Compliance Policy.  
All Board members also undertook training in this 
area and in the area of process safety leadership.
Evaluation
The Board reviewed the results of an externally 
facilitated independent Board evaluation. Further 
details of the external evaluation can be found  
on page 55. Following due consideration of the 
composition and competencies of the Board,  
Jane Lodge was appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director in August 2012.
Corporate 
Responsibility  
(‘CR’)
The Board receives reports from the Company’s 
dedicated CR Director and monitors progress  
on a regular basis.  54  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance 
 Corporate Governance statement
 continued
Independence 
The Board considers each of its 
independent non-executive directors  
to be independent in character and 
judgement and there are no relationships 
or circumstances which are likely to 
affect (or could appear to affect) the 
judgement of such non-executive 
directors. 
The Nomination Committee continues  
to review succession on a regular basis. 
At the time of his original appointment  
in January 2008, the Chairman of the 
Company was considered independent 
b y 	 the 	 Board . 	 Ho w e v er , 	 in 	 accordance	
with the Code, the ongoing test of 
independence is not applicable in 
relation to the Chairman. 
The Company complies with the 
requirement under provision B.1.2  
of the Code that at least half of the 
Board, excluding the chairman, should 
comprise non-executive directors 
determined by the Board to be 
independent, notwithstanding that this 
requirement is waived in respect  
of smaller companies, such as the 
Company, which are members of the 
FTSE SmallCap Index. 
Conflicts 
The Company has procedures in place 
for managing conflicts of interest. The 
Board has satisfied itself that there is  
no compromise to the independence  
of the directors who have appointments 
on the boards of, or relationships with, 
other companies. The Board requires 
directors to declare all appointments 
which could result in a possible conflict 
of interests and has adopted appropriate 
processes to manage and, if appropriate, 
approve any such conflict. 
Appointments to the Board and 
retirement of directors 
The membership of the Board and 
biographical details of the executive  
and non-executive directors are given  
on pages 48 to 49. 
Jane Lodge was appointed to the  
Board in August 2012 and became  
Chair of the Audit Committee at the  
end of October 2012, replacing James 
Morley who became the Senior 
Independent Director at the end of 
December 2012 upon the retirement 
from the Board of John Bryant.
The appointment and replacement of 
directors is governed by the Company’s 
Articles of Association, the Code, the 
Companies Act 2006 and related 
legislation. The Articles of Association 
may be amended by a special resolution 
of the Company’s shareholders. The 
Company’s Articles of Association 
require that all directors, including 
nominee non-executive directors,  
should be subject to election by 
shareholders at the first opportunity  
after their appointment and to re-election 
thereafter at intervals of no more than 
three years. The Company’s Articles  
of Association also provide that 
non-executive directors who have 
served for longer than nine years should 
be subject to annual re-election. 
Accordingly, the aforementioned 
provisions of the Company’s Articles  
of Association comply with provision 
B.7.1 of the Code, as applicable to 
smaller companies below the FTSE 350. 
In accordance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association and provision 
B.7.1 of the Code, David Allvey,  
Tony Bickerstaff, Samer Younis and  
Jane Lodge will offer themselves for 
re-election at the next Annual General 
Me e ting . 	 Ha ving 	 due 	 r e gar d 	 t o 	 the 	
results of the independently facilitated 
review of the Board’s performance 
conducted towards the end of 2011  
and to the periodic internal evaluations,  
the Board confirms that it is of the 
opinion that each of the directors 
standing for re-election continues  
to make an effective and valuable 
contribution to the Board and should 
therefore be re-elected at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman and independent 
non-executive directors all have terms 
and conditions of appointment, which 
are available for inspection during normal 
business hours at the Company’s 
registered office. An independent 
non-executive director’s appointment  
is for an initial period of three years,  
at the expiry of which time the 
appointment is reviewed to determine 
whether the appointment should 
continue. Mohammed Abdulmohsin 
AI-Kharafi & Sons Co. W.L.L. and the 
other major shareholder UEM Builders 
Berhad are each entitled to appoint  
a non-executive director for so long  
as these shareholders each hold 7%  
of the aggregate nominal value of the 
then issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company. UEM Builders Berhad has  
not taken advantage of this option since  
4 December 2009. In consequence, the 
Company did not comply with provision 
B.2.3 of the Code, which requires that  
all non-executive directors should be 
appointed for a specific term. 
2-5 years
5+ years
0-2 years
Length of Service: 
Non-Executive Directors
as at 31 December 2012
40%
40%
20% Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  55
How often does the Board meet?
The Board holds scheduled meetings 
throughout the year and meets on an  
ad hoc basis both physically and by 
telephone conference as required. 
During 2012, the Board met formally  
on seven occasions. Details of the 
attendance at Board meetings in 2012 
are given in the table below: 
Board meetings
Director A B 
D P Allvey 7 7
A Wyllie 7 7
A O Bickerstaff 7 7
J Morley 7 7
M R Alexander 7 7
J A Lodge* 4 4
S G Younis 7 4
J M Bryant** 7 7 
A  Maximum number of meetings the director  
could have attended 
B  Number of meetings the director actually 
attended 
* appointed to the Board with effect from  
 01 August 2012
** retired from the Board with effect from  
 31 December 2012
Samer Younis attended four out of the 
seven scheduled Board meetings 
throughout the year due to other work 
commitments. Samer Younis regularly 
attended board meetings held on an  
ad hoc basis. 
How do we make sure our Board  
is effective? 
The Board has established a formal 
process for the evaluation of the 
performance of the Board and its 
principal committees. Towards the  
end of 2011, in accordance with best 
practice, the Board commissioned  
an externally facilitated Board and 
committee review. The review was 
conducted by SCT Consultants Ltd 
(who, having no other connection with 
the Company, are considered to be 
independent) and each director 
completed a questionnaire and was 
interviewed individually on a confidential 
basis. This independent external review 
formed part of the regular and on-going 
evaluation and development work 
conducted by the Board, during which 
consideration is given to a number  
of key issues including overall 
effectiveness and Board diversity. The 
outputs of the 2011 external Board and 
committee evaluation have informed the 
Board ’ s 	 action 	 planning 	 f or 	 2 0 1 2 –2 0 1 3 .	
The next independently facilitated review 
is due to commence towards the end  
of 2013.
During the year, David Allvey met with 
the non-executive directors without  
the executive directors being present 
and, as part of the process to appraise  
David Allvey’s performance, the Senior 
Independent Director met with the 
non-executive directors without the 
Chairman being present. 
On appointment, the directors take part 
in an induction programme, pursuant  
to which they receive information about 
the Group, the role of the Board and  
the matters reserved for its decision, the 
terms of reference and membership of 
the principal Board committees and the 
powers delegated to the committees, 
the Group’s corporate governance 
practices and procedures, and the latest 
financial information about the Group. 
As regards the continuing professional 
development of the executive and 
non-executive directors, Board members, 
independent of any formal training 
arranged by the Company, are 
encouraged to attend seminars and 
conferences on issues relevant to their 
appointment as directors of a public 
company, particularly matters concerned 
with corporate governance, audit and 
remuneration issues. In addition, Board 
site visits are considered essential to 
ensure that directors have a thorough 
understanding of the business operations 
and issues that affect the Group. 
Board and Executive Committee structure 
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee 
Group Executive Board
Investments Committee He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y 	 Commit t e e	
Costain Group PLC Board of Directors 56  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
In order to discharge their duties, the 
directors are provided with full and  
timely access to papers prior to Board 
meetings and the directors are free  
to seek any further information they 
consider necessary. In addition, 
between Board meetings, non-executive 
directors have access to the Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director and 
Company Secretary in order to progress 
the Company’s business. The non- 
executive directors also receive a weekly 
report from the Chief Executive, monthly 
management accounts, internal audit 
reports and regular management reports 
and information, which enable them  
to scrutinise the Group’s and its 
management’s performance against 
agreed objectives. 
All Board members have access to all 
information relating to the Group and 
have access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary (who is 
responsible for ensuring that Board 
procedures are followed) and who is 
also the Company’s Legal Director.  
The appointment and removal of the 
Company Secretary is a matter reserved 
for Board approval. The Board also 
obtains advice from professional 
advisers as and when required at the 
expense of the Group. 
The Group’s organisation and structure 
is established and overseen by the 
Board and designed to allow effective 
decision-making and to meet corporate 
governance standards. A diagram 
illustrating the structure is shown on 
page 55. The Board has established 
committees which are responsible for 
audit, remuneration and succession. 
Each committee plays a vital role in 
helping the Board to ensure that high 
standards of corporate governance are 
maintained throughout the Group. The 
committees are governed by terms of 
reference which are reviewed annually 
and can be viewed in the corporate 
governance section of the Company’s 
website. The membership and activities 
of each of the Board committees is 
detailed in the following sections. 
The Group Executive Board is 
accountable for running the business 
and delivering the Group strategy.  
It consists of the executive directors  
and other senior managers, is chaired  
by Andrew Wyllie (Chief Executive) and 
works with the support of a number of 
operational committees and functions. 
Audit Committee 
Members 
Director A B 
J A Lodge* 
(Committee Chair) 2 2
J Morley 5 5
M R Alexander 5 5
J M Bryant** 5 5
A  Maximum number of meetings the director  
could have attended 
B  Number of meetings the director actually attended 
*  appointed to the Committee with effect from  
20 August 2012
**  retired from the Board with effect from  
31 December 2012
Details of the attendance at Audit 
Committee meetings in 2012 are given  
in the table above. The Committee’s 
terms of reference are available from the 
Company Secretary and are published 
on the Company’s website. The 
meetings of the Committee are normally 
also attended by the Chairman, the  
Chief Executive, the Group Finance 
Director, the external auditors, the  
He a d 	 o f 	 In t e r nal 	 A udit 	 and 	 the 	 G r oup	
Financial Controller. The Audit 
Committee regularly meets privately  
with 	 the 	 e x t e r nal 	 audit ors 	 and 	 He ad 	 o f	
Internal Audit. The Company Secretary 
is the Secretary to the Audit Committee. 
Biographies of the members of the 
Committee are shown on page 49.  
The Company considers that it has  
in Jane Lodge, as Chair of the Audit 
Committee, an appropriate person 
possessing what the Financial Reporting 
Council’s (‘FRC’) guidance on audit 
committees describes as recent and 
relevant financial experience. 
Prior to joining the Costain Board, Jane 
Lodge, a chartered accountant, spent 
35 years at Deloitte LLP (UK), 25 as an 
audit partner advising global companies, 
particularly in the manufacturing, 
house-building and property and 
construction sectors. Jane Lodge was 
senior partner of the Birmingham office 
and the Deloitte UK Manufacturing 
Industry Sector.
Role of the Audit Committee 
In accordance with its terms of 
reference, the Audit Committee is 
responsible for: 
•	 monitoring the integrity of the Group’s 
financial statements and any formal 
announcement relating to the Group’s 
performance; 
•	 monitoring the effectiveness of the 
external audit process and making 
recommendations to the Board  
in relation to the appointment, 
re-appointment and remuneration  
of the external auditors; 
•	 ensuring that an appropriate 
relationship between the Group and 
the external auditors is maintained, 
including reviewing non-audit services 
and fees; 
•	 reviewing the Group’s system of 
internal controls and the processes  
for management of the risks facing  
the Group; 
•	 reviewing the effectiveness of the 
internal audit function and approving, 
in consultation with the Chief 
Executive, the appointment and 
termination of employment of the  
head of that function; and 
•	 reviewing its terms of reference and  
its effectiveness from time to time  
and recommending to the Board  
any changes required as a result  
of the review. 
Main activities during the year 
In 2012, the Audit Committee discharged 
its responsibilities placed on it by 
provisions of the Code by performing  
the following activities: 
•	 reviewing the Group’s draft financial 
statements, preliminary and interim 
results prior to Board approval and 
reviewing the external auditors’ 
detailed reports thereon. Significant 
issues that the Committee considered 
included key contract judgements, 
internal controls, cash flow and 
financial covenant compliance; 
•	 reviewing the appropriateness of the 
Group’s accounting policies; 
•	 reviewing the external auditors’ plan 
for the audit of the Group’s financial 
statements; 
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance 
 Corporate Governance statement
 continued Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  57
•	 reviewing and monitoring the external 
auditors’ independence and objectivity 
and the effectiveness of the audit 
process, taking into consideration 
relevant UK professional and 
regulatory requirements, together  
with the quality control processes 
operated by the auditors. The 
Committee concluded that this 
remained of a satisfactory standard; 
•	 reviewing/approving the external 
auditors’ engagement letter, together 
with their audit and non-audit fees;
•	 reviewing the internal audit function’s 
work programme, internal audit 
reports and quarterly reports on its 
work during the year; 
•	 reviewing the Group’s system of 
internal controls and its effectiveness, 
reporting to the Board on the results 
of the review and receiving regular 
updates on key risk areas of financial 
control; 
•	 monitoring the process for formally 
identifying, evaluating and managing 
any significant risks and opportunities 
within the business; 
•	 reviewing and monitoring the Group’s 
commercial and financial IT systems; 
and 
•	 undertaking an internal review of the 
effectiveness of the Committee and 
the internal audit function. 
Audit services
The Company’s external auditors are 
KPMG Audit Plc. The Senior Statutory 
Auditor (who has signed the Audit 
Report on behalf of KPMG on page 76) 
is Mr Stephen Bligh, who has been the 
Company’s audit director since 2010.
Non-audit services 
The Audit Committee monitors the 
non-audit services being provided to  
the Group by its external auditors, and 
has developed a formal policy on the 
provision of non-audit services by the 
external auditors with the objective of 
ensuring that such services do not 
impair their independence or objectivity. 
The policy also sets out a number of  
key principles that underpin the provision 
of non-audit services by the external 
auditors: the auditors should not audit 
their own firm’s work; make management 
decisions for the Group; have a mutuality 
of financial interest with the Group; or be 
put in the role of advocate for the Group. 
Approval of the Audit Committee is 
required for any services provided by  
the external auditors where the fee is 
likely to be in excess of £25,000. The 
Audit Committee reviews all services 
being provided by the external auditors 
annually to assess the independence 
and objectivity of the external auditors, 
taking into consideration relevant 
performance and regulatory requirements 
so that those are not impaired by the 
provision of permissible non-audit 
services. 
In 2012, KPMG performed non-audit 
services in respect of potential 
acquisitions and the provision of tax 
services. KPMG were selected as the 
most cost-effective and efficient supplier 
to undertake these services based  
on their thorough understanding of the 
Group and their particular expertise.  
The Audit Committee approved the 
provision of these services and were 
satisfied that the non-audit services 
would not impact upon KPMG’s 
objectivity and independence. 
The services of two other accounting 
firms, PwC and Ernst & Young, were 
also employed in respect of due 
diligence on potential acquisitions  
during the course of 2012.
Nomination Committee 
Members 
Director A B 
D P Allvey 
(Committee Chair) 1 1 
J A Lodge* 1 1 
J Morley 1 1 
M R Alexander 1 1 
S G Younis 1 0 
J M Bryant** 1 1 
A  Maximum number of meetings the director  
could have attended 
B  Number of meetings the director actually attended 
*  appointed to the Committee with effect from  
20 August 2012
**  retired from the Board with effect from  
31 December 2012
Details of the attendance at Nomination 
Committee meetings in 2012 are given  
in the table above. The Committee’s 
terms of reference are available from the 
Company Secretary and are published 
on the Company’s website. 
Role of the Nomination Committee 
The principal role of the Nomination 
Committee is to review the structure and 
composition of the Board and to identify 
and propose to the Board suitable 
candidates to fill Board vacancies.
The Nomination Committee directs  
the Board effectiveness reviews and  
also reviews management training and 
succession planning arrangements  
in respect of senior management.  
The Company Secretary is the Secretary 
of the Nomination Committee. 
Main activities during the year 
In 2012, the Nomination Committee 
discharged its responsibilities by 
performing the following activities: 
•	 reviewing the results of the external 
review of Board effectiveness which 
took place towards the end of 2011; 
•	 reviewing recruitment of non-executive 
directors;
•	 receiving notifications from directors of 
situations, such as proposed external 
appointments, in which a potential 
conflict of interest may arise; 
•	 recommending to the Board the 
re-appointment of those directors  
who are due to offer themselves for 
re-election at the Annual General 
Meeting in accordance with the 
Articles of Association, following due 
consideration of the Board’s policy  
on independence and the results of 
periodic Board performance reviews; 
and 
•	 reviewing succession planning in 
respect of the Company’s senior 
management.  58  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Remuneration Committee
Members 
Director A B 
M R Alexander 
(Committee Chair) 6 6
J A Lodge* 2 2
J Morley 6 5
J M Bryant** 6 6
A  Maximum number of meetings the director  
could have attended 
B  Number of meetings the director actually attended 
*  appointed to the Committee with effect from  
20 August 2012
**  retired from the Board with effect from  
31 December 2012
Details of the attendance at 
Remuneration Committee meetings  
in 2012 are given in the table above.  
The Committee’s terms of reference are 
available from the Company Secretary 
and are published on the Company’s 
website. 
Role of the Remuneration 
Committee 
The role and operation of the 
Remuneration Committee is set out  
in the Director’s remuneration report  
on pages 65 to 74. 
Relationship with institutional 
investors and private investors 
The Company remains committed to 
maintaining good relationships with both 
institutional and private shareholders. 
There continues to be regular dialogue 
with institutional investors and brokers. 
At the time of the announcement  
of the full-year and half-year results, 
presentations are made to brokers’ 
analysts, the press and institutional 
investors. These presentations are 
available on the Company’s website  
at www.costain.com. In addition,  
there are meetings with analysts, 
financial journalists and institutional 
investors throughout the year. 
The Chairman is available to discuss 
strategy and governance issues with 
shareholders and James Morley, as the 
Senior Independent Director, is available 
to shareholders if they have concerns 
that have not been, or cannot be, 
addressed through the Chairman. 
The Company obtains feedback from  
its brokers, Investec, on the views of 
institutional investors on a non-attributed 
basis. As a matter of routine, the Board 
reviews reports from its brokers on 
issues relating to recent share price 
performance, trading activity and 
institutional sentiment. The Board also 
receives copies of relevant analysts’ 
reports on an ad hoc basis. 
The Board regards the Annual General 
Meeting as an important opportunity to 
communicate directly with shareholders. 
Board members, including the Chairs  
of the Remuneration, Nomination and 
Audit Committees, attended the 2012 
meeting and propose attending the 2013 
meeting where they will be available  
to answer questions. 
Shareholders may raise issues or 
concerns by contacting the Group’s 
Investor Relations team via the email 
address stated on the Company’s 
website or by writing to the Company 
Secretary. 
Internal controls and risk 
management 
Review of internal controls 
The Board is responsible for the Group’s 
system of internal controls and for 
reviewing its effectiveness. Such a 
system, however, can only manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure  
to achieve business objectives and  
can only provide reasonable, but not 
absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
The Board maintains full control over 
strategic, financial, operational and 
compliance issues. Management of  
the Group is delegated to the Chief 
Executive, who is assisted by members 
of the Executive Board. The Chief 
Executive has full authority to act subject 
to the matters reserved to the Board  
and to the requirements of Group 
policies. 
The Board confirms that there is an 
ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the significant 
risks faced by the Group, which has 
been in place for the year under review 
and up to the date of approval of the 
Annual Report. This process extends 
not only to projects undertaken solely  
by subsidiaries of the Group but also to 
projects undertaken in joint arrangements 
and by joint ventures and associates. 
This process is reviewed by the Audit 
Committee on behalf of the Board and 
accords with the Financial Reporting 
Council’s (‘FRC’) guidance on internal 
control. 
The Audit Committee has reviewed  
the effectiveness of the system of 
internal controls. The review covered  
all controls, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls  
and risk management. 
Risk management 
The Company has various procedures 
for identifying and managing risk, 
including a pre-qualification and 
pre-tender review for obtaining approval 
to bid for a project from the Investments 
Committee and a specific project  
risk management procedure which 
involves a continuous review of risks  
by the project manager and commercial 
manager of the project following 
contract award.
The Company has established a 
Corporate Risk and Opportunity 
Register, as well as, sector business 
Risk Registers, which are monitored and 
updated regularly. The Board and Audit 
Committee receive reports on the 
Company’s main corporate risks and 
opportunities. As recommended by the 
Code, the Board has determined the 
nature and extent of the significant risks 
it is willing to take in achieving its 
strategic objectives. 
For the duration of a contract, the Risk 
and Opportunity Register is updated  
on a monthly basis and the top five risks 
and opportunities reviewed by Group 
senior management. Internal Audit 
conducts site reviews and circulates 
reports with further follow-up actions 
and inspections. 
The risk management strategy is 
regularly reviewed and the Group’s risks 
and opportunities compared against 
those of other blue-chip companies. 
Internal Audit provides independent 
assurance that risks inherent to the 
Company’s business processes are 
reasonably controlled and assists 
management in assessing those risks 
and how effectively they are managed  
by internal controls. Internal Audit  
also promotes best practice in risk 
management processes to ensure 
delivery of corporate objectives. 
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance 
 Corporate Governance statement
 continued Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  59
In 2012, Internal Audit conducted  
project and departmental reviews to 
appraise and report on the effectiveness 
of the risk management processes.  
All reviews carried out were subject  
to appropriate follow-up action to 
provide assurance that accepted 
recommendations have been 
implemented effectively. The overall 
assessment is that a strong risk 
management culture is continuing to 
develop within the Group. 
The Board also assesses the 
effectiveness of the Company’s reporting 
controls to ensure that the Group’s risk 
profile reflects its strategic objectives. 
Operational controls 
Controls and procedures are detailed  
in Group policy statements, procedure 
manuals and other written instructions, 
which are reviewed and updated 
regularly. 
The Company has developed operational 
management systems that are 
accredited to ISO 9001:2008 which  
are designed to support management  
in providing safe quality management 
processes across the entire business.  
In addition, the Company operates 
information security processes certified 
to ISO 27001:2005. Implementation  
and compliance with the systems are 
monitored and audited by Internal Audit. 
In order to maintain the Company’s 
accreditation, external audits of the 
management systems are undertaken 
biannually by the British Standards 
Institution.
Each project manager completes 
monthly reports, which include 
information on safety, health and 
environmental statistics, cash flow, 
value, cost and profit, claims and 
variations, risk management, progress 
and staffing levels. All projects operate 
within a controlled framework of best 
practice, safety, health and environmental 
guidelines. The project management 
team monitors and the safety, health and 
environmental advisers audit, compliance 
with and execution of the guidelines. 
The Board and Executive Board receive 
regular reports on safety, health and 
environmental performance and 
significant operational matters. The 
Executive Board is responsible for 
ensuring compliance with Company 
procedures. The Chief Executive is the 
Board 	 me mbe r 	 r e sponsible 	 f or 	 He alth	 
and Safety. 
Financial controls 
There is a comprehensive annual 
budgeting system, linked to the annual 
strategy review, for each business within 
the Group. The budget for the following 
year is reviewed and finalised by the 
Executive Board, alongside the 
three-year Business Plan, before final 
approval by the Board in December. 
The Company produces a monthly 
rolling forecast update for the current 
year which is compared with the annual 
budget. Each operation’s performance  
is reviewed monthly by management 
and reported against budget to the 
Board and Executive Board. The reports 
cover profit and loss and cash flow with 
an accompanying narrative on significant 
issues underlying the financial reports. 
The Group Treasurer and Group 
Taxation Manager report to the Audit 
Committee, via the Group Finance 
Director, on any issues of significance  
to the Group. 
Compliance 
The Group’s policies contain a statement 
on business conduct, emphasising the 
legal, ethical and moral standards that 
must be employed in all the Company’s 
business dealings. This statement is 
regularly reviewed and updated as 
appropriate to ensure compliance with 
any change in legislation, for example 
the Bribery Act 2010. The Company 
expects the highest standards from all 
employees and key suppliers. 
In the event of a critical legal issue,  
a legal report is submitted to the Board. 
An annual review of all litigation valued 
above £50,000 is submitted to, and 
reviewed by, the Board. Significant legal 
and regulatory changes are notified to 
the appropriate staff and training given 
where necessary. 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee 
reports the outcome of the Audit 
Committee meetings to the Board and 
all Board members receive the minutes 
of all Audit Committee meetings. 
Compliance with the Code
Throughout the year ended 31 December 
2012 the Company complied with all the 
applicable principles and provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the ‘Code’), except for provision B.2.3 of 
the Code, which requires non-executive 
directors to be appointed for a specific 
term because the Company’s two major 
shareholders are entitled to appoint  
a non-executive director for so long  
as they each hold 7% of the then issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company, 
as detailed on page 54 of this Corporate 
Governance statement. 60  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
 Other statutory information
The directors submit to  
the members their  
Report and Accounts  
of the Company for the year 
ended 31 December 2012. 
The Directors’ Report of the Company for the year ended 
31 December 2012, prepared in accordance with the  
Auditing Standards Board’s (‘ASB’s’) Reporting Statement on 
Operating and Financial Review, is set out on pages 06 to 75. 
Activities 
The principal activities of the Group are engineering 
consultancy, construction and operations and maintenance. 
The Group also has a share in a land development and marina 
joint venture in southern Spain. The progress and prospects  
of the Group’s businesses and the main factors which could 
affect the future development and performance of the Group 
are set out in the Business review (pages 06 to 44). 
Fixed assets 
The Board is of the opinion that the aggregate market value  
of the Group’s land and buildings is in excess of book value 
but that this difference is not significant in relation to the affairs 
of the Group as a whole. 
Profit and dividends 
The profit after tax for the financial year ending 31 December 
2012 amounted to £24.2 million (2011: £18.7 million). An 
interim dividend of 3.50 pence per share (2011: 3.25 pence) 
amounting to £2.3 million (2011: £2.2 million) was paid  
on 26 October 2012. The directors recommend payment  
of a final dividend at the rate of 7 .25 pence per share (2011:  
6.75 pence) amounting to £4.7 million (2011: £4.4 million).  
If approved, the dividend will be paid on 24 May 2013 to 
shareholders registered at close of business on 19 April 2013. 
Going concern 
The directors believe, after due and careful enquiry, that the 
Group has sufficient resources for its present requirements 
and, therefore, consider it appropriate to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the 2012 financial statements as 
discussed on page 46 of the Group Finance Director’s review 
and Note 2 to the financial statements. 
Forward looking statements 
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. 
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of  
future performance. Rather, they are based on current views 
and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, 
uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results  
to differ from any future results or developments expressed  
or implied by the forward-looking statements. Each forward- 
looking statement speaks only as of its particular date. 
Directors and directors’ interests 
Brief biographies of the present members of the Board are 
given on pages 48 and 49. 
In accordance with Article 78 of the Company’s Articles of 
Association and the Code, David Allvey, Tony Bickerstaff, 
Samer Younis and Jane Lodge, being eligible, will offer 
themselves for re-election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting. 
David Allvey, having been in office for a continuous period  
in excess of nine years, is required to stand for re-election on 
an annual basis. Tony Bickerstaff and Samer Younis, having 
served on the Board at the time of the two preceding Annual 
General Meetings without retiring, are required to stand for 
re-election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting. Jane Lodge, 
having been appointed as a director of the Company since  
the last Annual General Meeting, is required to stand for 
re-election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting. David Allvey 
and Jane Lodge have letters of appointment with the 
Company and Tony Bickerstaff has a service contract with  
the Company, details of which are set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report. 
With regard to the re-election of David Allvey, Tony Bickerstaff, 
Samer Younis and Jane Lodge, the Board is of the opinion  
that they each continue to perform effectively and demonstrate 
commitment of time for Board and committee meetings and 
other respective duties. 
No director had any material interest in any contract of 
significance with the Group during the period under review. 
Details of directors’ emoluments and interests in shares in  
the Company, including any changes in interests during 2012,  
are contained in the Directors’ remuneration report, which 
appears on pages 65 to 74. 
Related party transactions 
Details of transactions with related parties undertaken by  
the Group during the year are disclosed in Note 25 to the 
financial statements on page 119. 
Incorporation and constitution 
Costain Group PLC is domiciled in England and incorporated 
in England and Wales under Company Number 1393773. 
Costain Group PLC’s Articles of Association are available  
on the Company’s website at www.costain.com  Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  61
Share capital 
The Company’s share capital consists of ordinary shares  
with a nominal value of 50 pence each. 
The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 
2012 was £32,772,153, consisting of 65,544,306 ordinary 
shares of 50 pence each. 
Details of the share capital of the Company can be found  
in Note 20 on page 116. 
The awards granted in April 2009 under the 2002 Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (the ‘2002 LTIP’) matured as at 31 December 
2011 resulting in the vesting of awards in March 2012 over 
634,767 ordinary shares of 50 pence each with an exercise 
price of £1 per exercise. Further details with regard to the 
vesting of these LTIP awards can be found in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on page 73. 
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, the Company obtained 
shareholder approval to offer a scrip dividend scheme which 
authorises the directors to offer and allot ordinary shares in  
lieu of cash dividends to those shareholders who elect to 
participate in the scrip dividend. In May 2012, 133,133 ordinary 
shares of 50 pence each were allotted to shareholders in 
respect of the final dividend for 2011, and 65,681 ordinary 
shares of 50 pence each were allotted to shareholders in 
October 2012 in respect of the interim dividend for 2012. 
Further information on the scrip dividend scheme is set out  
on page 122. Shareholders’ approval to renew the authority  
for the directors to offer a scrip dividend scheme will be sought 
at the 2013 Annual General Meeting as the current approval 
will expire at that time (being the fifth anniversary of the 
passing of the shareholders resolution). Details about joining 
the scrip dividend scheme can also be found on the 
Company’s website at www.costain.com 
Major shareholders 
As at 04 March 2013, the Company had been notified, 
including under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules issued 
by the Financial Services Authority (‘DTR5’), of the following 
voting interests in its ordinary share capital: 
UEM Builders Berhad
(i)
 13,810,850 21.07% 
Mohammed Abdulmohsin  
AI-Kharafi & Sons Co. W.L.L.
(i)
13,789,490 21.04% 
He nde rson 	 G lobal 	 In v e st ors
(ii)
 3,642,742 5.56% 
Legal & General Investment 
Management
(ii)
2,564,056 3.91% 
(i)
 Shares are held by nominees on behalf of these beneficial owners.
(ii)
 Fund managers holding shares on behalf of a number of beneficial owners.
Restrictions on transfer of securities 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the 
Company, except 
•	 that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed 
by laws and regulations (for example, insider trading laws); 
and 
•	 pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority whereby certain employees of the Company 
require the approval of the Company to deal in the 
Company’s ordinary shares. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities. 
Rights and obligations attaching to shares 
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Company 
can issue shares with any rights or restrictions attached to 
them provided such rights or restrictions do not restrict any 
rights or restrictions attached to existing shares. These rights 
or restrictions can be decided either by ordinary resolutions 
passed by the shareholders or by the directors as long as 
there is no conflict with any resolution passed by the 
shareholders. Subject to the Articles of Association, the 
Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders’ rights, the  
issue of shares is at the disposal of the Board. 
Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying 
back its own shares 
The directors may only issue and buy back shares if 
authorised to do so by the Articles of Association or the 
shareholders in general meeting. At the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting held on 8 May 2008, shareholders granted  
an authority to the directors to allot ordinary shares up to an 
aggregate nominal amount of £10.47 million. As this authority  
is due to expire on 7 May 2013, shareholders’ approval will be 
sought to renew the directors’ authority to allot ordinary shares 
at the 2013 Annual General Meeting, up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £10,924,051. As at 31 December 2012,  
the only shares that had been allotted were in order to satisfy 
awards under employee share schemes and the scrip 
dividends. The directors did not request authority to buy  
back any of the Company’s shares at the last Annual General 
Meeting in 2012 and they do not propose to do so at this 
year’s Annual General Meeting. 
Securities carrying special rights 
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special 
rights with regard to control of the Company. 
Corporate Responsibility 
The section on performing responsibly is on pages 25 to 39.  62  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
 Other statutory information
 continued
Employee involvement 
The Company maintains a strong communication network  
and employees are encouraged to discuss with management 
matters of interest and issues affecting the day-to-day 
operations of the Group. Employees are kept informed  
of the financial and economic factors affecting the Company’s 
performance and other matters of concern to them as 
employees in various ways. These include regular updates 
from the Chief Executive and other senior managers, a Costain 
online news service, personal briefings and emails. Senior 
managers also visit sites and discuss with employees matters 
of current interest and concern to them and the business. 
Employees also have the opportunity to provide feedback  
and ask questions at the annual staff road-shows which take 
place around the country. 
The Company also organised a staff engagement survey in 
2011, allowing it to understand how employees feel about 
Costain and will be organising a further survey during the 
course of 2013. In December 2011, the Company also 
launched ‘ask.costain.com’, enabling employees to get 
involved in two-way communication with the Company.
The Company has an established Employee Consultative 
Committee which convenes three times a year and on an  
ad hoc basis throughout the year, to discuss matters 
impacting the business, in order that the views of employees 
can be taken into account in making decisions likely to affect 
their interests. 
Share schemes are an established part of our reward package, 
encouraging and supporting employee share ownership; in 
particular, employees currently participate in the Company’s 
Save As You Earn Scheme. 
Diversity and inclusion 
The Company is an inclusive employer and promotes  
equality and inclusion from recruitment and selection, through 
training and development, to promotion and retirement.  
We are fully committed to the elimination of unlawful and unfair 
discrimination and we value the differences that a diverse 
workforce brings to the organisation. It is Company policy that 
people with disabilities should have full and fair consideration 
for all vacancies. Wherever possible, we endeavour to 
interview those people with disabilities who fulfil the minimum 
criteria, and to retain employees in the workforce if they 
become disabled during employment and to provide specialist 
training where appropriate. We support our supply chain  
and encourage their active commitment to our approach  
on equality and inclusion. 
Our customers are looking to us to provide local employment 
and skills, and to facilitate inclusion in our projects. We 
continue to work with the UK Contractors Group to deliver  
an equality and diversity action plan across Costain and to 
apply local solutions to diversity issues on projects. We assist 
our customers in their employment and skills agenda by 
delivering an apprentice development programme and through 
establishing National Skills Academies. 
Policy and practice on payment of suppliers 
As a result of the nature of the Group’s business, its 
contractual relationships with suppliers of goods and services 
and with subcontractors vary according to circumstances and 
type of supplier or subcontractor. It is the Group’s policy to 
enter into an appropriate form of contractual agreement on 
payment terms when agreeing the terms of each transaction 
and to pay according to those terms. The Group enters into  
an appropriate form of contractual agreement on payment 
terms with its suppliers and subcontractors on an individual 
basis rather than following a code or standard on payment 
practice. The Group’s policy is to make every effort to abide by 
these agreed terms when it can be confirmed that the supplier 
has provided the goods or services in accordance with the 
contract terms and conditions.
The amount for trade creditors of the major subsidiary trading 
companies represents 47 (2011: 46) days of average daily 
purchases. The Company has no trade creditors (2011: none).
Significant agreements – change of control 
The directors are not aware of any significant agreements  
to which the Company and/or any of its subsidiaries or 
associates are a party that take effect, alter or terminate  
upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover 
bid, save in respect of the Facility Agreements relating to the 
Company’s banking and surety bonding facilities, which would 
terminate upon a change of control. There are no agreements 
between the Company and its directors or employees 
providing for compensation for loss of office or employment 
that occurs because of a takeover bid except that provisions  
of the Company’s share schemes and plans may cause 
options and awards to be granted to employees under such 
schemes and plans to vest on a takeover. 
Essential contracts or other arrangements 
Given the scope and diversity of the Company’s activities,  
the Company does not consider that it has contractual  
or other arrangements which are essential to the business  
of the Group and which are required to be disclosed. 
Research and development
The Group is involved in research and development in all 
sectors in which it operates, but specifically in highways, rail, 
airports, nuclear, hydrocarbons and chemicals, waste and 
water. The Group’s engineers and technical staff in these 
named sectors develop and deliver technical advances, 
processes and innovations in an effort to achieve practical, 
integrated solutions that incorporate the most advanced 
technologies, while taking account of the broader regulatory 
perspective and seeking to resolve all scientific and 
technological uncertainties. In undertaking certain elements  
of this research and development work, the Group is 
supported by arrangements with certain British universities 
and various technology specialists.
Donations 
Charitable donations of £171,142 (2011: £135,424) were made  
by the Group during the year, principally to industry-related 
charities serving the communities in which the Group operates. 
No political donations were made during the year ended  
31 December 2012 (2011: none). The Company has a policy  
of not making donations to political organisations.  Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  63
Disclosure of information to auditors 
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is  
no relevant audit information of which the Company’s external 
auditors are unaware; and each director has taken all the  
steps that he/she ought to have taken as a director to make 
himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and  
to establish that the Company’s external auditors are aware  
of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
Auditors 
KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in 
office as independent auditor of the Company and a resolution 
to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting. 
Directors’ indemnity 
Costain Group PLC maintains liability insurance for its directors 
and officers. There are no subsisting indemnities in favour  
of directors. 
Directors’ responsibilities 
The directors’ responsibilities for the financial statements 
contained within this Annual Report and the directors’ 
confirmations required under DTR 4.1.12 are set out on  
page 75. 
Voting rights 
Every member and every duly appointed proxy present  
at a general meeting or class meeting has, upon a show  
of hands, one vote and every member present in person or  
by proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every share held  
by him/her. In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote  
of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by 
proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the 
other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be 
determined by the order in which the names stand in the 
register in respect of the joint holding. 
Restrictions on voting 
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting  
or class meeting in respect of any share held by him/her if any  
call or other sum then payable by him/her in respect of that 
share remains unpaid or if a member has been served with  
a restriction notice (as defined in the Articles of Association) 
after failure to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests in those shares required to be provided 
under the Companies Act 2006. 
The Company is not aware of any agreement between holders 
of securities that may result in restrictions of voting rights. 
Dividends and other distributions 
The Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time 
declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended  
by the Board. Subject to the Companies Act 2006, the Board 
may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, 
whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion 
of the Board, justifies its payment. If the directors act in good 
faith, they are not liable for any loss that shareholders may 
suffer because a lawful dividend has been paid on other 
shares which rank equally with or behind their shares. 
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any 
dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Company’s 
shares from a person with a 0.25% interest in a class of the 
Company’s shares if such a person has been served with  
a restriction notice after failure to provide the Company with 
information concerning interests in those shares required to  
be provided under the Companies Act 2006. 
Variation of rights 
Subject to the Companies Act 2006, rights attached to any 
class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the 
holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the 
issued shares of that class (calculated excluding any shares 
held as treasury shares), or with the sanction of a special 
resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders 
of those shares. At every such separate general meeting 
(except an adjourned meeting), the quorum shall be one or 
more persons holding or representing by proxy not less than 
one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class 
(calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares).  
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, 
unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching  
to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or 
issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them. 
Amendment of Articles of Association 
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles  
of Association of the Company, the Company’s Articles of 
Association may be amended by a special resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders. 
Appointment and replacement of directors 
The directors shall be not less than two and not more than  
18 in number. The Company may by ordinary resolution vary 
the minimum and/or maximum number of directors. 
A director shall not be required to hold any shares in  
Costain Group PLC but is encouraged to do so under the 
Company’s share ownership guidelines. Directors may be 
appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the 
Board. A director appointed by the Board holds office only  
until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and is 
then eligible for reappointment. The Board, or any committee 
authorised by the Board, may from time to time appoint one  
or more directors to hold any employment or executive office 
for such period and on such terms as they may determine  
and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.  64  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
At every Annual General Meeting of the Company, any director 
who has been appointed by the Board since the last Annual 
General Meeting, or who held office at the time of the two 
preceding Annual General Meetings and who did not retire at 
either of them, or who has held office with the Company, other 
than employment or executive office, for a continuous period 
of nine years or more at the date of the meeting, shall retire 
from office and may offer himself/herself for reappointment  
by the members. 
The Company may by special resolution remove any director 
before the expiration of his/her period of office. The office  
of a director shall be vacated if: (i) he/she resigns or offers  
to resign and the Board resolves to accept such offer;  
(ii) his/her resignation is requested by all of the other directors 
and all of the other directors are not less than three in number; 
(iii) he/she is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill 
health and the Board resolves that his/her office be vacated; 
(iv) he/she is absent without the permission of the Board from 
meetings of the Board (whether or not an alternate director 
appointed by him/her attends) for six consecutive months and 
the Board resolves that his/her office is vacated; (v) he/she 
becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally; 
(vi) he/she is prohibited by a law from being a director;  
(vii) he ceases to be a director by virtue of the Companies Act 
2006; or (viii) he/she is removed from office pursuant to the 
Company’s Articles of Association. 
Powers of the directors 
Subject to the Company’s Articles of Association, the 
Companies Act 2006 and any directions given to the Company 
by special resolution, the business of the Company will be 
managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the 
Company. In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers 
of the Company to borrow money, to guarantee, to indemnify, 
to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property,  
assets (present and future) and uncalled capital and to issue 
debentures and other securities and to give security for any 
debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party. 
Rights under the employee share schemes 
A CS 	 HR 	 Solutions 	 Shar e 	 P lan 	 Ser vice s 	 ( Guer nse y ) 	 L imit ed 	
( f orme r ly 	 E x celle ra t e 	 HRO 	 Shar e 	 P lan 	 Ser vice s 	 ( Guer nse y )	
Limited), as Trustee of the Costain Group Employee Trust, 
holds 0.77% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 
31 December 2012 on trust for the benefit of those employees 
who exercise their share awards/options under the Company’s 
Long-Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Share Bonus Plan and 
Save As You Earn Scheme (in respect of ‘good leavers’ who 
leave the employment of the Company before their contract 
matures). The Trustee does not exercise any right to vote  
or to receive a dividend in respect of this shareholding. 
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) 
The AGM of the Company will be held in The More Suite,  
2 nd 	 Floor , 	 De x t e r 	 House , 	 No 	 2 	 Ro y al 	 Min t 	 Cour t , 	 T o w e r 	 Hill ,	
London EC3N 4QN on Wednesday 8 May 2013 at 11.00am. 
The Notice of Annual General Meeting will be sent in paper 
form to all shareholders and will also be available on the 
Company’s website at www.costain.com. This 2012 Annual 
Report will also be available on the Company’s website.  
Those shareholders who have elected to receive paper copies 
of shareholder information will receive a copy of this Annual 
Report with the Notice of Annual General Meeting. 
Jane Lodge, the Chair of the Audit Committee and  
Michael Alexander, the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee, will be available at the Annual General Meeting, 
together with the Chairman of the Board and the Senior 
Independent Director. 
By Order of the Board 
Paul Starkey 
Joint Company Secretary
6 March 2013
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
 Other statutory information
 continued Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  65
This report, approved by the 
Board, has been prepared  
in accordance with the 
requirements of the UKLA 
listing rules, the Companies 
Act 2006, the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and best 
practice guidelines. 
Remuneration Committee 
Operation of Committee 
The Remuneration Committee is comprised exclusively of 
independent non-executive directors. The members of the 
Committee are Michael Alexander (Chairman), Jane Lodge 
and James Morley. John Bryant was also a member of the 
Committee until his retirement from the Board at the end of 
December 2012. In 2012, the Committee met six times and 
details of the attendance at those meetings are as follows: 
Director A B 
M R Alexander (Committee Chair) 6 6
J A Lodge* 2 2
J Morley 6 5
J M Bryant** 6 6
A  Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended
B  Number of meetings the director actually attended 
*  appointed to the Committee with effect from 20 August 2012
**  retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2012
To assist the Committee in ensuring that the Company’s 
remuneration practices take due account of market and best 
practice, the Committee has access to experienced specialist 
independent consultants. During the year, the Committee  
took advice, as appropriate, from New Bridge Street (a trading 
name 	 o f 	 A on 	 He wit t 	 L imit ed ) . 	 T his 	 included 	 a dvice 	 on 	 the	
appropriate targets for the initial award under the 2012 
Long-Term Incentive Plan and the benchmarking of senior 
executive remuneration.
New Bridge Street is a founder signatory to the Remuneration 
Consulting Group’s Code of Conduct. Neither New Bridge 
Street, nor any other part of Aon plc, provided other services 
to the Company during the year and, having no other 
connection with the Company, New Bridge Street is 
considered to be independent. Following the undertaking of  
a tender process during the course of 2012 by the Committee, 
New Bridge Street was re-appointed to act as the Company’s 
remuneration consultants. It is the policy of the Committee  
to put the remuneration consultant function out to tender  
on a periodic basis to ensure that the Company continues to 
receive independent support and advice of a high standard. 
New Bridge Street received fees of circa £123,000 for the  
year ended 31 December 2012, split between circa £58,000 
relating to advice given to the Committee and circa £65,000 
relating to the implementation of such advice (including in 
relation to the introduction of the new 2012 LTIP and SAYE 
Scheme).
In addition, advice was sought where appropriate from other 
sources. During the course of the year, the Chief Executive,  
the Group Finance Director, the Company’s Chairman and  
the 	 HR 	 and 	 L e gal 	 D ir e ct or 	 w e r e 	 in vit ed 	 t o 	 a t t e nd 	 v ar ious	
meetings of the Committee, although none was present when 
their own remuneration was being discussed. The Company 
Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee. 
Terms of Reference
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website at www.costain.com or from the Company 
Secretary. Copies of the letters appointing the Committee’s 
advisers can be obtained from the Company Secretary. 
Remuneration Committee activity 
The following table sets out the key remuneration issues  
which the Committee covered at each of the meetings over  
the course of the year. 
Date Key agenda items
4 January 
2012
•	 Reviewed the Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(‘LTIP’) performance targets for the 2012 
awards
9 February 
2012
•	 Reviewed proposed new LTIP and  
Save As You Earn Scheme (‘SAYE’) Rules
•	 Approved 2011 annual cash bonuses  
subject to final audit of the 2011 Accounts
•	 Reviewed senior executives’ salaries
•	 Approved the 2012 annual cash bonus 
targets
•	 Approved the Deferred Share Bonus Plan 
(‘DSBP’) performance targets for the 2012 
base year
•	 Reviewed the Chairman’s fee
•	 Reviewed the Directors’ remuneration report
4 April 2012 •	 Approved the vesting of the 2009 LTIP
•	 Granted awards under the DSBP for the 
2011 base year
•	 Approved the notification of participants  
for the DSBP 2012 base year
9 May 2012 •	 Granted awards under the 2012 LTIP
2 October 
2012
•	 Reviewed market update on remuneration 
packages (prepared by New Bridge Street), 
together with measurements and targets
11 December 
2012 
•	 Approved changes to participants in the 
LTIP/DSBP
•	 Reviewed LTIP performance targets for  
2013 awards
•	 Approved the 2013 annual cash bonus 
targets
•	 Approved the 2013 annual salary review
A resolution to approve the Directors’ remuneration report  
will be proposed at the AGM. Last year’s remuneration report 
was approved by shareholders with a 96.86% vote in favour 
(including discretionary votes).
Directors’ remuneration report 66  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
 Directors’ remuneration report 
 continued
Policy Report
The Committee determines the remuneration policy for 
executive directors, the Chairman and other senior 
management with the aim of attracting, motivating and 
retaining executives of the appropriate calibre and expertise, 
so that the Company is managed successfully for the benefit 
of its stakeholders. The following table sets out the main 
elements of the remuneration policy for the year ending  
31 December 2013. Each year, the Committee reviews the 
remuneration policy, taking into account both the external 
market (including environment, social and corporate 
governance issues) and the Company’s strategic objectives 
over the short and the medium term. The framework has  
been designed as an integral part of the Company’s overall 
business strategy. 
Element 
Purpose and  
Link to Strategy How operated
Maximum 
potential value
Performance  
targets
Changes from 
prior policy
Salary •	 To attract and retain high-calibre individuals by 
providing an appropriate level of basic fixed 
income whilst avoiding excessive risk arising 
from over reliance on variable income
•	 The basic salary reflects the market rate for  
the individual, their role, skills and experience
•	 Generally reviewed annually (with any change 
effective 1 April) but exceptionally at other 
times of the year
•	 Set with reference to individual performance, 
experience and responsibilities
•	 Broadly takes into account the median position 
in light of remuneration generally within the 
Company and other companies in the 
UK-based construction sector
•	 	 Highe r 	 inc r e a se s 	 may 	 b e 	 a ppr opr i at e 	 w he r e 	 a n	
individual is promoted, changes role or where 
any individual is appointed on a below market 
salary with the expectation that his/her salary  
will increase with experience and performance
•	 N/A •	 N/A •	 No c ha n g e  
in policy
•	 S a la r y c ha n g e s 
are set out on 
page 68
Annual Cash 
Bonus
•	 To incentivise the achievement of key financial 
and strategic targets for the forthcoming year 
without encouraging excessive risk taking
•	 The Committee considers and approves the 
measures and targets at the start of each year 
and ensures they are aligned with business 
strategy and are sufficiently stretching
•	 In setting financial parameters, the Committee 
takes into account the Company’s internal 
budgets and, where applicable, investors 
expectations. The targets applying to financial 
measures are based on a sliding scale
•	 Paid in cash
•	 Not pensionable
•	 Up to 100% of base 
salary 
•	 Group underlying earnings before 
interest, tax, amortisation and 
employment related acquisition 
consideration but excluding any  
PFI transfer into the pension scheme 
and pension risk management costs 
(‘EBITA’) (80%)
•	 	 H e a l th 	 a nd 	 s af et y 	 ta rg ets 	 ( 1 0 %)
•	 Personal objectives (10%)
•	 The weightings are determined at the 
start of the year and reflect business 
priorities
•	 No c ha n g e  
in policy
Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan
•	 To incentivise the delivery of annual profit
•	 Promotes greater alignment with shareholders
•	 To facilitate share ownership
•	 Any bonus earned is deferred in shares which 
vest on the second anniversary of grant 
(subject to continued employment and not 
being under notice of termination, either given 
or received, on the date of vesting) 
•	 Shares are purchased by a trust on behalf  
of the Group and so do not lead to any dilution 
of shareholder interest
•	 Up to 50% of base 
salary
•	 Group underlying earnings before 
interest, tax, amortisation and 
employment related acquisition 
consideration but excluding any  
PFI transfer into the pension scheme 
and pension risk management costs 
(‘EBITA’)
•	 Targets disclosed retrospectively 
•	 No c ha n g e  
in policy
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 
(‘LTIP’)
•	 Aligned to main strategic objectives of delivering 
sustainable profit growth which in turn should 
deliver enhanced returns
•	 To facilitate share ownership 
•	 Annual grant of shares which normally vest  
after three years subject to continued service 
and satisfaction of performance targets 
•	 LTIP awards with  
a face value of up to 
100% of base salary 
•	 Portion of LTIP award worth up to 50% 
of salary: Sum of EPS for the next three 
consecutive financial years
•	 For executive directors, the portion of 
LTIP award in excess of 50% of salary: 
Operating Profit for the financial year 
ending three years post-grant
•	 LTIP performance measured over  
three years
•	 No c ha n g e  
in policy
SAYE Scheme •	 To facilitate share ownership and provide 
further alignment with shareholders
•	 Periodic grants which normally vest after  
three or five years subject to continued service
•	 E x e c u t i v e d i r e ct or s  
are eligible to participate 
in the 2012 SAYE 
Scheme on the same 
terms as other employees
•	 N/A •	 No c ha n g e  
in policy
Pension •	 To aid retention and remain competitive  
in the market place
•	 For executive directors, an annual pension 
allowance of 22% of base salary
•	 N/A •	 N/A •	 No c ha n g e  
in policy
Other Benefits •	 To aid retention and be competitive in the 
market place
•	 	 H e a lt hc a re 	 b e n efi t s 	 in 	 o r d e r 	 t o 	 minimise 	
business disruption
•	 Company car or car allowance
•	 Fuel
•	 Medical insurance
•	 Life assurance
•	 N/A •	 N/A •	 No c ha n g e  
in policy
Share Ownership 
Guidelines
•	 Further alignment of interests with shareholders •	 Executive directors are required to build and 
maintain a shareholding worth not less than 
100% of base salary (for non-executives, not  
less than 100% of their annual fee) through the 
retention of vested share awards or through 
open market purchases
•	 N/A •	 N/A •	 No c ha n g e  
in policy Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  67
Element 
Purpose and  
Link to Strategy How operated
Maximum 
potential value
Performance  
targets
Changes from 
prior policy
Salary •	 To attract and retain high-calibre individuals by 
providing an appropriate level of basic fixed 
income whilst avoiding excessive risk arising 
from over reliance on variable income
•	 The basic salary reflects the market rate for  
the individual, their role, skills and experience
•	 Generally reviewed annually (with any change 
effective 1 April) but exceptionally at other 
times of the year
•	 Set with reference to individual performance, 
experience and responsibilities
•	 Broadly takes into account the median position 
in light of remuneration generally within the 
Company and other companies in the 
UK-based construction sector
•	 	 Hig h e r 	 inc re a se s 	 may 	 b e 	 a ppr opr iat e 	 w he r e 	 a n	
individual is promoted, changes role or where 
any individual is appointed on a below market 
salary with the expectation that his/her salary  
will increase with experience and performance
•	 N/A •	 N/A •	 No c ha n g e  
in policy
•	 S a la r y c ha n g e s 
are set out on 
page 68
Annual Cash 
Bonus
•	 To incentivise the achievement of key financial 
and strategic targets for the forthcoming year 
without encouraging excessive risk taking
•	 The Committee considers and approves the 
measures and targets at the start of each year 
and ensures they are aligned with business 
strategy and are sufficiently stretching
•	 In setting financial parameters, the Committee 
takes into account the Company’s internal 
budgets and, where applicable, investors 
expectations. The targets applying to financial 
measures are based on a sliding scale
•	 Paid in cash
•	 Not pensionable
•	 Up to 100% of base 
salary 
•	 Group underlying earnings before 
interest, tax, amortisation and 
employment related acquisition 
consideration but excluding any  
PFI transfer into the pension scheme 
and pension risk management costs 
(‘EBITA’) (80%)
•	 	 H e a lt h 	 a nd 	 s afet y 	 ta rg et s 	 ( 1 0 %)
•	 Personal objectives (10%)
•	 The weightings are determined at the 
start of the year and reflect business 
priorities
•	 No c ha n g e  
in policy
Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan
•	 To incentivise the delivery of annual profit
•	 Promotes greater alignment with shareholders
•	 To facilitate share ownership
•	 Any bonus earned is deferred in shares which 
vest on the second anniversary of grant 
(subject to continued employment and not 
being under notice of termination, either given 
or received, on the date of vesting) 
•	 Shares are purchased by a trust on behalf  
of the Group and so do not lead to any dilution 
of shareholder interest
•	 Up to 50% of base 
salary
•	 Group underlying earnings before 
interest, tax, amortisation and 
employment related acquisition 
consideration but excluding any  
PFI transfer into the pension scheme 
and pension risk management costs 
(‘EBITA’)
•	 Targets disclosed retrospectively 
•	 No c ha n g e  
in policy
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 
(‘LTIP’)
•	 Aligned to main strategic objectives of delivering 
sustainable profit growth which in turn should 
deliver enhanced returns
•	 To facilitate share ownership 
•	 Annual grant of shares which normally vest  
after three years subject to continued service 
and satisfaction of performance targets 
•	 LTIP awards with  
a face value of up to 
100% of base salary 
•	 Portion of LTIP award worth up to 50% 
of salary: Sum of EPS for the next three 
consecutive financial years
•	 For executive directors, the portion of 
LTIP award in excess of 50% of salary: 
Operating Profit for the financial year 
ending three years post-grant
•	 LTIP performance measured over  
three years
•	 No c ha n g e  
in policy
SAYE Scheme •	 To facilitate share ownership and provide 
further alignment with shareholders
•	 Periodic grants which normally vest after  
three or five years subject to continued service
•	 E x e c u t i v e d i r e ct or s  
are eligible to participate 
in the 2012 SAYE 
Scheme on the same 
terms as other employees
•	 N/A •	 No c ha n g e  
in policy
Pension •	 To aid retention and remain competitive  
in the market place
•	 For executive directors, an annual pension 
allowance of 22% of base salary
•	 N/A •	 N/A •	 No c ha n g e  
in policy
Other Benefits •	 To aid retention and be competitive in the 
market place
•	 	 H e a lt hc a r e 	 b e nefit s 	 in 	 or d e r 	 t o 	 minimise 	
business disruption
•	 Company car or car allowance
•	 Fuel
•	 Medical insurance
•	 Life assurance
•	 N/A •	 N/A •	 No c ha n g e  
in policy
Share Ownership 
Guidelines
•	 Further alignment of interests with shareholders •	 Executive directors are required to build and 
maintain a shareholding worth not less than 
100% of base salary (for non-executives, not  
less than 100% of their annual fee) through the 
retention of vested share awards or through 
open market purchases
•	 N/A •	 N/A •	 No c ha n g e  
in policy 68  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Salary
For 2013, the Committee approved a 2.5% increase for 
executive directors (effective 1 April 2013), resulting in  
a base salary of £426,564 for Andrew Wyllie and £282,599  
for Tony Bickerstaff. A 2.5% salary increase budget will also  
be applied across the Company for 2013. 
Pensions
Under their terms of engagement, the executive directors are 
entitled to an annual pension allowance of 22% of base salary. 
Life assurance cover of four times base salary is provided 
through the Costain Life Assurance Scheme. The annual 
premiums payable in respect of life assurance for Andrew 
Wyllie and Tony Bickerstaff were £1,904 (2011: £1,867) and 
£1,262 (2011: £1,237) respectively. 
The Group offers a Group Flexible Retirement Plan which  
was set up in 2009 with Standard Life for employees and 
senior management. Neither executive director participates  
in the scheme. 
Annual cash bonus 
Executive directors and other senior management are eligible 
for annual cash bonuses to encourage improved performance, 
with targets established by the Committee to align rewards 
with the Company strategy. The targets are set at the 
beginning of the year by the Committee and are reviewed  
with appropriate input from the Audit Committee at the end  
of the year. For the year ended 31 December 2012, the  
Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director each had  
a maximum bonus opportunity of 100% of base salary. 
For the year ended 31 December 2013, the maximum annual 
cash bonus potential for the Chief Executive and the Group 
Finance Director remains unchanged, with the same basic 
approach to target-setting (i.e. 80% relating to key financial 
tar ge ts , 	 1 0 % 	 r ela ting 	 t o 	 He alth 	 and 	 Sa fe t y 	 tar ge ts 	 and 	 1 0 % 	
relating to personal goals). 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan 
Executive directors and other senior management are eligible 
to participate in the Company’s Deferred Share Bonus Plan 
(‘DSBP’) which promotes greater alignment with shareholders 
through the award of deferred shares. Under the DSBP, any 
bonus earned is deferred in shares which vest on the second 
anniversary of grant, subject to continued employment and  
not being under notice of termination (either given or received) 
at the date of vesting. Shares to satisfy the deferred bonuses 
are purchased by a trust on behalf of the Group and so do not 
lead to any dilution of shareholder interest. 
For the year ended 31 December 2013, the maximum potential 
DSBP award for the executive directors remains unchanged. 
The Committee will disclose on a retrospective basis the EBITA 
measure (defined as underlying earnings before interest, tax, 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets and employment-
related acquisition consideration but excluding any PFI transfer 
into the pension and pension risk management costs) for 2013 
in next year’s report.
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
The Company’s 2002 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the ‘2002 
LTIP’), approved by shareholders at the 2002 AGM, reached 
the end of its ten-year life in 2012 and shareholders gave their 
approval for the introduction of a new Long-Term Incentive 
Plan (the ‘2012 LTIP’) at the 2012 Annual General Meeting. 
The 2012 LTIP allows for conditional awards over shares to  
be granted to a participant with a market value of up to 100% 
of base salary at the date of grant of the award. The vesting  
of awards are subject to performance conditions set by the 
Committee. For the year ended 31 December 2013, the 
maximum grant under the 2012 LTIP for the Chief Executive 
and the Group Finance Director remains unchanged, with  
the same basic approach to target-setting to be applied.
For 2012 onwards, the Committee introduced a clawback 
provision incorporated into the annual cash bonus, the LTIP 
and the DSBP with regard to any material misstatement to 
audited accounts, an error in calculation of targets resulting  
in an overpayment, gross misconduct or criminal behaviour  
on the part of a participant.
Fixed versus variable pay mix
The chart below illustrates the average mix between the  
fixed and variable (performance-related) elements of 
remuneration of the executive directors at target and maximum 
performance. Target performance assumes target payouts  
of cash and DSBP and an expected value of LTIP awards. 
Maximum performance assumes all bonuses and long-term 
incentive awards vest in full. The chart demonstrates the 
weighting of the package towards variable pay, particularly  
at maximum performance. The Committee considers the mix 
between fixed and variable pay to be appropriate. During the 
year, the Committee reviewed the executive remuneration 
arrangements from a risk perspective and concluded that  
they do not encourage undue risk and that the arrangements, 
as a whole, provide an appropriate balance. 
■ Base salary  ■ Pension  ■ Cash bonus
■ Deferred share bonus  ■ Long-term incentives
1
4
2
5
3
Maximum
Target
Fixed versus variable pay mix
% of maximum remuneration
0 20 40 60 80 100
1 2 3 4 5
1 2 3 4 5
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
 Directors’ remuneration report 
 continued Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  69
All-employee Share Plan
The Company’s 2002 Save As You Earn Scheme approved  
by shareholders at the 2002 AGM (the ‘2002 SAYE Scheme’) 
also reached the end of its ten-year life in 2012 and 
shareholders gave their approval for the establishment of  
a new Save As You Earn Scheme at the 2012 Annual General 
Meeting (the ‘2012 SAYE Scheme’). 
The Company intends to make its first grant of options under 
the 2012 SAYE Scheme during the six-week period following 
the announcement of its half-year results for the year ending 
31 December 2013. No grants were made under either the 
2002 SAYE Scheme or the 2012 SAYE Scheme during the 
course of 2012.
Service agreements and letters of appointment
The executive directors have service contracts that can  
be terminated by either party on the giving of 12 months’ 
notice. There is no provision for payment of predetermined 
compensation in case of wrongful termination by the Group 
and the duty to mitigate loss applies.
Andrew Wyllie’s service agreement is dated 25 April 2005  
and Tony Bickerstaff’s is dated 3 March 2006.
External directorships
The Company encourages executive directors to take up 
non-executive appointments, with the prior consent of the 
Company, in the belief that such appointments broaden  
their skills and the contribution which they can make to the 
Company’s performance. Generally, no more than one such 
appointment may be undertaken. There must be no conflict  
of interest and the time devoted to the external appointment 
must be reasonable in relation to the individual’s commitment 
to the Company. Fees paid for external appointments may  
be retained by the individual concerned. 
Andrew Wyllie was appointed a Non-Executive Director  
of Scottish Water on 7 April 2009 and in respect of the 
appointment for the year ended 31 December 2012 he  
w as 	 paid 	 £ 1 9 , 8 7 2 	 ( 2 0 1 1 : 	 £ 1 9 , 8 7 2 ) . 	 He 	 has 	 r e tained 	 the se 	 
fees in accordance with the above policy. 
Chairman and other non-executive directors 
Remuneration for non-executive directors, other than the 
Chairman, is determined by the Board, following consultation 
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive. The 
Chairman’s fee is determined and recommended to the  
Board following consultation between the Committee and  
the Chief Executive. Fees are reviewed annually and any 
increase is effective from 1 April. 
Remuneration for non-executive directors, other than the 
Chairman, comprise a basic annual fee for acting as a 
non-executive director of the Company and additional fees  
for the Senior Independent Director, and chairmanship of the 
Audit and Remuneration Committees. As reported last year, 
following a review in 2012, it was decided to increase the basic 
annual fees and the additional fees, reflecting the increased 
time commitment expected of non-executive directors and  
the expertise that they bring to the Company. The annual fees 
are as follows: 
Year
Basic 
fee
Senior  
Independent 
Director
(1)
Audit 
Committee 
Chair
(2)
 
Remuneration 
Committee  
Chairman 
2013 £42,865 £6,273 £8,887 £6,273
2012 £41,820 £6,120 £8,670 £6,120
(1)
  James Morley was appointed as the Senior Independent Director at the  
end of December 2012 upon the retirement of John Bryant.
(2)
  Jane Lodge was appointed as Chair of the Audit Committee at the end  
of October 2012, succeeding James Morley.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, the Chairman was 
paid 	 fe e s 	 o f 	 £ 1 2 8 , 8 7 5 . 	 He 	 doe s 	 no t 	 r e ceiv e 	 an y 	 additional 	 fe e s	
for committee memberships. With effect from 1 April 2013,  
he will receive an annual fee of £132,096 (2012: £129,500). 
The independent non-executive directors have letters  
of appointment. The appointment of an independent 
non-executive director can be terminated by reasonable notice 
on either side. David Allvey, Michael Alexander, Jane Lodge 
and James Morley are not entitled to compensation for loss  
of office. 
Nominee non-executive directors (as indicated in the 
Corporate Governance Statement on page 54), hold office  
for as long as the shareholder nominating them holds  
a specific percentage of the issued share capital. Nominee 
non-executive directors are required to stand for re-election  
in the usual way and are not entitled to compensation for loss 
of office. Currently, only one of the two major shareholders  
has appointed a nominee non-executive director to sit on  
the Board. 
The dates of each non-executive director’s original appointment 
are as follows:
Non-executive 
director
Date of original 
appointment
Expiry  
of current term* 
David P Allvey 01.11.2001 Close of 2013 AGM
Michael R Alexander 25.07.2007 Close of 2014 AGM
Jane A Lodge 01.08.2012 Close of 2013 AGM
James Morley 09.01.2008 Close of 2014 AGM
Samer G Younis 23.06.2009 Close of 2013 AGM
*
  Subject to re-election at the AGM following their appointment, subsequent 
re-election at intervals of no more than three years and re-election at each 
AGM if having served on the Board for more than nine years, in accordance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Company’s Articles  
of Association. 70  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Implementation Report
Annual bonus
For the year ended 31 December 2012, 80% of the executive 
directors’ annual bonus metrics were set as measurable key 
financial targets, being Group underlying earnings before 
interest, tax, amortisation and employment related acquisition 
consideration but excluding any PFI transfer into the pension 
scheme and pension risk management costs (‘EBITA’). The 
remaining 20% was linked to: 10% for health and safety 
targets, relating to Group Accident Frequency Rate (‘AFR’)  
and site scored inspections, and 10% to personal goals, 
relating to building and developing the executive team and  
the talent pool within the organisation. 
The total bonus payment for the executive directors for the 
year ended 31 December 2012 amounted to 52% of salary  
for Andrew Wyllie and 51% of salary for Tony Bickerstaff.  
Of this total payment, 32% related to measurable financial 
targets (‘EBITA’), 10% to health and safety targets (including  
the achievement of an AFR of 0.09% against a target of 0.12%) 
and 10% and 9% related to personal goals for Messrs. Wyllie 
and Bickerstaff respectively (which included the implementation 
and development of a newly constituted Executive Board and 
management team to reflect the re-structuring of the business 
into two divisions: Infrastructure and Natural Resources). 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan
For the year ended 31 December 2012, both executive 
directors had a maximum DSBP opportunity of 50% of base 
salary. The performance measure was EBITA, as described  
in the table below: 
Group EBITA  
for 2012 
Percentage of Relevant 
Maximum Award 
£21.2 million or less 0% 
Between £21.2 million and 
£23.5 million 
Between 0% and 60%  
on a straight-line basis 
£23.5 million 60%
Between £23.5 million  
and £28.2 million
Between 60% and 100%  
on a straight-line basis 
£28.2 million or more 100% 
The EBITA for the year ended 31 December 2012 was  
£23.7 million and, accordingly, 62% of the maximum DSBP 
award opportunity will vest. The number of shares to which  
a participant in the DSBP will be entitled will be calculated on 
the basis of the monetary value of the deferred bonus divided 
by the middle-market quotation of a share at the date of the 
deferred award. The grant of the deferred bonus award is  
due to be made in the six weeks following the preliminary 
announcement of the results for the financial year ended  
31 December 2012. 
The DSBP includes a mechanism to allow the Company  
to deliver a combined arrangement at no additional cost  
to the Company by delivering to participants a combination  
o f 	 HM 	 Re v e nue 	 & 	 Cust oms 	 ( ‘ HMRC ’ ) 	 ta x - appr o v ed 	 mar k e t	
value share Options (with an exercise price determined at the 
time of grant) over a fixed number of shares, together with  
non tax-approved Combined Deferred Awards with a nil 
exercise price over a fixed value of shares. The tax-approved 
and non tax-approved options/awards are linked, in terms  
of value and exercise and mirror the same commercial terms 
as the Deferred Awards. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan
The performance conditions applying to the initial awards 
made under the 2012 LTIP for the executive directors depends 
upon the quantum of the award. For the portion of awards 
made over shares worth up to 50% of salary (Tier 1), the 
performance condition is based on an aggregate EPS target 
over a period of three financial years. For the portion of awards 
made over shares in excess of 50% of salary (Tier 2), the 
performance condition is based on stretching operating profit 
targets for the 2014 financial year. 
The targets for the 2012 LTIP awards are as follows:
Tier 1
Sum of the EPS for the 
financial years ending  
31 December 2012,  
2013 and 2014
Vesting level for awards  
up to 50% of salary
Below 90 pence 0%
90 pence 15%
100 pence or more 100%
Between 90 pence  
and 100 pence Pro-rata between 15% and 100%
Tier 2
Operating Profit for the 
financial year ending  
31 December 2014
Vesting level for awards  
in excess of 50% of salary 
£29.6 million or below 0%
£37 million 50%
Between £29.6 million  
and £37 million Pro-rata between 0% and 50% 
£44.4 million or more 100%
Between £37 million  
and £44.4 million Pro-rata between 50% and 100% 
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
 Directors’ remuneration report 
continued Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  71
Consequently, for this Tier 2 to vest in full, operating profit  
must have more than doubled over four years from 2010 levels.
In addition, no element of the Tier 2 award will vest unless  
the EPS (before pension interest) for the financial year ending  
31 December 2014 is at least 35.5 pence and Tier 1 has 
vested in full.
The Committee believes that EPS and operating profit are  
the most appropriate metrics to use for the 2012 LTIP, as 
growth in EPS and operating profit are two of the key drivers  
of the Company’s share price. As with previous LTIP awards,  
EPS for the award made in 2012 is calculated before pension 
interest (itself calculated under lAS 19) whilst operating profit  
is defined as underlying profit before interest, tax, amortisation 
and employment-related acquisition consideration, but 
excluding any private finance initiative (‘PFI’) transfer into the 
pension scheme and pension risk management costs. 
The Remuneration Committee is committed to the concept  
of creating a genuine alignment of interests between investors 
and the Costain Board. The Committee therefore welcomed 
the continuing substantial increases in Andrew Wyllie’s and  
Tony Bickerstaff’s shareholdings during 2012 which accords 
with the Company’s share ownership guidelines introduced 
during 2011. The guidelines seek to align the interests of the 
Company and investors by encouraging the executive 
directors to build up and maintain a shareholding worth  
not less than 100% of base salary (and in the case of 
non-executive directors 100% of their annual fee) and for other 
senior executives a shareholding worth no less than 50% of 
base salary. Executive directors and other senior executives 
are also encouraged to retain up to 50% of the net number  
of shares received under any 2012 LTIP or DSBP awards until 
the target under these guidelines is satisfied. 
For 2012 onwards, the Committee introduced a clawback 
provision incorporated into the annual cash bonus, the LTIP 
and the DSBP with regard to any material misstatement to 
audited accounts, an error in calculation of targets resulting  
in an overpayment, gross misconduct or criminal behaviour  
on the part of a participant.
Performance graph 
The graph above shows the value, by 31 December 2012,  
for £100 invested in Costain Group PLC on 1 January 2008 
compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 
SmallCap Index. The Committee believes that the SmallCap 
Index is an appropriate Index to use as it is the Index in which 
the Company is a constituent and comprises companies  
of a more similar size to Costain than the FTSE All-Share. 
■ Costain Group PLC  ■ FTSE SmallCap Index
Source: Thomson Reuters
0
20
40
60
80
Total shareholder return (from 1 January 2008)
£
1 Jan 08 31 Dec 11 31 Dec 12
100
120
31 Dec 10 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 08
100.0
56.1
86.5
103.4
115.6
100.0
75.4
95.3
86.3
90.5
112.7
78.3 72  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
The following sections have been audited by KPMG Audit Plc.
Directors’ emoluments
The aggregate directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2012 was £1,404,342 (2011: £1,584,800).
Salary/Fee
£
Bonus
£
Benefits
£
2012
 Total 
£
2011
Total
£
2012
Pension*
£
2011
Pension*
£
Executive directors
A Wyllie 414,120  216,403 13,394 643,917 766,310 91,106 89,320
A O Bickerstaff 274,354  140,610 11,894 426,858 510,740 60,358 59,175
Non-executive directors
D P Allvey 128,875 – – 128,875 125,250 – –
M R Alexander 47,705 – – 47,705 46,500 – –
J A Lodge
(i)
18,870 – – 18,870 – – –
J Morley
(ii)
48,797 – – 48,797 49,000 – –
S G Younis 41,615 – – 41,615 40,500 – –
J M Bryant
(iii)
47,705 – – 47,705 46,500 – –
Former directors – – – – – – –
Total 1,022,041 357,013 25,288 1,404,342 1,584,800 151,464 148,495
*
 Pension contributions in excess of £50,000 paid as a cash supplement.
(i)
  Jane Lodge was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 August 2012 and became Chair of the Audit Committee at the end of October 2012, 
succeeding James Morley.
(ii)
 James Morley became the Senior Independent Director at the end of December 2012.
(iii)
 John Bryant retired as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 31 December 2012.
Directors’ share interests
(i) Beneficial holdings
As at 1 January 2012
Number of Ordinary Shares
As at 31 December 2012
Number of Ordinary Shares
A Wyllie 142,016 200,452
A O Bickerstaff 79,833 117,198
D P Allvey 5,250 5,250
M R Alexander 17,533 18,364
J A Lodge
(i)
	 – –
J Morley
(ii)
23,000 27,000
S G Younis 	 – –
J M Bryant*
(iii)
15,028 15,028
* All shares held by spouse through a nominee account.
(i)
  Jane Lodge was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 August 2012 and became Chair of the Audit Committee at the end of October 2012, 
succeeding James Morley.
(ii)
 James Morley became the Senior Independent Director at the end of December 2012.
(iii)
 John Bryant retired as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 31 December 2012.
There continued to be a significant increase in shareholding during 2012 following the introduction of the Company’s share 
ownership guidelines in 2011. 
(ii) Deferred Share Bonus Plan awards 
Under the DSBP, deferred bonus awards can be granted in the following two forms: 
(i)  an option with a nil exercise price over a fixed value of shares (the ‘Combined Deferred Award’), which is granted in 
combina tion 	 with 	 an 	 HMR C 	 appr o v ed 	 mark e t 	 v alue 	 op tion 	 o v e r 	 a 	 fix ed 	 numbe r 	 o f 	 shar e s 	 ( the 	 ‘ O p tion ’ ) 	 – 	 this 	 applie s 	 
to an individual maximum of £30,000; and
(ii) an option with a nil exercise price over a fixed number of shares (‘Deferred Award’). 
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
 Directors’ remuneration report 
continued Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  73
Details of the executive directors’ DSBP share awards are as follows:
Date
granted
As at
1 Jan 2012
Granted
during
the year
Lapsed
during
the year
Exercisable
during
the year
4
As at
31 Dec 2012
Exercise
price
Exercisable
from
A Wyllie 19.04.10 25,800
1
– – 25,800 – 	 – April 2012-2020
 19.04.10 12,377 – – 12,377 – – April 2012-2020
(£29,999.91)
2
19.04.10  12,377
3
	 – 12,377 	 – – £2.42p April 2012-2020
12.04.11  82,644
1
	 –	 – 	 – 82,644 	 –	 April 2013-2021
04.04.12 	 –	 78,258
1
– 	 – 78,258 	 – April 2014-2022
A O Bickerstaff 19.04.10 12,180
1
	 – – 12,180 – 	 –	 April 2012-2020
 19.04.10  12,377 – – 12,377 – –	 April 2012-2020
(£29,999.91)
2
 19.04.10  12,377
3
 – 12,377 	 – – £2.42p April 2012-2020
12.04.11  54,752
1
	 – – 	 – 54,752 	 – April 2013-2021
04.04.12 	 –	 51,846
1
	 –	 – 51,846 – April 2014-2022
1
 Number of shares under the Deferred Award.
2
  Maximum number and value of shares under the Combined Deferred Award.
3
  Number of shares under the Option.
4
  On 27 April 2012, Andrew Wyllie exercised a total of 38,177 DSBP share awards (and thereby also received 1,151 in Dividend Shares) and Tony Bickerstaff 
exercised a total of 24,557 share awards (and thereby also received 543 Dividend Shares). The market price of the Company’s shares on 27 April 2012  
was £2.19. The gain (before tax and national insurance) received by these executive directors was £86,128 for Andrew Wyllie and £54,969 for Tony Bickerstaff.
The value of the shares under the Combined Deferred Award and the Option are equal. The Combined Deferred Award and  
the Option must normally be exercised at the same time. When calculating the maximum value of the shares under a Deferred 
Award that may be granted under the terms of the Plan, the value of the shares under the Option is not counted. 
All of the awards will become exercisable on the second anniversary of the date of grant subject to the continued employment  
of the participant. The value of the shares delivered under the Combined Deferred Award on exercise is the same as the value  
of the shares under that award at the time of grant. The number of shares under the Deferred Award and Option at grant will  
be delivered to the participants on exercise. 
To the extent that all or any part of an award becomes exercisable, it remains, subject to the DSBP Rules, exercisable until the 
tenth anniversary of the date of grant. 
(iii) Long-Term Incentive Plan awards 
Details of the executive directors’ LTIP share awards are as follows: 
Date 
granted 
As at 
1 Jan 2012 
Granted 
during 
the year 
Lapsed 
during 
the year 
Vested 
during 
the year
5
 
As at 
31 Dec 2012 
Exercisable 
from 
A Wyllie 07.04.09
1
 82,417 – – 82,417 –	 March 2012 
14.04.10
2
 81,632 – – – 81,632 March 2013 
12.04.11
3
 169,294 – – – 169,294 March 2014
09.05.12
4
– 207,044 – – 207,044 March 2015
A O Bickerstaff 07.04.09
1 
52,747 – – 52,747 –	 March 2012
14.04.10
2
 54,081 – – – 54,081 March 2013 
12.04.11
3
 112,157 –	 – – 112,157 March 2014
09.05.12
4
– 137,167 – – 137,167 March 2015 
1
  EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2011 of 21.0p (15% vests) to EPS of 27.5p (100% vests) on a sliding scale between 15% and 100% pro-rata  
to the EPS actually achieved. The EPS target was 100% met.
2
   EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2012 of 21.0p (15% vests) to EPS of 27.5p (100% vests) on a sliding scale between 15% and 100% pro-rata  
to the EPS actually achieved. The EPS target was 100% met.
3
   50% of the award is subject to an aggregate EPS for the financial years ended 31 December 2011, 2012 and 2013 of 102p (15% vests) to EPS of 113p (100% 
vests) on a sliding scale between 15% and 100% pro-rata to the EPS actually achieved. The remaining 50% of the award will be based on an EPS for the financial 
year ended 31 December 2013 of 47p (0% vests) to EPS of 56p (100% vests) on a sliding scale between 0% and 100% pro-rata to the actual EPS achieved. 
(EPS targets rounded as appropriate).
4
   50% of the award (Tier 1) is subject to an aggregate EPS target for the financial years ended 31 December 2012, 2013 and 2014 of 90p (15% vests) to EPS  
of 100p (100% vests) on a sliding scale between 15% and 100% pro-rata to the EPS actually achieved. The remaining 50% of the award (Tier 2) is based on 
operating profit for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 of £37 million (50% vests) to £44.4 million (100% vests) on a sliding scale between £29.6 million 
and £44.4 million pro-rata to the operating profit actually achieved. In addition, no element of the Tier 2 award will vest unless the EPS (before pension interest) 
for the financial year ended 31 December 2014 is at least 35.5p and Tier 1 has vested in full.
5
  On 05 April 2012, Andrew Wyllie exercised 82,417 share options and Tony Bickerstaff exercised 52,747 share options. The market price of the Company’s shares 
on 05 April 2012 was £2.3187. The gain (before tax and national insurance) received by these executive directors was £191,100 for Andrew Wyllie and £122,304 
for Tony Bickerstaff.  74  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Notes 
(a) The awards, which are expressed as options, are subject to an exercise price of £1.
(b)  The average closing middle-market price of ordinary shares of 50p each in the Company for the dealing day immediately 
preceding the date of grant for the 2009 award was 227p, for the 2010 award 245p, for the 2011 award 241p and for the 2012 
award 201p. 
(c)  The total number of ordinary shares of 50p each still outstanding and subject to the 2009 award is 25,186 (2011: 620,262), 
the 2010 award: 605,533 (2011: 606,550), the 2011 award: 736,504 (2011: 761,402) and the 2012 award: 860,378.
(d)  At 31 December 2012, the derived mid-market price of the ordinary shares in the Company, as advised by the Company’s 
brokers, was 254p. The range of the share price of the ordinary shares during 2012 was 184.87p to 254p.
(iv) Save As You Earn scheme awards
Details of the executive directors’ SAYE options are as follows: 
Date
 granted
As at
1 Jan 12
 Granted 
during year 
Lapsed 
during year 
Exercised 
during year 
As at
31 Dec 12 
 Exercise 
price
Exercisable 
from
A Wyllie 11.10.11 1,633 –	 	 – – 1,633 205p Nov 2014-May 2015
A O Bickerstaff 11.10.11 1,633 – 	 – – 1,633 205p Nov 2014-May 2015
On behalf of the Board 
Michael R Alexander 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
6 March 2013 
 
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
 Directors’ remuneration report 
continued Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  75
The directors are responsible 
for preparing the Annual 
Report and the Group and 
parent company financial 
statements in accordance  
with applicable law and 
regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare the Group  
and parent company financial statements for each financial 
year. Under that law, they are required to prepare the Group 
financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted  
by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the 
parent company financial statements on the same basis. 
Under company law, the directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that these give  
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. 
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial 
statements, the directors are required to: 
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently; 
•	 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; 
•	 state whether they have been prepared in accordance  
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and 
•	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern  
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group 
and the parent company will continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent 
company and enable them to ensure that its financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have 
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably 
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to 
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ 
remuneration report and Corporate Governance statement 
that comply with that law and those regulations. 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
•	 the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 
2012, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by  
the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; 
and 
•	 the Directors’ Report, the Business review, the Principal  
risks and Key performance indicators and the Group 
Finance Director’s review sections of this report include  
a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as  
a whole, together with a description of the principal risks  
and uncertainties that they face. 
On behalf of the Board 
David Allvey 
Chairman 
Andrew Wyllie 
Chief Executive 
6 March 2013 
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
 Directors’ responsibilities statement 76  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
We have audited the financial statements of the Costain Group 
PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise 
the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and 
Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Financial 
Position, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements  
of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Parent Company 
Cash Flow Statements and the related notes. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (‘IFRS’s’) as adopted by the EU and, as regards  
the parent company financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as  
a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the Company’s members those matters 
we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our 
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they  
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and 
express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’s (‘APB’s’) Ethical Standards  
for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial  
statements is provided on the APB’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
•	 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2012 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended; 
•	 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
•	 the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and 
•	 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
•	 the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; 
•	 the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and 
•	 information given in the Corporate Governance statement 
with respect to internal control and risk management 
systems in relation to financial reporting processes and 
about share capital structures is consistent with the financial 
statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report  
by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report  
to you if, in our opinion: 
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have  
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
•	 the parent company financial statements and the part  
of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
•	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified  
by law are not made; or 
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
•	 the directors’ statement, set out in the Directors’ Report,  
in relation to going concern; and 
•	 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating  
to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions  
of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our 
review; and 
•	  certain elements of the report to shareholders by the  
Board on directors’ remuneration. 
Stephen Bligh 
Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor, 
Chartered accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London E14 5GL 
6 March 2013 
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
 Independent Auditor’s report
 to the members of Costain Group PLC Financial 
 s ta te m e n ts
This section contains the detailed 
financial statements and other 
information that our stakeholders  
find useful, including the financial 
calendar and shareholder services. 
78 Consolidated income statement  
79 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expense
79 Company statement of comprehensive income and expense
80 Consolidated statement of financial position
81 Company statement of financial position
82 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
82  Company statement of changes in equity
83 Consolidated cash flow statement 
84 Company cash flow statement 
85 Notes to the financial statements
121 Five-year financial summary
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  77
Overview Business review Corporate 
Governance
Financial 
statements
Other information
Financial statements 78  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Consolidated income statement
 Year ended 31 December
2012 2011
Notes
Before
 other items
£m
Other 
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
 other items
£m
Other 
items
£m
Total
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 3 934.5 – 934.5 986.3 –	 986.3 
Less: Share of revenue of joint ventures  
 and associates 13 (86.1) – (86.1) (117.8) –	 (117.8)
Group revenue 848.4 – 848.4 868.5 –	 868.5 
Cost of sales (794.2) – (794.2) (818.8) –	 (818.8)
Gross profit 54.2 – 54.2 49.7 –	 49.7 
Administrative expenses (29.1) – (29.1) (25.6) –	 (25.6)
Pension liability management (2.8) – (2.8) –	 –	 –	
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – (1.7) (1.7) –	 (0.9) (0.9)
Employment related deferred consideration – (1.7) (1.7) –	 (0.7) (0.7)
Group operating profit 22.3 (3.4) 18.9 24.1 (1.6) 22.5 
Profit on sale of non-consolidated subsidiary 4 – – – 0.5 –	 0.5 
Profit on sales of interests  
 in joint ventures and associates 4 10.5 – 10.5 0.3 –	 0.3 
Share of results of joint ventures  
 and associates 13 (1.4) – (1.4) (1.3) –	 (1.3)
Profit from operations 3 31.4 (3.4) 28.0 23.6 (1.6) 22.0 
Finance income 7 27.3 – 27.3 34.1 –	 34.1 
Finance expense 7 (29.2) – (29.2) (32.2) –	 (32.2)
Net finance (expense)/income (1.9) – (1.9) 1.9 –	 1.9 
Profit before tax 3/4 29.5 (3.4) 26.1 25.5 (1.6) 23.9 
Income tax 8 (2.5) 0.6 (1.9) (5.6) 0.4 (5.2)
Profit for the year attributable  
 to equity holders of the parent 27.0 (2.8) 24.2 19.9 (1.2) 18.7 
Earnings per share
Basic 9 41.4p (4.3)p 37.1p 31.1p (1.9)p 29.2p
Diluted 9 40.0p (4.1)p 35.8p 30.0p (1.8)p 28.2p
The impact of business disposals in either year was not material and, therefore, all results are classified as arising from  
continuing operations.         Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  79
 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income and expense 
 Year ended 31 December
 Company statement of  
comprehensive income and expense
The Company does not have any comprehensive income or expense, other than a profit for the year of £1.0 million  
(2011: loss of £2.5 million).
2012
£m
2011
£m
Profit for the year 24.2 18.7 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (1.1) (0.8)
Cash flow hedges
 Group:
 Effective portion of changes in fair value during year – (0.1)
 Net changes in fair value transferred to the income statement 0.1 0.2 
 Joint ventures and associates:
 Effective portion of changes in fair value (net of tax) during year (0.4) (2.8)
 Net changes in fair value (net of tax) transferred to the income statement 4.0 –	
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension scheme (24.4) (22.1)
Tax recognised on actuarial losses recognised directly in equity 2.7 3.0 
Other comprehensive expense for the year (19.1) (22.6)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year attributable  
 to equity holders of the parent 5.1 (3.9) 80  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Consolidated statement  
 of financial position
 As at 31 December 
Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 11 18.7 20.3 
Property, plant and equipment 12 9.1 11.4 
Investments in equity accounted joint ventures 13 36.1 21.4 
Investments in equity accounted associates 13 1.6 1.4 
Loans to equity accounted joint ventures 13 – 13.7 
Loans to equity accounted associates 13 2.7 6.4 
Other 14 17.5 16.4 
Deferred tax 8 17.4 17.4 
Total non-current assets 103.1 108.4 
Current assets
Inventories 1.7 2.3 
Trade and other receivables 14 181.5 188.0 
Cash and cash equivalents 15 107.4 141.7 
Total current assets 290.6 332.0 
Total assets 393.7 440.4 
Equity
Share capital 20 32.8 32.4 
Share premium 3.7 3.3 
Foreign currency translation reserve 5.0 6.1 
H e dg i n g 	 r e s e r v e (1.2) (4.9)
Retained earnings (8.5) (6.1)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 31.8 30.8 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Retirement benefit obligations 19 51.9 52.9 
Other payables 17 5.0 6.1 
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 18 1.9 2.3 
Total non-current liabilities 58.8 61.3 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 297.6 342.9 
Income tax liabilities 8 1.7 1.7 
Bank overdrafts 15 1.7 1.6 
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 18 2.1 2.1 
Total current liabilities 303.1 348.3 
Total liabilities 361.9 409.6 
Total equity and liabilities 393.7 440.4 
      
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 6 March 2013 and were signed on its behalf by:  
    
      
A Wyllie   A O Bickerstaff   
Director   Director   
Registered number: 1393773       Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  81
Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 13 95.2 121.4 
Total non-current assets 95.2 121.4 
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 14 39.9 8.1 
Cash and cash equivalents 15 30.0 61.7 
Total current assets 69.9 69.8 
Total assets 165.1 191.2 
Equity
Share capital 20 32.8 32.4 
Share premium 3.7 3.3 
Other reserves 9.3 6.4 
Retained earnings 32.1 38.1 
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 77.9 80.2 
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 18 1.3 1.3 
Total non-current liabilities 1.3 1.3 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 84.0 107.5 
Income tax liabilities 8 1.7 1.7 
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 18 0.2 0.5 
Total current liabilities 85.9 109.7 
Total liabilities 87.2 111.0 
Total equity and liabilities 165.1 191.2 
     
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 6 March 2013 and were signed on its behalf by:  
    
      
A Wyllie   A O Bickerstaff   
Director   Director   
Registered number: 1393773      
 Compan y statement  
 of financial position  
As at 31 December 82  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Consolidated statement  
 of changes in equity
 Company statement of changes in equity
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Translation
 reserve
£m
H e d gi ng
 reserve
£m
Retained
 earnings
£m
Total 
equity
£m
At 1 January 2011 31.7 2.0 6.8 (2.2) (0.7) 37.6 
Profit for the year –	 –	 –	 –	 18.7 18.7 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) –	 –	 (0.8) (2.7) (19.1) (22.6)
Transfer between reserves –	 –	 0.1 –	 (0.1) –	
Issue of ordinary shares under employee share option plans 0.6 1.1 –	 –	 (0.2) 1.5 
Equity-settled share-based payments –	 –	 –	 –	 1.4 1.4 
Dividends paid 0.1 0.2 –	 –	 (6.1) (5.8)
At 31 December 2011 32.4 3.3 6.1 (4.9) (6.1) 30.8 
At 1 January 2012 32.4 3.3 6.1 (4.9) (6.1) 30.8 
Profit for the year – – – – 24.2 24.2 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) – – (1.1) 3.7 (21.7) (19.1)
Issue of ordinary shares under employee share option plans 0.3 – – – (0.3) – 
Equity-settled share-based payments – – – – 2.1 2.1 
Dividends paid 0.1 0.4 – – (6.7) (6.2)
At 31 December 2012 32.8 3.7 5.0 (1.2) (8.5) 31.8
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Other 
reserve
£m
Retained
 earnings
£m
Total
 equity
£m
At 1 January 2011 31.7 2.0 4.5 46.9 85.1 
Comprehensive income/(expense) –	 –	 –	 (2.5) (2.5)
Issue of ordinary shares under employee share option plans 0.6 1.1 –	 (0.2) 1.5 
Equity-settled share-based payments granted  
 to employees of subsidiaries –	 –	 1.9 –	 1.9 
Dividends paid 0.1 0.2 –	 (6.1) (5.8)
At 31 December 2011 32.4 3.3 6.4 38.1 80.2 
At 1 January 2012 32.4 3.3 6.4 38.1 80.2 
Comprehensive income/(expense) – – – 1.0 1.0 
Issue of ordinary shares under employee share option plans 0.3 – – (0.3) – 
Equity-settled share-based payments granted  
 to employees of subsidiaries – – 2.9 – 2.9 
Dividends paid 0.1 0.4 – (6.7) (6.2)
At 31 December 2012 32.8 3.7 9.3 32.1 77.9 
      
There are no significant restrictions on the ability to remit Overseas reserves.      
      
Details of the nature of the above reserves are set out below.      
      
Group      
Translation reserve      
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign operations that are not integral to the operations of the Company, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge 
the Group’s net investment in a foreign subsidiary.      
      
Hedging reserve      
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging 
instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.      
      
Company      
Other reserve      
The Company grants certain of its subsidiaries rights to its equity instruments as part of its share-based payment plan incentive. 
The impact is recognised within this non-distributable reserve.       Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  83
 Consolidated cash flow statement
 Year ended 31 December
Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the year 24.2 18.7 
Adjustments for:
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 13 1.4 1.3 
Finance income 7 (27.3) (34.1)
Finance expense 7 29.2 32.2 
Income tax 8 1.9 5.2 
Profit on sales of interests in joint ventures and associates 4 (10.5) (0.3)
Profit on sale of non-consolidated subsidiary 4 – (0.5)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4 2.3 1.9 
Amortisation of intangible assets 4 1.8 0.9 
Employment related deferred consideration 1.7 0.7 
Share-based payments expense 5 2.9 1.9 
Cash from operations before changes in working capital and provisions 27.6 27.9 
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 0.6 (1.0)
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 4.1 (10.1)
(Decrease)/increase in payables (48.1) 25.0 
Movement in provisions and employee benefits (6.5) (7.1)
Cash (used by)/from operations (22.3) 34.7 
Interest received 1.0 1.8 
Interest paid (1.8) (1.7)
Net cash (used by)/from operating activities (23.1) 34.8 
Cash flows from/(used by) investing activities
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 13 0.6 1.4 
Additions to property, plant and equipment 12 (0.8) (2.9)
Additions to intangible assets 11 (0.1) (0.1)
Proceeds of disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.6 0.2 
Additions to loans to joint ventures and associates 13 (5.4) (13.5)
Loan repayments by joint ventures and associates 13 – 0.4 
Proceeds from sale of interest in joint venture – 0.3 
Proceeds from sale of subsidiary – 0.5 
Acquisitions of subsidiaries (net of acquired cash and cash equivalents and overdrafts) – (21.1)
Net cash used by investing activities (5.1) (34.8)
Cash flows from/(used by) financing activities
Issue of ordinary share capital – 1.5 
Ordinary dividends paid (6.2) (5.8)
Net cash used by financing activities (6.2) (4.3)
Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts (34.4) (4.3)
Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts at beginning of the year 15 140.1 144.3 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – 0.1 
Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts at end of the year 15 105.7 140.1  84  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Company cash flow statement 
 Year ended 31 December
Notes
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit/(loss) profit for the year 1.0 (2.5)
Adjustments for:
Finance income (2.2) (2.3)
Finance expense 0.3 0.4 
Income tax (0.1) (0.6)
Loss on sale of investment 0.7 –	
Amount written off investments – 3.5 
Cash used by operations before changes in working capital and provisions (0.3) (1.5)
Increase in receivables (3.5) (2.3)
Decrease in payables (23.4) (10.4)
Movement in provisions (0.3) 0.1 
Cash used by operations (27.5) (14.1)
Interest received 0.6 0.3 
Interest paid (0.3) (0.4)
Income tax received 0.1 0.6 
Net cash used by operating activities (27.1) (13.6)
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received 1.6 2.0 
Net cash from investing activities 1.6 2.0 
Cash flows from/(used by) financing activities
Issue of ordinary share capital – 1.5 
Ordinary dividends paid (6.2) (5.8)
Net cash used by financing activities (6.2) (4.3)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (31.7) (15.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 15 61.7 77.6 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 15 30.0 61.7 
     Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  85
Notes to the financial statements
1 General information   
Costain Group PLC (‘the Company’) is a public limited 
company incorporated in the United Kingdom. The address of 
its registered office and principal place of business is disclosed 
on the last page of this Annual Report. The principal activities 
of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings (collectively 
referred to as ‘the Group’) are described in the Business 
review section of these financial statements.   
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for  
the year ended 31 December 2012 comprise the Group and 
the Group’s interests in associates, jointly controlled entities 
and jointly controlled operations. The parent company  
financial statements present information about the Company 
as a separate entity and not about its Group.   
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the 
directors on 6 March 2013.   
   
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
Both the Company financial statements and the Group 
consolidated financial statements have been prepared and 
approved by the directors in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (‘Adopted 
IFRS’) and their related interpretations. On publishing the 
parent Company financial statements here together with the 
Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage 
of the exemption in Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 
not to present its individual income statement and related 
notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
Basis of preparation  
These financial statements are presented in Pounds sterling, 
rounded to the nearest hundred thousand. The financial 
statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, except 
that financial assets and derivative financial instruments are 
stated at their fair value as required by IFRS. Acquisition related 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets and employment 
related deferred consideration are reported in the income 
statement under a separate column headed ‘Other items’.
  
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with  
IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates  
and assumptions that affect the application of policies and 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and 
expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are 
based on historical experience and various other factors that 
are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the 
results of which form the basis of making the judgments about 
carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily 
apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates. Judgments made by management in the 
application of IFRS that have a significant effect on the financial 
statements and estimates with a significant risk of material 
adjustment in the next year are discussed later in this Note. 
  
Going concern   
The Group’s business activities and the factors likely to affect 
its future development, performance and position are set out 
in the Business review section of these financial statements. 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position, borrowing and bonding facilities, use of financial 
instruments and hedging activities, exposure to credit risk and 
its objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital 
and financial risk are described in the Financial review section 
of these financial statements and in Note 16.   
The Group’s principal business activity involves long-term 
contracts with a number of customers, mainly across the 
United Kingdom. To meet its day-to-day working capital 
requirements, it uses cash balances provided from 
shareholders’ capital and retained earnings. As part of its 
contracting operations, it is sometimes required to provide 
performance and other bonds. It satisfies these requirements 
by utilising its committed bonding facilities from banks and 
surety companies. These facilities have financial covenants, 
including a profit-based one, which are tested quarterly.   
   
The directors have acknowledged the guidance ‘Going 
Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK 
Companies 2009’ published by the Financial Reporting 
Council in October 2009. The directors have considered  
these requirements, the Group’s current order book and  
f utur e 	 oppor tunitie s 	 and 	 its 	 a v ailable 	 bonding 	 facilitie s . 	 Ha ving 	
reviewed the latest projections, including the application of 
reasonable downside sensitivities, the directors believe that the 
Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully 
despite the current uncertain economic outlook. Accordingly, 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
these financial statements.   
      
Accounting policies   
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise 
stated, been applied consistently by the Group and the 
Company to each period presented in these financial 
statements.   
   
The following standards and interpretations are effective for  
the year ended 31 December 2012 but are not material to  
the Group:   
•	 Amendments to IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of International 
Financial Reporting Standards’   
•	 Amendments to IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’  
•	 IFRIC 15 ‘Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate’ 
•	 IFRIC 19 ‘Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity 
instruments’   
    86  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued 
Basis of consolidation  
(a)  The Group’s financial statements include the financial 
statements of the Company and subsidiaries controlled  
by the Company. Control exists where the Company or 
one of its subsidiaries has the power, directly or indirectly, 
to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity 
so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing 
control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable 
are taken into account. The financial statements of 
subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date that control commences until  
the date that control ceases. 
  
(b)  Associates are operations over which power exists to 
exercise significant influence but not control, generally 
accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50%  
of the voting rights. Associates are accounted for using  
the equity method. If the share of losses equals the 
investment, no further losses are recognised, except to the 
extent that there are amounts receivable that may not be 
recoverable or further commitments to provide funding. 
  
(c)  Jointly controlled entities are those joint ventures where 
control is shared with another entity, established by 
contractual agreement. Jointly controlled entities are 
accounted for using the equity method from the date  
that the jointly controlled entity commences until the date 
that joint control of the entity ceases. If the share of losses 
equals the investment in the entity, no further losses are 
recognised, except to the extent that there are amounts 
receivable that may not be recoverable or further 
commitments to provide funding. 
  
(d)  The presentation in the statement of financial position  
in respect of investments in associates and jointly 
controlled entities restricts the minimum carrying value  
to £Nil. Where the cost of investment would be negative, 
due to losses incurred, then an amount up to the value  
of the negative position is applied to any outstanding loan 
balance with the investment or, where future funding 
commitments exist, a provision is made up to the value  
of the commitment. Any such transfers of excess losses 
from the carrying value of investments are shown within 
reclassifications in Note 13. 
(e)  Jointly controlled operations are those joint ventures  
over which joint control exists, established by contractual 
agreement, which are not legal entities. Where a jointly 
controlled operation exists, then the Group entity involved 
records the assets it controls, the liabilities and expenses  
it incurs and its share of income. Such jointly controlled 
operations are reported in the consolidated financial 
statements on the same basis. Transactions between 
Group companies and jointly controlled operations 
eliminate on consolidation. 
(f)  Intra-group balances and transactions together with any 
unrealised gains arising from intra-group transactions  
are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial 
statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with 
associates, jointly controlled entities and jointly controlled 
operations are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the 
entity or operation. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the 
same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that 
there is no evidence of impairment. 
Currency translation   
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the 
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
translated to Pounds sterling at the exchange rate ruling  
at the statement of financial position date. Foreign exchange 
differences arising on translation are recognised in the income 
statement.   
  
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including 
goodwill and fair value adjustments, are translated to  
Pounds sterling at exchange rates ruling at the statement  
of financial position date. The revenues and expenses  
of foreign operations are translated to Pounds sterling  
at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the 
dates of these transactions.   
   
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net 
investment in foreign operations and of related hedges are 
recognised directly in equity and those that have arisen since  
1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented 
as a separate component of equity. Cumulative exchange 
differences are released into the income statement upon 
disposal. Translation differences that arose before the date  
of transition to IFRS in respect of all foreign operations are  
not presented as a separate component.   
       Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  87
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued 
Revenue recognition   
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable, net of value added tax and includes  
the share of revenue of jointly controlled operations. Most  
of the Group’s revenue arises from long-term contracts.
(a) Long-term contracts   
Revenue arises from increase in the value of work performed 
on construction contracts and on the value of services 
provided during the year. Where the outcome of a long-term 
contract can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the 
contract will be profitable, revenue and costs are recognised 
by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity  
at the statement of financial position date. Stage of completion 
is assessed by reference to the proportion of contract  
costs incurred for the work performed to date relative to  
the estimated total costs, except where this would not be 
representative of the stage of completion. 
Variations and claims are included in revenue where it is 
probable that the amount, which can be measured reliably,  
will be recovered from the customer. When the outcome of  
a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract 
revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred 
where it is probable those costs will be recoverable. Contract 
costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they 
are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total 
contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an 
expense immediately.
Construction work in progress is stated at cost plus profit 
recognised to date less a provision for foreseeable losses  
and less amounts billed and is included in amounts due from 
customers for contract work. Cost includes all expenditure 
related directly to specific projects and an appropriate 
allocation of fixed and variable overheads based on normal 
operating capacity. Amounts valued and billed to customers 
are included in trade receivables. Where cash received from 
customers exceeds the value of work performed, the amount 
is included in credit balances on long-term contracts.
(b) Other revenue 
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the 
significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have 
been transferred to the buyer, the amount of revenue can be 
measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefits 
associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. 
Revenue from other services contracts is recognised when  
the service is provided.
Rental income is recognised in the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives 
are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income  
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Pre-contract costs 
Costs associated with bidding for contracts are written off as 
incurred. When it is probable that a contract will be awarded, 
usually when preferred bidder status is secured, costs incurred 
from that date to the date of financial close are carried forward 
in the statement of financial position and included in amounts 
due from customers for contract work. 
When financial close is achieved on PFI contracts, costs are 
recovered from the special purpose vehicle and pre-contract 
costs within this recovery that were not previously capitalised 
are credited to the income statement. When an interest in  
a special purpose vehicle is retained and that interest is 
accounted for as an associate or joint venture, the credit is 
recognised over the life of the construction contract to which 
the costs relate.   
Research and development
Costs classified as relating to research and development 
activities are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill arising on acquisitions represents the excess of the 
fair value of the consideration over the identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity and 
goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is included  
in non-current assets. The attributable costs of acquisitions 
are expensed to the income statement. 
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment and is carried  
at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is 
included when determining the profit or loss on subsequent 
disposal of the business to which it relates. 88  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued
Other intangible assets comprise acquired intangible assets: 
customer relationships, order book and brand and computer 
software. Customer relationships and other intangibles 
acquired are measured at the present value of cash flows 
attributable to the relationship less an appropriate contributory 
asset charge. Computer software is carried at cost; 
subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases 
the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset  
to which it relates, otherwise expenditure is expensed  
as incurred.
Amortisation begins when an asset is acquired or, in the  
case of computer software, available for use and is calculated 
on a straight-line basis to allocate the cost of the assets over 
their estimated useful lives. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Where  
parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have 
different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items. 
Cost comprises purchase price and directly attributable costs. 
Freehold land is not depreciated. For all other property, plant 
and equipment, depreciation is calculated on a straight-line 
basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over 
their estimated useful lives as follows: 
Freehold buildings  50 years 
Leasehold buildings Shorter of 50 years or lease term
Plant and equipment  Remaining useful life  
(generally 3 to 10 years)
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed  
and adjusted, if appropriate, at each statement of financial 
position date.
Investments – Company
Company investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less 
impairment losses less any pre-acquisition dividends received. 
PFI investments
The Group has interests in PFI investments held through 
joint ventures and associates. These arrangements, whereby a 
private sector operator participates in the development, 
financing, operation and maintenance of infrastructure for 
public services, are accounted in accordance with IFRIC 12. 
Under this interpretation, the infrastructure assets within  
the Group’s investments are recognised as financial assets 
because the operator has an unconditional right to receive  
a specified amount of cash or other financial asset over the life 
of the agreement. The operator recognises investment income 
in respect of the financial asset on an effective interest basis. 
Impairment of non-financial assets
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated  
to each of the cash generating units expected to benefit from 
the synergies of the combination. Cash generating units to 
which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment 
annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that 
the unit may be impaired, If the recoverable amount of the 
cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the 
unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and  
then to other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the 
carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss 
recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
The carrying amounts of other assets, except inventories  
and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each statement of 
financial position date to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the 
assets recoverable amount is estimated.   
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying 
amount of an asset, or its cash-generating unit, is less than  
the recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised  
in the income statement.  
 
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change  
in the estimates resulting in the recoverable amount rising 
above the impaired carrying value of the asset. An impairment 
loss is reversed only to the extent that the carrying amount  
of the assets does not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation,  
if no impairment loss had been recognised.  
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position 
when there is a legal or constructive obligation as a result  
of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic 
benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect  
is material, provisions are determined by discounting the 
expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects 
current market assessments of the time value of money and, 
where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the 
expected benefits to be derived from a contract are lower  
than the unavoidable cost of meeting the obligations under  
the contract. Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  89
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of United Kingdom 
corporation tax and Overseas tax currently payable and 
Deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for  
the year. Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as 
reported in the income statement because it excludes items  
of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other 
years and it further excludes items that are never taxable  
or deductible. The liability for current tax is calculated using  
tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the statement of financial position date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable 
on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and 
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding  
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is 
accounted for using the statement of financial position liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for  
all temporary differences except for those specific exemptions  
set out below and deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be 
available against which deductible temporary differences  
can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets  
is reviewed at each statement of financial position date.  
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary 
difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or other 
assets and liabilities, other than in a business combination,  
in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the 
accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for temporary differences 
arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint 
ventures, except where the Group is able to control the 
reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the 
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates based on those 
enacted or substantially enacted at the statement of financial 
position date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the 
income statement except when it relates to items charged  
or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax  
is also dealt with in equity.
Additional taxes arising from the distribution of dividends  
are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the 
related dividend. 
Leases
Leases principally comprise operating leases. Payments made 
under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Any incentives to enter into operating leases are recognised  
as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a 
straight-line basis. 
Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts 
to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within  
the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance 
arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, 
the guarantee contract is treated as a contingent liability until 
such time as it becomes probable that a payment under the 
guarantee will be required.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs 
directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are 
shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised as distributions in the period in 
which they are declared. Dividends proposed but not declared 
are not recognised but are disclosed in the Note 10 to the 
financial statements.
Share-based payments
These comprise equity-settled and cash-settled share-based 
compensation plans.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair 
value at the date of grant and the fair value is expensed over 
the vesting period, based on the estimate of awards that will 
eventually vest. For cash-settled share-based payments,  
a liability equal to the portion of the services received is 
recognised at its current fair value determined at each 
statement of financial position date. Fair value is measured  
by the use of a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Where options are granted over shares in the Company to 
employees of subsidiaries, the Company recognises in its 
financial statements an increase in the cost of investment  
in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based 
payment charge recognised in its subsidiaries’ financial 
statements, with the corresponding credit being recognised 
directly in equity.
Retirement benefit obligations
A defined benefit pension scheme is operated in the United 
Kingdom, which provides benefits based on pensionable 
salary. The details are included in Note 19. The assets of the 
scheme are held separately from those of the Group.
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values. 
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected  
unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on  
a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency 
to the liability. The liability recognised in the statement of 
financial position in respect of the defined benefit pension 
scheme is the present value of the defined benefit obligations 
less the fair value of scheme assets at the statement of 
financial position date. 90  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued
Retirement benefit obligations continued
Any increase in the present value of the liabilities of the defined 
benefit pension scheme arising from employee service is 
charged to profit from operations in the period. The expected 
return on the scheme’s assets and the increase during the 
period in the present value of the scheme’s liabilities arising 
from the passage of time are included in finance income and 
finance expense respectively. Actuarial gains and losses are 
recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension 
plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement 
as incurred.
Financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in  
the Group’s statement of financial position when the Group 
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
(a) Financial assets
Financial assets are classified as available-for-sale financial 
assets and loans and receivables. The classification depends 
on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is 
determined at the time of initial recognition.
A financial asset is derecognised only when the contractual 
rights to the cash flows from that asset expire, or it transfers 
the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards  
of ownership of the asset to another entity.
Effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the 
amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest 
income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is 
the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts 
through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where 
appropriate, a shorter period.
Loans and receivables
Loans and other receivables with fixed or determinable 
payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified 
as loans and receivables and measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method, less any impairment. 
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest 
rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition  
of interest would be immaterial. 
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables do not carry interest and are 
stated at their initial value less impairment losses.
Impairment of financial assets
Estimated recoverable amounts are based on the ageing  
of the outstanding receivable and provisions against individual 
receivables are recognised when management deems the 
amounts are not collectible. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call 
deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and 
form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are 
included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for  
the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade 
date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under  
a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment 
within the timeframe established by the market concerned. 
Investments are measured initially at fair value plus transaction 
costs.
(b) Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured 
at fair value, net of transaction costs. Financial liabilities are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, with interest expense recognised on an 
effective yield basis. Where borrowings are the hedged item  
in an effective fair value hedge relationship, the carrying value 
is adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with 
the hedged risk. 
Financial liabilities are derecognised only when the obligations 
are discharged, cancelled or expire. 
Trade payables 
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. 
(c) Derivative financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage risks 
arising from changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates 
and inflation and are measured at their fair value. The fair value 
of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market value  
at the statement of financial position date. The fair value of 
interest rate and RPI swaps is the estimated amount that 
would be received or paid to terminate the swap at the 
statement of financial position date. Valuations for forward 
exchange contracts and interest rate and RPI swaps are 
determined using valuation techniques supported by reference 
to market values for similar transactions. Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  91
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued
(c) Derivative financial instruments continued 
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as 
hedges in line with established risk management policies  
and classified as follows: 
•	 Fair value hedges that hedge the exposure to changes  
in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability; or 
•	 Cash flow hedges that hedge exposure to variability in cash 
flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated 
with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from re-measuring the 
hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the income 
statement and adjusted against the carrying amount of the 
hedged item.
For cash flow hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective  
hedge is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion in 
the income statement. When hedged cash flows result in the 
recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated 
gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included  
in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For all other 
cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised  
in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same 
period in which the hedged cash flow affects the income 
statement.
Hedge 	 accoun ting 	 is 	 discon tinued 	 whe n 	 the 	 hedging 	
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any cumulative gain  
or loss previously recognised in equity is retained in equity  
until the hedged transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction  
is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain  
or loss is transferred to the income statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of 
derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges  
are recognised in the income statement.   
Significant areas of judgment and estimation
The estimates and underlying assumptions used in the 
preparation of these financial statements are reviewed  
on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates  
are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised  
if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the 
revision and future periods if the revision affects both current 
and future periods.
The most critical accounting policies and significant areas of 
judgment and estimation arise from the accounting for defined 
benefit pension schemes under IAS 19 Employee benefits, the 
accounting for long-term contracts under IAS 11 Construction 
contracts, assessments of the carrying value of land and the 
carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets.
Defined benefit pension schemes require significant judgments 
in relation to the assumptions for inflation, future pension 
increases, investment returns and member longevity that 
underpin the valuation. Each year in selecting the appropriate 
assumptions, the directors take advice from an independent 
qualified actuary. The assumptions and resultant sensitivities 
are set out in Note 19.
The majority of the Group’s activities are undertaken via 
long-term contracts and these contracts are accounted for  
in accordance with IAS 11, which requires estimates to be 
made for contract costs and revenues. In many cases, these 
contractual obligations span more than one financial period. 
Also, the costs and revenues may be affected by a number  
of uncertainties that depend on the outcome of future events 
and may need to be revised as events unfold and uncertainties 
are resolved.
Management bases its judgments of costs and revenues and 
its assessment of the expected outcome of each long-term 
contractual obligation on the latest available information, this 
includes detailed contract valuations and forecasts of the  
costs to complete. The estimates of the contract position  
and the profit or loss earned to date are updated regularly  
and significant changes are highlighted through established 
internal review procedures. The impact of any change  
in the accounting estimates is then reflected in the financial 
statements.
A lc aide sa 	 Holding 	 S A , 	 one 	 o f 	 the 	 G r oup ’ s 	 join t 	 v e n tur e s ,	
operates in the Spanish real estate market and holds land  
and property within its current and non-current assets. The 
company has also developed and operates a marina under  
a long-term concession agreement. At 31 December 2012,  
a review of the net realisable value of each of its land holdings 
and of the carrying value of the marina assets was undertaken, 
including the use of external valuations, and provisions,  
if considered necessary, have been reflected in these financial 
statements. 
  
Reviewing the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets 
recognised on acquisition requires judgments, principally,  
in respect of growth rates and future cash flows of cash 
generating units, the useful lives of intangible assets and the 
selection of discount rates used to calculate present values  
are set out in Note 11. 92  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
continued
IFRSs not applied
The following IFRSs having been endorsed, will be applicable 
in the future:
•	 Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Items of Other 
Compr e he nsiv e 	 Income ’ 	 – 	 r equir e s 	 an 	 e n tit y 	 t o 	 pr e se n t 	 the	
items of other comprehensive that may be recycled to profit 
or loss in the future if certain conditions are met, separately 
from those that would never be recycled to profit or loss. 
Consequently, as the Group presents items of other 
comprehensive income before related income tax effects the 
aggregated income tax amount would need to be allocated 
between those sections. It will be effective for 2013.
•	 	 IA S 	 1 9 	 ( Re vised ) 	 ‘ Emplo y e e 	 Be nefits ’ 	 – 	 this 	 ame ndme n t 	 
will require the financing cost of a defined benefit scheme  
to be calculated on the net surplus or deficit. It will increase 
the net pension interest expense. It will be effective for 2013. 
Had 	 it 	 be e n 	 e f fe ctiv e 	 f or 	 2 0 1 2 , 	 opera ting 	 pr o fit 	 w ould 	 ha v e 	
been reduced by £0.6 million and pension interest expense 
increased by £0.8 million with a corresponding increase in 
other comprehensive income. This change has no impact  
on the pension deficit or cash.
•	 IAS 27 (Revised) ‘Separate Financial Statements’ will be 
effective from 2014. This is not expected to have an impact 
on the financial statements. 
•	 IAS 28 (Revised) ‘Investments in Associates and Joint 
Ventures’ will be effective from 2014. This is not expected  
to have an impact on the financial statements. 
•	 Amendment to IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ 
– 	 O f fse t ting 	 Financial 	 Asse ts 	 and 	 Financial 	 L iabilitie s ’ 	 – 	 this 	
amendment clarifies the application of offsetting criteria  
in financial statements. This is not expected to have  
a significant impact on the financial statements. It will be 
effective for 2014.
•	 ‘Amendments to IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ 
– 	 O f fse t ting 	 Financial 	 Asse ts 	 and 	 Financial 	 L iabilitie s ’ 	 – 	 this 	
amends the disclosure requirements in respect of financial 
instruments that are set-off in accordance with guidance  
in IAS 32. This is not expected to have a significant impact 
on the financial statements. It will be effective for 2013.
•	 	 IF RS 	 1 0 	 ‘ Consolida t ed 	 Financial 	 Sta t eme n ts ’ 	 – 	 this 	 no w	
provides a single model establishing principles for the 
presentation and preparation of consolidated financial 
statements when an entity controls one or more other 
entities. This is not expected to have a significant impact  
on the consolidated financial statements. It will be  
effective for 2014, being adopted as a ‘suite of standards’ 
(with IFRS 11 and 12).
•	 	 IF RS 	 1 1 	 ‘ Join t 	 A r range me n ts ’ 	 – 	 this 	 could 	 r e sult 	 in 	 change s	 
to the classification of certain jointly controlled operations 
where the Group accounts for its share of the individual 
assets or liabilities to being equity accounted as associates 
or joint ventures. It will not affect the Group’s profit for the 
period or net assets. It will be effective for 2014, being 
adopted as a ‘suite of standards’ (with IFRS 10 and 12).
•	 	 IF RS 	 1 2 	 ‘ D isclosur e 	 o f 	 In t e r e sts 	 in 	 O the r 	 En t itie s ’ 	 – 	 r equir e s	
the disclosure of information that enables users of financial 
statements to evaluate the nature of, and risk associated 
with, its interests in other entities and the effects of those 
interests on its financial position, financial performance and 
cash flows. This is not expected to have a significant impact 
on the financial statements. It will be effective for 2014, being 
adopted as a ‘suite of standards’ (with IFRS 10 and 11).
•	 	 IF RS 	 1 3 	 ‘ F air 	 V alue 	 Me asur e me n t’ 	 – 	 define s 	 fair 	 v alue 	 with 	 
a single definition in a new standard replacing existing 
guidance on fair value measurement in different IFRSs, 
providing a framework for measuring fair values and 
disclosures about fair value measurements. This is not 
expected to have a significant impact on the financial 
statements. It will be effective for 2014.
 The following IFRSs have not been endorsed, but may be 
applicable in the future:
•	 	 IF RS 	 9 	 ‘ Financial 	 Instr ume n ts ’ 	 – 	 clas sific a tion 	 o f 	 financial 	
assets for measurement purposes. This is not expected 
to have a significant impact on the financial statements.  
The earliest adoption will be 1 January 2015 if adopted by 
the EU from this date. Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  93
3 Operating segments
Segment information is based on four business segments: Environment, Infrastructure, Energy & Process and Land 
Development operations in Spain. The segments are strategic business units with separate management reporting to a segment 
managing director and have different core customers or offer different services. This information is provided to the Chief 
Executive who is the chief operating decision maker. The segments are discussed in the Business review section of these 
financial statements. 
As discussed in the Chief Executive’s review on page 17 we have announced that from 1 January 2013 we will have two main 
se gme n ts , 	 In frastr uctur e 	 and 	 Na tural 	 Re sour ce s . 	 Ho w e v e r , 	 the 	 r e sults 	 up 	 t o 	 3 1 	 De ce mbe r 	 2 0 1 2 	 w e r e 	 r e por t ed 	 as 	 se t 	 out 	 belo w .
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting 
policies. The Group evaluates segment performance on the basis of profit or loss from operations before interest and income  
tax expense. The segment results that are reported to the Chief Executive include items directly attributable to a segment  
as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. 
Intersegment sales and transfers are not material.
2012
Environment
£m
Infrastructure
£m
Energy 
& Process
£m
Land
Development
£m
Central
costs
£m
Total
£m
Segment revenue
External revenue 148.5  562.3  137.6  –  –  848.4 
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates  84.1  –  0.1  1.9  –  86.1 
Total segment revenue 232.6  562.3  137.7  1.9  –  934.5 
Segment profit/(loss)
Operating profit/(loss) 3.6  26.1  2.5  –  (7.1) 25.1 
Pension liability management –  –  –  –  (2.8) (2.8)
Profit on sales of interests in joint ventures and associates 10.5  –  –  –  –  10.5 
Share of results of joint ventures and associates  0.9  –  –  (2.3) –  (1.4)
Profit/(loss) from operations before other items 15.0  26.1  2.5  (2.3) (9.9) 31.4 
Other items:
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets –  (1.6) (0.1) –  –  (1.7)
Employment related deferred consideration –  (0.9) (0.8) –  –  (1.7)
Profit/(loss) from operations  15.0  23.6 1.6  (2.3) (9.9) 28.0 
Net finance expense (1.9)
Profit before tax 26.1 
Segment profit/(loss) is stated after charging  
 the following:
Depreciation 1.7  0.3  0.3  –  –  2.3 
Amortisation (including acquired intangible assets) –  1.6  0.2  –  –  1.8  94  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
3 Operating segments continued
Environment
£m
Infrastructure
£m
Energy 
& Process
£m
Land
 Development
£m
Central
costs
£m
Total
£m
Segment assets
Reportable segment assets 56.4  135.6 40.9 36.0  – 268.9
Unallocated assets:
Deferred tax 17.4
Cash and cash equivalents 107.4
Total assets 393.7
Expenditure on non-current assets 
Property, plant and equipment 0.2  0.5  0.1  –  –  0.8 
Intangible assets 0.1  –  0.1  –  –  0.2 
Loans to joint ventures and associates 2.2  –  –  3.2  –  5.4 
Segment liabilities
Reportable segment liabilities 94.2 151.0  50.2  –  11.2  306.6 
Unallocated liabilities:
Retirement benefit obligations 51.9 
Overdrafts 1.7 
Income tax 1.7 
Total liabilities 361.9 
        
2011
Environment
£m
Infrastructure
£m
Energy 
& Process
£m
Land
 Development
£m
Central
costs
£m
Total
£m
Segment revenue
External revenue 281.8  448.5  138.2 	 –	 	 –	 868.5 
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates  93.6  17.5  5.2  1.5 	 –	 117.8 
Total segment revenue 375.4  466.0  143.4  1.5 	 –	 986.3 
Segment profit/(loss)
Operating profit/(loss) 16.1  10.2  4.6 	 –	 (6.8) 24.1 
Profit on sale of non-consolidated subsidiary 0.5 	 –	 	 –	 	 –	 	 –	 0.5 
Profit on sale of interest in joint venture 0.3 	 –	 	 –	 	 –	 	 –	 0.3 
Share of results of joint ventures and associates  0.6 	 –	 0.1  (2.0) 	 –	 (1.3)
Profit/(loss) from operations before other items 17.5  10.2  4.7  (2.0) (6.8) 23.6 
Other items:
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 	 –	 (0.7) (0.2) 	 –	 	 –	 (0.9)
Employment related deferred consideration 	 –	 (0.3) (0.4) 	 –	 	 –	 (0.7)
Profit/(loss) from operations 17.5  9.2  4.1  (2.0) (6.8) 22.0 
Net finance income 1.9 
Profit before tax 23.9 
Segment profit/(loss) is stated after charging the following:
Depreciation 0.1  1.3  0.5 	 –	 	 –	 1.9 
Amortisation (including acquired intangible assets) 	 –	 0.7  0.2 	 –	 	 –	 0.9 
        
         Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  95
3 Operating segments continued
Environment
£m
Infrastructure
£m
Energy 
& Process
£m
Land
 Development
£m
Central
costs
£m
Total
£m
Segment assets
Reportable segment assets 77.8 122.3 45.1 35.9  0.2  281.3 
Unallocated assets:
Deferred tax 17.4
Cash and cash equivalents 141.7
Total assets 440.4
Expenditure on non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 	 –	 3.4  0.4 	 –	 	 –	 3.8 
Intangible assets 	 –	 16.6  4.5 	 –	 	 –	 21.1 
Loans to joint ventures and associates 10.3 	 –	 	 –	 3.2 	 –	 13.5 
Segment liabilities 
Reportable segment liabilities 138.4  165.0  49.7  0.1  0.2  353.4 
Unallocated liabilities:
Retirement benefit obligations 52.9 
Overdrafts 1.6 
Income tax 1.7 
Total liabilities 409.6 
        
Geographical information   
In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on the geographical location  
of customers. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets. 
 Revenue  Non-current assets
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
United Kingdom 910.2  957.9  65.0  68.8 
Spain 1.9  1.5  36.0  37.3 
Rest of the World 22.4  26.9  2.1  2.3 
 934.5  986.3  103.1  108.4 
        
Customers accounting for more than 10% of revenue       
One customer (2011: one) in the Infrastructure segment accounted for revenue of £116.0 million (2011: £155.4 million).  
         96  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
4 Other operating expenses and income        
2012
£m
2011
£m
Profit before tax is stated after charging: 
Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 11) 1.8  0.9 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Note 12) 2.3  1.9 
Hir e 	 o f 	 plan t 	 and 	 machiner y 26.8  23.1 
Rent of land and buildings 4.0  3.2 
and after crediting:
Profit on sale of non-consolidated subsidiary –  0.5 
Profit on sales of interests in joint ventures and associates 10.5  0.3 
Income from rent of land and buildings 1.1  1.4 
        
In February 2012, the Group transferred two PFI investments to The Costain Pension Scheme for £20.3 million. As a result  
of this transfer, £4.0 million of fair value adjustments on the PFI financial assets relating to cash flow hedges was recycled through 
the income statement, making up part of the profit of £10.5 million. 
In April 2011, the Group sold its interest in its Zimbabwe based contracting business, Ceezed Construction (Private) Limited,  
f or 	 ne t 	 pr oce eds 	 o f 	 £ 0 . 5 	 million . 	 In 	 Oct ober 	 2 0 1 1 , 	 the 	 G r oup 	 disposed 	 o f 	 its 	 in t e r e st 	 in 	 the 	 as se ts 	 o f 	 China 	 Har bour - Costain 	
Mexico S de RL de CV for net proceeds of £0.3 million. 
Auditors’ remuneration  
The Companies (Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and Liability Limitation Agreements) (Amendment) Regulations 2011 is 
mandatory for periods starting on/after 1 October 2011. The comparatives in respect of the disclosures of Auditor Remuneration 
have been restated accordingly.     
2012
£m
2011
£m
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor for the audit of the annual financial statements 0.1  0.1 
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates in respect of:
– 	 A udit 	 o f 	 financial 	 sta t eme n ts 	 o f 	 subsidiarie s 	 o f 	 the 	 Compan y 	 0.3  0.3 
– 	 O the r 	 ta x 	 ad visor y 	 ser vice s 0.1  0.1 
– 	 C or por a t e 	 fi na n c e 	 s e r v i c e s	 0.3  0.6 
 0.8  1.1 
        
Amounts paid to the Company’s auditor and its associates in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of  
the Company’s financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on  
a consolidated basis.
        
5 Employee benefit expense        
Group
2012
£m
2011
£m
Wages and salaries 153.7  139.9 
Social security costs 16.1  14.9 
Pension costs (Note 19) 8.1  5.3 
Share-based payments expense (Note 19) 2.9  1.9 
 180.8  162.0 
        
Average number of persons employed 
2012
Number
2011
Number
Environment 809  1,128 
Infrastructure 2,129  1,615 
Energy & Process 1,323  1,394 
Central 22  22 
4,283 4,159
        
Company        
The Company does not employ any personnel, except for the directors considered in Note 6.     
    Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  97
6 Remuneration of directors
Details of the directors’ remuneration, pension entitlements, interest in the Long-Term Incentive Plans, Deferred Share Bonus 
Plans and share options are included in the Directors’ remuneration report.
7 Net finance (expense)/income
2012
£m
2011
£m
Interest income from bank deposits 0.3 0.4 
Interest income on loans to related parties 0.7 1.4 
Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets (Note 19) 26.3 32.3 
Finance income 27.3 34.1 
Interest payable on bank overdrafts and other similar charges (1.8) (1.7)
Interest cost on the present value of the defined benefit obligations (Note 19) (27.4) (30.5)
Finance expense (29.2) (32.2)
Net finance (expense)/income (1.9) 1.9 
Interest income on loans to related parties relates to shareholder loan interest receivable from investments in equity accounted 
joint ventures and associates.        
        
8 Income tax       
2012
£m
2011
£m
On profit for the year
Unit ed 	 K ingdom 	 corpora t ion 	 ta x 	 a t 	 2 4 . 5 % 	 ( 2 0 1 1 : 	 2 6 . 5 %) 	 – 	 Adjustme n t 	 in 	 r e spe ct 	 o f 	 pr ior 	 y e ars 0.1 0.1 
Current tax credit for the year 0.1 0.1 
Deferred tax charge for current year (2.2) (5.9)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.2 0.6 
Deferred tax charge for the year (2.0) (5.3)
Income tax expense in the consolidated income statement (1.9) (5.2)
2012
£m
2011
£m
Tax reconciliation
Profit before tax 26.1 23.9 
Income tax at 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) (6.4) (6.3)
Share of results of joint ventures and associates at 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) (0.3) (0.3)
Disallowed provisions and expenses (0.2) (0.3)
Non-taxable gains and profits relieved by capital losses 2.6 0.3 
Utilisation of previously unrecognised temporary differences 1.5 0.3 
Rate adjustments relating to deferred taxation and overseas profits and losses 0.6 0.4 
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.3 0.7 
Income tax expense in the consolidated income statement (1.9) (5.2)
Effective rate of tax 7.3% 21.8%
        
The income tax above does not include any amounts for equity accounted joint ventures and associates, whose results are 
disclosed in the consolidated income statement net of tax.
The current tax liabilities of £1.7 million (2011: £1.7 million) for the Group and Company represent the amount of income taxes  
in respect of all outstanding periods.
Accumulated tax losses carried forward, mainly in the United Kingdom, were £5.3 million (2011: £5.8 million).   
     
         98  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
8 Income tax continued      
Deferred tax asset recognised at 23.0% (2011: 25.0%)
2012
£m
2011
£m
Accelerated capital allowances 1.7 1.9 
Short-term temporary differences 3.5 1.8 
Retirement benefit obligations 11.9 13.2 
Tax losses 0.3 0.5 
Deferred tax asset 17.4 17.4 
        
The Company had no deferred tax asset at either year end. 
       
Analysis of deferred tax movements
2012
£m
2011
£m
At 1 January 17.4 20.9 
Deferred tax relating to business combinations
Transfer in respect of business combinations – 0.8 
Transfer in respect of acquired intangible assets – (1.5)
– (0.7)
Deferred tax in consolidated income statement
Accelerated capital allowances (0.2) (0.4)
Short-term temporary differences 2.2 (4.2)
Tax losses (0.1) (0.2)
Retirement benefit obligations (3.9) (0.5)
(2.0) (5.3)
Deferred tax in other comprehensive income and expense statement
Retirement benefit obligations 2.7 3.0 
Deferred tax recognised directly in the consolidated changes in equity statement 
Short-term temporary differences (0.7) (0.5)
At 31 December 17.4 17.4 
         Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  99
8 Income tax continued      
Factors that may affect future tax charges        
The Group and Company have potential deferred tax assets in their United Kingdom operations that have not been recognised 
at the year-end on the basis that their future economic benefits were not assured at the statement of financial position date.  
        
Deferred tax asset not recognised at 23.0% (2011: 25.0%)        
 Group  Company
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Accelerated capital allowances 0.7 0.7 – –	
Short-term temporary differences 4.9 5.7 – –	
Trading tax losses 0.9 0.7 – –	
Temporary differences 6.5 7.1 – –	
In addition to the above temporary differences, the following deferred tax assets are available.
Management expenses and charges incurred by parent Company 13.1 14.2 13.1 14.2 
Capital losses 63.3 68.9 55.4 60.3 
        
The current year tax effect, at 24.5%, of using the above short-term temporary differences and trading tax losses was £1.5 million 
(2011: £0.3 million) as detailed in the tax reconciliation above.
There are no expiry dates associated with the deferred tax assets, recognised and not recognised, and tax relief will be  
obtained if suitable profits arise in the future.
A further reduction to reflect the proposed tax rate of 21.0% from 1 April 2014 would reduce the deferred tax asset by £1.5 million.
        
9 Earnings per share        
The calculation of earnings per share is based on profit of £24.2 million (2011: £18.7 million) and the number of shares  
set out below.  
2012
Number 
(millions)
2011
Number 
(millions)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic earnings per share calculation 65.3  64.1 
Dilutive potential ordinary shares arising from employee share schemes 2.3  2.2 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for diluted earnings per share calculation 67.6  66.3 
        
At 31 December 2012, all options were included in the diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares calculation (2011: all). 
       
        
         100  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
10 Dividends        
Dividend
 per share
pence
2012
£m
2011
£m
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 6.25 –  3.9 
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 3.25 –  2.2 
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 6.75 4.4 	 –	
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 3.50 2.3 	 –	
Amount recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year 6.7  6.1 
Dividends settled in shares (0.5) (0.3)
Dividends settled in cash 6.2  5.8 
        
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012 of 7.25p per share, amounting to a dividend of £4.7 million,  
is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. If approved, the dividend is expected to be paid on 25 May 2013 to 
shareholders registered at the close of business on 20 April 2013 and a scrip dividend alternative will be offered. These financial 
statements do not reflect the final dividend payable.         
        
11 Intangible assets         
Group
Goodwill
£m
Customer 
relationships
£m
Other acquired
 intangibles
£m
Software &
 development
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2011 	 –	 	 –	 	 –	 5.0  5.0 
Acquired through business combinations 15.2  4.1  1.7 	 –	 21.0 
Other additions 	 –	 	 –	 	 –	 0.1  0.1 
At 31 December 2011 15.2  4.1  1.7  5.1  26.1 
At 1 January 2012 15.2  4.1  1.7  5.1  26.1 
Additions –  –  –  0.2  0.2 
At 31 December 2012 15.2  4.1  1.7  5.3  26.3 
Amortisation 
At 1 January 2011 	 –	 	 –	 	 –	 4.9  4.9 
Provided in year 	 –	 0.7  0.2 	 –	 0.9 
At 31 December 2011 	 –	 0.7  0.2  4.9  5.8 
At 1 January 2012 –  0.7  0.2  4.9  5.8 
Provided in year –  1.5  0.2  0.1  1.8 
At 31 December 2012 –  2.2  0.4  5.0  7.6 
 
Net book value
At 31 December 2012 15.2  1.9  1.3  0.3  18.7 
At 31 December 2011 15.2  3.4  1.5  0.2  20.3 
At 1 January 2011 	 –	 	 –	 	 –	 0.1  0.1 
        
The net book value of other acquired intangible assets comprises £0.8 million relating to order book and £0.5 million relating  
to brand value (2011: £0.9 million and £0.6 million respectively).        
Goodwill has been allocated to the applicable cash generating units identified within the Infrastructure (£11.4 million) and  
Energy & Process (£3.8 million) reporting segments.
        
As described in Note 2, the Group reviews the value of goodwill and in the absence of any identified impairment risks, tests are 
based on internal value in use calculations of the cash generating unit (‘CGU’). The key assumptions for these calculations are: 
discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to revenue and direct costs during the period.    
    
Discount rates have been estimated based on pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the Group’s weighted 
average cost of capital and the risks specific to the CGU. The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows for the CGU in 
Infrastructure was 14% and for the CGU in Energy & Process was 16%.       
  Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  101
11 Intangible assets continued       
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial forecasts for the following two years and 
extrapolates those cash flows based on the following internal assessments of the annual growth rates attributable to the 
acquired businesses:
Growth rates
Infrastructure
%
Energy 
& Process
%
Years 3-4 2.5 2.5
Year 5 1.5 2.5
Long-term average 1.5 1.5
        
As at 31 December 2012, based on these internal valuations, the recoverable value of goodwill exceeded the carrying amounts 
by a comfortable amount.
        
12 Property, plant and equipment  
Group
Land and
 buildings
£m
Plant and
 equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2011 0.9  20.1  21.0 
Additions 	 –	 2.9  2.9 
Disposals (0.2) (0.5) (0.7)
Acquired through business combinations 0.2  0.7  0.9 
At 31 December 2011 0.9  23.2  24.1 
At 1 January 2012 0.9  23.2  24.1 
Additions –  0.8  0.8 
Disposals –  (1.7) (1.7)
At 31 December 2012 0.9  22.3  23.2 
Depreciation
At 1 January 2011 0.6  10.7  11.3 
Provided in year 0.1  1.8  1.9 
Disposals (0.1) (0.4) (0.5)
At 31 December 2011 0.6  12.1  12.7 
At 1 January 2012 0.6  12.1  12.7 
Provided in year –  2.3  2.3 
Disposals –  (0.9) (0.9)
At 31 December 2012 0.6  13.5  14.1 
Net book value
At 31 December 2012 0.3  8.8  9.1 
At 31 December 2011 0.3  11.1  11.4 
At 1 January 2011 0.3  9.4  9.7 
         102  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
13 Investments and loans in subsidiaries, equity accounted joint ventures and associates 
  Investments  Loans 
Group
Joint ventures
£m
Associates
£m
Joint ventures
£m
Associates
£m
Total
£m
Cost or fair value
At 1 January 2011 38.8  0.2  10.8  1.5  51.3 
Currency realignment (0.7) 	 –	 (0.3) (0.1) (1.1)
Additions 	 –	 	 –	 3.2  10.3  13.5 
Repayments 	 –	 	 –	 	 –	 (0.4) (0.4)
At 31 December 2011 38.1  0.2  13.7  11.3  63.3 
At 1 January 2012 38.1  0.2  13.7  11.3  63.3 
Currency realignment (0.8) –  (0.5) –  (1.3)
Additions –  –  3.2  2.2  5.4 
Disposal –  –  –  (9.9) (9.9)
Transfer* 17.6  –  (16.4) –  1.2 
At 31 December 2012 54.9  0.2  –  3.6  58.7 
Share of post-acquisition reserves
At 1 January 2011 (14.3) (0.8) (15.1)
Currency realignment 0.2 	 –	 0.2 
Dividends (0.8) (0.6) (1.4)
(Loss)/profit for the year (1.8) 0.5  (1.3)
Cash 	 flo w 	 hedge s 	 – 	 change 	 in 	 fair 	 v alue 	 –	 (2.8) (2.8)
At 31 December 2011 (16.7) (3.7) (20.4)
At 1 January 2012 (16.7) (3.7) (20.4)
Currency realignment 0.2  (0.1)  0.1 
Dividends –  (0.6) (0.6)
(Loss)/profit for the year (2.3) 0.9  (1.4)
Cash 	 flo w 	 hedge s 	 – 	 change 	 in 	 fair 	 v alue –  (0.4) (0.4)
Cash 	 flo w 	 hedge s 	 – 	 disposals –  4.0  4.0 
At 31 December 2012 (18.8) 0.1  (18.7)
Reclassifications 
At 1 January 2011 	 –	 2.1 	 –	 (0.9) 1.2 
Arising in the year 	 –	 2.8 	 –	 (4.0) (1.2)
At 31 December 2011 	 –	 4.9 	 –	 (4.9) 	 –	
At 1 January 2012 –  4.9  –  (4.9) – 
Arising in the year –  (3.6) –  4.0  0.4 
At 31 December 2012 –  1.3  –  (0.9) 0.4 
Net book value
At 31 December 2012 36.1  1.6  –  2.7  40.4 
At 31 December 2011 21.4  1.4  13.7  6.4  42.9 
At 1 January 2011 24.5  1.5  10.8  0.6  37.4 
*	 D u r i n g 	 2 0 1 2 , 	 th e 	 l o a n 	 t o 	 A l c a i d e s a 	 H o l d i n g 	 SA , 	 i n c l u d i n g 	 o u ts t a n d i n g 	 i nt e re s t , 	 wa s 	 c o nve r t e d 	 i nt o 	 e q u i t y .
        
         Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  103
13 Investments and loans in subsidiaries, equity accounted joint ventures and associates continued
Analysis of Group share of joint ventures and associates revenue, income and assets and liabilities
 2012 2011
Alcaidesa
Holding SA
£m
 Other joint
 ventures
£m
Associates
£m
Total
£m
Alcaidesa 
H o ldi ng 	 SA
£m
Other joint
ventures
£m
Associates
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 1.9  52.9  31.3  86.1  1.5  80.4  35.9  117.8 
(Loss)/profit before tax (2.3) –  1.3  (1.0) (2.0) 0.2  0.8  (1.0)
Income tax –  –  (0.4) (0.4) 	 –	 	 –	 (0.3) (0.3)
(Loss)/profit for the year (2.3) –  0.9  (1.4) (2.0) 0.2  0.5  (1.3)
Non-current assets 20.0  –  0.9  20.9  20.9 	 –	 1.0  21.9 
Current assets 29.5  15.3  58.9  103.7  31.2  30.3  113.6  175.1 
Current liabilities (3.4) (15.2) (10.3) (28.9) (5.3) (30.2) (11.3) (46.8)
Non-current liabilities (10.1) –  (47.9) (58.0) (25.5) 	 –	 (101.9) (127.4)
Investments in joint  
 ventures and associates 36.0  0.1  1.6  37.7  21.3  0.1  1.4  22.8 
Financial commitments – –  2.3 2.3 	 –	 	 –	 3.6  3.6 
Capital commitments –  – 2.2  2.2 	 –	 	 –	 13.4  13.4 
        
Net interest payable by joint ventures and associates in 2012 was £1.7 million (2011: £2.5 million payable). The applicable  
interest rates are income of 0.2% to 0.4% per annum (2011: 0.2% to 0.4%) and expense of 1.7% to 11.5% per annum  
(2011: 5.4% to 11.5%).        
        
The financial commitments relate to associates involved in PFI schemes and the capital commitments relate to ongoing 
construction works. All figures are the Group’s share.        
        
Analysis of the total revenue, income, assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates 
 2012 2011
Alcaidesa
Holding SA
£m
 Other joint
 ventures
£m
Associates
£m
Total
£m
Alcaidesa 
H o ldi ng 	 SA
£m
Other joint
ventures
£m
Associates
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 3.7  126.3  99.1  229.1  3.0  176.3  119.4  298.7 
(Loss)/profit before tax (4.6) 0.1  5.7  1.2  (4.1) 0.4  3.5  (0.2)
Income tax –  –  (1.8) (1.8) 	 –	 (0.1) (0.9) (1.0)
(Loss)/profit for the year (4.6) 0.1  3.9  (0.6) (4.1) 0.3  2.6  (1.2)
Non-current assets 38.7  –  2.3  41.0  42.0 	 –	 2.4  44.4 
Current assets 59.6  34.9  178.5  273.0  62.4  69.2  369.3  500.9 
Current liabilities (6.8) (34.6) (32.2) (73.6) (10.5) (68.9) (38.5) (117.9)
Non-current liabilities (20.2) –  (142.7) (162.9) (50.9) 	 –	 (328.1) (379.0)
Equity 71.3  0.3  5.9  77.5 43.0  0.3  5.1  48.4 
        
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, jointly controlled operations and associates are shown in Note 23. 
       
        
         104  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
13 Investments and loans in subsidiaries, equity accounted joint ventures and associates continued
Company
Investments in subsidiaries £m
Cost
At 1 January 2011 392.2 
Additions 1.9 
At 31 December 2011 394.1 
At 1 January 2012 394.1 
Additions 2.9 
Disposal (32.6)
At 31 December 2012 364.4 
Amounts written off
At 1 January 2011 (269.2)
Provided (3.5)
At 31 December 2011 (272.7)
At 1 January 2012 (272.7)
Disposal 3.5 
At 31 December 2012 (269.2)
Net book value
At 31 December 2012 95.2 
At 31 December 2011 121.4 
At 1 January 2011 123.0 
        
Additions relate to the increase in the cost of investments in subsidiaries by the equivalent amount of the equity settled 
share-based payment charge in relation to employees of subsidiaries included in the income statement.    
        
Details of the principal subsidiaries in which the Company has an interest are set out in Note 23.    
    
14 Trade and other receivables        
  Group  Company
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Amounts included in current assets
Trade receivables 73.0  84.8  – 	 –	
Other receivables 12.8  15.2  – 	 –	
Amounts due from customers for contract work 79.0  74.3  – 	 –	
Prepayments and accrued income 15.9  13.2  0.9  0.9 
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 0.8  0.5  – 	 –	
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – 	 –	 39.0  7.2 
 181.5  188.0  39.9  8.1 
Amounts included in non-current assets
Other  17.5  16.4  – 	 –	
        
At 31 December 2012, amounts due from customers for contract work falling due within one year and other receivables falling 
due after more than one year included retentions of £39.8 million (2011: £40.5 million) relating to construction contracts in progress. 
        
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade, other receivables and amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 
approximates to their fair value. Based on prior experience, the directors believe that the trade receivables are recoverable and, 
other than as disclosed in Note 25, there is no allowance for bad or doubtful debts (2011: £Nil).    
     Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  105
14 Trade and other receivables continued        
The average credit period within trade receivables on amounts billed for construction work and on sales of goods is 33 days 
(2011: 31 days). The analysis of the due dates of the trade receivables was £65.3 million (2011: £61.5 million) due within 30 days, 
£4.6 million (2011: £19.6 million) due between 30 and 60 days and £3.1 million (2011: £3.7 million) due after 60 days.  
      
Included in the trade receivables balance are debtors, with a carrying amount of £6.8 million (2011: £6.1 million), which are past 
due at the reporting date for which no provision has been made as there has been no significant change in credit quality and  
the amounts are considered recoverable. No collateral is held over these balances.      
  
The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised profits, less recognised losses, for all contracts in progress at the 
statement of financial position date was £2,753.2 million (2011: £2,789.6 million). Progress billings and advances received from 
customers under open construction contracts amounted to £2,707.2 million (2011: £2,762.6 million). Advances for which work 
has not started, and billings in excess of costs incurred and recognised profits are included in credit balances on long-term 
contracts (Note 17).        
        
15 Cash and cash equivalents        
Cash and cash equivalents are analysed below, and include the Group’s share of cash held by jointly controlled operations of 
£29.6 million (2011: £33.6 million).  
  Group  Company
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 107.4  141.7  30.0  61.7 
Bank overdrafts (1.7) (1.6) – 	 –	
Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts in the cash flow statement 105.7  140.1  30.0  61.7 
        
16 Financial instruments and risk management
The Group’s centralised treasury function manages financial risk, principally arising from movements in foreign currency rates, 
interest rates and inflation rates and liquidity and funding risks, in accordance with policies agreed by the directors. To manage 
these risks, forward foreign currency sale and purchase contracts are used in respect of foreign currency requirements and 
interest rate swaps are used for PFI investments.        
        
The Group does not enter into speculative transactions.        
        
The Company does not have any forward foreign currency contracts or other derivatives.     
Capital Management        
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to provide 
resources to grow the business, in order to provide returns for shareholders and other stakeholders. The Group has no 
long-term debt and the current capital base of the Group is driven by equity capital from shareholders and retained earnings. 
The Board of directors (‘Board’) continues to explore options to strengthen the Group by growing the business and improving 
profitability; the Business review describes the Group’s strategy and its operations. It is the Board’s policy to progressively 
increase dividends paid to shareholders based on growth in underlying earnings per share after taking account of the investment 
and capital needs of the business.
         106  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
16 Financial instruments and risk management continued
Liquidity and funding risk        
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity and funding risk rests with the Board, which has put in place a monitoring and reporting 
framework to manage funding requirements.  
       
Liquidity risk is managed by monitoring actual and forecast short and medium term cash flows and the maturity profile of 
financial assets and liabilities and by maintaining adequate cash reserves. The nature and timing of the contract cash flows 
causes the cash balances to vary over the month with the balance usually highest at the month end.    
    
The average month end cash balance during the year was £103.4 million (2011: £130.4 million).    
    
Customers awarding long-term contracting work may, as a condition of the award, require the contractor to provide performance 
and other bonds. Consequently, the Group is reliant on its ability to secure bank and surety bonds. It has facilities in place to 
provide these bonds and monitors the usage and regularly updates the forecast usage of these facilities.   
     
The Group has banking and bonding facilities including a £45 million Revolving Credit Facility extending to 30 September 2015. 
The facilities have financial covenants based on profit, interest cover and leverage measured quarterly. There were no changes  
in the Board’s approach to capital management during the year.        
        
Unsecured bonding facilities available        
   Group and Company
2012
£m
2011
£m
Expiring between two and five years* 420.0  420.0 
*  Element of above facilities available for borrowings 2.5  2.5 
Credit risk        
The Group uses an external credit scoring system to assess a potential customer’s credit quality and will enter into a contract 
only if that assessment is satisfactory. Deposits in the United Kingdom are placed with the bank facility providers or, in jointly 
controlled operations, with banks agreed by the partners. Overseas deposits are placed with major banks operating in those 
countries. Transactions involving derivative financial instruments are with bank or insurance company counter-parties with high 
credit ratings that are monitored regularly and with whom there are signed netting agreements. Given the high credit ratings  
of the banks and insurance companies used, management does not expect any counter-party will fail to meet its obligations. 
       
At the year-end date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented 
by the carrying amounts of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, and the individual constituents of 
amounts due from customers for contract work in the statement of financial position. Further information on the exposure to 
credit risk is set out in Note 14.        
        
Interest rate risk        
The Group has cash balances in the United Kingdom and Overseas and bank borrowings Overseas. The largest constituents  
are United Kingdom balances denominated in Pounds sterling. A 1% rise in interest rates would have increased the annual net 
interest income on cash balances by £1.0 million (2011: £1.3 million).       
 
The only interest rate hedging currently undertaken by the Group is within PFI investments, where interest rate derivatives have 
been used as a means of hedging interest rate risk. The policy is to fix the interest cost on variable rate financing on specific 
projects by taking out floating to fixed interest rate swaps; these swaps are designated to the underlying debt obligations and  
are expected to be effective for cash flow hedge accounting purposes.       
         Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  107
16 Financial instruments and risk management continued
Foreign currency risk        
Transactional currency exposures arise from sales or purchases by operating companies in currencies other than their functional 
currency. The current strategy is to hedge both committed and forecast foreign currency exposures, where applicable, and 
where the transaction timing and amount can be determined reliably and no natural hedge exists. The Group only enters into 
forward contracts when a contractual commitment exists in respect of the foreign currency transaction and the Group’s policy  
is to negotiate the terms of the hedge derivative to match the terms of the hedged item to maximise hedge effectiveness.  
      
At 31 December 2012, the net monetary assets denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the operation 
involved were Euro denominated net monetary assets of £Nil (2011: £16.5 million) in members of the Group with sterling as their 
functional currency.  
       
A 10% strengthening in the Euro would have adversely impacted the results by £0.3 million (2011: £0.2 million).  
A 10% strengthening in the UAE Dirham would have adversely impacted the results by £0.4 million (2011: £0.2 million).  
      
In v e stme n ts 	 in 	 join t 	 v e n tur e s 	 include s 	 the 	 G r oup ’ s 	 in v e stme n t 	 in 	 A lc aide sa 	 Holding 	 S A , 	 a 	 compan y 	 based 	 in 	 Spain 	 and 	
denominated in Euro. At the year-end, the net carrying value of the equity investment was £36.0 million (2011: £35.0 million 
including loans). A 10% strengthening in the Euro would have favourably impacted the statement of financial position by  
£4.0 million (2011: £3.9 million).        
        
Cash flow hedges        
Foreign currency contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest 
rates matching maturities of the contracts. 
At 31 December 2012, the Group had foreign currency contracts (22 purchase contracts (2011: 26) and 4 sale contracts  
(2011: 11)) designated as hedges of committed future purchases. The Group held no other foreign currency sale contracts  
(2011: Nil). 
       
Forward currency contracts that hedge forecast transactions are classified as cash flow hedges and stated at fair value based  
on a Level 2 valuation method. These amounts were recognised as fair value derivatives. The terms of the foreign currency 
contracts match the terms of the commitments. There were no ineffective hedges at the year-end (2011: Nil).   
     
The foreign currency sale and purchase contracts outstanding at 31 December 2012 are summarised below. The carrying  
value represents the fair value of the contract; the contractual cash flows represent the sterling commitments. 
Foreign exchange contracts
 2012 2011
Carrying
 amount
£m
Contractual 
cash flows
£m
Within
one year
£m
Between 
one and 
five years
£m
Carrying
 amount
£m
Contractual 
cash flows
£m
Within
one year
£m
Between 
one and 
five years
£m
Purchases (0.3) (7.6) (7.6) –  (0.5) (10.7) (6.4) (4.3)
Sales 0.1  2.6  2.6  –  0.2  4.5  2.2  2.3 
 (0.2) (5.0) (5.0) –  (0.3) (6.2) (4.2) (2.0)
        
The expected impact on the income statement of the foreign exchange contracts is a loss of £0.2 million in 2013.   
    
Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of the future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the 
applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.         
At 31 December 2012, PFI project companies, in which the Group has an interest and records as investments in associates,  
had entered into the following swaps to hedge the interest rate risk of bank loans. These swaps are classified as cash flow 
hedges and stated at fair value based on a Level 2 valuation method. The fair value will reverse over the life of the swaps.  
There were no ineffective hedges at the year-end (2011: Nil).        
         108  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
16 Financial instruments and risk management continued
Maturity of PFI swaps      
 2012 2011
Total
£m
Within 
one year
£m
Between 
one and 
five years
£m
After 
five years
£m
Total
£m
Within
one year
£m
Between 
one and 
five years
£m
After 
five years
£m
Interest rate swaps 1.3  0.1  0.4  0.8  6.0  0.3  1.2  4.5 
Less tax (0.3) – (0.1) (0.2) (1.5) (0.1) (0.3) (1.1)
 1.0  0.1  0.3  0.6  4.5  0.2  0.9  3.4 
        
These amounts (net of tax) were recognised as fair value derivatives within the value of the investment or, if a future commitment 
exists, within provisions.         
        
Financial assets and liabilities
Currency and maturity of financial assets        
 2012 2011
Total
£m
Within 
one year
£m
Between 
one and 
five years
£m
After 
five years
£m
Total
£m
Within
 one year
£m
Between 
one and 
five years
£m
After 
five years
£m
Cash and cash equivalents:
Pounds sterling 106.1  106.1  –  –  135.9  135.9 	 –	 	 –	
UAE Dirham 1.1  1.1  –  –  2.6  2.6 	 –	 	 –	
Euro –  –  –  –  2.8  2.8 	 –	 	 –	
Other 0.2  0.2  –  –  0.4  0.4 	 –	 	 –	
 107.4  107.4  –  –  141.7  141.7 	 –	 	 –	
Loans to joint ventures  
 and associates:
Pounds sterling 2.7  0.1  0.5  2.1  6.4  0.6  2.4  3.4 
Euro –  –  –  –  13.7 	 –	 13.7 	 –	
 2.7  0.1  0.5  2.1  20.1  0.6  16.1  3.4 
Trade, other receivables  
 and amounts owed  
 by joint ventures  
 and associates:
Pounds sterling 101.8  84.3  17.5  –  113.7  97.3  16.4 	 –	
Other 2.3  2.3  –  –  3.2  3.2 	 –	 	 –	
 104.1 86.6  17.5  –  116.9  100.5  16.4 	 –	
Total financial assets 214.2  194.1  18.0  2.1  278.7  242.8  32.5  3.4 
         Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  109
16 Financial instruments and risk management continued
Currency and maturity of financial liabilities
 2012 2011
Total
£m
Within 
one year
£m
Between 
one and 
five years
£m
Total
£m
Within 
one year
£m
Between 
one and 
five years
£m
Bank 	 o v e rdra f ts 	 – 	 U AE 	 D ir ham 1.7  1.7  –  1.6  1.6 	 –	
Trade and other payables:
Pounds sterling 140.3  135.3  5.0  148.4  142.3  6.1 
UAE Dirham 5.2  5.2  –  6.4  6.4 	 –	
 145.5  140.5  5.0  154.8  148.7  6.1 
Total financial liabilities 147.2  142.2  5.0  156.4  150.3  6.1 
        
The bank overdrafts are at a floating rate and are unsecured.
Reconciliation of trade and other receivables and trade and other payables to the balance sheet.
 2012 2011
Current
£m
Non-current
£m
Current
£m
Non-current
£m
Trade and other receivables (as above) 86.6  17.5  100.5  16.4 
Amounts due from customers 79.0  –  74.3 	 –	
Prepayments and accrued income 15.9  –  13.2 	 –	
 181.5 17.5  188.0  16.4 
        
 2012 2011
Current
£m
Non-current
£m
Current
£m
Non-current
£m
Trade and other payables (as above) 140.5  5.0  148.7  6.1 
Credit balances on long-term contracts 7.6 –  22.3 	 –	
Accruals and deferred income 149.5  –  171.9 	 –	
 297.6  5.0  342.9  6.1 
        
Effective interest rates of financial assets and liabilities
2012 2011
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 0.0% to 1.2% 0.0% to 1.3%
Loans to joint ventures and associates 10.0% to 11.5% 10.0% to 11.5%
Financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts 3.3% 5.5%
        
The Company’s financial assets comprised cash at bank of £30.0 million (2011: £61.7 million) denominated in Pounds sterling 
and maturing within one year.        
        
There are no significant differences between the carrying values of the Group’s and Company’s financial assets and liabilities  
and their fair values except the fair values of loans carrying interest rates above 10% may be higher than their carrying values  
of £2.7 million (2011: £6.4 million), but not by a material amount.        
         110  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
17 Trade and other payables
  Group  Company
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current liabilities
Trade payables 105.1  108.1  – 	 –	
Other payables 21.5  23.3  – 	 –	
Social security 5.5  4.6  – 	 –	
Credit balances on long-term contracts 7.6  22.3  – 	 –	
Accruals and deferred income 149.5  171.9  –  0.6 
Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates 8.4  12.7  – 	 –	
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – 	 –	 84.0  106.9 
297.6 342.9  84.0  107.5 
Non-current liabilities
Other payables 5.0  6.1  – 	 –	
        
At 31 December 2012, credit balances on long-term contracts included no advance payments from customers (2011: £13.1 million). 
       
Accruals and deferred income include subcontract liabilities (not yet payable), subcontract retentions and other accruals  
and deferred income.        
        
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables, other payables, social security and amounts owed to  
joint ventures and associates approximates to their fair value.        
        
Financial risk management policies are in place that seek to ensure that all payables are paid within their credit timeframes. 
       
18 Provisions for other liabilities and charges        
Group
Property
£m
PFI
 investments
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Current
At 1 January 2011 0.7  1.2  1.3  3.2 
Provided 0.2 	 –	 0.4  0.6 
Utilised (0.1) 	 –	 	 –	 (0.1)
Released 	 –	 	 –	 (0.6) (0.6)
Transfer 0.2  (1.2) 	 –	 (1.0)
At 31 December 2011 1.0 	 –	 1.1  2.1 
At 1 January 2012 1.0  –  1.1  2.1 
Provided  0.7  –  0.5  1.2 
Utilised (0.4) –  –  (0.4)
Released (0.3) –  (0.5) (0.8)
At 31 December 2012 1.0  –  1.1  2.1  Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  111
18 Provisions for other liabilities and charges continued 
Property
£m
PFI 
investments
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Non-current
At 1 January 2011 0.4 	 –	 2.1  2.5 
Transfer (0.2) 	 –	 	 –	 (0.2)
At 31 December 2011 0.2 	 –	 2.1  2.3 
At 1 January 2012 0.2  –  2.1  2.3 
Provided  –  –  0.3  0.3 
Utilised (0.1) –  (0.6) (0.7)
At 31 December 2012 0.1  –  1.8  1.9 
        
Company
Funding
 obligations
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Current
At 1 January 2011 0.2  0.1  0.3 
Released 	 –	 0.2  0.2 
Utilised (0.1) 	 –	 (0.1)
Transfer 0.1 	 –	 0.1 
At 31 December 2011 0.2  0.3  0.5 
At 1 January 2012 0.2  0.3  0.5 
Provided –  –  – 
Utilised – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 December 2012 0.2  –  0.2 
Non-current
At 1 January 2011 1.4 	 –	 1.4 
Transfer (0.1) 	 –	 (0.1)
At 31 December 2011 1.3 	 –	 1.3 
At 1 January 2012 1.3  –  1.3 
At 31 December 2012 1.3  –  1.3 
Group        
Property provisions relate to costs of vacant properties and will be utilised over the next three years.    
    
PFI investment provisions relate to investments where the carrying value of the investment is negative and an obligation exists  
to provide further funding. The provisions are expected to reverse when the obligation to provide funding is satisfied, expected  
to be within one year.        
        
Other provisions, mainly comprise a provision for staff benefits payable to the staff of an Overseas subsidiary company, which 
will be utilised over the next five years, and insurance claims, and remedial costs, most of which will be utilised over the next year.
        
Company        
Provisions in the Company relate to funding obligations to a non-trading Overseas subsidiary, which eliminates on consolidation. 
        112  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
19 Employee benefits        
(a) Pensions        
A defined benefit pension scheme is operated in the United Kingdom and a number of defined contribution pension schemes 
are in place in the United Kingdom and Overseas. Contributions are paid by subsidiary undertakings and employees. The total 
pension charge in the income statement was £9.2 million comprising £8.1 million included in operating costs and £1.1 million 
included in net finance expense (2011: £3.5 million, comprising £5.3 million in operating costs less £1.8 million in net finance 
income).        
        
The Company does not operate a pension scheme.        
        
Defined benefit scheme      
The defined benefit scheme was closed to new members on 31 May 2005 and from 1 April 2006 future benefits were  
calculated on a Career Average Revalued Earnings basis. The scheme was closed to future accrual of benefits to members  
on 30 September 2009. A full actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out at 31 March 2010 and was updated to  
31 December 2012 by a qualified independent actuary.        
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (610.7) (600.8) (576.7)
Fair value of scheme assets 558.8  547.9  537.1 
Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations (51.9) (52.9) (39.6)
        
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligations
2012
£m
2011
£m
At 1 January 600.8  576.7 
Interest cost 27.4  30.5 
Amendments (Pension Increase Exchange ‘PIE’) (1.7) 	 –	
Plan Settlements (Enhanced Transfer Value ‘ETV’) (29.3) 	 –	
Actuarial losses 40.7  18.2 
Benefits paid (27.2) (24.6)
At 31 December 610.7  600.8 
Movements in fair value of scheme assets 
2012
£m
2011
£m
At 1 January 547.9  537.1 
Expected return on scheme assets 26.3  32.3 
Actuarial (losses)/gains 16.2  (3.9)
Contributions by employer 28.4  7.0 
Plan Settlements (‘ETV’) (32.8) 	 –	
Benefits paid (27.2) (24.6)
At 31 December 558.8  547.9 
         Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  113
19 Employee benefits continued       
(a) Pensions continued       
(Expense)/income recognised in the income statement
2012
£m
2011
£m
Pension liability management (ETV and PIE, including costs of £0.9 million) (2.8) 	 –	
Expected return on scheme assets 26.3 32.3 
Interest cost on defined benefit obligations (27.4) (30.5)
 (3.9)  1.8 
        
Income statement classification of (expense)/income 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Pension liability management (ETV and PIE, including costs of £0.9 million) (2.8) 	 –	
Finance income 26.3 32.3 
Finance expense (27.4)  (30.5)
 (3.9)  1.8 
        
History of the scheme for the last five years
Experience adjustments 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Experience gain on scheme liabilities (£m) – 	 –	 18.5 	 –	 	 –	
 – 0% 3% 	 –	 	 –	
Change in assumptions on scheme liabilities (£m) (40.7) (18.2) (27.0) (113.7) 94.6 
7% 3% 5% 20% 19%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets (£m) 16.2  (3.9) 33.1  46.3  (105.1)
3% 1% 6% 10% 27%
Total (loss)/gain (£m) (24.5) (22.1) 24.6  (67.4) (10.5)
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income and expense since  
1 January 2004, the transition date to IFRS, is a loss of £84.7 million (2011: £60.2 million).     
   
Fair value of scheme assets and the return on scheme assets  
2012
£m
2011
£m
Equities 184.2  173.9 
High 	 yie ld 	 bonds 46.2  52.8 
Government bonds 195.8  223.4 
Infrastructure and property 63.8  43.7 
Absolute return funds and cash 68.8  54.1 
 558.8 547.9 
        
The infrastructure holding is the portfolio of eight PFI investments transferred by the Group to The Costain Pension Scheme 
in 2010 and 2012. 
       
The pension scheme does not have any assets invested in the Group’s financial instruments or in property, or other assets, 
used by the Group. 
        114  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
19 Employee benefits continued       
(a) Pensions continued       
Principal actuarial assumptions (expressed as weighted averages) 
2012
%
2011
%
2010
%
Discount rate 4.40  4.80  5.40 
Expected rate of return on scheme assets 4.40  4.95  6.11 
Future pension increases 2.85  2.90  3.40 
Inflation assumption 2.95  3.00  3.40 
        
The expected rate of return on scheme assets is determined by reference to relevant indices. The overall expected rate of return 
is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the scheme’s investment portfolio.
      
Weighted average life expectancy from age 65 as per mortality tables used to determine benefits at 31 December 2012 and  
31 December 2011 is:        
 2012 2011
Male
(years)
Female
(years)
Male
(years)
Female
(years)
Currently aged 65 21.7  23.8  21.5  23.7 
Non-retirees 24.5  25.6  24.4  25.6 
        
The discount rate, inflation and pension increase and mortality assumptions have a significant effect on the amounts reported. 
Changes in these assumptions would have the following effects on the defined benefit scheme:
Pension
liability
£m
Pension
cost
£m
Increase discount rate by 0.25%, decreases pension liability and increases pension cost by 28.2  1.1 
Decrease inflation, pension increases by 0.25%, decreases pension liability  
 and reduces pension cost by 25.4  1.1 
Increase life expectancy by one year, increases pension liability and increases pension cost by  16.7  0.7 
        
The expected pension cost for 2013 under IAS 19 (Revised), which becomes effective for 2013 is a £0.6 million operating 
expense and a £2.1 million finance expense.
       
The Group expects to contribute an amount equal to dividends paid to shareholders and the expenses of administration to its 
defined benefit scheme in the next financial year.        
        
Defined contribution schemes
Several defined contribution pensions are operated. The total expense relating to these plans was £5.3 million (2011: £5.3 million). 
         Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  115
19 Employee benefits continued       
(b) Share-based payments
The company operates a number of share based payment plans as described below.
Long-Term Incentive Plans (‘LTIP’)
The Company’s 2002 Long-Term Incentive Plan, approved by shareholders at the 2002 AGM, reached the end of its ten-year  
life in 2012 and shareholders gave their approval for the introduction of a new Long-Term Incentive Plan at the 2012 AGM.  
The LTIP allows for conditional awards with a maximum face value of up to 100% of base salary with a performance condition 
based on EPS.    
     
Deferred Share Bonus Plan (‘DSBP’) 
Executive directors and other senior management are eligible to participate in the Company’s Deferred Share Bonus Plan which 
promotes greater alignment with shareholders through an award of deferred shares. The DSBP allows for conditional awards 
with a face value of up to 50% of base salary with a performance condition based on EBIT (Earnings before interest and tax). 
The deferred bonus award vests on the second anniversary of the date of grant. The shares to satisfy the deferred bonus will  
be purchased by a trust on behalf of the Group and so the DSBP will not lead to any dilution of shareholder interest. Participants 
must be in employment with the Company and not under notice of termination (either given or received) on the date of vesting.  
       
Save As You Earn Plans (‘SAYE’)        
The Company operates a number of SAYE plans, which are open to all employees. Employees pay a fixed amount from salary 
into a savings account each month and may elect to save over three or five years. At the end of the savings period, employees 
have six months in which to exercise their options (after which the options expire) using the funds saved. If employees decide  
not to exercise their options, they may withdraw the funds saved. Exercise of options is subject to continued employment within 
the Group (except where permitted by the rules of the scheme).        
Share based payment expense        
The amounts recognised in the income statement, before income tax, for share-based payment transactions with employees 
was £2.9 million (2011: £1.9 million); the entire charge relates to subsidiaries.      
  
Options outstanding at the end of the year        
Outstanding awards granted prior to 2010 have been restated for the 1 to 10 share consolidation in 2010.   
        
The outstanding LTIPs (exercise price £1 per individual grant) and DSBPs (Nil-cost option), which arrange for the grant of shares 
to Executive Directors and senior management and the outstanding SAYE schemes are shown below:
LTIP DSBP SAYE
Number
(m)
Number
(m)
 
Number
(m)
Weighted
 average
 exercise price
(p)
Outstanding at 1 January 2011 2.9  1.2  2.0  223.4 
Adjusted during the year 	 –	 (0.2) 	 –	 	 –	
Forfeited during the year (0.2) (0.2) (0.3) 308.8 
Exercised during the year (1.5) 	 –	 (0.8) 196.0 
Granted during the year 0.8  0.6  1.0  186.5 
Outstanding at 31 December 2011 2.0  1.4  1.9  199.0 
At 1 January 2012 2.0  1.4  1.9  199.0 
Adjusted during the year –  0.2  –  – 
Forfeited during the year –  –  (0.4) 231.4 
Exercised during the year (0.6) –  –  – 
Granted during the year 0.8  0.6  –  – 
Outstanding at 31 December 2012 2.2  2.2  1.5  190.0 
Exercisable at the end of the period –  –  –  – 
        
Share options outstanding at the end of the year had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 6.4 years (2011: 3.6 years). 
        116  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
19 Employee benefits continued       
(b) Share-based payments continued
Fair value of options granted during the year        
The fair value of options granted are calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The aggregate fair value of options 
granted during the year was £2.7 million (2011: £3.2 million). The assumptions used in valuing the grants were: 
2012 2011
Expected volatility 20% 20%
Expected life (years) 2.7 – 5.0 2 . 7 	 – 	 5 . 0
Risk-free interest rate 2.1% 3.6%
Expected dividend yield 2% 2%
        
The expected volatility is based on the historical share price volatility over a term matching the expected life. The expected life  
is based on management’s best estimate having regard to the effect of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural 
considerations.        
20 Share capital
2012 2011
Number
(millions)
Nominal 
value
£m
Number
(millions)
Nominal 
value
£m
Issued share capital 
Shar e s 	 in 	 issue 	 a t 	 be ginning 	 o f 	 y e ar 	 – 	 O r dinar y 	 shar e s 	 o f 	 5 0 p 	 e ach , 	 f ully 	 paid 64.7 32.4 63.5 31.7
Issued in year (see below) 0.8 0.4 1.2 0.7
Shar e s 	 in 	 issue 	 a t 	 e nd 	 o f 	 y e ar 	 – 	 O rdinar y 	 shar e s 	 o f 	 5 0 p 	 e ach , 	 f ully 	 paid 65.5 32.8 64.7 32.4
        
The Company’s issued share capital comprised 65,544,306 ordinary shares of 50 pence each.    
    
On 4 April 2012, the Company issued 634,767 shares in respect of the exercise of options granted under the 2009 LTIP .  
      
The Company announced on 24 May 2012 that shareholders had, pursuant to the Scrip Dividend Scheme, elected to receive 
133,133 ordinary shares of 50 pence each in the Company in lieu of cash in respect of all or part of their final dividend for the  
year ended 31 December 2011, and a further 65,681 ordinary shares on 26 October 2012 in lieu of cash in respect of all or part 
of their interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012.        
During the year, the Company issued 3,800 shares on exercise of options granted under the 2008 3-year SAYE scheme.  
      
All shares rank pari passu regarding entitlement to capital and dividends.      
The share options outstanding at the year-end are detailed in Note 19. Details of the performance conditions and the options 
granted to executive directors are given in the Directors’ remuneration report.      
   Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  117
21 Contingent liabilities
 Group  Company
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Under guarantees of bank overdrafts to subsidiary companies – 	 –	 1.7  1.6 
        
Group        
There are contingent liabilities in respect of:        
•	 creditors of jointly controlled operations, which are less than the book value of their assets;   
•	 performance bonds and other undertakings entered into in the ordinary course of business;   
•	 legal claims arising in the ordinary course of business.        
It is not anticipated that any material liabilities will arise from the contingent liabilities other than those provided for (Note 18). 
       
Company        
The Company has guaranteed the obligations of the subsidiary companies that are participating employers of The Costain 
Pension Scheme, the defined benefit pension scheme in the United Kingdom. At 31 December 2012, the potential liability  
was £51.9 million (2011: £52.9 million) as disclosed in Note 19.        
22 Other financial commitments
Group        
Operating lease commitments        
 2012 2011
Leases as lessee
Land and
 buildings
£m
Other
 operating 
leases
£m
Land and
buildings
£m
Other
 operating 
leases
£m
Future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable  
 leases expiring:
No later than one year 4.3  3.6  4.8  2.8 
Between one and five years 7.1  3.4  9.5  4.3 
Later than five years 7.5  –  8.3 	 –	
 18.9  7.0  22.6  7.1 
        
  Land and buildings
Leases as lessor
2012
£m
2011
£m
Future aggregate minimum lease income under non-cancellable  
 leases expiring:
No later than one year 0.6  0.9 
Between one and five years 0.5  1.0 
 1.1  1.9 
        
The Group has various offices under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have various terms, escalation 
clauses and renewal rights. The Group also leases vehicles under non-cancellable operating leases.    
    
Company
The Company does not have any other financial commitments (2011: £Nil).       
  118  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
23 Principal subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities, associates and jointly  
controlled operations        
Activity
Percentage of
 equity held
Country of
 incorporation
Subsidiary undertakings
ClerkMaxwell Ltd Engineering and Design Services 100 UK
Costain Ltd Engineering, Construction and Maintenance 100 UK
Costain Abu Dhabi Co WLL Process Engineering 49 UAE
Costain Building & Civil Engineering Ltd Engineering and Construction 100 UK
Costain Engineering & Construction Ltd Holding 	 and 	 Se r vice 	 Compan y 100 UK
Costain Oil, Gas & Process Ltd Process Engineering 100 UK
Promanex (Civils & Industrial Services) Ltd Support Services 100 UK
Promanex (Construction & Maintenance Services) Ltd Support Services 100 UK
Promanex (Total FM & Environmental Services) Ltd Support Services 100 UK
Richard Costain Ltd Service Company 100 UK
        
Activity
Issued 
share capital
£m
Percentage of
 equity held
Country of
 incorporation
Reporting 
date
Jointly controlled entities
A lcaide sa 	 Holding 	 SA Land Development 10.9 50 Spain 31 December
Brigh t on 	 & 	 Ho v e 	 4 De liv er y 	 L t d Civil Engineering 	 –	 49 UK 31 March
4Delivery Ltd Civil Engineering 	 –	 40 UK 31 March
Associates
Se v er n 	 T r e n t 	 Costain 	 Holdings 	 L t d Asset Management 0.5 20 UK 31 March
Severn Trent Costain Services Ltd Asset Management 	 –	 20 UK 31 March
Severn Trent Costain Ltd Asset Management 	 –	 40 UK 31 March
Integrated Bradford LEP Ltd Construction and Operation of Schools 	 –	 40 UK 31 December
Lewisham Schools for the  
 Future LEP Ltd Construction and Operation of Schools 0.1 40 UK 31 March
Lewisham Schools for the  
 Future SPV 3 Ltd Construction and Operation of Schools 	 –	 40 UK 31 March
Lewisham Schools for the  
 Future SPV 4 Ltd Construction and Operation of Schools 	 –	 40 UK 31 March
        
The equity capital of the above are held by subsidiary undertakings with the exception of Richard Costain Limited and  
Costain Engineering & Construction Ltd.        
        
Costain Abu Dhabi Co WLL has been treated as a subsidiary undertaking due to Costain having power to influence and  
control the composition of the board of directors and the beneficial right to all the net income.     
   
All undertakings operate mainly in the country of incorporation, with the exception of Costain Building & Civil Engineering Ltd, 
which operates outside the United Kingdom.         
        
All holdings are of ordinary shares except Richard Costain Ltd, where Costain Group PLC holds 100% of the ordinary and 
preference shares.         Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  119
23 Principal subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities, associates and jointly  
controlled operations continued       
A full list of Group companies will be included in the Company’s annual return. 
Activity
Percentage 
of equity 
held
Country of
 incorporation
Major jointly controlled operations
A -one + 	 In t e gra t ed 	 High w a y 	 Ser vice s 	 – 	 MA C 	 7 Engineering & Maintenance 33 UK
A -one + 	 In t e gra t ed 	 High w a y 	 Ser vice s 	 – 	 MA C 	 1 0 Engineering & Maintenance 25 UK
A -one + 	 In t e gra t ed 	 High w a y 	 Ser vice s 	 – 	 MA C 	 1 2 Engineering & Maintenance 33 UK
A -one + 	 In t e gra t ed 	 High w a y 	 Ser vice s 	 – 	 MA C 	 1 4 Engineering & Maintenance 33 UK
Costain- Car illion 	 Join t 	 V e n tur e 	 – 	 M 1 	 Wide ning 	 and 	 A 5 / M 1 	 L ink Civil Engineering 50 UK
Costain-L aing 	 O ’ Rourk e 	 Join t 	 V e n tur e 	 – 	 Bond 	 Str e e t 	 sta tion Civil Engineering 50 UK
Costain-L aing 	 O ’ Rourk e 	 Join t 	 V e n tur e 	 – 	 F arringdon 	 sta tion Civil Engineering 50 UK
Costain-Hoch tie f 	 Join t 	 V e n tur e 	 – 	 Re a ding 	 sta tion Civil Engineering 50 UK
Costain- Skanska 	 C405 	 Join t 	 V e n tur e 	 – 	 P a ddingt on 	 – 	 Cr os srail Civil Engineering 50 UK
Costain- Skanska 	 C4 1 1 	 Join t 	 V e n tur e 	 – 	 Bond 	 Str e e t 	 – 	 Cr os srail Civil Engineering 50 UK
E duco 	 UK 	 Join t 	 V e n tur e 	 – 	 Bra df ord 	 Schools Construction 50 UK
Gallif ord - Costain- A tk ins 	 Join t 	 V e n tur e 	 – 	 Unit ed 	 Utilitie s Civil Engineering 42 UK
Lafarge Costain Joint Venture Civil Engineering 50 UK
        
24 Acquisitions
There were no acquisitions during the year and there were no changes to the acquisition fair values of ClerkMaxwell Limited and 
P r omane x 	 G r oup 	 Holdings 	 L imit ed 	 disclosed 	 in 	 the 	 2 0 1 1 	 financial 	 sta t e me n ts .
25 Related party transactions        
Group        
A related party relationship exists with its major shareholders, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, jointly controlled 
operations, The Costain Pension Scheme and with its directors and executive officers.     
        
Sales of goods and services
 2012 2011
Joint 
ventures and
 associates
£m
Jointly
 controlled
 operations
£m
Total
£m
Joint 
ventures and 
associates
£m
Jointly
 controlled
 operations
£m
Total
£m
Services of Group employees 20.6  61.9  82.5  23.9  59.6  83.5 
Construction services and materials 41.0  3.2  44.2  46.7  2.9  49.6 
 61.6  65.1  126.7  70.6  62.5  133.1 
        
There were no sales of goods and services to major shareholders during the year (2011: £Nil).     
        
An amount due from a major shareholder has been fully provided against since 2006. It relates to work carried out under  
a subcontract. Discussions among all the parties continue but recovery is uncertain.      
  
Balances with joint ventures and associates are disclosed in Notes 14 and 17. Balances with jointly controlled operations are 
eliminated on consolidation.        
         120  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
 Notes to the financial statements 
 continued
25 Related party transactions continued       
Major shareholders        
Mohammed Abdulmohsin Al-Kharafi & Sons Co. W.L.L. and UEM Builders Berhad are regarded as related parties of the 
Company.
        
The Costain Pension Scheme        
Details of transactions between the Group and The Costain Pension Scheme are included in Note 19.  
Transactions with key management personnel        
The directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control 383,292 ordinary shares in Costain Group PLC, which 
expressed as a percentage of the issued share capital is 0.6% (2011: 0.4%) of the voting shares of the Company.   
     
In addition to their salaries, in respect of the Executive Directors and executive officers, the Group provides non-cash benefits 
and contributes to defined contribution pension plans. Executive Directors and executive officers also participate in the Group’s 
LTIP, DSBP and SAYE plans, which are detailed in Note 19.        
The compensation of key management personnel, including the directors, is as follows: 
  Group
2012
£m
2011
£m
Directors’ emoluments 1.4  1.6 
Executive officers’ emoluments 2.1  2.1 
Post retirement benefits 0.3  0.4 
Termination benefits 0.2 	 –	
Share-based payments 1.1  0.9 
5.1 5.0 
        
The above amounts are included in employee benefit expense (Note 5).       
 
Company        
The Company has no transactions with related parties other than the charge in relation to share-based payments (Note 19) 
(2011: none).         Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  121
Five-year financial summary
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Revenue and profit
Revenue (Group and share of joint ventures and associates) 934.5  986.3  1,022.5  1,061.1  996.0 
Less: Share of joint ventures and associates (86.1) (117.8) (98.0) (67.7) (93.4)
Group revenue 848.4  868.5  924.5  993.4  902.6 
Group operating profit before other items 22.3  24.1  17.4  22.0  19.5 
Other items:
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (1.7) (0.9) 	 –	 	 –	 	 –	
Employment related deferred consideration (1.7) (0.7) 	 –	 	 –	 	 –	
Group operating profit 18.9  22.5  17.4  22.0  19.5 
Profit on sales of investments –  0.5 	 –	 	 –	 	 –	
Profit on sales of interests in joint ventures and associates 10.5  0.3  11.2  2.0  2.7 
Profit on sale of land and property – 	 –	 1.3 	 –	 	 –	
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (1.4) (1.3) (0.5) (3.2) (3.9)
Profit from operations 28.0  22.0  29.4  20.8 18.3 
Finance income 27.3  34.1  30.7  26.0  34.8 
Finance expense (29.2) (32.2) (32.2) (28.7) (30.0)
Net finance(expense)/income (1.9) 1.9  (1.5) (2.7) 4.8 
Profit before tax 26.1  23.9  27.9  18.1  23.1 
Income tax (1.9) (5.2) (4.8) (3.5) (4.9)
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders  
 of the parent 24.2  18.7  23.1  14.6  18.2 
Ear nings 	 pe r 	 shar e 	 – 	 basic * 37.1p 29.2 36.4p 23.0p 29.0p
Ear nings 	 pe r 	 shar e 	 – 	 dilut ed * 35.8p 28.2 35.4p 22.6p 29.0p
Dividends per ordinary share
Final* 7.25p 6.75p 6.25p 5.5p 5.0p
Interim* 3.50p 3.25p 3.0p 2.75p 2.5p
Summarised consolidated statement of financial position
Intangible assets 18.7  20.3  0.1  1.0  1.8 
Property, plant and equipment 9.1  11.4  9.7  11.5  7.7 
Investments in equity accounted joint ventures and associates 40.4  42.9  37.4  44.1  42.7 
Other non-current assets 34.9  33.8  39.8  47.3  24.9 
Total non-current assets 103.1  108.4  87.0  103.9  77.1 
Current assets 290.6 332.0  309.3  325.1  329.2 
Total assets 393.7  440.4  396.3  429.0  406.3 
Current liabilities 303.1  348.3  311.4  320.5  312.1 
Retirement benefit obligations 51.9  52.9  39.6  104.7  50.2 
Other non-current liabilities 6.9  8.4  7.7  7.6  10.4 
Total liabilities 361.9 409.6  358.7  432.8  372.7 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 31.8  30.8  37.6  (3.8) 33.6 
*
  The figures for 2008 and 2009 have been restated for the 1 for 10 share consolidation in 2010. 122  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Other information
 Financial calendar and  
 other shareholder information
Financial calendar* 
Full year results 6 March 2013 
Annual Report mailing 28 March 2013 
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 17 April 2013 
Final dividend record date 19 April 2013
Interim Management Statement 8 May 2013 
Annual General Meeting 8 May 2013
Final dividend payment date 
 (subject to shareholder approval) 24 May 2013
Half - y e ar 	 e nd	 30 June 2013 
Half - y e ar 	 r e sults 	 2 0 1 3 22 August 2013
Ex-dividend date for  
 interim dividend 18 September 2013
Interim dividend record date 20 September 2013
Interim dividend payment date 25 October 2013
Interim Management Statement October 2013
Financial year-end 31 December 2013
*
  The financial calendar may be updated from time to time throughout the year. 
Please refer to our website www.costain.com for up-to-date details. 
Scrip dividend scheme 
Subject to approval at the 2013 Annual General Meeting,  
a scrip dividend scheme will be offered in respect of the final 
dividend. Those shareholders who have already elected to  
join the scheme will automatically have their dividend sent  
to them in this form. 
Shareholders wishing to join the scheme for the final  
dividend (and all future dividends) should return a completed 
mandate form to the Registrar, Equiniti by 02 May 2013. 
Copies of the mandate form and the scrip dividend brochure 
can be downloaded from the Company’s website at  
www.costain.com or obtained from Equiniti by telephoning 
0871 384 2268** or +44 121 415 7173 if calling from outside 
the United Kingdom. 
Analysis of shareholders 
Accounts Shares %
Institutions, companies,   
 individuals and nominees: 
Shareholdings 100,000  
 and more 65 55,023,617 83.95
Shareholdings 50,000-99,999 38 2,610,553 3.98 
Shareholdings 25,000-49,999 35 1,207,824 1.84
Shareholdings 5,000-24,999 316 3,237,299 4.94
Shareholdings 1-4,999 10,877 3,465,013 5.29
Totals 11,331 65,544,306 100
Secretary 
Tracey Wood 
Registered Office 
Costain 	 House , 	 V an w all 	 Busine s s 	 P ar k , 	 Maide nhe ad ,	
Berkshire SL6 4UB 
Telephone 01628 842 444 
www.costain.com 
info@costain.com 
Company Number 1393773 
Registrar 
E quiniti , 	 Aspe ct 	 House , 	 Spe nce r 	 Road , 	 L ancing ,	 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
Telephone 0871 384 2250** or +44 121 415 7047 if calling 
from outside the United Kingdom.
Shareholder information 
T he 	 Compan y ’ s 	 Re gistrar 	 is 	 E quiniti , 	 Aspe ct 	 House ,	 
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. For 
enquiries regarding your shareholding, please telephone  
0871 384 2250** (or +44 121 415 7047 if calling from outside 
the United Kingdom). You can also view up to date information 
about your holdings by visiting the shareholder website  
at www.shareview.co.uk (see page 123 for further details). 
Please ensure that you advise Equiniti promptly of a change  
of name or address. 
**  Calls to 0871 numbers cost 8p per minute plus network extras. Lines are 
open Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm, excluding UK bank holidays.  Financial 
statements
Other information Corporate 
Governance
Business review Overview
 Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012  123
Dividend mandate 
Shareholders can arrange to have their dividends paid directly 
into their bank or building society account, by completing a 
bank mandate form. The advantages to using this service are: 
•	 the payment is more secure as you can avoid the risk of 
cheques getting lost in the post; 
•	 it avoids the hassle of paying in a cheque; and 
•	 there is no risk of lost, stolen or out-of-date cheques. 
A mandate form can be obtained from the Company’s 
website, or by contacting Equiniti on 0871 384 2250**  
(+44 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the United Kingdom) 
who will be pleased to assist you and can also be obtained  
via the shareholder website at www.shareview.co.uk  
(see below for further details. Alternatively, you will find one 
attached to the tax voucher of your last dividend payment. 
Overseas shareholders can arrange for their dividends to  
be paid in their local currency and more information can be 
obtained from www.shareview.com/overseas
Shareview service 
The Shareview service from our Registrar, Equiniti, gives 
shareholders: 
•	 direct access to data held on their behalf on the share 
register including recent share movements and dividend 
details; and 
•	 the ability to change their address or dividend payment 
instructions online. 
To sign up for Shareview you need the ‘shareholder reference’ 
printed on your proxy form or dividend stationery. There is no 
charge to register. 
When you register with the site, you can register your preferred 
format (post or email) for shareholder communications. If you 
select email as your mailing preference, you will be notified of 
various shareholder communications, such as annual results, 
by email instead of post. 
If you have your dividends paid straight to your bank account, 
and you have selected email as your mailing preference, 
you can also collect your tax voucher electronically. Instead 
of receiving the paper tax voucher, you will be notified by  
email with details of how to download your electronic version.  
Visit the website at www.shareview.co.uk for more details. 
Details of software and equipment requirements are given 
on the website. 
Unsolicited mail 
The Company is legally obliged to make its share register 
available to the general public. Consequently, some 
shareholders may receive unsolicited mail, including 
correspondence from unauthorised investment firms. 
Shareholders who wish to limit the amount of unsolicited  
mail they receive can contact: 
The Mailing Preference Service 
Freepost 29 LON20771 
London W1E OZT 
Further guidance on this issue can also be found on the 
Company’s website at www.costain.com
ShareGift 
The Orr Macintosh Foundation (ShareGift) operates a charity 
share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels  
of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them. 
Details of the scheme are available on the ShareGift website  
at www.sharegift.org. Equiniti can provide stock transfer 
forms on request. Donating shares to charity in this way gives 
rise neither to a gain nor a loss for Capital Gains Tax purposes. 
This service is completely free of charge.
**  Calls to 0871 numbers cost 8p per minute plus network extras. Lines are 
open Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm, excluding UK bank holidays. 124  Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Other information
 C onta ct us
Costain is committed to engaging in dialogue with  
all its stakeholders. We are actively encouraging feedback 
on our Annual Report and would welcome any views you 
may have. A feedback response box has been provided 
on the Annual Report microsite to enable you to comment.
Website links:
www.costain.com
www.costain.com/investors
www.costain.com/responsibility
www.costain.com/annual-report-2012
www.costain.com/news
For shareholder information,  
please contact: 
Tracey Wood
Legal Director and Company Secretary 
info@costain.com 
For corporate communications,  
please contact: 
Graham Read
Communications Director
info@costain.com
For corporate responsibility,  
please contact: 
Catherine Warbrick
Corporate Responsibility Director
info@costain.com
We welcome your views Who we are
At Costain we are continually progressing our business  
to become the engineering solutions provider of choice. 
Our customers demand a seamless world-class service  
– from initial consultancy and advice to construction  
and engineering solutions, and long-term asset care and  
maintenance support.
We can never stand still. Throughout our history of  
almost 150 years we have been driven by the need  
to seek continually new and innovative ways to meet  
the challenges of delivering ever more complex solutions.
Our vision 
Our vision is to be one of the UK’s top engineering 
solutions providers. We must be the best for technical, 
innovative expertise and sustainable solutions.
What we do
We focus on intelligent solutions to meet national needs. 
As a Tier One engineering solutions provider, we provide 
front-end engineering consultancy, construction and 
ongoing care and maintenance services across market 
sectors including water, waste, power, rail, hydrocarbons 
and chemicals, highways and nuclear process.
How we operate
We are committed to operating our business both 
sustainably and responsibly. We are focused on one 
simple but powerful message – ‘Costain Cares’.  
This is not a slogan: it is an attitude of mind. It is integral  
to everything we do and a touchstone against which  
we can evaluate and measure our performance.  
Costain Cares about relationships, our environment  
and the future.
How we create value
Our ‘Choosing Costain’ strategy is designed to meet 
national needs by upgrading and maintaining the  
UK’s infrastructure and aiding economic recovery and 
growth. Value is created by our drive for innovation and  
we are committed to a constant quest for improvement. 
We are confident that our robust business model and  
our strategic focus will continue to deliver shareholder 
value in the years ahead.
Find us online
Our Annual Report 2012 is available 
in both printed form and within the 
‘Investors’ section of the Costain 
website at www.costain.com/
investors. Effective communication 
with our shareholders is vital to our 
continued success and we would 
welcome feedback on either or  
both versions of this Annual Report 
– contact us at info@costain.com
Designed and produced by The College www.the-college.com
 
Costain photographers: Mike Doherty, front cover and page 124 
(Catherine Warbrick), pages 1, 10, 11 (Bidston Moss Viaduct), pages 49 
and 124 (Tracey Wood); Phil Starling, front cover (Dave Johnson and  
Shuly Choudhury), pages 1 and 8 (Dave Johnson), pages 1 and 10  
(Oliver O’Brien), pages 1 and 12 (Winny Oshodi), page 4 (Great Ormond 
Street Hospital), page 5 (Investor Relations Society Award); Ed Tyler, 
pages 6, 14, 44, 49, 51 (Costain Board Directors), page 124 (Graham Read); 
Ian Routledge, pages 48, 49, (Costain Board Directors); and Gustavo 
Ferrari, Pro Light Studio, page 49 (Samer G. Younis).
 
Additional photography: Matt Aston, pages 1, 8, 9 (Reading Station); 
Courtesy of Curtis Photography and Southern Water, page 26 (cleaner 
seas to Sussex); Darren Ruane, page 27 (M1 Junction 10-13 scheme); 
Brian Sherwen, www.briansherwen.co.uk page 32 (Bridges to schools 
event); and Tandem TV & Film, page 35 (Achieving Excellence Awards).
The Annual Report is printed by an FSC (Forest Stewardship Council),  
ISO 14001 and Carbon Neutral certified printer using vegetable  
based inks. (ISO 14001 is a pattern of control for an environmental 
management system against which an organisation can be credited  
by a third party. FSC ensures there is an audited chain of custody from  
the tree in the well-managed forest through to the finished document  
in the printing factory.)
This Report has been printed on Cocoon 50% Gloss and Cocoon  
100% Offset – both are recycled papers. They contain 50% recycled 
waste and 100% recycled waste respectively, are FSC certified and 
produced at a mill with ISO 14001 certification. Recycled fibres used  
are Process Chlorine Free.
PAS2020
ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE
CERTIFIED
CERTIFYING BODY
If you have finished reading the Annual Report and no longer wish  
to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or return it  
to Costain Group PLC or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.  
Thank you.
 
This Annual Report is available at www.costain.com Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
Source: 
Carbon footprint data evaluated by FactorX in accordance 
with the Bilan Carbone® methodology. Calculations are 
based on a comparison between the recycled paper 
used versus a virgin fibre paper according to the latest 
European BREF data (virgin fibre paper) available. 
By printing 4,000 copies of this
publication on Cocoon recycled
papers, the environmental impact
was reduced by:
Results are obtained according to technical information and are subject 
to modification.  
2,915 kg of landfill
60,268 litres of water
5,857 kWh of electricity
397 kg CO 2 and greenhouse gases
4,736 kg of wood
Visit www.costain.com
Costain Group PLC
Costain House
Vanwall Business Park
Maidenhead
Berkshire SL6 4UB
United Kingdom
Engineering 
Tomorrow 
Costain Group PLC Annual Report 2012
