 CPPGroup Plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
About CPP
CPPGroup Plc is an international assistance 
business operating in the UK and overseas 
within the financial services, telecommunications 
and travel sectors. 
Our report
This year’s Annual Report includes a strategic report and increased governance content to help our stakeholders 
better understand our business. We hope you find it useful and informative.
Access our corporate website at
cppgroupplc.com 
Group overview
02  Financial overview and Key Performance 
Indicators
04 At a glance
Strategic report
06 Chairman’s statement
08 Chief Executive Officer’s statement
10 Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer
12 Our business model and strategy
14 Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility
16 Operating review
18 Financial review
23 Risk management and principal risks
Corporate governance
28 Introduction from the Chairman
30 Board of Directors and Company Secretary
32 Corporate Governance report
36 Report of the Audit Committee
39  Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
40  Report of the Nomination & Governance 
Committee
41 Remuneration report
54 Directors’ report
57 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Financial statements
59 Independent Auditor’s report
62 Consolidated income statement
63  Consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income
64 Consolidated balance sheet
65 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
66 Consolidated cash flow statement
67 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
102 Company balance sheet
103 Notes to the Company financial statements
111 Company offices
112 Shareholder information www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 01
Strategic report
Group overview
 ǔ About CPP
Financial overview and Key Performance Indicators
At a glance
Group overview and 
strategic report 
Group overview
02  Financial overview and Key Performance Indicators
04 At a glance
Strategic report
06 Chairman’s statement
08 Chief Executive Officer’s statement
10 Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer
12 Our business model and strategy
14 Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility
16 Operating review
18 Financial review
23 Risk management and principal risks www.cppgroupplc.com
02 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Financial overview and Key Performance Indicators
Revenue 
continuing operations only
£178.0m 
(2012: £269.9m)
Underlying operating (loss)/profit
1
 
continuing operations only
£(1.8)m 
(2012: £26.7m profit restated)
Reported loss after tax
continuing and discontinued operations
£(32.9)m 
(2012: £(17.2)m)
Definition:  
Revenue from the Group’s major product 
offerings (defined in note 5 of the financial 
statements). This excludes non-policy revenue. 
Performance:  
Revenue from retail assistance policies 
has declined compared to 2012, reflecting 
the decline in Card Protection and Identity 
Protection renewals. The continued new 
retail sales restrictions associated with the 
VVOP , mainly in the UK, restricts the Group’s 
ability to grow retail revenue. Revenue from 
retail insurance and packaged and wholesale 
have declined year-on-year as a result of lost 
Business Partner contracts in the UK. This 
measure excludes non-policy revenue of 
£0.5 million in 2013 (2012: £8.3 million).
2011 2012 2013
£293.3m
£261.6m
£177.5m
Packaged and wholesale revenue
Retail insurance revenue
Retail assistance revenue
Revenue by major product (KPI)
Definition: 
The net amount of annual retail policies 
remaining on book after the scheduled renewal 
date, as a proportion of those available to renew. 
Performance: 
The annual renewal rate for 2013 has declined 
by 4.1 percentage points since December 2012. 
This reflects a reduction in the Card Protection 
and Identity Protection renewal rates in the UK 
following amendments to the renewal process 
implemented in late 2012 and increased 
cancellations resulting from Scheme 
correspondence and associated publicity.
2011 2012 2013
76.0%
73.5%
69.4%
Annual renewal rate (KPI)
2
 
Definition: 
The total number of active policies that provide 
continuing cover or services to policyholders. 
 
Performance: 
The live policy base is 2.0 million lower than 
December 2012 due to UK factors including the 
loss of the RBS Mobile Phone Insurance (MPI) 
contract and declining Card Protection and 
Identity Protection renewals, including the impact 
of increased cancellations following Scheme of 
Arrangement (Scheme) correspondence and 
associated publicity. The on-going Voluntary 
Variation of Permissions (VVOP) restrictions in 
the UK are limiting the Group’s ability to increase 
its live policy base. Live policies outside the UK 
have declined marginally.
2011 2012 2013
10.2m
9.1m
7.1m
Live policies (KPI)
2
 
As the Scheme progresses through 2014, the level of claims will have an impact on some of our KPIs.
 ц Our live policies will reduce because an accepted claim in the Scheme results in a cancellation of the relevant policy. However, the majority 
of claims are anticipated to be in respect of policies that were already cancelled before the Scheme began and do not therefore form part 
of the current live policy base. Only those cancelled policies which are part of the live base will impact this measure going forward. 
 ц Our renewal rate will not be directly impacted by Scheme cancellations because these policies are considered not available to renew in 
the normal course of business and do not therefore fall within the renewal rate definition. Additionally, as it is anticipated the majority of 
claims are in respect of policies that cancelled before the Scheme began, these policies are already reflected in historical renewal rates. 
 ц Scheme claims will be funded through cash retained in CPPL, which is currently restricted by the terms of the VVOP. As a result, 
VVOP restricted cash and the Group total cash balance will reduce significantly in 2014. At the time of approving the accounts, 
redress payments have been made to date totalling £16.5 million.
 ц Further Scheme detail is provided on page 6. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 03
Group overview
About CPP
 ǔ Financial overview and Key Performance Indicators
At a glance
Definition: 
Cost of sales (excluding commission) 
and other administrative expenses as 
a percentage of revenue. 
Performance: 
Our cost income ratio has increased by 
9.7 percentage points year-on-year largely 
due to declining Card Protection and 
Identity Protection renewal revenue in the 
UK. This impact has been partly offset by 
the significant steps taken by the Group in 
2013 to reduce its cost base through the 
commencement of a restructuring 
programme, the benefits of which will 
continue in 2014. 
2011 2012 2013
54.4%
61.0%
70.7%
Definition: 
Operating (loss)/profit before exceptional 
items as a percentage of revenue. 
 
Performance: 
Our underlying operating margin has 
decreased 10.9 percentage points due to 
a decline in renewal income for Card 
Protection and Identity Protection and 
reducing MPI margins in the UK through 
increasing direct costs relative to revenue. 
The impact is partly offset by the 
significant steps taken by the Group in 
2013 to reduce its cost base through the 
commencement of a restructuring 
programme, the benefits of which will 
continue in 2014. 
2011 2012 2013
14.0%
9.9%
(1.0)%
Definition: 
Group cash balances allocated between 
regulatory funds, VVOP restricted funds 
and free cash available to utilise 
throughout the Group.
Performance:
Regulatory and VVOP restricted funds 
have increased year-on-year reflecting the 
cash generated in the UK’s main trading 
entities, Card Protection Plan Ltd (CPPL) 
and Homecare Insurance Ltd (HIL), which 
cannot be distributed to the wider Group 
due to solvency requirements and/or the 
terms of the VVOP. 
The decline in free cash reflects the 
cash used by the wider Group compared 
to the cash generated principally by its 
overseas operations. This is mainly due 
to refinancing costs incurred in the year, 
Group overhead requirements and continued 
investment in developing markets.
2011 2012 2013
£48.7m
£53.2m
£66.9m
1.  Underlying operating (loss)/profit excludes exceptional items of £37.5 million (2012: £43.9 million). Exceptional items in the year include customer redress 
and associated costs, restructuring costs and IT asset impairments.
2. 2011 & 2012 have been restated to exclude the North American operation which is discontinued.
3.  2011 & 2012 have been restated to exclude the North American operation and Home3 joint venture which are discontinued. 
Free cash
VVOP restricted cash
Regulated cash
Cost/income ratio (KPI)
2
Underlying operating (loss)/profit margin (KPI)
3
Group cash balances (KPI)
2
“ As expected, our financial performance during 
2013 is reflective of the challenges of the Group’s 
environment, particularly in the UK, and has been 
compounded by the loss of key business contracts.” www.cppgroupplc.com
04 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
At a glance
About CPP
CPP is an international assistance business operating in the UK 
and overseas within the financial services, telecommunications 
and travel sectors. Our retail, wholesale and packaged products 
help to provide security for our customers worldwide and are 
designed to make everyday life easier to manage. Our core 
products provide assistance, protecting items that are 
important to our customers. Our travel service product 
enhances the experience of leisure and business travel. 
We are evolving our business...
Our emerging strategy
We are evolving and repositioning the business. 
We have developed a short term business plan 
and are identifying opportunities that will create 
sustainable growth in the future.  
 
Our strategy page 13
Find out more on page 17
Our business model 
We primarily operate a business-to-business-to-
consumer (B2B2C) business model. The Group 
provides services and retail, wholesale and packaged 
products to customers through Business Partners 
and direct to consumer. 
Our business model page 12
7.1
million 
live policies 
worldwide
Latin 
America
Europe and 
Latin America
Revenue contribution
£42.6m
24% of Group revenue
Underlying operating profit
£7.1m
Our products
Our products are offered to our customers worldwide.  www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 05
Group overview
About CPP
Financial overview and Key Performance Indicators
 ǔ At a glance
Our performance
As expected, our performance during 2013 reflects the 
on-going challenges experienced by the Group, 
particularly in the UK. You can find out more about our 
performance in this report. 
 
Financial review pages 18 to 22
Find out more on page 16
Find out more on page 17
Our vision
To be a responsible assistance business 
offering products with improved value, 
choice, service and delivery. 
 
 
Corporate Responsibility pages 14 and 15
69.4%
annual 
renewal rate
1,100+
employees 
worldwide
Europe
Asia Pacific
Revenue contribution
£6.4m
4% of Group revenue
Underlying operating loss
£(0.8)m
UK and Ireland
Revenue contribution
£129.0m
72% of Group revenue
Underlying operating loss
£(8.1)m www.cppgroupplc.com
06 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Chairman’s statement
2013 milestones
•  May 2013: disposal of the North 
American business 
• May 2013: began the process 
to restructure the Group and 
continued to reduce costs
• July 2013: successfully refinanced 
the Group 
• August 2013: formalised the 
Scheme of Arrangement 
• September 2013: appointed new 
Executive Management team
Our objectives
•  Complete the Scheme of 
Arrangement
• Rebuild the business on solid 
foundations 
• Improve our operational and IT 
capability, controls and governance
• Develop longer term business plan
• Modernise the business
• Progress towards improved 
performance 
• Ensure we operate as a 
customer-led business
We are now in a stronger position and have the opportunity 
to take the Group forward
Progress, challenge and change
I joined CPP in January 2011 as a 
Non-Executive Director, shortly before the 
onset of what has been a turbulent period 
for the Group. We have faced three years of 
immense challenge and uncertainty and the 
impact on the business has been profound. 
The Board has clearly recognised the 
seriousness of past failings identified by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
investigation that began in 2011 into sales 
practices in the UK business. The investigation 
concluded in late 2012 and the Group, as agreed 
with the FCA, has operated with restrictions 
to the regulated permissions of the regulated 
entities under a Voluntary Variation 
of Permissions (VVOP). The vehicle for 
providing redress – the Scheme of 
Arrangement (Scheme) – was formalised in 
August 2013, through which CPP and certain 
of its Business Partners can review claims and, 
where appropriate, pay redress. The Scheme 
was approved in early 2014 and will conclude 
on 30 August 2014. I am therefore pleased 
that redress is now being paid to customers 
who were mis-sold our products. 
We acknowledge that, as a result of the 
period of uncertainty and challenges we 
have faced, concerns of our stakeholders have 
been heightened. Therefore, with the Scheme 
underway and due to conclude in August, we 
hope that as we begin to rebuild the business 
we can collectively start to look forward 
together. It will be a substantial task to 
rebuild the Group and it will take time before 
our performance improves and our credibility 
is restored. Our challenges will continue and 
further change is required as we move forward 
to a more stable position. Nonetheless, we are 
pleased that we are now in a stronger position 
and have the opportunity to take the Group 
forward for the next phase of its development.
Turning to 2013, encouraging progress was 
made in a challenging year and we achieved 
a number of milestones. We disposed of the 
North American business; began restructuring 
the Group; continued to reduce our costs 
substantially; successfully refinanced the 
Group through our existing lenders and 
certain Business Partners; formalised the 
Scheme; and strengthened our Executive 
Management team. We also continued to 
place particular emphasis on our operating 
and IT capabilities and the improvements 
required to our governance.
In late 2013, we began developing a new 
business plan to return the Group to a 
position of stability and strength. We also 
identified our key priorities, with particular 
focus on cost reduction, our operational and 
IT environment, reviewing the strategic fit of 
certain markets and our joint venture 
in Home3. We have a short term business 
plan which is evolving as the future of the 
Group becomes more certain. In addition 
to completing the Scheme, our objectives 
are to continue to improve our operational 
capability, controls and governance, 
implement a new IT infrastructure and 
modernise the business. 
Our aim is to progress towards improved 
performance and ensure we operate as a 
customer-led business. Importantly, we 
need to be confident that we are rebuilding 
the business on solid foundations which 
ultimately will allow us to apply to remove 
the restrictions on our regulatory permissions. 
Once the Scheme is concluded, we can 
start to embed our longer term plans. 
Risk management 
pages 23 and 24
Principal risks 
pages 25 and 26
Corporate governance 
pages 28 to 57
Remuneration report 
pages 41 to 53
Duncan McIntyre
Non-Executive Chairman www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 07
Strategic report
 ǔ Chairman’s statement
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer
Our business model and strategy
Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility
Operating review
Financial review
Risk management and principal risks
We are currently in consultation with our 
key stakeholders regarding a possible 
requirement for future funding. 
In view of the challenges we have faced, 
the Board continues to believe it is not 
appropriate to pay a dividend.
Reporting developments
This year’s Annual Report incorporates 
a number of new disclosure requirements 
to make our strategy, performance and 
Directors’ remuneration easier to understand. 
An enhanced Audit Committee report and 
Auditor’s report is also included in this year’s 
report. The Board provides its confirmation 
on page 57 that the report presents a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment 
of CPP’s position and prospects.
Risk management
In 2013, we continued to develop our risk 
management and internal control framework, 
focusing on the principal risks that the Group 
faces. Effective risk management and robust 
internal control, which is summarised on pages 
23 and 24, is central to the achievement of 
our business plans and strategic objectives 
as we move forward and develop the Group 
for the future.
Governance
We continue to make improvements which 
are required to strengthen the governance 
and control environment. During 2013, these 
included enhancements to our Business 
Incident Management system, risk register 
and the introduction of minimum standards 
across the Group. The Board is committed to 
implementing a strong governance framework 
throughout the business, supported by our 
Committees. Full details of our approach to 
governance can be found on pages 32 to 35. 
“ Encouraging progress was made in a challenging 
year; nonetheless, it will take time before our 
performance improves and our credibility is restored.”
Duncan McIntyre, Non-Executive Chairman
Remuneration
Our objective is to ensure that our 
remuneration policies clearly reflect our 
business objectives and performance and 
that the interests of the management team 
and shareholders are aligned. During the 
year, the Remuneration Committee 
reviewed the remuneration policies to 
ensure that they remained appropriate. 
The Board 
In December 2013, Charles Gregson 
announced his intention to step down as 
Non-Executive Chairman and in January 
2014, I was appointed as Non-Executive 
Chairman with the support of the Group’s 
largest shareholders. On behalf of the Board 
I would like to thank Charles for his 
significant contribution during his tenure.
During the year, the Group made a number 
of changes to the Board. With effect from 
1 September 2013, Brent Escott and Craig 
Parsons became Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer respectively to 
lead the Group forward. They succeeded 
Paul Stobart and Shaun Parker who stepped 
down from their respective roles at the end 
of August 2013. I would like to thank both 
Paul and Shaun for their hard work and 
commitment to the Group during a period 
of immense challenge. 
A number of Non-Executive Director changes 
took place during the year. Mr Hamish Ogston, 
who founded CPP in 1980, stepped down 
from his role as Non-Executive Director in 
June 2013. In September and October 2013 
respectively, we announced the appointments 
of Shaun Astley-Stone and Ruth Evans to the 
Non-Executive team, broadening the skillset 
and experience of the Board. Furthermore, 
Les Owen has indicated his intention to retire 
from the Board once a successor has 
been identified.
Looking ahead
As I said in my opening comments, we have 
made encouraging progress; however our 
journey is in its infancy and our performance 
in 2014 will continue to be constrained as we 
concentrate our efforts to rebuild the business. 
Until the Scheme draws to a close on 30 
August 2014, material uncertainty remains. It 
is evident that the financial impact will be 
significant and the Group’s financial resources 
will be reduced. 
The Board is taking what it collectively 
believes to be an appropriate course of 
action to improve our performance within a 
realistic timeframe. Much work will continue 
to take place during 2014 to complete the 
improvements and changes required to 
reposition the Group whilst we also resolve 
the challenges that remain and complete 
the Scheme. The Board is actively assessing 
the options for value creation going forward 
and building on our strengths and progress 
made, our key objective is to create a 
sustainable business proposition for the 
long term.
I would like to thank our people for their 
continued commitment and loyalty and the 
Board is grateful for the on-going support of 
our stakeholders.
Duncan McIntyre
Non-Executive Chairman
23 April 2014 www.cppgroupplc.com
08 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Progress made
•  Refinanced the Group, commenced 
restructure and streamlined the 
cost base
• Reviewed operational and IT 
capabilities, existing products 
and distribution 
• Improved internal governance 
and controls
• Developed a clear short term 
plan for the business
• Strengthened the depth and 
expertise of management
Our priorities
• Complete the Scheme of 
Arrangement
• Implement a robust and efficient 
operational and IT environment
• Strengthen governance and 
controls across the Group
• Modernise our products to 
enhance our customer experience 
• Apply to remove the restrictions on 
our regulatory permissions in the 
UK (removal of VVOP) 
• Strengthen Business Partner 
relationships
• Engage with stakeholders 
to agree the long term future 
of the business
We are moving forward and building a stronger business 
to realise our future opportunities
Our progress
In my first review as Chief Executive Officer 
of CPP I am encouraged by the progress that 
the Group has made, despite the challenges 
it has faced. I joined CPP in June 2013 as 
Interim Deputy CEO before being appointed 
Group CEO in September 2013. It is clear 
to me that the journey for CPP has been 
difficult and that the milestones achieved 
would not have been possible without the 
hard work of our people. I give great credit 
to them for their continued dedication to 
both CPP and our customers. 
Much work took place during 2013 and we 
have made considerable progress in a short 
time; evident in the sale of the US business, 
the successful refinancing, repositioning the 
Group and streamlining our cost base. Since 
my appointment in September, there has 
been a clear focus on reducing cost, 
assessing the capability of the operational and 
IT environment and undertaking a thorough 
assessment of the future potential of the 
existing business model – both products 
and distribution. At the same time, we have 
successfully commenced the Scheme and we 
are encouraged that those who voted were 
overwhelmingly in support of the Scheme. 
We have refocused our international business 
development and sales efforts, minimum 
standards have been introduced across the 
Group and we are finalising plans to embed 
a cost-effective IT platform and a more 
efficient operational environment. The review 
of our existing activities has resulted in the 
planned exit from France and Singapore and 
we also completed the sale of our 
shareholding in Home3, a joint venture with 
Mapfre. Most importantly, we have 
identified and delivered further operational 
cost savings, expected to be £15 million 
year-on-year. 
There is more work ahead as we modernise, 
reposition the business and complete the 
required changes to our operating and IT 
environment. Nevertheless, the progress 
made has provided CPP with a more stable 
platform from which to move forward and 
build the foundations that will support our 
future growth.
Our performance 
As expected, our financial performance 
during 2013 reflects the challenges of the 
Group’s environment, particularly in the UK, 
and has been compounded by the loss of 
key business contracts. Revenue reduced 
to £178.0 million (2012: £269.9 million) and 
underlying operating performance which 
excludes exceptional items reduced from 
a profit in 2012 to a loss of £1.8 million 
(2012: £26.7 million profit). The Group has 
recognised significant exceptional items in the 
period of £37.5 million (2012: £43.9 million), 
mainly comprising customer redress 
and associated costs, restructuring costs 
and IT asset impairments that reflect the 
write-down of historical capital expenditure 
on the balance sheet. This has resulted in 
a reported operating loss of £39.3 million 
(2012: £17.3 million). At a Group level, 
renewal rates for the year were 69.4% 
(2012: 73.5%) and live policies totalled 
7.1 million (2012: 9.1 million).
In the face of these challenges and the 
significant risks and uncertainties the Group 
has endured, it has been difficult to grow 
the business in recent years.
Scheme letters were issued from 12 February 
2014 and Scheme claims are tracking broadly 
within our expectations. We have further 
increased the provision for customer redress 
and associated costs by £4.0 million since 
20 December 2013, resulting in the total cost 
Brent Escott
Chief Executive Officer
Our business model 
page 12
Our strategy 
page 13
Our stakeholders and Corporate 
Responsibility 
pages 14 and 15
Operating review 
pages 16 and 17 www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 09
“ The progress made has provided CPP with a more 
stable platform from which to move forward and build the 
foundations that will support our future growth.”
Brent Escott, Chief Executive Officer
provided to date of £69.8 million. This 
increase reflects the current best estimate 
of customer responses and associated 
costs and is based on the latest information 
available to the Board. We have also been 
granted an amendment to our loan facilities 
with our existing lenders to increase the 
covenant default limit regarding customer 
response rates leading to a successful 
claim under the Scheme from 32 per cent 
to 40 per cent. This increase provides the 
Group further headroom and additional 
comfort as the Scheme progresses. The 
Group has worked hard to ensure it has 
sufficient financial resources to complete 
the Scheme and whilst there continues 
to be risk in this area, the Group continues 
to make positive progress regarding its 
financial stability. It is however anticipated 
that the Group total cash balance will reduce 
significantly in 2014 as a result of redress 
payments.
Change for the better
Since 2011, a review of our business has 
been undertaken in the light of legitimate 
concerns raised by the UK regulator, the 
FCA. Recognising and understanding where 
CPP went wrong is a pivotal step in the 
journey to rebuilding a responsible, modern, 
customer-led business. A number of positive 
steps have been taken and substantial 
changes have been made to practices and 
culture, yet there is more that we need to do 
in order to fully realise this ambition and have 
the full confidence of our stakeholders. 
Our priorities
Following my appointment as Chief Executive 
Officer in September 2013, a key priority has 
been to clearly understand the issues that 
the organisation faces, how we can address 
those challenges and identify the expertise 
required to achieve our goals. In parallel, 
we have worked constructively with the 
FCA and Business Partners in relation to the 
Scheme, with a clear priority to achieve the 
best outcome for customers and complete 
the Scheme.
We have identified a number of core priorities 
and developed a realistic short term business 
plan from which we can move forward in 
the next phase of reshaping our organisation. 
It is essential that we implement a robust 
and efficient operational environment and 
cost-effective IT platform whilst we also 
continue to strengthen our governance, 
controls, compliance and risk management 
capabilities. Rebuilding the business on solid 
foundations will provide a stronger position 
from which we can apply to remove the 
restrictions on our regulatory permissions.
We will also place great emphasis on our 
people, our customers, our performance and 
strengthening relationships with our Business 
Partners. These aspects are central to achieving 
an optimal balance for the business and 
moving towards our aim of being an efficient 
organisation which is compliant and looks 
after customers well.
Our plan
The Board and I have developed a clear plan 
to stabilise the Group whilst we complete 
the Scheme, resulting from a realistic 
understanding of our strengths, market 
opportunities and the challenges that 
remain. The key aspects of our immediate 
business plan are outlined on page 13, 
which encompasses four elements: rebuild, 
improve, modernise and evolve.
As we gain greater certainty and the Scheme 
progresses, we will continue to engage with 
key stakeholders to agree the future plans 
for the Group. We can then begin to build 
the foundations that will support the longer 
term direction of the business. Once these 
uncertainties are removed we expect to 
move into 2015 in a stronger position.
During 2014, our aim is to complete the 
improvements required as we begin to 
modernise our products and service channels 
to enhance our customer experience, with a 
renewed focus on realising the demand for 
solutions in the digital environment. We will 
continue to work with our stakeholders as we 
explore the emerging opportunities for CPP 
in order to clearly understand the long term 
growth potential of the business.
Understanding and engaging with 
our stakeholders 
We proactively seek to maintain strong 
relationships with our stakeholders 
through frequent, transparent dialogue 
and consultation. In view of the difficult 
and exceptional circumstances that the 
Group has faced, we believe this is critical 
to re-establishing positive perceptions of 
the Group and sustaining valued relationships. 
The Group has a credible plan, a strong team 
and my commitment is to do everything 
to ensure our business operates in a 
responsible and accountable way, meeting 
the needs of all stakeholders. 
Looking ahead
We are moving forward with a clear short 
term plan and objectives that will support 
the development of our longer term strategy. 
There is a long way to go and we need to 
place great focus on completing 
the changes and improvements required, 
whilst concluding the Scheme. 
We are taking decisive action and are 
focused on working hard to deliver against 
our plans. Nonetheless, material uncertainties 
remain, particularly in relation to the Scheme, 
liquidity and the execution and delivery of 
our plans. As a result, the outlook continues 
to reflect the significant challenges and risks 
ahead and performance in 2014 will 
continue to be constrained. However, my 
team and I are concentrating our efforts on 
rebuilding the business and realising the 
future opportunities that will bring success 
and sustainable growth back to CPP.
Brent Escott 
Chief Executive Officer
23 April 2014
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
 ǔ Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer
Our business model and strategy
Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility
Operating review
Financial review
Risk management and principal risks www.cppgroupplc.com
10 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer 
Brent Escott gives his views on the organisation and its performance, reflects on the 
challenges and looks ahead to the future. Brent has over 25 years’ experience in the 
insurance industry and has been Chief Executive Officer of CPP since September 2013.
Why did you take this job and what 
experience do you bring with you to CPP?
Above all else, the determination of our 
people here at CPP is very compelling. 
In spite of the significant challenges over 
the past few years, their determination 
and team spirit is unsurpassed. At a macro 
level I was excited by the opportunity to 
leverage the strengths of CPP and recognise 
what I believe to be the growing global 
opportunities within our market. As 
importantly, I bring relevant skills and 
experience to support CPP through the 
challenges we face, towards a period 
of stability and growth in the future.
I have led many different organisations, 
both large and small and also in the various 
stages of growth and distress. My knowledge 
of insurance and regulation is extremely 
beneficial in addressing the immediate 
issues within CPP, particularly as retaining 
revenue from the existing backbook is 
fundamental to the Group’s performance, 
but longer term I’m excited by the 
opportunity of rebuilding CPP. 
What were your initial priorities when you 
became CEO of CPP?
The Group has undergone a difficult period 
and challenging times require focused action. 
Therefore, my priority was to take the time 
to listen and speak with our people across the 
Group and our stakeholders in order to move 
the business forward and emerge stronger.
Managing change and rebuilding a business 
requires a specific skillset different to 
managing growth in a steady environment. 
You have to act rapidly, identify key issues 
and take decisive action. 
At CPP, we had to act decisively to preserve 
cash and review all expenditure across the 
Group. We also had to ensure that we really 
understood the true state of our operations 
and the robustness of our existing products 
and distribution model. In parallel, I wanted 
to strengthen the management team 
and expertise that supports our future 
development. At the same time, it was 
critical that we worked with the FCA to 
ensure that the Scheme became operational 
in order for us to put right the mistakes of 
the past. We’ve achieved an enormous 
amount in a short period of time.
Taking people on this journey is important 
as they need to believe in the plan and look 
towards a better future.
Can you explain what you believe are 
CPP’s strengths?
CPP has many strengths and knowledge 
that we can build on. We see demand for our 
products from our customers who value the 
support we provide during difficult times and 
also with our Business Partners where we 
enable them to enhance their customer offering. 
We look after 7.1 million live policies from 
operational centres around the world, our 
renewal rates are 69.4% and we have strong 
telemarketing capabilities. An over-riding 
factor though is our people, who are our most 
important asset and their commitment, 
professionalism and willingness to embrace 
change is critical to our success in the future. 
2013 was an important year for the 
Group; can you explain why?
We made good progress during the year 
to support the next phase of the Group’s 
development and achieved a number of 
milestones which provided the business 
with a position of greater stability. 
That said, we’re on a journey to re-engineer 
the business and there is much work that 
remains. However, as a result of the actions we 
are taking, the milestones achieved and the 
investment to strengthen our management 
capabilities, things are changing for the 
better and we can now look forward.
What is the main focus for the year ahead? 
We need to stabilise the operational 
environment, implement a new IT 
infrastructure and further strengthen our 
governance to ensure we meet the necessary 
regulatory standards across all the countries 
we operate in. This, ultimately, will allow us 
to apply to remove the restrictions on our 
regulatory permissions. At the same time, 
we will review all our country activities, 
product and distribution channels and 
work to strengthen our Business Partner 
relationships. 
A key focus for 2014 is our commitment 
to achieving the best outcome for customers 
through the Scheme and completing the 
process to review claims and, where 
appropriate, pay redress to customers. 
What do you believe has changed to 
address the legacy issues of the past? 
CPP was very successful and grew rapidly. 
However, the governance, controls and 
framework required to operate a sustainable 
business were lacking. The way a business 
acts and behaves is central to its success 
and the delivery of sustainable financial 
performance. Our culture is customer 
focused; providing the right product at the 
right price matched with a high quality 
service that our customers deserve. The 
organisation has changed considerably from 
the practices and culture that existed in the 
past, which resulted in the well documented 
regulatory challenges that the business has 
faced and we should be judged on our 
current merits rather than past mistakes. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
 ǔ Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer
Our business model and strategy
Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility
Operating review
Financial review
Risk management and principal risks
What do you believe is the value that CPP 
can bring to customers?
Our products provide assistance at times 
of need to our customers. We continue to 
monitor customer feedback and track our 
net promoter score (NPS) to ensure our 
customers place value on the products and 
the services we offer. The world is rapidly 
changing and customer needs are changing 
with it. This provides an exciting opportunity 
for us to lead the development and distribution 
of new products and services as we move 
forward.
When do you expect financial 
performance to return to growth?
The Group’s headline financial results 
reflect the overall challenges of our 
environment and on-going risks that we 
face. Our plans are therefore subject to 
execution risk and the on-going challenges 
and uncertainties which remain, particularly 
related to the Scheme and liquidity. 
Nonetheless, we are investing in people, 
expertise and technology to improve 
our business processes and increase 
operational efficiency and, in parallel, 
managing our costs is key as we create 
a sustainable business that will generate 
growth in the longer term.
What does the future hold for CPP?
Our focus over the next few years is to 
show that CPP can return to growth in its 
core products and markets. At the same time, 
we will invest more resource into understanding 
emerging opportunities for CPP which will 
lead to another phase of development. But 
we have to make sure that the building blocks 
are in place first and I envisage a scenario 
where we will completely reinvent CPP. The 
business, as a result, will be more efficient 
and modern and I am excited about the 
longer term prospects for the Group. www.cppgroupplc.com
12 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Our business model and strategy
Who we are and what we do
We operate internationally in three regions, 
working with our Business Partners 
and servicing 7.1 million live policies. 
Our people are central to delivering our 
business-to-business-to-consumer (B2B2C) 
operating model, designed to distribute, 
service and manage claims of our core 
assistance products. These are offered 
in three formats; retail, wholesale and 
packaged products through our Business 
Partners to their customers and where CPP 
provides direct to consumers. 
Our business model targets revenue growth 
through sustainable renewal rates, new 
income and cash generation focused on 
improved performance with the objective 
of generating value and delivering longer 
term value for shareholders and other 
stakeholders. We measure our progress 
against the performance of our KPIs 
(details on pages 2 and 3).
.
Our products and channels
Our core products help provide security 
against the unexpected by protecting items 
that are important to how our customers live 
their everyday lives, as well as enhancing the 
experience of leisure and business travel. 
These include Card Protection, Travel Services, 
Mobile Phone Assistance, Mobile Phone 
Insurance, Identity Protection and 
Legal Protection.
Our product, distribution and service channel 
ambitions are focused on innovation in a 
fast-paced, technological environment, where 
we see an increasing move towards digital 
products and platforms. Our aim is to 
progressively enhance our value proposition, 
modernise our products in line with customer 
and Business Partner needs, delivering an 
improved experience through our customer 
service channels. Looking ahead, our people 
are essential to our product and channel 
development plans. We are developing our 
digital plans in order to realise the market 
opportunities that exist, particularly as 
smartphone and tablet penetration increases 
and advances in mobile payments gain traction. 
This will also allow us to engage with consumers 
through various channels across our markets. 
“ We have developed 
a realistic short term 
business plan which 
takes account of our 
strengths and market 
opportunities whilst we 
manage the challenges 
that remain for the 
Group. This will provide a 
platform from which we 
can move forward in the 
next phase of reshaping 
our organisation.”
Key Performance Indicators 
pages 02 and 03
Operating review 
pages 16 and 17
Financial review 
pages 18 to 22 www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer
 ǔ Our business model and strategy
Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility
Operating review
Financial review
Risk management and principal risks
Our plan and emerging strategy
Our marketplace has changed in recent years 
as a result of regulatory developments, the 
economic climate and consumer behaviours. 
We are evolving to adapt to the challenges 
the business has faced whilst proactively 
shaping how we operate due to changes in 
customer trends, technology, regulation and 
the competitive landscape. 
Our vision is to be a responsible assistance 
business offering products with improved 
value, choice, service and delivery to 
consumers.
In order to realise this vision, an extensive 
review of the business, our product propositions 
and multi-country footprint commenced in 
September 2013 led by a new management 
team. We identified our core priorities and 
began the process to establish a business 
plan to provide greater stability for the Group. 
As a result, we have developed a realistic short 
term business plan which takes account of 
our strengths and market opportunities whilst 
we manage the challenges that remain for the 
Group. This will provide a platform from which 
we can move forward in the next phase 
of reshaping our organisation and longer term 
strategy. 
We are working with key stakeholders as we 
evolve our business plan for the longer term, 
focused on achieving sustainable growth in 
the future. This takes account of our markets, 
our products and distribution channels, our 
people, customers, Business Partners and 
wider stakeholder groups as we strengthen 
our organisational culture, with the end 
customer at the heart of what we do. 
Our immediate priorities are to complete 
the Scheme whilst we rebuild the business, 
establishing a robust operational and IT 
environment, improving our governance and 
processes and modernising how we operate. 
This will establish a platform from which we 
can evolve in the longer term. Once fully 
realised, we will have established a strong 
position from which we can begin to achieve 
our future ambitions. The success of our 
emerging strategy has inherent risks and 
uncertainties and also depends on a number 
of factors that include maintaining and 
developing key stakeholder relationships and 
the expertise and retention of our people.
In addition to completing the Scheme, the key aspects of our immediate plan are to:
Optimise resource and 
capabilities
Deliver operational 
excellence through a new 
IT platform 
Increase centralisation and 
cross-Group collaboration to 
leverage benefits of scale
Compliant processes and 
robust governance
Robust global platforms, 
data capability and 
governance 
Realise value from current 
product propositions and 
markets
Simplify and standardise 
operational processes 
Improve and strengthen 
relationships
Update and innovate our 
product propositions
Test and develop new 
channels to market
Develop a successful, 
modern product portfolio
Strong stakeholder 
relationships
Deliver an effective risk/
reward profile
Strong retention and 
renewal of policies and new 
income generation
Leaner, efficient cost 
base aligned to overhead 
structure
Skillset to support our plans 
and market opportunities
New cost-effective 
operational IT system
Stakeholders increased 
confidence in our 
compliance and customer 
experience
Efficient infrastructure in 
place
Propositions and markets 
produce attractive returns
Platform for sustainable 
performance established
Enhanced service for 
customers and Business 
Partners
Effective data analytics, less 
duplication and increased 
efficiency
Enhanced product set that 
matches customers and 
Business Partner needs
Multi-channel platform 
across all markets
Wider sector appeal and 
opportunities
Improved competitive 
position
Attractive returns across all 
markets
Profitable and sustainable 
growth platform
Rebuild Improve Modernise Evolve
Aim Output www.cppgroupplc.com
14 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Business Partners
Regulators
Shareholders
Lenders
Our people Our customers
Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility 
Our people
Our aim is to provide a working environment 
that supports and develops our people. Our 
success depends on our people, helping 
them to perform at their best and achieve 
their full potential and meet our business 
objectives. Our people are a huge testament 
to how far we have progressed, despite our 
challenges and the structural and cultural 
changes that we have made.
Open and regular communication is 
fundamental to our employee engagement. 
Our initiatives include regular forums with 
the Leadership team, face to face briefings, 
interactive group sessions and through 
regular digital communications across the 
Group. We also want to understand what is 
important to our people and we gain insight 
through our Employee Communication 
Forum and global people surveys, where 
72% of our people responded in 2013. 
Our approach allows us to develop and 
deliver action plans that focus on the things 
that really matter to our people, our customers 
and the business. 
The Group recognises that our culture is an 
important part of ensuring that our progress 
is sustainable. During 2013, we integrated 
a consistent model of behaviour through 
our leadership framework focusing on how we 
do things. This encompasses five behavioural 
categories: Innovate in what we do; Shape 
our plans and methods of working; Build 
capability and talent for the future; Lead 
performance and customer focused 
behaviour; and Deliver on our objectives. 
A key focus in 2014 is to define how we 
operate through our values and beliefs, 
which will drive the things we do and 
the decisions we make. 
Our stakeholders
We proactively seek to build positive relationships with our stakeholders in all the 
markets we serve. The main stakeholder groups who have an interest in, or are 
affected by, our activities comprise: 
A responsible approach 
Our approach to Corporate Responsibility is aimed at meeting all stakeholders’ expectations 
in a responsible, ethical and sustainable manner. We have a Company philosophy that starts 
with our people who are committed to our customers in order to deliver sustainable, long 
term performance. Our vision is to be a responsible assistance business offering products 
with improved value, choice, service and delivery to consumers. 
Employees by gender 2013
Directors   Male 5   Female 1
Senior Management   Male 34   Female 17
Other employees   Male 431   Female 679
Employees by location 2013
 UK and Ireland 714
 Europe and Latin America 407
 Asia Pacific 46
Read more on cppgroupplc.com 
1,167
1,167 www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer
Our business model and strategy
 ǔ Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility
Operating review
Financial review
Risk management and principal risks
During 2013, to support the delivery of our 
plans we placed emphasis on strengthening 
our leadership and talent capability. We also 
invested in building the skills of our people 
through training programmes, with particular 
emphasis on key compliance issues, regulatory 
requirements and Treating Customers Fairly. 
Diversity, health, safety and the well-being of 
our people are an essential part of how we do 
business and meet the needs of our customers. 
We take all reasonable steps to support our 
people with respect and fairness and to 
achieve a healthy and safe working environment. 
Our customers
Customer trust is essential and critical 
to rebuilding positive perceptions of our 
business. To earn and retain that trust we 
need to manage our operations responsibly 
and conduct our business in an ethical and 
transparent way. In 2013, we reinforced our 
commitment to Treating Customers Fairly by 
our approach to putting the customer at the 
heart of what we do. Our aim is to improve 
the customer’s end-to-end experience and 
ensure we operate with a customer focused 
culture. The principles of Treating Customers 
Fairly have been commonplace in our business 
for a number of years and the six key aspects 
are outlined in figure 1. As an international 
business, we apply these principles tailored 
to the local environment.
Our key initiative is to listen to the voice of the 
customer and understand their requirements 
and expectations, developing compelling and 
relevant products and assessing the level of 
service and complaints handling process we 
provide. Based on independent customer 
research and feedback, we are confident that 
customers place value on the products and 
services offered. Our customers like our 
products and they like what we do; they tell 
us so through our customer satisfaction and 
net promoter data. Critically, and in spite of 
the challenges the business has faced, many 
of our customers have chosen to retain our 
products.
Business Partners
Our products are distributed through our 
Business Partners to customers either via 
their own service channels or through 
channels managed directly by CPP. Through 
regular engagement and working closely 
with our current Business Partners and 
prospective new partners, we endeavour to 
act responsibly to our customers and provide 
products and services that are tailored to 
their needs. 
Shareholders
Understanding the views of our investors 
is a key part of managing our business. 
Our regular dialogue and engagement 
ensures that we effectively communicate 
with the investment audience to encourage 
a clear understanding of our performance 
and prospects. We actively engage with 
shareholders and the wider investment 
community through the Group’s investor 
relations programme, led by the Chief 
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer 
and Head of Investor Communications. The 
Non-Executive Chairman meets regularly 
with major shareholders and is available for 
meetings at the request of shareholders.
Regulators
We operate in a regulated environment in 
many markets around the world and our 
experience in the UK has meant that we 
place great emphasis on our regulatory 
responsibilities and developing relationships 
with regulators. To support our customers 
and business we have evaluated our legal 
and compliance areas and have effected 
change throughout the organisation both 
in people and processes, in order to make 
sure that our regulatory responsibilities are 
clearly understood. 
Lenders
Our lenders have an interest in our business 
as a result of the financial facilities which 
they provide to the Group. Our financing 
arrangements comprise our lending banks 
and certain Business Partner deferral 
of commission payments. Building and 
maintaining strong relationships with 
our lenders has a positive impact on the 
financial stability of the Group, as well 
as meeting our financial obligations. 
Through regular dialogue and engagement, 
particularly with the Chief Financial Officer, 
our aim is to ensure we maintain the 
support of our lenders.
Our communities and environment
We aim to play an active role and make a 
positive contribution through our involvement 
in local community projects in many of our 
markets. During 2013, we provided support 
and volunteering by our people at all levels of 
the organisation, focused on issues of social 
inclusion and charitable projects that support 
the communities in which we operate. 
We also recognise the importance of our 
impact on the environment, which we 
consider to be low. To make sure that we 
protect the environment and endeavour to 
minimise our environmental impacts where 
possible, we are committed to managing our 
use of energy, water and paper to ensure 
that our impact is minimal. During the year, 
we established a framework to monitor our 
greenhouse gas emissions (GHG), details of 
which are reported on page 55. 
Human rights 
The Group respects all human rights and 
seeks to anticipate, prevent and mitigate 
any potential negative human rights impacts 
through its policies regarding employment, 
equality and diversity, Treating Customers 
Fairly and information security. The Group 
has not been made aware of any incident in 
which its activities have resulted in an abuse 
of human rights.
Figure 1 
Treating Customers Fairly – putting customers at the heart of our business www.cppgroupplc.com
16 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Operating review
Regional performance
2013
£’m
2012
£’m Growth
Constant
currency
growth
UK and Ireland
– Revenue 129.0 215.3 (40)% (40)%
– Underlying operating (loss)/profit
1
(8.1) 18.9 (143)% (143)%
Europe and Latin America
– Revenue 42.6 48.0 (11)% (14)%
– Underlying operating profit
1
7.1 8.9 (20)% (25)%
Asia Pacific
– Revenue 6.4 6.5 (2)% 2%
– Underlying operating loss
1
(0.8) (1.1) 25% 30%
1  Excluding exceptional items.
During the year, the Group revised its operating segments to UK and Ireland; Europe and 
Latin America; and Asia Pacific. The principal change was the transfer of operational control 
of Germany and Turkey to the newly formed Europe and Latin America region. Comparative 
information has been restated to reflect this change.
UK and Ireland
We operate internationally 
in three regions: the UK 
and Ireland; Europe and 
Latin America; and Asia 
Pacific.
Overview
Performance of the three regions 
reflects the on-going challenges of 
the operating environment, whilst the 
performance of Latin America reflects 
the early stage of its development.
Finance review 
pages 18 to 22
Financial statements: 
segmental reporting 
pages 74 to 77
Regional trends 2013
Revenue (£)
1
Underlying operating 
performance (£)
1
New sales (£)
1
Renewal rates (%)
Margins (%)
UK C C C C C
Ireland C C C D C
D Increase A Level C Decrease
1. On a constant currency basis.
Financial performance
Revenue for 2013 decreased 40% on 
a constant currency basis compared to 
the same period in 2012, to £129.0 million 
(2012: £215.3 million). Underlying operating 
performance has declined for the full year 
to a loss of £8.1 million (2012: £18.9 million 
profit).
Review
Operating in the UK and Ireland, the region 
accounts for 72% of Group full year revenue 
(continuing operations). A challenging 
environment continued to impact performance 
during 2013. This is reflective of the on-going 
restriction on retail sales, reduced Card 
Protection and Identity Protection renewal 
revenues and Business Partner contract 
losses since October 2012. These include 
T-Mobile (Everything Everywhere), RBS 
Packaged Accounts, the decision by 
Santander to simplify its product range and 
cease offering packaged current bank 
accounts in the UK and the Airport Angel 
contract with Diners Club International 
(Diners). During the year, Airport Angel 
signed a five year contract with Visa Canada 
launching Airport Angel with their customers 
in January 2014 and, in addition, signed a new 
contract with International SOS. The new 
contracts are expected to mitigate the loss of 
the RBS contract that will cease in July 2014 
and the Diners contract with Airport Angel.
As expected, revenue reduced in the Mobile 
Phone Insurance (MPI) business as a result 
of the on-going VVOP restrictions and the 
impact of Business Partner contract losses. 
Across the industry, during 2013, the FCA 
completed a thematic review of MPI products. 
To reflect the findings of this review, HIL 
has recently written to all customers with 
MPI to ensure they are on up-to-date terms 
and conditions. 
During the year, we made good progress to 
ensure that the UK business was appropriately 
structured with the operating capabilities, 
resource and cost-management that reflect 
the current scale of the business and support 
our plans as we move forward. The key 
objectives during the year have been to 
reduce our cost base and stabilise our 
operating environment. The benefits of the 
initiatives taken Group-wide are expected to 
produce annualised operating cost savings 
of £15.0 million, the majority of which are 
UK-related. 
In Ireland, we continued to renew the 
existing Card Protection and Identity 
Protection customer base. During the year, 
we made improvements to the customer 
renewal process to be consistent with the 
process in the UK. There has been no new  www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 17
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer
Our business model and strategy
Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility
 ǔ Operating review
Financial review
Risk management and principal risks
revenue during 2013 reflective of the VVOP 
restrictions. In early 2014, the Group made 
the decision to exit the MPI market in Ireland 
due to its loss making position. 
Our future priorities place emphasis on 
reshaping our business, reducing operating 
costs, creating differentiated products and 
service offerings and developing opportunities 
with Business Partners. In parallel, our 
commitment is to ensure that the Scheme 
is completed successfully, continuing to work 
on the initiatives and enhancements agreed 
with the FCA and at the appropriate time, 
apply to remove the restrictions on our 
regulatory permissions. 
Europe and Latin America
Regional trends 2013
Revenue (£)
1
Underlying operating 
performance (£)
1
New sales (£)
1
Renewal rates (%)
Margins (%)
Spain C C D D C
Italy C C C C D
Portugal C D C D D
France C C C C C
Germany D D C C D
Turkey C C D C C
Mexico D D C D D
Brazil D D D n/a D
D Increase A Level C Decrease
1. On a constant currency basis.
Financial performance
Revenue has decreased 14% on a constant 
currency basis compared to the same period 
in 2012, to £42.6 million (2012: £48.0 million). 
Underlying operating profit has consequently 
reduced for the full year to £7.1 million 
(2012: £8.9 million), 25% lower on a constant 
currency basis. 
Review
Operating during 2013 in Spain, Italy, Portugal, 
France, Germany, Turkey, Mexico and Brazil; 
Europe and Latin America accounts for 
24% of Group full year revenue 
(continuing operations). 
During the year, performance in Europe 
reflected the on-going challenges of the 
operating environment and continued 
weaker trading conditions in the Eurozone. 
Performance in Latin America during 2013 
is reflective of the early stage of its 
development. In Mexico, we increased 
revenue and underlying operating profit and 
in Brazil, market entry activities continued.
In Spain, we renewed our contract with 
Citibank and signed new wholesale and 
servicing agreements with Samsung and 
AON. Our contract with Yoigo did not perform 
in line with expectations in the year and 
impacted underlying operating performance 
for the year as a result. In Italy we began 
working with a number of Business Partners 
again including Samsung and LG. We also 
confirmed new relationships with Business 
Partners in Turkey. Our principal Business 
Partner contract in France expires in 2014 
and subsequently, we have taken the 
decision to exit this market.
In 2014, our focus will be on reviewing our 
cost base, developing our core product, Card 
Protection, and improving our distribution 
channels, product usability and the experience 
we provide to our customers. A key objective 
is to strengthen and build our Business 
Partner relationships. In Latin America, we will 
continue to review the market opportunities 
and identify where we can produce 
sustainable returns. 
Asia Pacific
Regional trends 2013
Revenue (£)
1
Underlying operating 
performance (£)
1
New sales (£)
1
Renewal rates (%)
Margins (%)
India D D D C D
Hong Kong C D C C D
Singapore C D C D D
Malaysia C D C D D
China C C C C C
D Increase A Level C Decrease
1. On a constant currency basis.
Financial performance
Revenue is 2% higher on a constant currency 
basis compared to the same period in 2012, 
at £6.4 million (2012: £6.5 million). The 
underlying operating loss has reduced for the 
full year to £0.8 million (2012: £1.1 million). 
Review
Operating during 2013 in India, Hong Kong, 
Singapore, Malaysia and China; Asia Pacific 
represents 4% of Group full year revenue 
(continuing operations). 
The development of this region is at a slower 
rate of growth reflecting challenging operating 
conditions resulting in a year-on-year revenue 
decline in Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, 
and China. New and renewal revenue 
increased in India.
India continued to perform well during the 
year as a result of campaigns with existing 
Business Partners. A programme of product 
development was completed during the 
year, which included enhancements to 
the existing product propositions as well 
as a focus on opportunities in the Mobile 
Phone sector. We are encouraged by 
the performance of the business in India, 
which continues to provide future growth 
opportunities for the Group. 
In Hong Kong, we implemented a 
restructuring and cost-management 
programme during 2013, resulting in the 
more efficient and cost-effective provision 
of regional services to the wider Asia Pacific 
region. In Singapore, revenue declined as a 
result of reduced new campaigns and the 
Group has taken the decision to exit this 
market through the sale of the renewal 
book. In Malaysia, performance declined 
and our priority has been focused on 
repositioning the business and reviewing 
our product portfolio to identify future 
opportunities. In China, we continue to 
balance start-up investment costs while 
we work to improve our revenue position. 
During 2014, our focus will be on channel 
and product development, identifying 
opportunities where we can produce 
attractive returns from established and 
new Business Partner relationships. www.cppgroupplc.com
18 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Financial review
Summary
• Secured medium term financing 
totalling approximately £33.0 million
• Completed the disposal of the 
North American business for cash 
consideration of £26.1 million
• Continued restructuring activities 
to reduce the Group’s cost base 
leading to expected annualised 
savings of £15.0 million
• Net funds position of £44.3 million, 
which will be significantly reduced 
in 2014 as a result of funding 
the Scheme
Revenue 
£178.0m
2012: £269.9m
Underlying operating (loss)/profit
£(1.8)m
2012: £26.7m
Operating review 
pages 16 and 17
Report of the Audit Committee 
pages 36 to 38
Financial statements 
pages 62 to 110
This has been a challenging year in which we have refinanced 
for the medium term, sold our North American operation and we 
continue to restructure to best position ourselves for the future
Overview
This financial review includes analysis of 
the underlying (loss)/profit of the Group, 
which excludes exceptional items. We 
believe that the underlying figures aid 
comparison and understanding of the 
Group’s financial performance.
The Group has worked hard to ensure 
that it has sufficient financial resources 
to implement and deliver on the Scheme. 
Whilst there continues to be risk in this area 
the Group has made positive progress 
regarding the Group’s financial stability.
The Group has faced a challenging trading 
year with the VVOP restrictions and on-going 
Scheme publicity continuing to impact the 
UK business, as well as affecting some 
stakeholder relationships globally. As a 
result, the Group has taken significant steps 
in the year to reduce its cost base through 
a restructuring programme. In the UK, 
measures have included significant 
redundancy programmes, closure of the 
Chesterfield site and a streamlining of the 
organisational structure. The UK measures 
together with cost saving initiatives in 
our overseas operations are expected 
to achieve an annual net reduction in 
costs of approximately £15.0 million, 
the benefit of which will also impact 2014.
The Group also faced the expiry of its loan 
facility in March 2013. After a short term 
extension to the facility, on 31 July 2013 the 
Group agreed new financing arrangements 
which are expected to total approximately 
£33.0 million. The arrangement comprises 
£13.0 million being provided by a three-year 
extension to the loan facility to 31 July 2016 
and approximately £20.0 million through 
the deferral of twelve months commission 
payments to certain Business Partners, 
with repayment due on 31 July 2017. The 
reduction in UK renewal rates following 
publicity surrounding the Scheme has 
resulted in the expected final commission 
deferral balance being lower than initially 
announced. The arrangement provides 
medium term financing for the Group.
As part of the refinancing the Group also 
completed the sale of its North American 
business, CPPNA Holdings Inc. and its 
subsidiaries, to AMT Warranty Corp. 
(AmTrust) on 3 May 2013 for consideration 
of £26.1 million ($40.0 million). The net 
proceeds after costs associated with the 
disposal were £18.1 million, £16.5 million 
of which was used to part-prepay the 
existing loan facility.
The Group continues to strategically review 
its operations. As a result, on 24 March 
2014 the Group disposed of its interest in 
the Home3 joint venture to Mapfre Abraxas 
Software Limited (Mapfre). The disposal 
process commenced in 2013 and at the 
year end the Board was committed to 
the disposal. In 2014, the Group has also 
divested its operations in Singapore and 
will withdraw from the French market. 
These strategic measures will enable the 
Group to focus on its core business and 
markets to best position itself for the future. 
In accordance with accounting standards, 
the North American business and Home3 
joint venture are presented as discontinued 
operations within this review and in the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Primarily, this review focuses on the 
performance of the continuing operations 
of the Group.
Craig Parsons
Chief Financial Officer www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 19
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer
Our business model and strategy
Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility
Operating review
 ǔ Financial review
Risk management and principal risks
Summary
Group revenue from continuing operations has declined by 34% 
to £178.0 million as a result of revenue reducing by 40% in the 
UK and Ireland, 11% in Europe and Latin America and 2% in Asia 
Pacific. On a constant currency basis Group revenue also declined 
by 34%; however, when removing the impact of foreign exchange 
movements Asia Pacific has recognised 2% growth.
Overall expenditure on Business Partner commissions has 
remained broadly stable with the prior year at 30% of revenue 
(2012: 29%). Cost of sales have increased to 63% of revenue (2012: 
60%) reflecting the mix impact of the declining renewal book which 
typically carries lower direct costs. As a result, gross profit declined 
by 39% to £65.9 million and was 37% of revenue (2012: 40%).
The Group’s underlying operating performance has changed from 
a profit in 2012 to an underlying operating loss of £1.8 million 
(2012: £26.7 million profit) as a result of the impact of reduced 
sales and lower gross profit. This impact is partially mitigated 
by a reduction in overheads of 16% which reflects the benefit of 
restructuring measures taken in 2013, particularly in the UK, to reduce 
the overhead base. Annualised cost savings as a result of the 2013 
measures are expected to be approximately £15.0 million.
This performance, together with exceptional items of £37.5 million, 
(2012: £43.9 million), which mainly comprises customer redress 
and associated costs, restructuring costs and IT asset impairments, 
resulted in a reported operating loss for 2013 of £39.3 million 
(2012: £17.3 million). The IT impairment reflects the write-down 
of historical capital expenditure on the balance sheet.
Net interest and finance costs of £3.9 million (2012: £1.3 million) 
are 203% higher than 2012 reflecting the costs associated with the 
six month loan facility extension, which have been fully amortised 
in the year. The Group’s level of gross debt has decreased in the 
year. There were no disposals of minor subsidiaries in the year 
(2012: £0.9 million loss). 
As a result, the reported loss before tax was £43.2 million 
(2012: £19.5 million) whereas underlying performance before 
tax has changed from a profit in 2012 to a loss of £5.7 million 
(2012: £24.5 million profit).
Discontinued operations, which represents the Group’s North 
American business and Home3 joint venture, delivered profit after 
tax of £12.5 million (2012: £3.7 million). The increase reflects the 
profit on disposal of the North American business in the year 
partly offset by losses attached to the Home3 joint venture. 
Underlying loss after tax from continuing operations, excluding 
exceptional items, was £8.0 million (2012: £17.4 million profit). 
Exceptional items after tax during the year were £37.3 million, 
this results in a reported loss after tax from continuing operations 
of £45.3 million (2012: £20.9 million loss).
Basic loss per share has increased from 12.13 pence in 2012 to 
26.43 pence for 2013.
Cash generated by operations has increased to £23.0 million 
(2012: £17.4 million), which is reflective of a one-off reduction in 
the Group’s working capital requirement. The Group’s net funds 
position also improved from £13.6 million at 31 December 2012 
to £44.3 million at 31 December 2013. 
The Group will not be paying a dividend for 2013 in line with 
the Group’s performance and financial position (2012: nil).
Group revenue breakdown
2013
£’m
2012
£’m Growth
Retail assistance policies 117.1 163.8 (29)%
Retail insurance policies 28.1 41.2 (32)%
Packaged and wholesale 
policies 32.3 56.6 (43)%
Non-policy revenue 0.5 8.3 (93)%
Total Group revenue 178.0 269.9 (34)%
Revenue from retail assistance policies has materially declined 
compared to 2012, reflecting the continued restrictions on new 
sales associated with the VVOP, mainly in the UK, and a decline in 
Card Protection and Identity Protection renewals. Retail insurance 
revenue, packaged and wholesale revenue and non-policy revenue 
have all declined in the year as a result of lost Business Partner 
contracts in the UK. These lost contracts include T-Mobile 
(Everything Everywhere) (October 2012) albeit we have retained the 
existing book and the right to renew policies, RBS Packaged Accounts 
(March 2013), Santander Packaged Accounts (October 2013) and 
the non-policy Airport Angel contract with Diners (January 2013).
2013 2012 Change
Revenue (£ millions) 178.0 269.9 (91.9)
Gross profit (£ millions) 65.9 107.6 (41.7)
Operating (loss)/profit (£ millions)
– Reported
1
 (39.3) (17.3) (22.0)
– Underlying
2
(1.8) 26.7 (28.5)
(Loss)/profit before tax (£ millions)
– Reported
1
(43.2) (19.5) (23.8)
– Underlying
2
(5.7) 24.5 (30.2)
Reported loss per share (pence)
Basic and diluted (26.43) (12.13) (14.30)
Cash generated by operations (£ millions)
3
23.0 17.4 5.6
Dividends (pence) — — n/a
1. Reported figures are from continuing operations only.
2. Excluding exceptional items from continuing operations of £37.5 million (2012: £43.9 million).
3. Includes cash flows from continuing and discontinued operations. www.cppgroupplc.com
20 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Financial review continued
Underlying financial performance
2013 2012
£’m £’m
Reported operating loss (39.3) (17.3)
Exceptional items:
Customer redress and associated costs 18.2 26.3
IT asset impairments 8.1 —
Restructuring costs 5.5 4.9
Impairment of goodwill, intangible 
balances and freehold property 5.8 3.7
Regulatory penalties — 8.5
Strategic project costs — 0.4
Legacy scheme share based payments — 0.2
Total exceptional items 37.5 43.9
Underlying operating (loss)/profit (1.8) 26.7
Reported loss after tax (45.3) (20.9)
Exceptional items:
Customer redress and associated costs 18.2 22.0
IT asset impairments 8.0 —
Restructuring costs 5.4 3.8
Impairment of goodwill, intangible 
balances and freehold property 5.7 3.4
Regulatory penalties — 8.5
Strategic project costs — 0.4
Legacy scheme share based payments — 0.2
Total exceptional items after tax 37.3 38.3
Underlying (loss)/profit after tax (8.0) 17.4
The Group’s statutory results are adjusted for exceptional items 
to arrive at measures which better reflect underlying performance. 
After making the adjustments for exceptional items, underlying 
operating performance has changed from a profit in 2012 to a loss 
of £1.8 million (2012: £26.7 million profit). On the same basis, 
underlying performance after tax has declined to a loss of £8.0 million 
(2012: £17.4 million profit). Basic underlying loss per share was 
4.69 pence (2012: 10.18 pence earnings) and diluted underlying 
loss per share was 4.69 pence (2012: 9.95 pence earnings).
Exceptional items of £37.5 million, of which £13.9 million 
represent non-cash items, comprise the following main areas:
 ц £18.2 million customer redress and associated costs 
(2012: £26.3 million) includes the estimated costs of 
compensating UK customers mis-sold the Group’s Card 
Protection and Identity Protection products. This also includes 
costs associated with other redressable items.
 ц £8.1 million of IT asset impairments (2012: £nil) relate to a 
re-assessment of the carrying value of the Group’s IT asset base 
as a result of the IT transformation programme.
 ц £5.5 million of restructuring costs (2012: £4.9 million) relate to 
redundancy costs incurred as part of the Group’s overall review 
of its cost base, along with costs associated with the closure 
of the Chesterfield office in the UK.
Other exceptional items relate to goodwill, intangible assets and 
freehold property impairment of £5.8 million (2012: £4.3 million, 
also included strategic project costs and legacy scheme share 
based payment costs).
T otal customer redress and associated costs
2013
£’m
2012
£’m
2011
£’m
Total
£’m
Customer redress 18.2 16.9 9.8 44.8
Regulatory fine — 8.5 2.0 10.5
Adviser fees — 9.4 5.1 14.5
Total 18.2 34.8 16.9 69.8
As announced on 14 January 2014, the Scheme was sanctioned 
by the High Court as the vehicle through which CPP and certain 
of its Business Partners will review claims and, where appropriate, 
pay redress to customers that have been affected by historical issues 
in the UK. The Scheme became effective on 31 January 2014 and 
will complete on 30 August 2014.
The Group has incurred expenditure on, and provided for, customer 
redress and associated costs and regulatory penalties in the period 
2011 to 2013. On 20 December 2013, the Group announced that it 
had increased its customer redress and associated costs provision 
by £10.0 million. Since this announcement, the Group has provided 
a further £4.0 million in respect of its latest estimate of customer 
redress. As a result, the total cost is currently estimated to be 
£69.8 million, of which £51.7 million has been charged in the 
prior years. £23.9 million of the provision within the balance sheet 
has already been utilised (£9.7 million being utilised in 2013 
and £14.2 million in prior years). The remaining provision at 
31 December 2013 is £37.4 million (2012: £29.0 million). £36.2 million 
(2012: £22.0 million) has been estimated as the remaining cost of 
the customer redress element of the overall provision. The provision 
does not include an amount for the outstanding element of the 
regulatory fine of £8.5 million, which is disclosed under current 
and non-current payables. 
The Group has agreed with the FCA to further defer the outstanding 
element of the fine, with the payment profile expected to be 
£1.6 million in December 2014, £1.6 million in March 2015 and 
the remainder in 2016. 
Discussions are on-going with the Central Bank of Ireland (CBI) in 
respect of Card Protection sales made by Irish banks to customers in 
the Republic of Ireland. A provision for redress has been reflected in 
respect of direct sales made by the Group, but no provision has been 
made for redress where the sale was concluded by a Business 
Partner. Further detail is provided in note 26 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Investment in developing markets
Despite continuing challenging circumstances in a number of its 
established markets, the Group has sought to maintain a level of 
investment in its new and developing markets. This investment 
comprises mainly start-up losses which are accounted for in the 
current year’s income statement. For these purposes, the Group 
considers the following markets to be developing: Hong Kong, Mexico, 
China and Brazil (2012 also included Home3, which is now disclosed 
as discontinued). In 2013, the total investment in start-up losses in the 
Group’s developing markets was £2.2 million (2012: £2.6 million). www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 21
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer
Our business model and strategy
Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility
Operating review
 ǔ Financial review
Risk management and principal risks
Tax
The tax charge on continuing operations of £2.1 million is higher 
than the prior year (2012: £1.5 million). This is principally due to the 
de-recognition of a deferred tax asset in respect of capital allowances 
in the UK, which is required as the Group does not expect taxable 
profits to arise in the UK in the immediate future. The Group’s 
overall loss has not resulted in a tax credit due to a number of 
factors, including the de-recognition of the brought forward deferred 
tax asset, no relief being obtained for tax losses incurred in the 
current year and taxes payable on profits in overseas jurisdictions. 
As in 2012, the effective tax rate is not a representative measure.
Discontinued operations
The Group has two separate businesses classified as discontinued in the 
current year; its North American business and its Home3 joint venture. 
The total profit after tax from discontinued operations of £12.5 million 
comprises £13.3 million profit in relation to the North American 
business and £0.8 million loss relating to the Home3 joint venture.
2013
£’m
2012
£’m
Revenue 15.6 49.8
Operating profit 3.0 9.6
Profit after tax 2.1 6.4
Profit/(loss) on disposal 10.4 (2.7)
Profit for the year 12.5 3.7
Net assets held for sale — 12.9
On 3 May 2013, the Group completed the sale of its North 
American business for a total cash consideration of £26.1 million 
($40.0 million) to AmTrust, a Delaware corporation and wholly 
owned subsidiary of AmTrust Financial Services Inc. The proceeds, 
together with costs associated with the disposal and the carrying 
value of the net assets held for sale, generated a profit on disposal 
of £10.4 million. The North American business also generated 
trading profits after tax of £2.9 million up to the disposal date of 
3 May 2013 (2012: £6.9 million representing a full year trading).
On 24 March 2014, the Group completed the disposal of its share 
of the Home3 joint venture to Mapfre. The disposal transaction 
included the Group investing an additional £1.0 million into Home3, 
the capital for which has been loaned by Mapfre to the Group. The 
consideration on disposal is £0.3 million. The transaction together 
with trading losses will result in the Group recognising further 
losses in 2014 of approximately £0.8 million. In 2013, the Group has 
recognised £0.8 million losses (2012: £0.5 million losses) which 
relate to the trading performance of the joint venture.
Cash flow
1
2013 2012
£’m £’m
Underlying operating (loss)/profit
2
(1.8) 26.7
Exceptional items
3
(23.6) (40.2)
Operating profit from discontinued 
North American operation 3.8 10.1
Depreciation, amortisation and other 
non-cash items 9.8 11.8
Increase in provisions 8.4 14.2
Working capital 26.4 (5.2)
Cash generated by operations 23.0 17.4
Tax (2.8) (5.4)
Operating cash flow
4
20.2 12.0
Capital expenditure (including intangibles) (2.8) (6.3)
Investment in joint venture (0.8) (0.5)
Net proceeds from disposal of 
discontinued operations 18.1 (0.9)
Net finance costs (0.7) (0.9)
Costs of refinancing (4.6) —
Loan note repayments — (0.9)
Net movement in cash/borrowings
5
29.4 2.5
Net funds
6
44.3 13.6
1  Cash flow from continuing and discontinued operations.
2 Continuing Group operating profit excluding exceptional items.
3  Excludes exceptional impairments that are non-cash items of £13.9 million 
(2012: £3.7 million).
4 Excluding repayment of loan notes (2012 only).
5 Excluding effect of exchange rates and amortisation of debt issue costs.
6 Includes unamortised debt issue costs.
The Group has generated additional cash, excluding movements in 
borrowings, of £29.4 million in the year reflecting the net proceeds 
from the North American disposal and a one-off reduction in working 
capital. This cash benefit has been partly reduced by the costs incurred 
throughout the year in refinancing the Group along with tax payments 
and capital expenditure, although these costs are at a reduced level 
from the prior year. The Group’s cash position will be significantly 
reduced in 2014 as a result of funding the Scheme.
Cash generated by operations amounted to £23.0 million 
(2012: £17.4 million) and results primarily from a one-off reduction 
in the working capital requirement of the Group. This benefit is due to 
a reduction in our insurance balances following the conclusion of the 
RBS MPI contract and balances associated with the reducing T-Mobile 
book, along with focused working capital management across 
the Group.
The disposal of the North American business in the year generated 
positive cash flows of £18.1 million. The level of capital expenditure 
(including intangibles) has decreased by £3.5 million to £2.8 million 
(2012: £6.3 million) which reflects the prioritised approach to cash 
management adopted by the Group due to the cash challenges it 
faces in the short and medium term. www.cppgroupplc.com
22 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Financial review continued
Cash flow
 
continued
Net funds at 31 December 2013 were £44.3 million, an improvement of 
£30.7 million compared to prior year, as a result of the net proceeds from 
the disposal of the North American business and positive operating cash 
flow, the benefit of which is partly reduced by the costs of refinancing. 
The Group’s cash position will be significantly reduced in 2014 as a 
result of funding the Scheme. The Group maintains cash deposits for 
solvency purposes which were £27.8 million at 31 December 2013 
(2012: £22.9 million). Allowing for these deposits results in an adjusted 
Group net funds position of £16.5 million. Additionally, the terms of the 
VVOP agreed with the FCA restrict the disposition of assets within the 
UK’s regulated entities, CPPL and HIL. The net funds figure therefore 
includes cash balances held within CPPL and HIL which cannot be 
distributed to the wider Group, without FCA approval, of £32.7 million. 
This restricted cash, although unavailable to distribute to the wider 
Group, is available to the regulated entity in which it exists, including for 
operational and customer redress purposes.
Dividend
As a result of the Group making a loss after tax in 2013 and the 
cash challenges it currently faces, the Directors have decided not 
to recommend the payment of a dividend. Furthermore, due to the 
Group’s current performance and financial situation it is unlikely that 
a dividend will be paid in the medium term.
Balance sheet and financing
2013
£’m
2012
£’m
Goodwill and intangibles 3.3 16.9
Property, plant and equipment 5.1 13.3
Net assets held for sale — 12.9
Other net assets 37.3 46.2
45.7 89.3
Provisions (37.4) (29.0)
Current borrowings — (43.4)
Non-current borrowings (22.6) —
Non-current liabilities (10.0) (7.2)
Total net (liabilities)/assets (24.3) 9.7
The Group’s balance sheet has changed in the year with the refinancing 
arrangement resulting in current borrowings being replaced by non-current 
borrowings, reflecting the medium term stability the arrangement 
provides. In addition, the IT transformation and other exceptional items 
have led to a reduction in our non-current assets. Consequently, the 
Group’s balance sheet has declined in the year to a net liabilities position 
of £24.3 million (2012: £9.7 million net assets).
Provisions of £37.4 million (2012: £29.0 million) are mainly for customer 
redress and associated costs. The commencement of the Scheme results 
in the provision expecting to be fully utilised in 2014. The remaining 
instalments of the fine levied by the FCA are reported in other net assets 
(£1.6 million) and non-current liabilities (£6.9 million).
Goodwill and intangibles of £3.3 million has decreased by £13.6 million 
from the prior year. The significant movements are associated with 
the impairments incurred as a result of the IT transformation project 
of £5.4 million, the full impairment of the Homecare goodwill balance 
of £1.5 million, impairment of the contractual arrangement intangible 
of £1.3 million and continued amortisation of the intangible balances 
against reduced levels of additions.
The property, plant and equipment (PPE) balance of £5.1 million has 
decreased in the year by £8.3 million. This reflects the impairment 
of the freehold property to market value of £3.0 million, impairment 
of computer hardware as a result of the IT transformation project 
of £2.6 million and continued depreciation of PPE balances.
On 31 July 2013, the Group agreed new financing arrangements which 
are expected to total approximately £33.0 million. The arrangement 
comprises £13.0 million being provided by a three-year extension of 
the debt facility to 31 July 2016 and approximately £20.0 million being 
provided through the deferral of twelve months commission payments 
to certain Business Partners, with repayment due on 31 July 2017. 
The reduction in UK renewal rates following publicity surrounding the 
Scheme has resulted in the expected final commission deferral balance 
being lower than initially announced. The agreements, of which the 
commission deferral is subordinate to the loan facility, are subject to 
certain covenants and events of default. Further to the announcement 
on 9 January 2014 that the response rate covenant had been increased 
to 32%, in order to provide additional headroom the Group has 
subsequently agreed with its lenders a further increase of this covenant 
to 40%. There remains a risk that trading and customer redress 
uncertainties could impact the Group’s ability to comply with the terms 
of the borrowing agreements.
The new financing arrangements have changed the shape of the 
balance sheet in 2013, with current borrowings being replaced by 
non-current borrowings, reflecting the medium term stability the 
arrangement provides. The bank loan has been reduced from 
£43.5 million at the beginning of the year to £13.0 million, funded 
principally through proceeds from the sale of the North American 
business and transfer of restricted funds in CPPL held in favour of 
the lenders. The commission deferral agreement will result in the 
incremental build-up of a loan balance as the relevant commissions 
are deferred on a monthly basis over a period of twelve months. 
At 31 December 2013, the balance in respect of this agreement 
is £11.3 million.
Craig Parsons
Chief Financial Officer
23 April 2014 www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 23
Board and Committee oversight
The Board has overall responsibility for 
the Group’s system of internal control and 
for monitoring its effectiveness. The Audit 
Committee and Group Risk & Compliance 
Committee operated throughout the year, each 
overseeing the Group’s system of internal 
control and risk management framework. 
Material risk or control matters, together 
with the appropriate management action, 
are reported to the Board by the Risk & 
Compliance Committee and/or the Audit 
Committee. The Board monitors the on-going 
process by which critical risks to the business 
are identified, evaluated and managed. This 
process is consistent with the Turnbull 
Guidance on Internal Control and the revised 
guidance issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council in October 2005, and has been in 
place for the year under review and up to 
the date of approval of the Annual Report 
& Accounts. 
Internal control and compliance
The key elements of the Group’s system 
of internal control include regular meetings 
of the Group’s subsidiary Boards, together 
with annual budgeting, monthly financial 
reporting, Key Performance Indicators and 
operational reporting for all businesses within 
the Group. Compliance is the responsibility 
of Management, supported and overseen by 
the Group’s Compliance, Risk Management 
and Internal Audit functions. 
Included in the description of regulatory risk 
on page 25 are the actions and initiatives taken 
by the Board to improve the effectiveness 
of its regulatory compliance, some of which 
are currently in development. The Board 
assesses the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of internal control (including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and risk 
management systems) on the basis of: 
established procedures which are in place 
to manage perceived risks; reports by 
Management to the Board on specific aspects 
of the Group system of internal control and 
significant control issues; the continuous 
Group-wide process for formally identifying, 
evaluating and managing significant risks to 
the achievement of the Group’s objectives; 
and reports to the Audit Committee and the 
Risk & Compliance Committee on the 
results of internal audit reviews and work 
undertaken by other departments including 
Risk Management, Legal, Compliance and 
Information Security. 
The Group’s system of internal control is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate 
risk of failure to achieve the Group’s objectives 
and provides reasonable, not absolute 
assurance, against material mis-statement 
or loss. In assessing what constitutes 
reasonable assurance, the Board considers 
the materiality of financial and non-financial 
risks and the relationship between the 
cost of and benefit from the system of 
internal control. 
The Board regularly reviews the actual 
and forecast performance of the business 
compared with the annual plan, as well as 
other Key Performance Indicators. Lines of 
responsibility and delegated authorities are 
clearly defined and the Group’s policies and 
procedures are regularly updated and 
distributed throughout the Group. 
In 2013, the Group continued the work 
commenced in 2012 to review and improve 
the governance of the business. CPPL is 
authorised and regulated by the FCA and HIL 
is authorised by the Prudential Regulation 
Authority (PRA) and regulated by the FCA 
and the PRA. Each undertakes a solvency/
capital adequacy assessment on a regular 
basis. Outputs from these assessments 
are subject to review and approved by the 
individual Boards of these companies and 
are reviewed by the FCA and PRA from time 
to time. The assessments include consideration 
of the risks that the Group’s business faces 
in its operating environment, the assessment 
of the likelihood of risks crystallising, the 
potential materiality and effectiveness of 
the control framework in mitigating each 
risk. The purpose of each assessment is to 
establish the level of capital resources that 
the business should maintain under current 
market conditions and a range of scenarios 
in order to ensure that financial resources are 
sufficient to successfully manage the impact 
of any risk that may crystallise. 
HIL is subject to the European Commission’s 
Solvency II Directive, which it is anticipated will 
come into operation from 1 January 2016. 
The Directive is aimed at producing a more 
consistent solvency standard for insurers 
across Europe, ensuring that capital 
requirements are more reflective of the 
risks being accepted. 
Throughout 2013, HIL had in place an 
outsourcing contract with a third party 
provider to secure operational capability 
independent from other Group companies. 
This investment significantly reduces the 
operational risk that HIL may have faced 
through a reliance on other Group operations. 
This outsourcing contract also provides HIL 
independent business continuity protection in 
the event its existing operations are disrupted. 
 Governance, risk management 
and internal control
Good governance, 
risk management 
and internal control 
must be central to the 
way we manage all 
aspects of our business. 
Responsible practices 
form the framework for 
our values, underpin our 
behaviours and cultivate 
growth in a disciplined and 
sustainable way. We are 
making our business more 
effective and efficient 
and so better able to 
deliver value to all 
our stakeholders.
Chairman’s statement 
pages 06 and 07
Report of the Audit Committee 
pages 36 to 38
Report of the Risk & 
Compliance Committee 
page 39
Risk management and principal risks
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer
Our business model and strategy
Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility
Operating review
Financial review
 ǔ Risk management and principal risks www.cppgroupplc.com
24 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Risk Management and Internal Audit functions
The Risk Management and Internal Audit 
departments review the extent to which 
the system of internal control is a) effective 
and b) adequate to manage the Group’s 
significant risks and safeguard the Group’s 
assets. In conjunction with the Company 
Secretary and the Group’s Legal and 
Compliance teams, these departments 
collectively ensure compliance with legal 
and regulatory requirements, providing 
independent and objective assurance on 
risks and controls to the Board and Senior 
Management. Internal Audit’s key focus is 
on areas of greatest risk to the Group, 
determined by a structured risk assessment 
process involving Executive Directors and 
Senior Management. The output is 
summarised in an annual audit plan, which 
is approved by the Audit Committee. The 
Head of Internal Audit regularly reports to the 
Audit Committee and Chief Financial Officer. 
The role of Internal Audit and the scope of 
its work is based on the Internal Audit 
Manual that is developed in line with best 
practice and has been approved by the 
Audit Committee. 
Risk management and control environment
The Group has strengthened its governance, 
risk management and control environment 
establishing a clear framework, processes, 
policies and systems to ensure decisions 
are made at the appropriate level and 
with accountability.
CPP’s risk management approach is designed 
to support the successful development and 
delivery of the Group’s strategic objectives.
See diagram A 
The aim of risk management is to identify 
and manage the actions necessary to 
mitigate any impact and maintain a high-quality 
service to customers whilst ensuring that 
Senior Management is informed of the risk 
profile of the Group. Significant risks that 
would impact on the Group’s delivery of its 
business plan are considered and reviewed by 
the Executive Directors and the appropriateness 
of actions determined by the Group Risk & 
Compliance Committee quarterly.
See diagram B
Three lines of defence model
CPP operates a three lines of defence model 
across the Group. Adopting enterprise risk 
management, the Group manages its activities 
by addressing risks identified by the Leadership 
Team, supported by central governance 
functions including Legal, Compliance and Risk. 
See diagram C
Governance functions
The governance functions are responsible 
for providing robust frameworks which 
support the Group and providing insight 
to Senior Management which enables 
them to assess and challenge risks that are 
identified. The Group Risk and Compliance 
functions provide oversight of these 
activities and both the Head of Group Risk 
and Head of UK Compliance provide quarterly 
updates on functional activities and the 
performance of the business in respect of 
effective risk management.
During 2013, the Group continued to enhance 
its risk management capability. Key actions 
included the full roll-out of processes across 
the Group to enable consistent and timely 
reporting of operational issues that are 
identified (Business Incident Management) 
and a self-certification exercise for each 
region to ensure compliance with Group 
policies (minimum standards). 
Risk management and principal risks continued
B. Risk management model
Communication, education, 
training and guidance
Management information: 
business incident 
management and business 
functions profiling
Risk management tools
Risk 
management 
approach
6 5
1 4
2 3
1 Identify risks
2 Assess and evaluate risks
3 Respond to risks
4  Design, implement and 
test controls
5 Monitor, assure and escalate
6 Embed solutions
A. Effective risk management framework
C. Three lines of defence model
 Business management 
Operating within the Company’s risk 
appetite, responsible for the identification, 
management and monitoring of risks
Sustain and continually improve
Group 
strategy
Group risk appetite
(Group Board)
Group policy
Oversight
(Group Risk & Compliance Committee / 
Delegated Board Committee)
Risk infrastructure – People / Process / Systems
(Group Executive Committee / 
Group Leadership Team)
Risk management approach
(Business functions)
 Group risk management, compliance 
and information security 
Provision of frameworks, guidance, tools, 
support and challenge
 Internal audit 
Risk-based independent testing of the 
design and operation of the governance 
framework, risk management measures and 
controls www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 25
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Q&A with our new Chief Executive Officer
Our business model and strategy
Our stakeholders and Corporate Responsibility
Operating review
Financial review
 ǔ Risk management and principal risks
Market risk – Economic and political
Status Potential risk & impact
The Group operates in a number of countries where the 
economic outlook remains uncertain. Changes to the 
economic or political climate may have an adverse impact 
on operational performance.
Mitigation
The Group regularly monitors the performance of all its 
businesses and will consider the viability of its operations 
on a case-by-case basis. Operating in diversified geographic 
markets mitigates the risk to any one country or currency.

Market risk – Competitive markets
Status Potential risk & impact
There remains a risk that new competitors enter the market 
offering competing products before CPP has completed its 
business restructuring.
Mitigation
The Group Executives regularly monitor competitor activity. 
The Group’s business plan involves the development of new, 
market tested products that have continuing appeal to 
consumers who require assistance products.

Operational risk – Regulatory 
Status Potential risk & impact
Operating in regulated markets worldwide, there is a risk that 
a part of the Group may be subject to regulatory scrutiny and 
possible censure. The risk may be increased as a result of the 
Group being supported by a central IT platform and the 
business model and product propositions that are derived 
from the original model implemented in the UK.
There are current on-going discussions with the Central Bank of 
Ireland (CBI) on potential redress to policyholders in Ireland who 
bought the same products as were on offer in the UK. The Board 
is also aware that regulators in some overseas territories are also 
reviewing certain aspects of the business.
Mitigation
Throughout 2013, Senior Executives of the Group have been in 
regular dialogue with the UK regulator to ensure that the FCA is 
fully up to date of on-going actions that the business has taken, 
the performance of the Scheme and the future plans of the Group.
The Board has sought to mitigate this risk through further 
enhancement of its risk, compliance and governance approach 
and where appropriate, working closely with local advisers.
The risk and internal control environment rolled out in the UK has 
been extended to all territories. However, until all rectification 
actions are completed there remains a risk that additional regulatory 
restrictions may be placed on the Group if further irregularities are 
identified that could potentially cause detriment to policyholders.
Principal risks & uncertainties
Many of the risks outlined are consistent with those experienced by companies that have encountered difficult trading conditions and those 
in the process of developing longer term business plans and strategy. Over the last two years, the Group has placed great focus on developing 
a constructive relationship with the regulator in the UK, improving operational efficiency and ensuring that risk management is central in the 
decision making process. Nonetheless, there remain significant risks to the execution and delivery of the Group’s business plan and development 
of its longer term strategy. Following the refinancing agreements in July 2013, the Board no longer considers that retaining key supplier contracts 
represents a significant risk to the Group in the short to medium term. During 2013, the focus of the Board has been on ensuring the best 
outcome for all our policyholders including those eligible for redress under the Scheme. This has involved significant focus on the liquidity 
position of the Group and a significant reduction of the cost base. This has created or increased the risk profile, particularly given the redundancy 
programmes and reduction in investment in the infrastructure. The Group is addressing these risks as it rebuilds for the future.
Financial risk – Going concern/capital/liquidity
 
Status Potential risk & impact
The going concern status of the Group is impacted by trading 
and customer redress uncertainties and the effect that these 
could have on liquidity and compliance with the terms of the 
borrowing facilities.
Current redress rates are within expectations, but there 
remains a risk that response rates may reach a level which 
cannot be funded under the revised funding arrangement.
In addition, the Group’s trading performance continues to be 
affected by the VVOP restrictions which, amongst other 
requirements, do not permit CPPL or HIL to make sales of 
regulated products.
Mitigation
Whilst redress rates are uncertain the current level of redress 
rates is within expectations. The Board has improved the 
financial stability of the business and its liquidity. 
Options are being developed to secure additional capital, 
if required. 
The Board continues to focus on operational efficiency and 
re-sizing the business, whilst work continues to develop the 
business plan which may require additional funding.


Risk profile increased 
year-on-year

Risk profile no change 
year-on-year
Status

Risk profile decreased 
year-on-year
New New risk
 www.cppgroupplc.com
26 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Risk management and principal risks continued
Operational risk – Operational efficiency
Status Potential risk & impact
The Board is aware that a number of challenges remain 
towards achieving operational and IT efficiency, both in the UK 
and overseas territories. The operating environment is in a 
transformation period and until completed, there remains a risk 
that any regulatory breaches or operational weaknesses may 
be identified. Management is of the view that further changes 
and improvements are required before the Group is in the 
required position to apply to remove the restrictions on our 
regulatory permissions.
Mitigation
To deliver on its business plan or develop its longer term strategic 
objectives, the Group now has the opportunity to invest in the 
improvement of its operational and IT environment. Whilst 
designed to mitigate risks in the longer term these changes may 
result in increased operational risk whilst the improvements 
required are implemented. 

Operational risk – Business Partner retention/attraction 
Status Potential risk & impact
The current status and experience of the Group have increased 
the requirement to attract new Business Partners and maintain 
current relationships. In the absence of this engagement, there is 
a risk that a significant route to market will become constrained.
Mitigation
The Group continues to engage with existing and previous 
Business Partners in order to retain or build confidence. 
Operational risk – Data security
 
Status Potential risk & impact
The Group retains substantial sensitive data relating 
to customers. Failure to safeguard this information could 
result in censure, fines and reputational damage.
Mitigation
The Group takes the safeguarding of customer and business 
data seriously. All new transformation plans ensure that data 
security is central to any new infrastructure. The Group has a 
dedicated Information Security Manager and seeks annual 
certification of its information security standards through 
annual PCI certification.

Operational risk – People and resources
Status Potential risk & impact
In 2013 and 2014, a number of key personnel left the Group, 
either as a result of redundancy programmes or natural 
attrition. The loss of Senior Management and key functional 
experts may result in the risk that significant knowledge and 
capability is lost from the Group. The knowledge gap as a 
result, may increase pressure on existing employees and 
potential operational weaknesses.
Mitigation
The Group has identified key skills and role dependencies and is 
taking the necessary action to retain and recruit the knowledge 
required within the Group. The business also utilises interim 
contractors where shorter term solutions are required. The 
Board has identified this key risk and in view of the Scheme 
commencing, has authorised further investment in people, both 
to attract new experienced individuals and to seek to retain key 
individuals within the Group.

Operational risk – Governance
Status Potential risk & impact
CPP, a listed Company with regulated subsidiaries, has a 
highly concentrated shareholder base. It is essential that the 
organisation works within this framework. As a result, there is 
a risk that support for the Board, the business plan and longer 
term strategy is not forthcoming.
Mitigation
The Board proactively engages on a regular basis with the 
largest shareholders to mitigate this risk, discussing rationale 
and seeking support for the Board and its business plans.
New
The Strategic report section on pages 06 to 26 of this Annual Report has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on 
23 April 2014.
Brent Escott 
Chief Executive Officer www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 27
Corporate governance
Introduction from the Chairman
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Corporate Governance report
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
Remuneration report
Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Corporate 
governance
28 Introduction from the Chairman
30 Board of Directors and Company Secretary
32 Corporate Governance report
36 Report of the Audit Committee
39  Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
40  Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
41 Remuneration report
54 Directors’ report
57 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities www.cppgroupplc.com
28 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Introduction from the Chairman
Introduction to corporate governance
A responsible approach
Responsible practices form the framework 
for our values, underpin our behaviours 
and cultivate growth in a disciplined and 
sustainable way. We are making our business 
more effective and efficient and so better able 
to deliver value to all our stakeholders. 
Our commitment to governance during 
2013 continued to evolve and focused on 
strengthening our control environment. We 
have spent a great deal of time establishing 
the right framework, processes, policies and 
systems to ensure decisions are made at the 
appropriate level with accountability as we 
work to regain the trust of our stakeholders. 
We will continue to develop our practices 
and a strong framework to ensure that we 
adhere to high standards of corporate 
governance and identify areas where 
improvements are required. Ultimately, 
the changes we are making will strengthen 
the business and will enable us to move 
forward with the systems, controls and 
governance in place across the Group to 
run a business that is focused on doing 
the right thing by the customer.
Board composition, effectiveness 
and construct
The Board is responsible for providing strong 
and effective leadership. At CPP, the Board 
comprises me as Chairman, together with 
two Executive Directors and three 
independent Non-Executive Directors, 
drawing on experience across various 
industry sectors. The Board recognises the 
benefits of providing the right balance, 
strengths and diversity in the composition 
of the Board. We aim to have an optimum 
balance of skills and sector experience to 
ensure the Board operates in a focused and 
effective manner with the objective to 
balance long term value creation with 
acceptable short term outcomes. Our policy 
is to appoint the best people for relevant 
roles and we will continue to review the 
composition of the Board to ensure we have 
the right levels of skills and expertise, whilst 
recognising the benefits of greater diversity.
In view of the challenges that the Group 
has faced, the scale of the Company is 
much reduced and we are now rebuilding 
for the future. As our ultimate structure and 
strategy is formed and as we finalise the 
Scheme, it is our intention to review the 
appropriateness of the skills and expertise 
required and overall Board structure. All 
Directors are committed to this review.
Biographical details of the members of 
the Board are set out on pages 30 and 31.
Role of the Board
The role and responsibilities of the Board and 
its various Committees are outlined on page 
35. Our approach to corporate governance 
and the role of the Board ensures that there 
is a clear understanding of the necessary 
requirements and leadership that support 
the development of the business and address 
the challenges ahead. 
Remuneration
Our remuneration structures ensure 
performance is measured against 
appropriate metrics that take into account 
how results are delivered as well as the 
actual delivery of those results.
“ We have spent a 
great deal of time 
establishing the right 
framework, processes, 
policies and systems 
to ensure decisions are 
made at the appropriate 
level with accountability 
as we work to regain the 
trust of our stakeholders.”
Risk management approach 
pages 23 and 24
Risk management framework 
pages 23 and 24
Governance and Committees 
pages 32 to 53
Governance framework  
page 35
Remuneration report 
pages 41 to 53
Duncan McIntyre
Non-Executive Chairman www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 29
Corporate governance
 ǔ Introduction from the Chairman
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Corporate Governance report
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
Remuneration report
Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Chairman
The Non-Executive Chairman, Duncan 
McIntyre, is responsible for the leadership 
of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness 
on all aspects of its role and setting 
its agenda. 
The Non-Executive Chairman has no 
involvement in the day-to-day business 
of the Group.
Details on the role of the Non-Executive 
Chairman can be found on page 33.
Chief Executive Officer
The Chief Executive Officer, Brent 
Escott, is the Executive responsible for 
the day-to-day running of the business 
and is accountable to the Board for its 
operational and financial performance.
Details on the role of the Chief Executive 
Officer can be found on page 33.
Role and responsibilities of the Non-Executive Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer
The roles of the Non-Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, 
clearly defined in writing and have been agreed by the Board. 
Role of the Board
Board Committees
Audit Committee
Risk & Compliance Committee
Nomination & Governance Committee
Remuneration Committee
Executive Committee
1
Provide leadership 
to the Group
3
Develop robust corporate 
governance and risk 
management practices
Set the Group’s long term 
strategic objectives
2
Board balance
 Non-Executive Chairman 1
 Executive Directors 2
 Independent Non-Executive Directors* 3
Ruth Evans
Duncan  
McIntyre
(Chairman)
Les Owen
Shaun 
Astley-Stone
Craig Parsons
(CFO)
Brent  
Escott
(CEO)
“ Our approach to corporate governance and the 
role of the Board ensures that there is a clear 
understanding of the necessary requirements and 
leadership that support the development of the business 
and address the challenges ahead.”
Duncan McIntyre, Non-Executive Chairman
*  Shaun Astley-Stone is not considered independent 
during 2013. He can be considered independent 
going forward. Details can be found on page 33. www.cppgroupplc.com
30 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
3. Brent Escott
Chief Executive Officer  
Appointment September 2013
Committee Memberships
NG
Skills and experience 
Brent was appointed Chief Executive 
Officer following a brief period in the 
role of Interim Deputy Chief Executive 
Officer. He has over 25 years’ 
experience in the insurance industry, 
most recently as Managing Director, 
General Insurance Division at Capita 
plc and previously as Managing 
Director of the UK division of Brit 
Insurance Holdings PLC. He was 
founder and Managing Director of 
Club Direct Insurance Services Limited.
Other appointments 
Director of Allendene Limited and 
Clear Insurance Management Limited.
1. Les Owen
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Appointment August 2010
Committee Memberships
A
 
RC
 
NG
 
R
Skills and experience 
Les Owen worked for 35 years in 
retail financial services including 
eleven years as Chief Executive 
Officer of companies listed in the 
UK and Australia. Les is a qualified 
actuary and serves as Non-Executive 
Director on the boards of a number of 
national and international companies.
Other appointments 
Appointments include Non-Executive 
Director of Royal Mail Holdings Plc, 
Jelf Group Plc, Discovery Ltd, 
Computershare and Just Retirement 
(Holdings) Limited.
2. Shaun Astley-Stone
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Appointment September 2013
Committee Memberships
RC
Skills and experience 
Shaun worked previously for the 
Group as Interim UK Managing 
Director from August 2012 until 
May 2013, during which time 
he was instrumental in building 
the customer focus of the UK 
business and in improving 
regulatory relationships. Shaun 
has over 25 years’ experience 
of the retail financial services 
and insurance sectors.
Other appointments 
Chair of Card Protection Plan Limited 
and Chief Executive Officer of EMC 
Advisory Services Limited.
 Risk & Compliance 
Committee
Nomination & 
Governance Committee
Remuneration Committee
Committee Chairman
Audit Committee
Committees
RC
NG
R
A www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 31
Corporate governance
Introduction from the Chairman
 ǔ Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Corporate Governance report
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
Remuneration report
Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
5. Craig Parsons
Chief Financial Officer  
Appointment September 2013
Committee Memberships 
RC
Skills and experience  
Craig is responsible for the Group’s 
Finance, Tax, Treasury, Risk and Audit 
functions. He has held a senior role 
in CPP’s Group Finance function 
since 2002, most recently as Director 
of Tax and Treasury. He has primary 
responsibility for the Group’s lender 
relationships and played a leading role 
in the successful refinancing of the 
business in July 2013. He qualified 
as a Chartered Accountant with 
PwC in 1995 and has 18 years’ 
experience working in the financial 
services industry. 
6. Lorraine Beavis
Company Secretary 
Appointment October 2013
Skills and experience 
Lorraine is a Chartered Secretary 
with broad experience as a company 
secretary in a variety of businesses. 
She joined the Group as Deputy 
Company Secretary in April 2012, 
assuming the role of Group Company 
Secretary in October 2013.  
7 . Ruth Evans
Independent 
Non-Executive Director
Appointment October 2013
Committee Memberships
NG
 
R
Skills and experience 
Ruth has an established track record 
representing consumer interests 
across a range of public and private 
services, including the retail financial 
services sector. She has extensive 
experience in professional and 
economic regulation having served 
as Chair and Board member of 
economic and professional 
regulatory authorities.
Other appointments 
Chair of the Authority for Television 
on Demand and Independent 
Commissioner of the Independent 
Police Complaints Commission.
4. Duncan McIntyre
Non-Executive Chairman 
Appointment January 2014
Committee Memberships 
A
 
RC
 
NG
 
R
Skills and experience  
Duncan was appointed as Group 
Chairman in January 2014, following 
three years as a Non-Executive 
Director. A qualified accountant, 
Duncan has substantial experience of 
developing and growing businesses, 
having previously led Morse plc as 
Chief Executive, taking it from a small 
private company to a main market 
listing and being a key architect in the 
building of Monitise plc, the global 
leader in mobile money solutions 
listed on AIM, where he remained 
as Chairman until October 2013. 
Other appointments 
Chairman of Climate Risk 
Management Limited, Technetix 
Group Limited and eg solutions plc. 
  www.cppgroupplc.com
32 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance report
Summary
•  The Board continues to focus on 
improving the governance aspects 
of the business
• The Board is responsible to 
shareholders for the strategic 
direction of the business and 
is committed to high standards 
of corporate governance
• Various changes made during 
the year to ensure that the Board 
continues to comprise individuals 
with wide-ranging business skills 
and experience
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance
Introduction
During 2013, the Board continued its focus 
on improving the governance aspects of the 
business. The governance framework has 
been developed to ensure that it remains 
appropriate to the business and the risk 
and compliance functions continue to be 
strengthened throughout the Group.
Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2012
This report sets out how the Company 
applied the principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code as published by the 
Financial Reporting Council in September 
2012 and available on its website 
www.frc.org.uk (‘the Code’) and the 
extent to which the Company complied 
with the provisions of the Code during 
the year under review.
The Code defines a smaller company as one 
that is below the FTSE 350 throughout the 
year immediately prior to the reporting year. 
In so far as is required of a smaller company 
as so defined, the Directors consider that 
the Company has been in full compliance 
throughout the year with the provisions set 
out in the Code, except as described below:
 ц the Board has not considered the 
appointment of a Senior Independent 
Director appropriate, given the Company’s 
size and financial position. This will remain 
under review as the Company strategy and 
Board structure develops; and
 ц in view of the number of changes and issues 
faced during the year, the Board has not 
considered a formal Board effectiveness 
review to be appropriate. This will be 
reviewed once the Board and the Company 
return to a position of greater stability and as 
the structure of the Board develops.
Leadership
The role of the Board
The Board is responsible to shareholders for 
the strategic direction, management and 
control of the Company’s activities and is 
committed to high standards of corporate 
governance in delivering in these areas.
At the date of this report, the Board comprises:
Duncan McIntyre 
as Non-Executive Chairman
Brent Escott 
as Chief Executive Officer
Craig Parsons 
as Chief Financial Officer
Les Owen, Shaun Astley-Stone 
and Ruth Evans 
as Independent Non-Executive Directors
Duncan McIntyre and Les Owen served 
on the Board throughout the year, as did 
Charles Gregson before he stepped down 
in January 2014.
The following changes were made during 
the year and up to the date of this report:
Duncan McIntyre  
– appointed as Chairman on 29 January 2014
Brent Escott 
– appointed on 1 September 2013
Craig Parsons 
– appointed on 1 September 2013
Shaun Astley-Stone 
– appointed on 2 September 2013
Ruth Evans 
– appointed on 4 October 2013
Charles Gregson 
– resigned on 29 January 2014
Paul Stobart 
–  resigned as Chief Executive Officer 
on 31 August 2013
Shaun Parker 
–  resigned as Chief Financial Officer 
on 31 August 2013
Hamish Ogston 
–  resigned as a Non-Executive Director 
on 28 June 2013
Biographical notes of each of the current 
Directors are given on pages 30 and 31.
How the Board operates
The Board has a formal schedule of matters 
reserved to it, which is available on the 
Company’s website, www.cppgroupplc.com. 
This schedule was last reviewed and updated 
in March 2014. Key matters that the Board is 
specifically responsible for include:
 ц approval of the Group’s long term ambitions, 
objectives and commercial strategy;
 ц material changes to the Group’s corporate 
structure, including any acquisitions or 
disposals;
 ц ensuring maintenance of a sound system 
of internal control and risk management;
 ц approval of annual and half-year results, 
interim statements and interim 
management statements;
 ц approval of the dividend policy; and
 ц material capital investments.
Risk management and principal risks  
pages 23 to 26
Board of Directors 
pages 30 and 31
Committee reports 
pages 36 to 53 
Directors’ report  
pages 54 to 56
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
page 57 www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 33
Corporate governance
Introduction from the Chairman
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
 ǔ Corporate Governance report
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
Remuneration report
Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Other powers are delegated to the various Board committees and to 
Senior Management. Details of the roles and responsibilities of the 
Board Committees are set out on pages 36 to 53 and copies of all terms 
of reference are available on the Company’s website. 
Details of attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings 
during the year are set out in the table on page 34. Additional ad hoc 
meetings were also arranged to deal with matters between scheduled 
meetings as appropriate.
Papers for Board and Committee meetings are circulated in advance 
of the relevant meeting and any Director who is unable to attend 
receives a full copy of the papers and has the opportunity to 
comment on the matters to be discussed.
Board members also receive a monthly performance pack which is 
prepared at the end of each financial period and includes an update 
on key performance targets, trading performance and detailed 
financial data.
Each member of the Board has had access to all information 
relating to the Group, and to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary (who is responsible for ensuring that Board 
procedures are followed). All Board members also have access to 
external advice at the expense of the Group, should they need it. 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are 
separate, clearly defined in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
The Chairman, Duncan McIntyre, is responsible for the leadership 
of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role 
and setting its agenda. The Chairman has no involvement in the 
day-to-day management of the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer, Brent Escott, is the Executive responsible 
for the day-to-day running of the business and is accountable to the 
Board for its operational and financial performance. 
Board balance, independence and appointments
The Board considers that its primary role is to provide leadership to the 
Group, to set the Group’s long term strategic objectives and to develop 
robust corporate governance and risk management practices.
During the year, various changes have been made to ensure that the 
Board continues to comprise individuals with wide ranging business skills 
and experience and the Board has considered the structure, size and 
composition of the Board; the membership of the various Board 
Committees; the expected time commitment; and the policy for Board 
appointments for Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Board’s aim is to ensure that the balance between Non-Executive 
Directors and Executive Directors reflects the changing needs of the 
business and allows the Board to exercise objectivity in decision making 
and proper control of the Company’s business.
The Board has reviewed the independence of each of the 
Non-Executive Directors that continue to serve on the Board and 
concluded that Les Owen and Ruth Evans are independent. Shaun 
Astley-Stone provided some consultancy services to the Group’s UK 
regulated subsidiaries after his appointment to the Board, for which 
he received fees over and above his Non-Executive Director fees. 
The contract under which those services were provided has now 
been terminated. The Board therefore considers that, whilst Shaun 
Astley-Stone was not independent during the year under review, he 
can be considered independent going forward. On his appointment 
as Chairman, Duncan McIntyre satisfied the independence criteria as 
set out in the Code. However, following his appointment as Chairman, 
he is assumed, in accordance with the Code, not to be independent. 
The Board meets the Code requirement for smaller companies (as 
defined by the Code) that at least two members of the Board should 
be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors are considered to be of sufficient 
calibre and experience to bring significant influence to bear on the 
decision making process.
Throughout the year the outgoing Chairman, Charles Gregson, held 
regular informal meetings with Non-Executive Directors without the 
Executive Directors being present and Duncan McIntyre has 
continued this practice since his appointment.
On joining the Board, Non-Executive Directors receive a formal 
appointment letter, which identifies the time commitment expected of 
them. A potential Director candidate is required to disclose all significant 
outside commitments prior to appointment and the Board requires 
disclosure and approval by the Board of all additional appointments for 
Executive or Non-Executive Directors. The terms and conditions of 
appointment of Non-Executive Directors and service contracts of 
Executive Directors are available to shareholders for inspection at the 
Group’s registered office during normal business hours.
Information and professional development
The Board receives at its meetings detailed reports from Executive 
Management on the performance of the Group and other information 
as necessary. Regular updates are provided on relevant legal, corporate 
governance and financial reporting developments and Directors are 
encouraged to attend external seminars on areas of relevance to their role.
Appropriate training and induction are made available to any newly 
appointed Director, having regard to any previous experience they 
may have as a Director of a public company or otherwise. In addition 
to any guidance that may be given from time to time by the Company 
Secretary, Directors are encouraged to devote an element of their 
time to self-development through available training.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary. The Company Secretary or her nominee is the secretary for 
all Board Committees. The removal and appointment of the Company 
Secretary is a matter reserved for Board approval. The Board also 
obtains advice from professional advisers as and when required.
Performance evaluation
The Board, led by the Chairman, last carried out a formal Board 
effectiveness review through an independent third party in 2011. 
The evaluation was based on written questionnaires completed by 
the Directors at the time and some face to face interviews. These 
were used to create a written report with recommendations and 
improvements made in the light of these. In view of the number of 
changes and issues faced by the Board since that time, the Board has 
not considered further formal evaluation to be appropriate. This will be 
reviewed once the Board and the Company return to a position of 
greater stability and once the Board is satisfied that its composition is 
appropriate for the developing strategy of the Company. 
Re-election
The Company’s Articles of Association require that newly appointed 
Directors offer themselves for election at the first Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) following their appointment and that all Directors stand 
for re-election at least once every three years. 
Accordingly, at the 2014 AGM, Brent Escott, Craig Parsons, Shaun 
Astley-Stone and Ruth Evans will seek election for the first time. 
Duncan McIntyre and Les Owen, having been re-elected at the 2013 
AGM, are not required to stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.  www.cppgroupplc.com
34 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Corporate Governance report continued
Re-election continued
Duncan McIntyre took over as Chairman in January 2014 with the support 
of the Group’s largest shareholders. Les Owen has indicated his 
intention to retire from the Board once a successor has been identified.
The Board believes that its performance continues to be effective and 
that the election of Directors is consistent with the Board’s evaluation 
of the size, structure and composition of the Board. However, all 
Directors understand that the Group is in transition and confirm that 
if their skills and expertise cease to be relevant, they will step down.
Biographies for all Directors can be found on pages 30 and 31.
Relations with shareholders
The Board is committed to maintaining good relationships with 
shareholders. There is regular dialogue with the Company’s key 
shareholders, although care is exercised to ensure that any 
price-sensitive information is released at the same time to all 
shareholders, in accordance with the requirements of the UK 
Listing Authority. The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief 
Financial Officer are available for meetings with major and 
institutional shareholders on request. 
Key shareholders are given the opportunity to meet with the 
Chairman and/or other Non-Executive Directors if they have 
concerns that have not, or cannot, be addressed through the Chief 
Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer. Irrespective of the 
size of their shareholding, shareholders have the opportunity to 
convey their views and make enquiries via e-mail or telephone 
contact with the Head of Investor Communications.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate channels 
of communication are established between the Chief Executive 
Officer (and other Executive Directors) and shareholders, ensuring 
that the views of shareholders are made known to the Board. 
The Board is provided with an investor relations report on a monthly 
basis. The Company recognises the importance of ensuring effective 
communication with all of its shareholders and seeks to present the 
Company’s position and prospects clearly. 
The Annual Report & Accounts is distributed to all shareholders 
and this report, together with a wide range of other information, 
including the half-yearly financial report, interim management 
statements, regulatory announcements and current details of 
the Company’s share price, is made available on the Company’s 
website at www.cppgroupplc.com.
The AGM provides the Board with an opportunity to meet informally 
and communicate directly with private investors. Voting at the AGM 
is conducted by way of a show of hands to encourage questions 
from and interaction with private investors. Proxy votes lodged on 
each AGM resolution are announced at the meeting and published 
on the Company’s website.
Insurance
The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect 
of any potential litigation against Directors.
Internal control and compliance
The Audit Committee and the Risk & Compliance Committee receive 
regular reports on compliance with Group policies and procedures. 
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee and the Risk & 
Compliance Committee confirm that through discharging their 
responsibilities under their terms of reference as described on pages 36 
and 39, they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s system of 
internal controls and are able to confirm that necessary actions have 
been or are being taken to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified.
Full details of the Group’s system of internal control and its relationship 
to the corporate governance structure are contained in the Risk 
management and principal risks section of this Report on pages 23 and 24.
Conflicts of interest
A register of conflicts of interest is maintained by the Company 
Secretary. Directors are required to declare any specific conflicts that 
arise from each Board agenda and a Director would refrain from voting 
on any matter that caused an actual or potential conflict of interest.
Board Committees
The Audit Committee, the Risk & Compliance Committee, the 
Nomination & Governance Committee and the Remuneration Committee 
are standing Committees of the Board. The Company Secretary acts as 
Secretary to all of the Board Committees. Written terms of reference of 
the Committees, including their objectives and the authority delegated 
to them by the Board, are available upon request from the Company 
Secretary or via the Group’s website at www.cppgroupplc.com. T erms 
of reference are reviewed at least annually by the relevant Committee 
and the Board. All Committees have access to independent expert advice. 
The Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board.
Directors’ attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings in 2013
Board
Audit
Committee
Risk &
Compliance
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee*
Governance
Committee*
Duncan McIntyre Non-Executive Director 10 (10) 6 (7) 5 (5) 4 (4) — 3 (3)
Brent Escott Chief Executive Officer 3 (3) — — — 1 (1) —
Craig Parsons Chief Financial Officer 3 (3) — 1 (1) — — —
Les Owen Non-Executive Director 9 (10) 7 (7) 5 (5) 3 (4) 2 (2) —
Shaun Astley-Stone Non-Executive Director 3 (3) — 1 (1) — — —
Ruth Evans Non-Executive Director 2 (2) — — 1 (1) 1 (1) —
Charles Gregson Non-Executive Chairman 10 (10) 7 (7) 5 (5) 4 (4) 2 (2) 3 (3)
Paul Stobart Chief Executive Officer 7 (7) — — — 1 (1) —
Shaun Parker Chief Financial Officer 7 (7) — 4 (4) — — —
Hamish Ogston Non-Executive Director 5 (5) — — — — —
The figures in brackets represent the maximum number of meetings for which the individual was a Board or Committee member.
*The Nomination Committee and Governance Committee were combined with effect from 17 September 2013. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 35
Corporate governance
Introduction from the Chairman
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
 ǔ Corporate Governance report
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
Remuneration report
Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Governance framework
Nomination & 
Governance 
Committee 
Two Independent 
Non-Executive Directors 
plus Duncan McIntyre and 
Brent Escott
Chairman 
Duncan McIntyre
Key objectives
Keep under review the 
structure, size and 
composition required 
of the Board and make 
recommendations to the 
Board regarding any changes 
More detail page 40
Audit Committee
One Independent 
Non-Executive Director 
plus Duncan McIntyre
Chairman 
Les Owen
Key objectives
To monitor the integrity 
of financial reporting 
systems and the 
effectiveness of internal 
financial controls; oversee 
the Internal Audit function 
and provide an interface 
with the external auditors  
 
 
More detail page 36
Risk & Compliance 
Committee
Two Independent* 
Non-Executive Directors 
plus Duncan McIntyre 
and Craig Parsons
Chairman 
Duncan McIntyre
Key objectives
To assist the Board in 
fulfilling its responsibilities 
relating to the risk appetite 
and risk management of 
the Group, the compliance 
framework and 
governance structure 
More detail page 39
Remuneration 
Committee
Two Independent 
Non-Executive Directors 
plus Duncan McIntyre
Chairman 
Ruth Evans
Key objectives
Determine and agree with 
the Board a framework 
and Board policy for 
Executive remuneration 
 
 
More detail page 41
The Board of CPPGroup Plc
The Chairman, two Executive Directors, and three 
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Key objectives
Responsible for the overall management of the Group and 
for setting the Group’s strategy and commercial objectives 
 
Role of the Board page 32
Roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer page 33
Executive Committee
Six members made up of the Executive Directors and 
Group function heads
Chairman Brent Escott
Key objectives
Assist the CEO in the performance of his duties, 
including the development and implementation of strategy; 
monitoring operational and financial performance; 
the assessment and control of risk and the prioritisation 
and allocation of resources
* Shaun Astley-Stone, although not independent during the period under 
review, is considered independent going forward. www.cppgroupplc.com
36 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Report of the Audit Committee
Members
• Les Owen (Chairman)
• Duncan McIntyre*
Meetings
• Seven
Summary
•  Continuing review of the Company’s 
going concern position in light of the 
Company’s financial circumstances, 
including redress forecasts
• Committee effectiveness review 
carried out
• New Internal Audit manual 
approved and permanent Head of 
Internal Audit appointed (January 
2014)
• Advised the Board on its obligation 
to ensure that the Annual Report & 
Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy
Key objective
To assist the Board in discharging its duties 
and responsibilities for financial reporting 
and internal financial control to include: 
monitoring the integrity of the financial 
reporting systems; examining management’s 
processes for ensuring the appropriateness 
and effectiveness of internal financial controls; 
overseeing the work of the Internal Audit 
function; and providing an interface between 
management and the external auditor.
Key responsibilities
 ц review financial statements and any 
financial information contained in certain 
other documents;
 ц keep under review the effectiveness of 
the Group’s internal financial controls and 
approval of any relevant disclosures;
 ц advise the Board on its obligation to ensure 
that the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as 
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy;
 ц review the Group’s procedures for 
preventing and detecting fraud and bribery 
and the arrangements for employees 
to raise concerns, in confidence, about 
possible wrongdoing in these or other 
financial reporting matters;
 ц review findings and reports from Internal 
Audit, approving management action plans 
and monitoring progress against those plans;
 ц monitor and review the effectiveness of 
the Company’s Internal Audit function in 
the context of the Company’s overall 
assurance system;
 ц approve the external auditor’s 
remuneration and terms of engagement, 
keep under review the scope and results 
of the audit work, its cost effectiveness 
and the independence and objectivity of 
the auditor, together with the volume and 
nature of non-audit services provided by 
the auditor; 
 ц consider and approve accounting policies; 
and
 ц oversee the relationship with the external 
auditor, including recommendations to 
the Board in relation to its appointment, 
re-appointment and removal.
Committee meetings
Only Committee members have the right 
to attend meetings, although others may 
attend by invitation of the Committee 
Chairman. During the year the external auditor, 
Senior Management, Chief Executive Officer, 
Chief Financial Officer and Head of Internal 
Audit usually attended meetings or parts of 
meetings to report to the Committee and 
provide clarification and explanations where 
appropriate. The Audit Committee Chairman 
also meets with the Head of Internal Audit and 
the external auditor without Executive 
Management present on a regular basis.
Main activities during the year
The Committee fully recognises its role of 
protecting the interest of shareholders as 
regards the integrity of published financial 
information and the effectiveness of the audit. 
The main activities of the Committee during 
the year were as follows:
Financial statements
The Committee reviewed and discussed 
financial disclosures made in the annual 
results announcement, the Annual Report 
& Accounts and the half-yearly financial 
report, together with any related 
management letters, letters of 
representation and reports from the 
external auditor. Key financial reporting 
and accounting issues are shown in the 
table on page 38.
Les Owen
Audit Committee Chairman
Financial review 
pages 18 to 22
Auditor’s report 
pages 59 to 61
Financial statements 
pages 62 to 110 
* Duncan McIntyre is considered by the Board to 
have recent and relevant financial experience, in 
accordance with the Code. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 37
Corporate governance
Introduction from the Chairman
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Corporate Governance report
 ǔ Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
Remuneration report
Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
External auditor
The Committee has responsibility for overseeing the relationship 
with the external auditor and approves the external auditor’s 
engagement letter, audit fee and audit and client services plan 
(including the planned levels of materiality). The external auditor 
attends Audit Committee meetings as appropriate and meets at 
least annually with the Committee without Executive Management. 
The Chairman of the Committee also meets privately with the 
external auditor.
During the year, the Committee received regular detailed reports from 
the external auditor including a formal written report dealing with the 
audit objectives, the auditor’s qualifications, expertise and resources, 
effectiveness of the audit process, procedures and policies for 
maintaining independence and compliance with the ethical standards 
issued by the Auditing Practices Board. The external auditor’s 
management letter is reviewed, as is management’s response 
to issues raised. Non-audit services provided by the external auditor 
are monitored by the Committee. 
The Committee also reviewed detailed reports covering the 
planning and results of external audit work, which included 
challenge to management’s assumptions. In addition, the 
Committee considered a review of the external auditor’s client 
service provision. The Committee is satisfied with the performance 
of the external auditor during the year and the policies and 
procedures in place to maintain their objectivity and independence. 
Having considered the quality, objectivity and independence of the 
audit teams and their work completed across the Group, the 
external auditor’s reporting and the levels of communication and 
service, the Audit Committee has recommended that Deloitte be 
re-appointed at the forthcoming AGM.
Auditor’s independence, objectivity and effectiveness
Fees paid to the external auditor are shown in note 7 to the 
consolidated financial statements. The external auditor provides 
some non-audit services, primarily in relation to corporate transactions 
that may arise from time-to-time. The level of non-audit fees as a 
proportion of the total fees paid to Deloitte was relatively high in 2013 
due to an unusual level of non-recurring reporting, regulatory and 
corporate activity, including work in relation to the sale of the US 
business. The Committee is satisfied that all of this is work that would 
normally fall to the Company’s auditor.
In order to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence are 
safeguarded the following controls have been implemented:
 ц a policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work has been 
agreed by the Committee. In summary, this ensures that work 
would usually only be awarded when, by virtue of the auditor’s 
knowledge, skills or experience, the auditor is clearly to be preferred 
over alternative suppliers. This policy is appended to the Committee 
terms of reference which is available on the Group’s website;
 ц the Committee receives and reviews each year an analysis of all 
non-audit work awarded to the auditor over the financial period; and
 ц the Committee receives each year a report from the external auditor 
as to any matters that the auditor considers bear on its independence 
and which need to be disclosed to the Audit Committee. 
To date, the effectiveness of the external auditor has been assessed 
informally, through discussions with and reports from the Chief 
Financial Officer (who attends most Committee meetings) and the 
external auditor. More recently the Committee has agreed to 
implement a formal process to assess the effectiveness of the external 
auditor. This will be carried out annually following the completion of the 
audit and will involve a detailed questionnaire to be completed by 
members of the Committee and senior members of the finance team 
who regularly interact with the external auditor. The results of the 
questionnaire will be reported to and discussed by the Committee.
Internal audit
The Committee approves the annual internal audit plan and 
methodology, monitors progress against the plan and receives 
reports after each audit. Progress against actions identified in these 
reports and the external auditor’s management letter, as well as 
other control related actions raised by third parties, are monitored 
by the Committee at regular intervals.
The Internal Audit team comprises the Head of Internal Audit, who 
is a Chartered Accountant with almost four years’ service with the 
Company, and a further two experienced auditors. The Committee 
has assessed the resources the department has to complete its remit 
and has approved the use of external consultants to supplement 
it if necessary, particularly in areas requiring specialist skills. 
The appointment and removal of the Head of Internal Audit is the 
responsibility of the Committee. The Internal Audit Department 
continues to have unrestricted access to all Group documentation, 
premises, functions and employees, as required. The Head 
of Internal Audit has direct access to the Board and the Audit 
Committee Chairman and is accountable to the Audit Committee, 
meeting with the Committee from time to time, without Executive 
Management present. The Committee approved the appointment of 
a new full time permanent Head of Internal Audit in January 2014.
“ The Committee considers that this Report, taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy.”
Les Owen, Audit Committee Chairman www.cppgroupplc.com
38 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Report of the Audit Committee continued
Main activities during the year continued
Going concern
Throughout the year, the Committee received reports from 
management and paid close attention to the continuing going 
concern position of the Company in the light of various financial risks 
including the Group cash position, developing information on likely 
redress rates, and other risks that continue to face the Company. 
As at the date of this report the Committee considers it appropriate 
that the accounts are prepared on a going concern basis. 
Committee effectiveness
During the year the Committee carried out a self-assessment 
exercise to help it assess its own effectiveness. This comprised a 
questionnaire completed anonymously by various participants and 
analysed by the Head of Internal Audit prior to consideration by the 
Committee. Certain changes were implemented as a result of this 
exercise, including:
 ц extending the time allowed for Committee meetings;
 ц implementation of a formal process to assess the effectiveness 
of the external auditor; 
 ц implementing an external independent review of internal audit 
effectiveness to be carried out at least once every three years 
and internally on an annual basis; and 
 ц development of an enhanced induction process for new 
Committee members.
Advice to the Board
Following the publication of the revised Code, the Board sought the 
advice of the Committee as to whether the Annual Report & Accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy. The Committee adopted 
a formal process to enable it to satisfy itself that this was the case, 
before advising the Board.
Other activities
Other activities of the Committee during the year included:
 ц renewal of the Group’s lending arrangements; 
 ц monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s whistle-blowing 
procedures and any notifications made;
 ц reviewing a gap analysis against “Effective Internal Audit in the 
Financial Services Sector”;
 ц implementation of a self-assessment procedure for Finance 
functions in overseas territories;
 ц approval of a new internal audit manual;
 ц recruitment of a permanent Head of Internal Audit in January 2014;
 ц reviewing and updating of the Committee’s own terms of reference.
Regular updates are provided to the Committee on developments in 
financial reporting and related legal and corporate governance matters.
The Committee has access to the services of the Internal Audit 
and Company Secretarial departments and is authorised to obtain 
independent professional advice if it considers it necessary.
Priorities for 2014
The Committee has identified the following key areas of focus for 2014:
 ц carry out a formal annual review of the effectiveness of the 
internal audit activities;
 ц a post-audit effectiveness review to take place annually;
 ц continue to monitor the going concern status of the Group;
 ц monitor the appropriateness of regulatory provisions;
 ц review internal audit plan and resources required for implementation; 
and
 ц develop the formal induction programme for new Committee 
members.
Key financial reporting and accounting issues
The primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2013 accounts, and how these were addressed 
by management are shown below:
Area of judgement Management action
Regulatory provisions The Committee considered and challenged the key judgements used in determining the overall level of the 
redress provisions including response rates, the size of the population of relevant customer policies, the average 
level of redress payable per customer and the eventual outturn of adviser costs. The Committee received 
detailed explanations from Executive Management in relation to the key assumptions and the supporting 
evidence behind them. Where appropriate, external and internal reports were obtained, for example in relation 
to the response rates and the completeness of the populations, in order to provide additional assurance.
Going concern Throughout the year the Committee has received regular reports from management on the going concern 
status of the Company taking account of the financial challenges that the Company has faced, in particular the 
trading, regulatory and governance risks. Each report was supported by a detailed forecasting exercise and 
included explanations of key judgements within those forecasts and the evidence on which those judgements 
were based. The Committee reviewed and challenged each report and the underlying forecast assumptions 
including expected growth rates and key factors such as renewal rates by reference to historical information 
and the estimated impact of the on-going redress Scheme. Whilst mindful of the risks still facing the Company 
in this regard, the Committee believes that the Company remains a going concern and that it is appropriate 
that these accounts are prepared on a going concern basis.
Impairment of tangible and 
intangible non-current 
assets
The Committee received papers presenting management’s intended approach which included the technical 
rationale for booking impairment charges and the linkage between the calculated impairment charges and 
forecast business performance as set out in the Group’s detailed business forecasts. The Committee also 
received reports from the external auditors in this regard.
Revenue recognition The Committee reviews the Company’s policy on revenue recognition on an annual basis and, having considered 
reports provided by the auditors, concluded that revenue recognition continues to be dealt with appropriately. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 39
Corporate governance
Introduction from the Chairman
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Corporate Governance report
 ǔ Report of the Audit Committee
 ǔ Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
Remuneration report
Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Report of the Risk & Compliance 
Committee
Members
• Duncan McIntyre (Chairman)
• Shaun Astley-Stone
• Les Owen
• Craig Parsons
Meetings
• Five
Summary
•  Risk strategy and risk appetite 
statements reviewed and updated 
to reflect the current operating 
environment of the Group
• Key risks and management 
actions monitored
• Internal control and risk 
management systems reviewed 
and updated, as appropriate
• Business Incident Management 
system implemented
• Minimum standards implemented 
across the Group
Key objective
To assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities with regard to the risk appetite 
of the Group and the risk management and 
compliance framework and the governance 
structure that supports it. 
Key responsibilities
 ц review reports and recommendations 
regarding the Group’s overall risk strategy, 
appetite, policies, capacity and tolerances 
and make recommendations to the Board; 
 ц review the appropriateness and 
effectiveness of the Group’s management 
systems and controls and approve any 
related disclosures;
 ц review appropriateness of the governance 
functions’ policies and procedures;
 ц review reports from each governance 
function, including those on adherence to 
the Group’s policies and standards and the 
maintenance of a risk and compliance 
culture;
 ц recommend to the Board the appointment 
or removal of the Head of Risk Management 
or the Head of Compliance;
 ц keep under review the Group’s Information 
Security Policy, and appropriate 
accreditations; and
 ц keep under review the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Group’s governance 
functions and the timeliness and 
effectiveness of management actions.
Membership and meetings
Only members of the Committee have the 
right to attend Committee meetings, although 
other individuals such as Executive Directors, 
Group General Counsel and the Head of 
Compliance may be invited to attend all 
or part of any meeting as appropriate. The 
Head of Risk Management is in attendance 
at all meetings.
Main activities of the Committee during 
the year
Specific matters dealt with during the year 
include:
 ц implementation of a Business Incident 
Management system;
 ц minimum standards implemented 
throughout the Group;
 ц review of the Group’s internal control and 
risk management systems;
 ц review and update of the Group’s risk 
strategy and risk appetite statements to 
reflect the current operating environment 
of the Group;
 ц oversight of restructuring of Quality 
Assurance and Compliance functions; 
 ц oversight of a project to review UK 
governance and compliance arrangements; 
 ц review of the Group’s key risks and 
management actions; and
 ц review of the Committee’s own terms 
of reference.
Duncan McIntyre
Risk & Compliance 
Committee Chairman
Risk framework 
pages 23 and 24
Principal risks 
pages 25 and 26 www.cppgroupplc.com
40 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
Members
• Duncan McIntyre (Chairman)
• Brent Escott
• Les Owen
• Ruth Evans
Meetings
• Five
Summary
•  Nomination & Governance 
Committees merged
• New CEO and CFO appointed
• Two new Non-Executive 
Directors appointed
• New Chairman appointed 
in January 2014
Key objective
To assist the Board in ensuring that the Board 
and its Committees comprise individuals with 
the requisite skills, knowledge and experience 
to ensure they are effective in discharging 
their responsibilities.
Key responsibilities
 ц carry out a formal selection process for 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors and 
propose to the Board any new appointments;
 ц oversee succession planning for Directors 
and Senior Managers below Board level; 
 ц regularly review the structure, size and 
composition of the Board (including the 
skills, knowledge, experience and 
diversity required);
 ц make recommendations to the Board in 
respect of the membership of the Audit, 
Risk & Compliance and Remuneration 
Committees in consultation with the 
Chairmen of those Committees; and 
 ц make recommendations to the Board on 
the re-appointment of any Non-Executive 
Director at the conclusion of their 
specified term of office.
Membership and meetings
In addition to Committee members, other 
individuals and external advisers attend 
meetings at the request of the Committee 
Chairman. During the year, the Chief Financial 
Officer, the Group General Counsel and the 
Group HR Director have attended meetings to 
report to the Committee and provide clarification 
and explanations where appropriate.
Main activities of the Committee during 
the year
The following principal items were considered 
during the year:
 ц appointment of new CEO and CFO; 
 ц appointment of Shaun Astley-Stone;
 ц appointment of Ruth Evans; and
 ц review of governance framework.
An external search consultancy, Sciteb, 
was appointed for the recruitment of Ruth 
Evans. Brent Escott was recruited through 
EIM. Neither EIM nor Sciteb has any 
connection with the Company. 
During the early part of 2014, following 
the announcement of Charles Gregson’s 
intention to stand down, the Committee 
has been involved in the recruitment of 
a new Chairman. Because of the particular 
circumstances of the Company at this time, 
the Committee did not feel it appropriate 
to appoint an external search consultancy 
to carry out this process, but considered 
two candidates identified by personal 
recommendation, together with Duncan 
McIntyre, an existing Non-Executive Director. 
The selection process was carried out by 
a sub-committee of the Nomination & 
Governance Committee, led by Ruth Evans. 
The outgoing Chairman was not involved in 
the process to appoint his replacement.
Diversity
The Board considers itself diverse in terms 
of the background and experience each 
individual member brings to the Board, 
although recognises the benefits that greater 
diversity at the most senior levels of the 
Company may bring. With this in mind, the 
terms of reference of the Committee require 
that in each appointment to the Board, the 
Committee must “consider candidates on 
merit and against objective criteria, and with 
due regard for the benefits of diversity on the 
Board, including gender” in identifying and 
recommending candidates.
Duncan McIntyre
Nomination & Governance 
Committee Chairman
Board of Directors  
pages 30 and 31
Corporate Governance report 
pages 32 to 35 www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 41
Corporate governance
Introduction from the Chairman
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Corporate Governance report
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
 ǔ Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
 ǔ Remuneration report
Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Remuneration report
Members
• Ruth Evans (Chairman from 
1 January 2014)
• Duncan McIntyre (Chairman 
to 31 December 2013)
• Les Owen
Meetings
• Four
Summary
•  New Senior Management team 
appointed 
• Challenging environment in which 
to devise appropriate management 
incentives 
• An uncertain environment has 
made it difficult to recruit high 
quality permanent Senior Managers
Annual Statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to 
present the Directors’ Remuneration report 
for the year ended 31 December 2013.
We have made no major changes to 
our remuneration policy during the year, 
although you will see changes in the format 
of this year’s Remuneration report, reflecting 
the new reporting requirements.
During the year a new management team 
has been brought in to take the Company 
through the turnaround of the business. The 
Committee recognises that the team needs 
to be appropriately incentivised to do this, 
although this is difficult to achieve given the 
current financial position of the Company 
and the relatively small number of shares 
available to offer as long term incentives. 
The Company is also constrained by its 
inability to recruit high quality permanent 
staff during these uncertain times and is 
consequently heavily reliant on expensive 
interim contractors.
Review of 2013
During 2013, we made good progress in 
improving the governance of the business, 
implementing the Scheme and undertaking an 
assessment of the CPP business proposition. 
In view of the general uncertainty surrounding 
the business and its performance, the 
Committee did not set bonus plan targets 
in 2013 and no bonus payments were made 
in respect of that year.
In December 2013, following a delay 
necessitated by the restructuring of the 
management team, awards were made 
under the LTIP with stretching share price 
targets in line with the recovery agenda and 
the strategic priority of focusing on returns 
to shareholders. The awards were made 
at lower levels than allowed for under the 
remuneration policy (as a percentage of 
salary) given the depressed share price 
and limited available headroom at the date 
of grant. 
LTIPs were granted in 2011, to which 
performance conditions were attached 
based on earnings per share (EPS) for the 
period ending 31 December 2013 and Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) over the period 
ending on the normal vesting date of 4 
March 2014. As none of the performance 
conditions were met these awards did not 
vest and have therefore fully lapsed.
Remuneration policy for 2014
We do not anticipate that a further LTIP award 
will be made during 2014.
The Committee fully recognises the need to 
incentivise the new management team in 
order to focus them on KPIs aligned with the 
recovery agenda. This is reflected in the 
proposed remuneration policy that follows, 
which (subject to shareholder approval) will 
apply for the next three years. However, 
given the current financial constraints of 
the Group, it is highly unlikely that any 
bonus will be paid in 2014. The Committee 
reserves the right to review this in the 
event of a significant change in the financial 
circumstances of the Company, but any 
payout is likely to be at a much reduced level.
Executive salaries were not increased for 
2014 and levels of fixed pay thus remain at 
2013 levels. They will next be eligible for 
review in January 2015. 
Ruth Evans
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Board of Directors 
pages 30 and 31
Directors’ remuneration policy report 
pages 43 to 47
Annual report on remuneration 
pages 47 to 53 www.cppgroupplc.com
42 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Our strategic priorities for 2014
Our general approach to remuneration is driven by our ability to 
attract, motivate and retain the right calibre of people as this is 
critical to our long term performance not only for shareholders but 
also for our customers. Our remuneration strategy seeks to deliver 
and appropriately incentivise a strong Leadership Team, capable of 
leading multiple operations across a number of geographies and of 
delivering strategic, operational and financial objectives and adheres 
to our internal control, risk and compliance processes.
The aim of our remuneration policy is to ensure that remuneration, 
in particular variable pay and incentives, focuses on delivery of 
stretching financial targets and personal objectives which are 
aligned with the business strategy and the long term goals of the 
business, promoting close alignment between management and 
shareholders, always within the bounds of affordability. Our overall 
policy represents our approach in a steady state business 
environment. However, we recognise this will not be the case for 
2014 and have presented what we believe is a balanced and 
realistic view for 2014. 
Activities of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the 
remuneration of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Executive 
Directors, Company Secretary and Executive Management. 
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for 
the Chairman and the Executive Members of the Board. The 
Committee also recommends and monitors the level and structure 
of remuneration for Senior Management.
The main activities of the Committee during the year under review were:
 ц agree terms for senior exits and appointments;
 ц incentivisation of Executive Directors and Senior Management team;
 ц retention and reward in the UK;
 ц review of performance conditions on 2010 LTIPs; and
 ц strategy for year end salary reviews.
I assumed the role of Chair of the Committee with effect from 
1 January 2014, taking over from Duncan McIntyre who stood 
down at the end of 2013.
Interaction with shareholders
The Remuneration Committee actively seeks the views of 
shareholders and understands that such consultation forms a key 
part of the process of remuneration policy development. During 
the year, the Committee engaged in a dialogue with our largest 
shareholders. We also consulted with our largest shareholders 
with regard to the long term incentivisation of the management 
team, following which it was decided that awards would be made 
at lower levels than allowed for under the remuneration policy so 
as to remain within our existing dilution limits. 
Remuneration disclosure
The report that follows is in two sections:
The Directors’ remuneration policy report (pages 43 to 47), which 
contains details of the remuneration policy that we propose will 
apply from the 2014 AGM (16 June 2014) subject to shareholder 
approval. This section is subject to a binding shareholder vote.
The Directors’ annual remuneration report (pages 47 to 53), which 
sets out details of how our remuneration policy was implemented 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 and how we intend the policy 
to apply for the year ending 31 December 2014. This section is 
subject to an advisory shareholder vote.
Ruth Evans
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
23 April 2014
Remuneration report continued www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 43
Directors’ remuneration policy
This part of the Directors’ Remuneration report sets out the remuneration policy for the Company and has been prepared in accordance with The 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. The policy has been developed taking into 
account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the views of our largest shareholders. The policy report will be put to a binding 
shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM, and will take formal effect from the date of approval and is intended to apply for three years from that date.
The Remuneration policy is designed for three years and represents a steady state business environment. The Committee recognises this will not 
be the case for 2014 and has included the differences within the table to provide a balanced and realistic view for 2014 Director remuneration. 
The Committee will update this position in future Annual Reports and will review the remuneration policy annually to ensure it remains aligned 
with the needs of the business and is appropriately positioned relative to the market. However, there is no intention to revise the policy more 
frequently than every three years.
Corporate governance
Introduction from the Chairman
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Corporate Governance report
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
 ǔ Remuneration report
Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Future policy table
Element and how it supports
our strategic objectives Operation of the element Maximum potential value 
Performance metrics used and
time period applicable
Base salary
To recruit and retain high 
calibre and experienced 
Executive Directors.
Base salary paid in 12 equal monthly 
instalments during the year.
Salaries are reviewed annually and 
changes are effective from 1 January.
 Any increase will take account of:
 ц role, experience and personal 
performance;
 ц external indicators such as inflation 
and market conditions;
 ц average change in workforce salary;
 ц Company performance;
 ц periodic account of practice in 
companies of a comparable size, 
scale and complexity.
No prescribed maximum 
annual increase.
Salary reviews take account 
of Company and individual 
performance.
The Committee is guided by the 
general increase for the broader 
employee population but on 
occasions may need to 
recognise, for example, 
development in role, change in 
responsibility, and/or a significant 
change in the scale of the role or 
value/complexity of the business.
The Committee has the flexibility 
to set the salary of a newly 
appointed Executive Director 
at a discount to the market level 
initially, with a series of planned 
increases implemented over the 
following few years to bring the 
salary to the desired positioning, 
subject to individual performance.
The Committee considers the 
salaries of the Executive 
Directors each year taking 
account of all the factors 
described in how the policy 
operates.
Benefits
To provide benefits that are 
in line with market practice.
CPP pays an amount towards the 
cost of providing benefits on a monthly 
basis or as required for one-off events 
delivered through a flexible benefits 
programme. 
The Committee has discretion to 
pay a travel allowance according to 
individual circumstances and based 
on reasonable travel expenses.
Executive Directors are also eligible to 
participate in any all-employee share 
plans operated by the Company, in line 
with HMRC guidelines currently 
prevailing (where relevant), on the 
same basis as for other eligible 
employees.
Other benefits including relocation 
expenses and expenses relating to 
financial planning may be offered, 
as appropriate.
A fixed sum of up to £20,000 
is allowed to spend on a range 
of benefits available within 
the Company’s flexible 
benefits scheme.
None. www.cppgroupplc.com
44 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ remuneration policy continued
Future policy table continued
Element and how it supports
our strategic objectives Operation of the element Maximum potential value 
Performance metrics used and
time period applicable
Annual bonus plan
To ensure a market 
competitive package 
and to link reward to the 
achievement of short to 
medium term Company 
business objectives.
Bonus payments are at the discretion of 
the Committee.
Annual bonuses are paid after the 
preliminary results for the financial year 
have been announced.
Bonus awards up to 50% of the maximum 
award are paid in cash. Any bonus award 
in excess of this is paid half in cash, with 
the balance converted into CPP shares 
and deferred for three years under the 
Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP).
Clawback provisions are in place whereby 
all or part of the bonus can be recovered if, 
for example, in determining the value of a 
bonus for any performance period, the 
Committee relied on assumptions or facts 
which it subsequently discovers to have 
been incorrect or misrepresented.
Maximum bonus potential 100% 
of salary.
In 2014, the Committee is 
highly unlikely to pay bonuses, 
unless circumstances change 
significantly and then at a much 
reduced rate.
All bonus payments are 
dependent upon achievement of 
threshold financial performance 
by the Company.
Financial performance: at least 
70% of maximum. 
Personal objectives: up to 30% 
of maximum.
Group performance is measured 
by reported operating profit 
calculated under IFRS, excluding 
exceptional items, and subject to 
a quality of earnings adjustment 
as determined by the Group 
Remuneration Committee. 
Performance is measured over 
the financial year.
Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
To increase alignment with 
shareholders by providing 
Executive Directors with 
longer term interests in the 
Company’s shares.
Annual grants of conditional share 
awards or nil-cost options. 
Vesting based on the achievement 
of stretching share price targets and 
service conditions.
Clawback provisions are in place 
whereby all or part of the LTIP award 
can be recovered if, for example, 
there is a restatement of the financial 
accounts or the individual is 
dismissed for “cause”.
Maximum permitted grant 
in the plan rules is 200% of 
salary per annum. However, 
the Committee’s normal policy 
is to grant LTIP awards not 
exceeding a face value of 125% 
of salary to the Chief Executive 
Officer and 100% of salary to 
the Chief Financial Officer.
In 2014, due to current headroom 
limits, the Company is unlikely to 
issue an LTIP.
Service and performance 
conditions must be met over 
a three-year period.
Initial performance conditions are: 
 ц 25% of the award will vest if 
the average share price reaches 
a specified threshold.
 ц 100% of the award will vest if 
the average share price meets 
or exceeds a specified target.
Awards will vest on a straight 
line basis between threshold 
and maximum.
The Committee reserves the 
right to amend the above 
measures to align with the 
Company’s developing strategy.
Pension
To attract and retain high 
performing Executive 
Directors.
Defined contribution plan with a 
Company contribution.
Up to 15% of salary as 
Company contribution paid 
with monthly salary.
None.
Remuneration report continued
Notes to the policy table
Awards granted prior to the effective date
All historical awards that were granted but remain outstanding (detailed on pages 50 and 51 of the Annual Report on Remuneration), 
remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
Discretion retained
The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and LTIP according to the rules of each respective plan and consistent with normal market 
practice and the Listing Rules, including flexibility in a number of regards. Circumstances where the Committee will retain flexibility include: 
 ц when to make awards and payments;
 ц how to determine the size of an award, a payment, or when and how much of an award should vest;
 ц who receives an award or payment; www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 45
Corporate governance
Introduction from the Chairman
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Corporate Governance report
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
 ǔ Remuneration report
Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Notes to the policy table continued
Discretion retained continued
 ц how to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group;
 ц whether an Executive Director or a Senior Manager is a good/bad 
leaver for incentive plan purposes and whether and what proportion 
of awards vest at the time of leaving or at the original vesting date(s);
 ц how and whether an award may be adjusted in certain circumstances 
(e.g. for a rights issue, a corporate restructuring or for special 
dividends); and 
 ц what the weighting, measures and targets should be for the annual 
bonus plan and LTIP from year-to-year.
The Committee also retains the ability within the policy to adjust targets 
and/or set different measures, to alter weightings for the annual bonus 
plan and to adjust targets for the LTIP, if events happen that cause 
it to determine that the conditions are unable to fulfil their original 
intended purpose.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in 
the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the 
subject of consultation with the Company’s shareholders.
The use of discretion in relation to the Company’s ShareSAVE and 
Share Incentive Plan will be as permitted under HMRC rules and the 
Listing Rules.
Performance measures and targets
The Committee selects performance conditions that are consistent with 
the Company’s overall strategy and are linked to the Key Performance 
Indicators used by the Executive Directors to drive the operation of 
the business. The performance targets are determined annually by 
the Committee in consultation with the Risk & Compliance Committee 
and are typically set so as to reward achievement measured against 
stretching but achievable targets. Targets are set based on a sliding scale 
that takes account of relevant commercial factors. Only modest rewards 
are available for delivering threshold performance levels with maximum 
rewards requiring substantial out-performance.
Longer term measures will be aligned to the key strategic objective 
of growing returns to shareholders and turning round performance in 
the value of the business linked to share price growth targets, such as 
Group operating profit, earnings per share (EPS) and Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR), together with pre-determined personal objectives. The 
Committee is of the opinion that the detailed performance targets 
for the annual bonus are commercially sensitive and that it may be 
detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them before 
the end of the financial year. The targets will be disclosed after the 
end of the relevant financial year in that year’s Remuneration report.
Share ownership guidelines
There are guidelines in place relating to the ownership of shares by 
Directors.
Differences in remuneration policy for all employees
All CPP employees are entitled to base salary, benefits and pension 
and are eligible to participate in a bonus scheme relating to role. The 
maximum opportunity available is based on the seniority and responsibility 
of the role.
Conditional share awards are only available to Senior Executives and 
Directors. There is a Restricted Stock Plan (RSP) which is a non-
performance based share plan aimed at incentivising the second level of 
management across the Group and Executive Directors are not eligible 
to participate. Employment is the only performance condition attached 
to this plan.
The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and for other Senior 
Executives is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than that for 
other employees. This aims to create a clear link between the value 
created for shareholders and the progress of remuneration for the 
Executive Directors.
Approach to recruitment remuneration
CPP operates in a specialised sector and many of its competitors for 
talent are also actual or potential Business Partners or customers. The 
Committee’s approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more 
than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role. However, 
the Committee retains the discretion to make appropriate remuneration 
decisions outside the standard policy to meet the individual circumstances.
The annual bonus would operate in accordance with the terms of the 
approved policy, albeit with the opportunity pro-rated for the period 
of employment. Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the 
appointment it may be necessary to set different performance measures 
and targets initially. 
In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring a new 
Executive Director, the Committee will take into account relevant factors 
which may include the calibre of the individual; local market practice; 
the existing remuneration arrangements for other Executives; and the 
business circumstances. We seek to ensure that arrangements are 
in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders and not to pay 
more than appropriate.
Where it is necessary to ‘buy out’ an individual’s awards from a previous 
employer, the Committee will seek to match the expected value 
of awards by granting, wherever possible, awards that vest over a 
timeframe similar to those given up, with a commensurate reduction 
where the new awards will be subject to performance conditions that 
are not as stretching as those attaching to the awards given up.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to new 
Executive Directors, excluding buy out arrangements and awards in 
the first year of employment detailed above, would normally be in line 
with the maximum level of variable pay that may be awarded under the 
annual bonus plan and performance share plan (i.e. 100% of salary), but 
in any event the Committee would not make an award of annual variable 
pay above 300% of base salary (being the maximum bonus of 100% 
and the maximum 200% allowed by the LTIP rules).
For an internal Executive appointment, any variable pay element 
awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out 
according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the 
appointment. In addition, any other on-going obligations existing prior 
to appointment would continue.
In the event that a Director is recruited from overseas, flexibility is 
retained to provide benefits that take account of those typically provided 
in their country of residence.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that 
the Company will meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
Payments for loss of office
There are no predetermined special provisions for Executive 
Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office; 
compensation is limited to base salary only over the notice period. 
If notice is served by either party, the Executive Director can continue 
to receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their 
notice period during which time the Company may require the 
individual to continue to fulfil their current duties or may assign 
a period of garden leave. www.cppgroupplc.com
46 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the policy table continued
Payments for loss of office continued
In the event that a service agreement is terminated, and payment in 
lieu of notice made, payments of base salary only to the Executive 
Director may be staged over the notice period at the same interval 
as salary would have been paid. In the event that the Executive 
Director obtains alternative employment, payments by the Company 
will be reduced to reflect payments received in respect of the 
alternative employment.
The treatment of leavers under our LTIP and DSBP is determined 
by the rules of those plans. The Committee will determine when 
and whether awards should vest. The default treatment is that any 
outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment. However, 
under the rules of the LTIP, in certain prescribed circumstances, 
such as death, redundancy, disability, retirement, or other 
circumstances at the discretion of the Committee (taking into 
account the individual’s performance and the reasons for their 
departure), “good leaver” status can be applied. In these 
circumstances a participant’s awards vest on a time pro-rata basis 
subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria with 
the balance of the awards lapsing. The Committee retains discretion 
to decide not to pro-rate if it is inappropriate to do so in certain 
circumstances. 
There are no automatic entitlements to annual bonus. Good leavers 
may receive a pro-rated award at the discretion of the Committee 
in the light of circumstances and performance.
Service contracts
Service contracts for new Executive Directors would normally be 
six months but, in any event, would not exceed 12 months. 
Policy on outside appointments
Executive Directors may accept one Board appointment in another 
listed Company. The Group Chairman’s approval must be obtained 
before accepting any appointment. Fees may be retained by the Director. 
Non-Executive Director letters of appointment
The appointment of Non-Executive Directors is for a fixed term 
of three years, during which period the appointment may be 
terminated by either party on one month’s notice. The term may 
be extended at the discretion of the Board.
Total remuneration opportunity
In view of the current low level of headroom and the depressed 
share price the Committee do not anticipate an LTIP award in 2014. 
This is reflected in the table below which shows the total remuneration 
of each of the Executive Directors that could result from the proposed 
remuneration policy in 2014. The Committee reserves the right to 
revert to the maximum amounts contained in the remuneration policy 
in 2015 and beyond. The table below shows a reduced bonus amount 
that could be payable under the remuneration policy. However, the 
current financial circumstances of the Company mean that the 
Executive Directors are unlikely to receive any remuneration 
substantially over and above the fixed pay element in 2014.
CEO £(000s)
800
600
400
200
0
80.2%
19.8%
Fixed pay
Annual bonus
100.0%
£393,750
89.0%
11.0%
£442,500
£491,250
100.0%
£210,500
54.0%
11.4%
£237,500
79.6%
20.4%
£264,500
Base salary, 
pension and 
benefits
Mid
Maximum
Base salary, 
pension and 
benefits
Mid
Maximum
CFO
Notes
1  The graph represents our realistic expectations and approach 
for 2014. 
2  Fixed pay is base salary for 2014 plus the value of pension and 
benefits, excluding Brent Escott’s travel allowance, which is 
subject to six-monthly review.
3 The LTIP award is zero for 2014.
4  The 2014 bonus is unlikely to be paid but the Committee reserves 
the right to make a reduced bonus should circumstances change. 
The maximum bonus potential is illustrated at 30% and mid-level 
at 15%. In 2014, payments at the lower end of the scale will not 
necessarily be reflective of performance due to the financial 
circumstances of the business.
Remuneration report continued
Non-Executive Directors’ fees policy
Element and how it supports 
our strategic objectives Operation of the element
To attract Non-Executive 
Directors with a broad range of 
experience and skills to oversee 
the implementation of the 
Company’s strategy.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration takes the form solely of fees.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees are set by the Board as a whole. The Chairman’s fees are set by the Committee.
Annual fees are paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year.
Fees are reviewed every year against those for Non-Executive Directors in companies of similar size and 
complexity. Fees have remained at the same level since 2010 and will be reviewed in 2014.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for benefits and do not participate in incentive or pension plans.
Additional fees, over and above the base fee for the Non-Executive Directors, are payable to Committee Chairmen. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 47
Corporate governance
Introduction from the Chairman
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Corporate Governance report
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
 ǔ Remuneration report
Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere 
in the Company
The Company does not formally consult with employees on 
Executive remuneration. However, the Committee has regard 
to the pay structure across the wider workforce when setting 
the remuneration policy for Executive Directors. The Committee 
considers annually the proposals for salary reviews for the 
employee population generally and takes due account of any 
other changes to remuneration policy within the Company. The 
Committee is guided by any salary increase made to the workforce 
generally and normally limits any salary increase for Executive 
Directors to the increase available to employees generally.
The Committee considers the performance targets for Executive 
Directors’ bonuses and, with the CEO, considers the extent to which 
these should be cascaded to other employees. The Committee 
approves the overall annual bonus cost to the Company each year 
and approves the grant of all LTIP and RSP awards across the Company.
The Committee takes due account of the remuneration structure for 
members of the Group Executive Committee (GEC) and the Group 
Leadership Team.
Consideration of shareholder views
When any significant changes are proposed to this policy, the 
Committee Chairman will inform the largest shareholders of these 
in advance. Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to 
approve last year’s remuneration report are provided in the Annual 
report on remuneration on page 53. 
Annual report on remuneration
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with The 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 and 9.8.6R of the Listing 
Rules. The Annual Remuneration report will be put to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy for 2014
Base salary
Neither of the Executive Directors received an increase in base 
salary in 2013 whilst in role and salaries have not been increased 
for the 2014 financial year. The next salary review date will be 
1 January 2015.
 Base salary £’000
Percentage
1 January 2013 1 January 2014 increase
Brent Escott n/a 325 n/a
Craig Parsons n/a 180 n/a
Pension and benefits
Executive Directors receive an employer defined contribution of 
10% or 15% of salary.
Benefits provision for 2014 will be unchanged.
Annual bonus
The annual bonus plan provides for a bonus of up to 100% of salary 
to be earned for achievement of Group financial performance and 
specified personal objectives. Because of the financial constraints 
of the Company, it is unlikely that any bonus will be paid in 2014, 
although the Committee retains its discretion to pay a bonus in the 
event that the Company’s circumstances change significantly.
Assuming the financial position of the Group so allows, 70% of the 
total bonus in each case can be earned for achievement of financial 
targets and 30% of the total for achievement of the personal objectives. 
For a bonus to be earned on Group financial performance, a threshold 
performance must be attained. 
The Committee retains discretion over the payment of any bonus 
taking into account the Company’s overall financial performance 
in the year. 
Clawback provisions will continue to allow all or part of an LTIP 
award to be recovered if, for example, there is a restatement of 
the financial accounts or the individual is dismissed for “cause”. 
Where a bonus exceeds 50% of maximum potential (i.e. is above 
target), half of the additional bonus above target will be paid as cash 
and half will be deferred into awards over shares under the DSBP. 
Performance measures will be aligned to the key strategic objective 
of growing returns to shareholders and turning round performance 
in the value of the business linked to share price growth targets, 
such as Group operating profit, earnings per share (EPS) and Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR), together with pre-determined personal 
objectives. The Committee is of the opinion that the detailed 
performance targets for the annual bonus are commercially 
sensitive and that it may be detrimental to the interests of the 
Company to disclose them before the end of the financial year. www.cppgroupplc.com
48 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Remuneration report continued
Annual report on remuneration continued
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy for 2014 continued 
Non-Executive Directors’ annual fees
Non-Executive Director fees have been unchanged since 2010. They will be reviewed during 2014.
Fees £’000
Percentage
Rate 1 January 2013 1 January 2014 increase
Chair 125 125 —
Board fees 40 40 —
Chair of Board Committee or Subsidiary Company 10 10 —
Notes:  
Ruth Evans is also a Director of Card Protection Plan Limited, for which she receives a fee of £5,000 per annum.
With effect from 29 January 2014, Duncan McIntyre received an additional £15,000 per annum, in recognition of the additional time 
commitment anticipated in the first few months of his appointment. This element of his fee is subject to review in April 2014.
Single total figure of remuneration (audited information)
The following table shows a total single figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2013 financial year for each 
Executive Director, together with comparative figures for 2012.
Base salary/fees Taxable
£’000 benefits £’000 Bonus £’000 LTIP £’000 Pension £’000 Total £’000
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Executive Directors
Brent Escott
1
108 — 24 — — — — — 16 — 148 —
Craig Parsons
2
60 — 4 — — — — — 6 — 70 —
Paul Stobart
3
530 450 43 58 — — — — 57 68 630 576
Shaun Parker
4
320 268 15 15 — — — — 40 40 376 323
Non-Executive Directors
Duncan McIntyre 50 50 — — — — — — — — 50 50
Les Owen 50 50 — — — — — — — — 50 50
Shaun Astley-Stone
5
16 — — — — — — — — — 16 —
Ruth Evans
6
11 — — — — — — — — — 11 —
Charles Gregson 125 — — — — — — — — — 125 125
Hamish Ogston
7
20 — — — — — — — — — 20 40
1  Brent Escott was appointed as CEO on 1 September 2013. Included in the above figures is a travel allowance equal to £2,500 per month after deduction of tax and 
National Insurance. This element of his remuneration is subject to six-monthly reviews.
2 Craig Parsons was appointed as CFO on 1 September 2013.
3  Paul Stobart received a travel allowance equal to £1,500 per month after the deduction of tax and National Insurance, which is included in the above figures. He resigned 
as a Director on 31 August 2013. His employment contract terminated on 6 November 2013. The 2013 base salary figure includes £148,000 pay in lieu of notice.
4  Shaun Parker resigned as a Director on 31 August 2013. His employment contract terminated on 31 December 2013. The 2013 base salary figure includes £52,000 pay 
in lieu of notice.
5  Shaun Astley-Stone was appointed on 2 September 2013. Until 31 December 2013, he provided additional consultancy services over and above his Non-Executive 
Director duties. Details of fees paid for these services are given in note 34 to the financial statements on page 101.
6 Ruth Evans was appointed on 4 October 2013. 
7 Hamish Ogston resigned as a Director on 28 June 2013.
Additional information in respect of the single total figure table (audited information)
Annual bonus
In view of the uncertainties surrounding the business in 2013, the Committee determined that it was not possible to set meaningful 
targets for a bonus plan. Accordingly, no bonus plan was issued to the Executive Directors in 2013.
Performance conditions for LTIP vesting
The entry in the LTIP column in the 2013 single total figure of remuneration table refers to the conditional award granted in 2011. Vesting 
was dependent on performance over the three financial years ended 31 December 2013 (performance period) and continued service until 
the vesting date on 4 March 2014. Performance during the relevant period did not meet the threshold level required for any shares to vest 
and hence a zero value is shown in the table. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 49
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pension
The pension contributions reflect the Company’s contribution of 
15% or 10% of base salary as a defined contribution.
Payments for loss of office
Paul Stobart ceased to be CEO on 31 August 2013. He received 
his contractual pay and benefits, excluding travel allowance, for 
four months of the 12 month notice period and has received the 
remaining eight months as pay in lieu of notice in accordance with 
the terms of his contract. No bonus payment was made in respect 
of 2013. The Committee treated him as a “good leaver” for the 
purpose of LTIP awards but has exercised no other discretions 
in respect of his LTIP awards.
Shaun Parker ceased to be CFO on 31 August 2013. He received his 
contractual pay and benefits for four months of the six month notice 
period and has received the remaining two months as pay in lieu 
of notice in accordance with the terms of his contract. No bonus 
payment was made in respect of 2013. The Committee treated him 
as a “good leaver” for the purpose of LTIP awards but has 
exercised no other discretions in respect of his LTIP awards.
Long term incentive schemes
For Executive Directors, only one long term incentive plan operates, 
which can be summarised as follows:
2010 Long term incentive plan (LTIP)
Under this plan, Executive Directors and key individuals may each 
year be issued awards over ordinary shares in the Company up to a 
maximum of 200% of salary. However, the Committee’s normal 
policy is to grant LTIP awards not exceeding a face value of 125% of 
salary and 100% of salary to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer respectively. Lower levels of awards are made to 
less senior Executives.
The normal policy prior to 2012 has been for awards to have a 
three-year vesting period and be subject to performance conditions 
relating to adjusted earnings per share (EPS) and Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) as follows:
75% of the award has been dependent on the satisfaction of an 
EPS performance target. EPS is measured over the three years 
following grant and vesting will occur on the following basis:
EPS growth over the 
performance period 
Vesting percentage of 75% 
of the total award
Less than 12% p.a. 0%
Equal to 12% p.a. 25%
Equal to or greater than 17% p.a. 100%
Between 12% p.a. and 17% p.a. On a straight line basis
The above EPS targets, at the discretion of the Committee, may 
be amended if RPI over the performance period is negative or 
greater than 4% p.a. The EPS calculation is based on a fully diluted 
basis, adjusted for taxation and other items to reflect underlying 
financial performance.
25% of the award has been dependent upon the Company’s TSR 
performance over a single three-year period against the constituents 
of the FTSE 250 (excluding any investment trusts). Vesting for this 
portion of the award will occur on the following basis:
TSR ranking against the  
comparator group
Vesting percentage of 75% 
of the total award
Below median 0%
Median 25%
Upper quintile 100%
Between median and upper 
quintile On a straightline basis
In addition, and notwithstanding the Company’s TSR performance, 
this part of the award subject to the TSR condition will only vest to 
the extent that the Committee is satisfied that the underlying 
financial performance over the vesting period warrants the level of 
vesting under the TSR performance condition.
The Committee considered that this combination of performance 
conditions was the most appropriate way of rewarding Executive 
Directors because it took into account both the long term returns to 
shareholders and the Group’s financial growth. The TSR performance 
condition is monitored on the Committee’s behalf by NBS whilst the 
Group’s EPS growth is derived from the audited financial statements.
LTIP awards made in 2012 were subject to different performance 
conditions to the above. At its meeting on 16 May 2012, the 
Committee agreed that the following two interdependent 
performance conditions would apply to the award:
 ц The award would be subject to a performance condition under the 
terms of which the Company’s TSR performance would be ranked 
against the TSR of a comparator group comprising the companies 
constituting the FTSE SmallCap (excluding investment trusts) 
on the date of grant of the award; and
 ц The TSR based performance condition would normally be 
measured over a three-year period starting on the date of grant of 
the award and would be satisfied if the Company’s TSR was at 
least at the median of a ranking of the TSR of each of the 
members of the comparator group over the same period.
If the TSR condition is not satisfied then no part of the award 
would be capable of vesting and the award would lapse. If the TSR 
condition is satisfied, then the number of shares capable of vesting 
under the award shall be determined by reference to a performance 
condition based on the achievement of absolute average share price 
targets measured at the end of a three-year performance period 
commencing on the date of grant of the award. 
As soon as reasonably practicable after the end of the performance 
period, the Committee shall determine the highest average share 
price and the number of shares (if any) in respect of which the award 
may vest in accordance with the following table:
Highest average share price Percentage of award vesting
Below 75 pence 0%
75 pence (the “Threshold Target”) 25%
150 pence or higher (the 
“Maximum Target”)
100%
Between 75 pence and 150 pence Between 25% and 100% 
on a straight line basis
The performance conditions for the 2013 awards are structured 
in the same way as the 2012 awards and it is anticipated that 
the performance conditions of any future LTIP awards will be 
similarly structured.
Corporate governance
Introduction from the Chairman
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Corporate Governance report
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
 ǔ Remuneration report
Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities www.cppgroupplc.com
50 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Annual report on remuneration continued
Long term incentive schemes continued
2010 Long term incentive plan (LTIP) continued
For the 2013 awards, assuming the TSR condition is satisfied, as soon as reasonably practicable after the end of the performance period, 
the Committee shall determine the highest average share price and the number of shares (if any) in respect of which the award may vest 
in accordance with the following table:
Highest average share price Percentage of award vesting
Below 20 pence 0%
20 pence (the “Threshold Target”) 25%
45 pence or higher (the “Maximum Target”) 100%
Between 20 pence and 45 pence Between 25% and 100% on a straight line basis
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year (audited information)
In December 2013, following a delay necessitated by the restructuring of the management team, awards were made under the LTIP with 
stretching share price targets in line with the recovery agenda and the strategic priority of focusing on returns to shareholders. 
Details of the awards are shown below.
Percentage
vesting at Number of
Face value threshold share options Performance
Director Scheme £ performance awarded period end date
Brent Escott LTIP 97,750 25 1,150,000 31 December 2016
Craig Parsons LTIP 51,000 25 600,000 31 December 2016
Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited information)
Long term incentive plans
Details of awards held, granted and exercised in respect of the LTIPs are detailed below.
Balance held at Number of share Number of share Number of share Balance held at
1 January options granted options exercised options lapsed 31 December 
Director 2013 in year in year in year 2013
Brent Escott — 1,150,000 — — 1,150,000
Craig Parsons 163,192 600,000 — 31,277 731,915
Paul Stobart 1,368,656 — — — 1,368,656
Shaun Parker 572,736 — — 110,638 462,098
The 2013 LTIP awards for Brent Escott and Craig Parsons were granted as nil-cost options on 31 December 2013 and will vest on 31 
December 2016 subject to performance conditions. When awards were granted, the market value of shares was 8.50 pence. Awards vest 
subject to continued employment and the satisfaction of performance conditions as set out on page 49.
The market price of ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2013, was 8.00 pence and the range during the year was 2.53 
pence to 29.00 pence.
The 2011 LTIP awards were subject to performance conditions as outlined on page 49. As none of these conditions were met, these 
awards lapsed in their entirety as at the normal vesting date of 4 March 2014.
Under the 2012 LTIP Paul Stobart was awarded 801,862 shares and Shaun Parker 381,758. Under the plan rules, these lapsed 90 days 
after termination of their employment, that is on 4 February 2014 and 30 March 2014 respectively.
Other share plans
2010 Restricted stock plan (RSP)
The RSP is a non-performance based share plan aimed to incentivise the second level of management across the Group and Executive 
Directors are not eligible to participate. Employment is the only performance condition attached to this plan.
UK Save As You Earn scheme (SAYE)
The Company launched a Save As You Earn scheme (ShareSAVE plan) in September 2010 and made an additional offer in September 
2011. All employees in the UK, including Executive Directors, are eligible to participate in the SAYE scheme. Options were granted under 
this scheme in September 2010 at an option price of 198 pence and in September 2011 at an option price of 125 pence, in each case 
representing a discount of 20% to the market value applicable at the time of grant. Consistent with HMRC rules, the scheme is not subject 
to any performance criteria other than employment. No offer was made under this scheme in 2013. 
Remuneration report continued www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 51
Annual report on remuneration continued
Other share plans continued
Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP)
The Committee supports the principle that the payment of a proportion of any annual bonuses paid in future periods should be deferred 
and paid in Company shares as it further aligns Executives with shareholders.
Accordingly, annual bonuses awarded under the Executive bonus scheme are also subject to the DSBP arrangements. Any bonuses awarded up to 
50% of maximum potential (i.e. up to target bonus) will be paid as cash. Where the bonus exceeds 50% of maximum potential (i.e. is above target), 
half of the additional bonus above target will be paid as cash and half will be deferred into awards over shares under the DSBP . Deferred shares will 
vest on the third anniversary of grant subject to continued employment at the Company.
As under the Executive bonus plan, the concept of clawback applies to DSBP awards. Shares held during the year under the DSBP plan are as follows:
Balance as at Number of share Number of share Number of share Balance as at
1 January options granted options exercised options lapsed 31 December 
Director 2013 in year in year in year 2013
Shaun Parker 9,967 — — — 9,967 
Note: in accordance with the plan rules, the above shares vested on termination of Shaun Parker’s employment on 31 December 2013.
Legacy Plans 
Prior to Admission, the Company operated the CPP Executive Share Option Plan 2005 (the 2005 Plan) and the CPP Group Holdings Exit 
Plan 2008 (the 2008 Plan) for which options were outstanding. Conditional upon Admission, all outstanding options under the Legacy 
Plans (the Old Options) were automatically surrendered in consideration for the grant of an equivalent new option over ordinary shares 
(the New Options). The exchange was determined on the basis that for every one share in CPPGroup Plc held under the Old Options 
immediately prior to the share for share exchange, the holder of that Old Option was granted a New Option over 16 ordinary shares in 
CPPGroup Plc. The exercise price per share of the New Options was equal to the exercise price per share of the Old Options reduced by a 
factor of 16, so that immediately following the surrender and exchange of Old Options for New Options the aggregate exercise cost of the 
New Option is the same as the aggregate exercise cost of the Old Option. The rules of the Legacy Plans were applied to the New Options 
save that references in the rules to the ‘Company’ and ‘Shares’ are construed as meaning the Company and ordinary shares.
The options in the Legacy Plans were exercisable as follows: 50% on 24 March 2010, 25% on 24 March 2011 and 25% on 24 March 2012. 
There are no performance conditions attached to these shares other than those relating to employment.
The following options are held by Craig Parsons and Shaun Parker under the 2005 Plan and the 2008 Plan: 
Balance as at Number of share Number of share Number of share Balance as at
1 January options granted options exercised options lapsed 31 December 
Director Legacy Plan Option price 2013 in year in year in year 2013 Expiry date
Craig Parsons 2005 £2.28 41,864 — — — 41,864 21/12/19
2008 £1.79 40,000 — — — 40,000 19/06/18
Shaun Parker* 2005 £2.28 415,648 — — — 415,648 21/12/19
2008 £1.79 352,000 — — — 352,000 19/06/18
* In accordance with the Plan rules, Shaun Parker has six months after termination of his employment (i.e. to 30 June 2014) in which to exercise these options, otherwise they will lapse.
The market price of ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2013, was 8.00 pence and the range during the year was 2.53 pence 
to 29.00 pence.
Shareholder dilution 
In line with the ABI guidelines, the rules of the above incentive schemes provide that: 
 ц Commitments to issue new shares or re-issue treasury shares, when aggregated with awards under all of the Company’s other schemes, 
must not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital in any rolling ten-year period commencing on Admission of the Group’s shares to 
the London Stock Exchange (Admission); and 
 ц Commitments to issue new shares or re-issue treasury shares under Executive (discretionary) schemes should not exceed 5% 
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in any rolling ten-year period commencing on Admission. 
Current headroom under these limits is 6.55% and 1.62% respectively. 
As well as the LTIP and the restricted stock plan the Company operates a savings-related share option plan approved by HM Revenue & 
Customs for all UK employees. Newly issued shares are currently used to satisfy the exercise of all employee and Executive options.
Corporate governance
Introduction from the Chairman
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Corporate Governance report
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
 ǔ Remuneration report
Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities www.cppgroupplc.com
52 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Annual report on remuneration continued
Share ownership guidelines
Brent Escott has agreed to commit 50% of the post-tax gain from 
any vested shares in the form of shares held until the qualifying 
holding of the equivalent of one and a half year’s salary is met.
Share ownership guidelines for both Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors are currently under review, bearing in mind the changed 
circumstances of the Company since they were originally drafted.
Performance graph and table
The graph illustrates the TSR performance on a cumulative basis 
with dividends reinvested as at the end of the financial year 
compared with the FTSE 250 Index and FTSE SmallCap Index.
 
Directors’ shareholdings (audited information)
The Directors of the Company have beneficial interests in the 
Company’s ordinary shares as follows:
Ordinary shares
 held at 
31 December 
2013
Ordinary shares
 held at
31 December 
2012
Interests
in unvested
shares under
incentive plans
Brent Escott — — 1,150,000
Craig Parsons — — 813,779
Duncan McIntyre 13,340 13,340 —
Les Owen 22,984 22,984 —
There have been no purchases of shares by Directors since 
31 December 2013 to the date of this report.
Remuneration report continued
Value (£)
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
18 March
2010
31 December 
2010
31 December 
2011
31 December 
2012
31 December 
2013
CPPGroup plc FTSE 250 Index FTSE Small Cap Index
Source: Thomson Reuters
T able of historic data
The following table shows the total remuneration, as defined by the regulations, and the amount vesting under short term and long term 
incentives as a percentage of the maximum that could have been achieved, in respect of the Chief Executive Officer. Figures are given to 
2010 only, being the date that the Company was admitted to the London Stock Exchange.
Director
2013
Paul Stobart
1
2013 
Brent Escott
2
2012
Paul Stobart
2011
Paul Stobart
2011
Eric Woolley
3
2010
Eric Woolley
Single figure of total remuneration £’000 630
4
148 576 144 494 2,874
5
Annual bonus against maximum opportunity % — — — — — 72%
Long term incentive vesting rates against maximum opportunity % — n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
1 Paul Stobart was appointed on 1 October 2011 and resigned on 31 August 2013.
2 Brent Escott was appointed on 1 September 2013.
3 Eric Woolley resigned as a Director on 1 October 2011.
4 This figure includes an amount of £148,000 pay in lieu of notice. 
5  Mr Woolley held 1,296,400 options under the legacy schemes which vested on 24 March 2010. These were not subject to performance conditions and so are not 
treated as long term incentives for the purposes of this table. The figure includes Mr Woolley’s aggregate gain on vesting which was £1,747,096 plus £367,573, being 
a cash enhancement due to the restructuring of the business. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 53
Annual report on remuneration continued
Percentage change in remuneration levels
The table below shows the movement in the remuneration of the 
Chief Executive Officer compared to that of UK-based employees. 
This comparator group has been chosen as the Group CEO is 
UK-based and this is a sizeable representation of our employee 
base.
Chief Executive Officer Average per employee
Salary 0%
1
0%
2
Benefits See note 3 below See note 4 below
Bonus See note 5 below See note 5 below
1  The Group CEO, Brent Escott, was appointed on 1 September 2013. His salary 
on appointment was £325,000 which has not changed and will remain unchanged 
for 2014. His salary on appointment was set at a lower level than his predecessor, 
whose base salary was £450,000 per annum.
2  UK-based employees have had their base salaries frozen since 2011 due to business 
challenges and uncertainties. Any exceptional or one-off changes to salaries due, for 
example, to promotions or role changes within the year have been excluded.
3  As Brent Escott was only CEO for four months of 2013, it is not possible to give 
a comparison to 2012. However, the Company has provided the same type and 
level of benefits to Brent Escott as to his predecessor, Paul Stobart, with the 
exception of his travel allowance, details of which are given on page 48.
4  The Company operates a flexible benefits scheme, whereby UK-based employees 
are allocated an amount of money, determined by their seniority, to spend on a 
range of benefits. Flexible benefits allowances have not changed. With effect from 
1 November 2013, following the introduction of auto-enrolment employees received 
a 2% contribution into a defined contribution pension scheme. 
5  No bonus payments were made either to the CEO or to UK-based employees 
in 2012 or 2013.
Relative importance of spend on pay
2013 2012 Percentage
£’000 £’000 change
Total expenditure on pay
1
34,734 49,331 (29.6)%
Dividends paid
2
— — —
1  Total expenditure on pay is based on continuing operations only and includes 
wages and salaries; social security costs; share based payments and pension 
costs as detailed in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements on page 80.
2  The Directors have not considered it appropriate to recommend payment of 
dividends in either 2012 or 2013 due to the Company’s financial circumstances.
Service contracts
The current Executive Directors have service contracts with a notice 
period of six months by either party. 
Copies of Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment are 
available for inspection by shareholders at the Company’s registered 
office. The dates of their service contracts and letters of appointment 
are shown below:
Name
Date of service contract/
letter of appointment
Effective date of 
appointment
Duncan McIntyre 29 January 2014 29 January 2014
Brent Escott 30 August 2013 1 September 2014
Craig Parsons 30 August 2013 1 September 2014
Shaun Astley-Stone 1 August 2013 2 September 2014
Ruth Evans 5 September 2013 4 October 2014
Les Owen 22 June 2010 25 August 2010
Outside appointments
Neither of the Executive Directors currently hold an outside listed 
company appointment.
Non-Executive Director fees for 2014
Non-Executive Director fees will be reviewed during 2014.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
The Committee appointed and received advice over the year 
from independent remuneration consultants New Bridge Street 
(NBS) – a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited (an Aon plc 
company). NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants 
Group Code of Conduct and any advice provided by it is governed 
by that Code. Other than acting as independent consultant to the 
Committee NBS provided no further services to the Company 
during the year. 
Work undertaken by NBS included:
 ц annual review of Remuneration Committee terms of reference;
 ц annual trends in Executive compensation review;
 ц advice and preparation on 2013 LTIP;
 ц review of Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees; and
 ц review of Executive Director compensation.
The Committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the 
advice it receives from NBS. The Committee is satisfied that NBS 
is providing robust, professional and independent advice. For the 
year under review NBS’s total fees charged were £37,713.00. 
In the course of its deliberations, the Committee considers the 
views of the Chief Executive Officer on the remuneration and 
performance of the Executive Committee. The Committee also 
asks for and receives information from the Group HR Director. 
No other advisers have provided significant services to the 
Committee in the year.
Statement of voting at Annual General Meeting
At the AGM held in 2013 votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in 
respect of the Directors’ remuneration report were as follows:
For Against Abstain
Reasons 
for votes 
against,
Action 
taken by
% % % if known Committee
2012 
Remuneration 
report 98.07 1.76 0.17 n/a n/a
The disclosure in the 2013 remuneration report will include details of 
the binding shareholder vote on the 2013 Directors’ remuneration policy.
Corporate governance
Introduction from the Chairman
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Corporate Governance report
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
 ǔ Remuneration report
Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities www.cppgroupplc.com
54 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Directors’ report
The Directors present their Annual Report and 
audited financial statements of the Group for 
the year ended 31 December 2013.
Principal activities
The principal activity of the Group is the 
provision of assistance products. Further 
information on the Group’s business can 
be found in the following sections of the 
Annual Report, which are incorporated by 
reference into this report:
 ц Chairman’s statement on pages 6 to 7; and
 ц Strategic report on pages 6 to 26. 
Dividends
The Directors recommend that no final 
dividend be paid in respect of 2013. The total 
dividend paid for the year is nil (2012: nil). 
Directors
In accordance with best practice all serving 
Directors voluntarily retired from the Board at 
the AGM on 17 June 2013 and, being eligible, 
all offered themselves for re-election and 
were re-appointed on 17 June 2013.
The Directors who served throughout 
the year except as noted are shown 
in the table below.
The Company’s Articles of Association 
require that newly appointed Directors offer 
themselves for election at the first AGM 
following their appointment and that all 
Directors stand for re-election at least once 
every three years.
Accordingly, Brent Escott, Craig Parsons, 
Shaun Astley-Stone and Ruth Evans following 
their appointment in 2013, will seek election to 
the Board for the first time at the 2014 AGM.
Summary
•  The Group remains a going concern 
despite material uncertainty 
• The composition of the Board has 
undergone significant change in 
the year 
• We have reported our greenhouse 
gas emissions for the first time 
Details of powers of Directors, procedures 
for appointment and re-election of Directors, 
Directors’ indemnity insurance and 
procedures for managing Directors’ conflicts 
of interest are included in the Corporate 
Governance report on pages 32 to 35.
Biographical details for each Director 
are set out on pages 30 and 31. Details 
of Committee memberships are set 
out on pages 36 to 41 of the Corporate 
Governance report.
Details of Directors’ beneficial interests 
in and options over the Company’s shares 
are set out in the Remuneration report on 
pages 41 to 53.
These sections are by reference part of the 
Directors’ report.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company is to be held 
on 16 June 2014. The notice of the AGM 
and an explanation of the non-routine 
business are set out in the explanatory 
circular that accompanies this Annual 
Report. The notice of the AGM specifies 
deadlines for exercising voting rights and 
appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in 
relation to resolutions to be passed at 
the meeting. 
Capital structure
Details of the issued share capital, together 
with movements in the Company’s issued 
share capital for the period, can be found in 
note 29 to the financial statements. The 
Company has one class of capital, ordinary 
shares, which carry no right to fixed income. 
Each fully paid share carries the right to one 
vote at a general meeting of the Company. 
Directors
Duncan McIntyre
1
Non-Executive Chairman (appointed 29 January 2014)
Brent Escott Chief Executive Officer (appointed 1 September 2013)
Craig Parsons Chief Financial Officer (appointed 1 September 2013)
Les Owen Non-Executive Director
Shaun Astley-Stone Non-Executive Director (appointed 2 September 2013)
Ruth Evans Non-Executive Director (appointed 4 October 2013)
Charles Gregson Non-Executive Chairman (resigned 29 January 2014)
Paul Stobart Chief Executive Officer (resigned 31 August 2013)
Shaun Parker Chief Financial Officer (resigned 31 August 2013)
Hamish Ogston Non-Executive Director (resigned 28 June 2013)
1.  Duncan McIntyre was a Non-Executive Director of the Company for the period prior to his appointment 
as Non-Executive Chairman.
Strategic report 
Pages 6 to 26
Directors’ biographies  
Pages 30 and 31
Corporate Governance report 
Pages 32 and 35
Committee memberships 
Pages 36 to 41
Remuneration report 
Pages 41 to 53 www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 55
Corporate governance
Introduction from the Chairman
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Corporate Governance report
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
Remuneration report
 ǔ Directors’ report
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Details of the Group’s employee share schemes are set out in note 30. 
A special resolution was passed at the Company’s AGM on 
17 June 2013, which allows the Directors to allot shares up to an 
aggregate amount equal to one third of the Company’s existing 
issued ordinary share capital. 
Pursuant to Article 5 of the Company’s Articles of Association and subject 
to the provisions of the applicable regulations, statutes and subordinate 
legislation, the Company is entitled to purchase its own shares.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the year.
Change of control provisions
Some agreements to which the Company or its subsidiaries are 
a party may be at risk of termination by counterparties in certain 
restricted circumstances in the event of a change of control of 
the Company. The Directors are not aware of any agreements 
between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide 
for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs 
because of a takeover bid. 
Substantial shareholdings
On 31 December 2013, the Company had been notified, in accordance 
with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct 
Authority, of the notifiable interests in the ordinary share capital of 
the Company set out in the table below. As far as the Directors are 
aware, as at 31 December 2013 no person had a beneficial interest 
in 3% or more of the voting share capital except for the following:
Name
Ordinary shares
(thousands) %
Mr Hamish Ogston
1
98,021 57%
Schroder Investment Management Ltd 22,311 13%
Subsequent to the year end and up to the date of this report, there 
have been the following significant changes:
1. The holding of Mr Hamish Ogston is 96,332,000 (56%).
Mr Hamish Ogston currently holds 56% of the issued shares of the 
Company. Under the terms of a Relationship Agreement between 
Mr Hamish Ogston and the Company dated 18 March 2010, for 
so long as Mr Hamish Ogston (or any person connected to him) 
holds, in aggregate, 30 per cent or more of the ordinary shares in 
the capital of the Company (or the attached voting rights in these 
shares) Mr Hamish Ogston (and each person connected to him) 
shall not:
 ц vote in favour of, or propose, any resolution to amend the 
Company’s Articles of Association which would be contrary to the 
principle of the independence of the Company from Mr Hamish 
Ogston (and each person connected to him);
 ц take any action which precludes any member of the Group from 
carrying on its business independently of Mr Hamish Ogston (and 
each person connected to him); and
 ц take any action (or omit to take any action) to prejudice the 
Company’s status as a listed company or its suitability for 
listing, or the Company’s compliance with the Listing Rules 
and Disclosure Rules, save in circumstances of a takeover 
or merger of the Company. 
Greenhouse gas emissions
The Group’s principal activity is the provision of assistance products 
and although we acknowledge our business has an impact on the 
environment, we consider our overall environmental impact to be 
low. The main environmental impacts for the Group are limited to 
environmental issues which are common to all businesses, such 
as resource use.
The information disclosed is the required mandatory reporting of 
greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report & Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013. 
Reporting year
Our reporting year is the same as our fiscal year, being 1 January 2013 
to 31 December 2013. This greenhouse gas reporting year has been 
established to align with our financial reporting year. As this is the 
first year of mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions 
comparative information is not presented.  
Tonnes CO
2
e
2013
Scope 1:
Combustion of fuel 208
Scope 2:
Directly purchased electricity 2,400
Total scope 1 and 2 2,608
Intensity ratio (per £million of revenue) 14.7
Reporting boundary
We have reported on all material emission sources which we 
deem ourselves to be responsible for. These sources align with 
our financial control boundary. We do not have responsibility 
for any emission sources that are beyond the boundary of our 
financial control.
We disposed of our North American business on 3 May 2013; 
consequently this information has not been included in our 
reported figures.
Methodology
The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based on the 
‘Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including mandatory greenhouse 
gas emissions reporting guidance’ (June 2013) issued by the 
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra). We have 
utilised Defra’s 2013 conversion factors within our reporting methodology.
In some instances we have used estimation techniques where usage 
information is not available within some of our leased properties.
Intensity ratio
In order to express our annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable 
factor associated with our activities, we have used continuing 
Group revenue as our intensity ratio as this is considered to provide 
the best comparative measure over time.  www.cppgroupplc.com
56 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Going concern
In reaching their view on the preparation of the Group’s financial 
statements on a going concern basis, the Directors are required to 
consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. The Directors have made appropriate 
enquiries and taken into account the Group’s business activities, 
together with the factors likely to affect its future performance and 
position which are set out in the Strategic report on pages 6 to 26.
During the year, the Group has made good progress agreeing new 
financing arrangements which are expected to total approximately 
£33.0 million, with £13.0 million being provided by a three-year 
extension of the debt facility to 31 July 2016 and approximately 
£20.0 million being provided through the deferral of twelve months 
commission payments to certain Business Partners, with 
repayment due on 31 July 2017. The disposal of the North 
American business has been completed with the net disposal 
proceeds being used to repay part of the debt facility. 
The Group has continued to look at its strategic positioning and as a 
result has divested its operations in Singapore and its investment in 
the Home3 joint venture and will withdraw from the French market. 
Additional measures have been taken by the Group to address its 
cost base including significant redundancy programmes in the UK 
in 2012 and 2013, closure of the Chesterfield site in the UK in May 
2013 and a streamlining of the Group’s organisational structure. This, 
together with cost saving initiatives in our overseas operations and 
reductions in capital expenditure, have had and will continue to have 
a beneficial impact on the Group’s overhead base. 
Nevertheless, despite this progress a level of uncertainty remains 
over the Group’s future due to the Scheme, together with the 
associated publicity, which has had and will continue to have an 
adverse impact on the Group’s ability to generate new business 
and renew business with existing customers. The Scheme has 
commenced and there is greater clarity around the level of the 
redress rates. At the time of approving the accounts, redress 
rates were within our expectations. As the Scheme will not be 
complete until 30 August 2014 there remains a residual risk that the 
response rates may reach a level which cannot be funded under the 
revised funding arrangements. In addition, the Group’s trading 
performance continues to be affected by the on-going VVOP 
restrictions agreed with the FCA in November 2012 by the Group’s 
subsidiaries CPPL and HIL. Amongst other requirements, the VVOP 
does not permit CPPL or HIL to make new sales of regulated retail 
products. 
The bank loan facility is subject to a number of financial covenants, 
which include a covenant relating to a maximum level of response 
rates in a past business review exercise. The Business Partner 
commission deferral agreement, although subordinate, provides 
substantially the same security as that granted under the bank debt 
facility. There is a risk that response rates in the Scheme or 
continued business performance result in the Group being unable 
to satisfy the covenants, which could lead to the lending banks or 
Business Partners seeking repayment of the facility or exercising 
their right to security over assets.
Given the possible impact of trading and customer redress uncertainties, 
and the effect this could have on liquidity and compliance with the 
terms of the borrowing facilities, there is material uncertainty that casts 
significant doubt as to the Group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, and therefore it may be unable to realise its assets and 
discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business. As a result of 
this material uncertainty the Independent Auditor’s report on page 
59, whilst unqualified, includes an emphasis of matter in this 
regard.
However, having considered the above uncertainties and all the 
available information, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly the Directors 
have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
Auditor
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this 
report confirms that:
 ц so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and 
 ц the Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have 
taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office 
as auditor. Accordingly, a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte will be 
proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
Lorraine Beavis
Company Secretary
23 April 2014
Directors’ report continued www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 57
Corporate governance
Introduction from the Chairman
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Corporate Governance report
Report of the Audit Committee
Report of the Risk & Compliance Committee
Report of the Nomination & Governance Committee
Remuneration report
 ǔ Directors’ report
 ǔ Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & 
Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to 
prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union (‘IFRS’) and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and 
have elected to prepare the Company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable 
law). Under company law the Directors must not approve the 
accounts until they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the 
profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
 ц properly select and apply accounting policies;
 ц present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
 ц provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the Group’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
 ц make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
In preparing the Company financial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
 ц select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
 ц make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 ц state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
 ц prepare the Company financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that 
the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 ц the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant 
financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
 ц the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face; and
 ц the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, 
balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board
Brent Escott
Chief Executive Officer
23 April 2014
Craig Parsons
Chief Financial Officer
23 April 2014
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities www.cppgroupplc.com
58 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Financial 
statements
59 Independent Auditor’s report
62 Consolidated income statement
63  Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
64 Consolidated balance sheet
65 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
66 Consolidated cash flow statement
67 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
102 Company balance sheet
103 Notes to the Company financial statements
111 Company offices
112 Shareholder information www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 59
Opinion on financial statements of CPPGroup Plc
In our opinion:
 ц the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2013 and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended;
 ц the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
 ц the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and
 ц the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income 
statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, 
the Consolidated and Company balance sheets, the Consolidated 
statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated cash flow 
statement, and the related notes 1 to 48. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group 
financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements 
is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Emphasis of matter – Going concern
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ 
statement on page 56 in respect of the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
As detailed in note 3, the going concern status of the Group is 
impacted by the combined effect of restrictions on new regulated 
business sales as a result of the Voluntary Variation of Permissions, 
uncertainty over the eventual cost of the redress scheme, and the 
ability of the Group to trade in line with forecasts and comply with 
the terms of its borrowing facilities. 
Whilst we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going 
concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial 
statements is appropriate, these conditions indicate the existence 
of a material uncertainty which may give rise to significant doubt 
over the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. We describe 
below how the scope of our audit has responded to this risk. 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matters.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below 
are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the 
allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of 
the engagement team:
Financial statements
 ǔ Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
to the members of CPPGroup Plc
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Going concern
The Group faces significant uncertainty in relation to the 
eventual cost of the customer redress scheme, restrictions on 
new regulated business sales, and the requirement to trade in 
line with expectations and maintain compliance with lending 
covenants.
As explained above in the emphasis of matter – going concern, 
we considered going concern to be a key risk.
We evaluated the going concern assessment prepared by 
Management. This involved assessing the design and 
implementation of key controls in relation to the monitoring and 
evaluation of going concern, such as the production and review of 
forecasts used by Management. We challenged the underlying 
forecast and budget assumptions including expected growth rates 
and key factors such as renewal rates by reference to historical 
information and the estimated impact of the on-going redress 
scheme. We also evaluated historical forecasting accuracy, the 
sensitivity of the going concern status to assumptions inherent in 
the customer redress and associated costs provisions, current and 
forecast compliance with the terms of the Group’s borrowing 
facilities, and the impact of other uncertainties including potential 
regulatory actions.
We include above the conclusion of our review of the Directors’ 
statement in respect of the Group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
Completeness of provisions for customer redress and 
associated costs
The determination of the value of the provision for customer 
redress and associated legal and professional adviser costs 
requires significant judgement in the selection of key 
assumptions such as future customer redress response rates, 
the size of the population of underlying customer policies 
affected by historical mis-selling, the average level of redress 
payable per customer and the eventual outturn of adviser costs.
We evaluated the appropriateness of Management’s assumptions 
in deriving the provisions for customer redress and associated 
costs, utilising internal regulatory specialists to benchmark the 
key assumptions, including expected response rates under the 
Group’s past business review, by comparing these against the 
Group’s experience to date and other comparable situations 
in the wider market.
We also reviewed regulatory correspondence to assess the Group’s 
compliance with laws and regulations across the jurisdictions in 
which it operates, tested the completeness of the redressable 
population through agreement of policies to source systems, 
and independently recalculated the redress provision. www.cppgroupplc.com
60 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Independent Auditor’s report continued
to the members of CPPGroup Plc
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Impairment of tangible and intangible non-current assets
As a result of recent degradations in performance and a material 
restructuring of the Group’s business, the risk of impairment of 
the carrying value of non-current assets is heightened. The 
Group’s consideration of the potential impairment of non-current 
assets is a judgemental process which involves the assessment 
of indicators that an asset may be impaired, such as restrictions 
on the Group’s business model as a result of regulatory 
restrictions and future business performance. 
Focusing on the Group’s significant IT asset base, we evaluated 
Management’s assessment of indicators of impairment by reference 
to future corporate plans, and cash flow forecasts and budgets. We 
also considered Management’s identification of Cash Generating Units 
and the associated identification and allocation of cash flows for the 
purposes of impairment reviews.
We evaluated Management’s value in use calculations, including 
challenging the appropriateness of the identified cash flow forecasts, 
performing sensitivities and benchmarking discount rates used; and 
we independently validated Management’s analysis of obsolete assets 
by reference to business plans.
Revenue recognition
There are significant judgements involved in applying the Group’s 
revenue recognition policies including multiple revenue streams 
and insurance revenues, and also in determining revenue refunds 
and claw-backs to customers who cancel during the ‘cooling off’ 
periods on buying or renewing the Group’s products.
We tested the controls over revenue recognition including the 
reconciliation of underlying policy collections to recorded revenue, 
and the calculation of claw-back provisions. We also performed 
tests of key controls in relation to the Group’s core policy 
administration systems supporting the revenue cycle.
We evaluated the appropriateness of the revenue recognition 
policies applied by reference to the terms and conditions of the 
underlying products, Group policies, and the relevant accounting 
standards. We also carried out testing to source documentation 
of adjustments made by Management at the year end in relation 
to policy refunds by reference to post balance sheet experience.
The Audit Committee’s consideration of these risks is set out on 
page 38.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the 
context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not 
to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our 
opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to 
any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion 
on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed 
or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our 
audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £1.8 million, which 
is 1% of revenue. We used revenue to determine materiality 
because profit before tax has been unusually volatile and is not 
considered to be the key benchmark at the current time.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to 
the Committee all audit differences in excess of £38,000, as well 
as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit 
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when 
assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group 
and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the 
risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that 
assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit 
work at four locations (the United Kingdom, Spain, Italy and Turkey) all 
of which were subject to a full audit. These four locations represent the 
principal business units within the Group’s reportable segments and 
account for 92% of the Group’s total assets, 92% of the Group’s 
revenue from continuing operations, 94% of the losses before tax of 
loss making components, and 93% of the profits before tax of profit 
making components. They were also selected to provide an appropriate 
basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material 
misstatement identified above. Our audit work at the four locations was 
executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity 
which were lower than Group materiality. 
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and 
carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there 
were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated 
financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit 
or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned 
visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group 
audit team visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was 
focused at least once every two years and the most significant of them 
at least once a year. In years when we do not visit a significant 
component we include the component audit team in our team briefing, 
discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the 
findings from their work. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 61
Financial statements
 ǔ Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 ц the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
 ц the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 ц we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
 ц adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 ц the parent company financial statements are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in 
our opinion certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have not 
been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part 
of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual 
Report is:
 ц materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or
 ц apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or
 ц otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired 
during the audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider the 
Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether 
the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we 
communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should 
have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any 
such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for 
Auditors. We also comply with International Standard on Quality 
Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to 
ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood 
and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated 
professional standards review team, strategically focused second 
partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as 
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Christopher Powell FCA (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Leeds, United Kingdom
23 April 2014 www.cppgroupplc.com
62 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
2012
restated
2013 (note 3)
Note £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 178,031 269,869
Cost of sales (112,174) (162,295)
Gross profit 65,857 107,574
Administrative expenses
Exceptional items 6 (37,506) (43,942)
Other administrative expenses (67,663) (80,902)
Total administrative expenses (105,169) (124,844)
Operating loss
Operating (loss)/profit before exceptional items (1,806) 26,672
Operating loss after exceptional items (39,312) (17,270)
Investment revenues 10 394 580
Other gains and losses — (891)
Finance costs: non-derivative instruments 11 (4,305) (1,869)
Loss before taxation (43,223) (19,450)
Taxation 12 (2,112) (1,474)
Loss for the year from continuing operations (45,335) (20,924)
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 15 12,468 3,694
Loss for the year 7 (32,867) (17,230)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company (32,867) (17,118)
Non-controlling interests — (112)
(32,867) (17,230)
Basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per share Pence Pence 
Continuing operations 14 (26.43) (12.13)
Discontinued operations 14 7.27 2.15
Total (19.16) (9.98)
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2013 www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 63
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
 ǔ Consolidated income statement
 ǔ Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2013
2013 2012
£’000 £’000
Loss for the year (32,867) (17,230)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 387 (616)
Currency translation differences reclassified on disposal (1,618) —
Other comprehensive expense for the year net of taxation (1,231) (616)
Total comprehensive expense for the year (34,098) (17,846)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company (34,098) (17,734)
Non-controlling interests — (112)
(34,098) (17,846) www.cppgroupplc.com
64 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
2013 2012
Note £’000 £’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 16 — 1,478
Other intangible assets 17 3,299 15,458
Property, plant and equipment 18 5,061 13,316
Investment in joint venture 15 — —
Deferred tax asset 27 142 2,902
8,502 33,154
Current assets
Insurance assets 19 3,387 27,241
Inventories 20 149 299
Trade and other receivables 21 20,511 29,034
Cash and cash equivalents 22 66,900 53,198
90,947 109,772
Assets classified as held for sale 15 — 20,007
90,947 129,779
Total assets 99,449 162,933
Current liabilities
Insurance liabilities 23 (3,989) (7,525)
Income tax liabilities (742) (2,379)
Trade and other payables 24 (49,004) (56,587)
Borrowings 25 — (43,408)
Provisions 26 (37,398) (28,967)
(91,133) (138,866)
Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 15 — (7,130)
(91,133) (145,996)
Net current liabilities (186) (16,217)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 25 (22,597) —
Deferred tax liabilities 27 (527) (716)
Trade and other payables 24 (9,494) (6,500)
(32,618) (7,216)
Total liabilities (123,751) (153,212)
Net (liabilities)/assets (24,302) 9,721
Equity
Share capital 29 17,120 17,111
Share premium account 33,292 33,297
Merger reserve (100,399) (100,399)
Translation reserve 609 1,840
Equalisation reserve 23 8,129 7,984
ESOP reserve 11,688 11,638
Retained earnings 5,259 38,250
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company (24,302) 9,721
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 December 2013
Approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 23 April 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Brent Escott   Craig Parsons
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer
Company registration number: 07151159  www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 65
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
 ǔ Consolidated balance sheet
 ǔ Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2013
Note
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
account
£’000
Merger
reserve
£’000
Translation
reserve
£’000
Equalisation
reserve
£’000
ESOP
reserve
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Non-
controlling
interest
£’000
Total
equity
£’000
At 1 January 2012 17,106 33,300 (100,399) 2,456 6,423 11,606 56,824 27,316 (164) 27,152
Total comprehensive 
income — — — (616) — — (17,118) (17,734) (112) (17,846)
Movement on 
equalisation reserve 23 — — — — 1,561 — (1,561) — — —
Current tax credit on 
equalisation reserve 
movement 12 — — — — — — 382 382 — 382
Equity settled share 
based payment charge — — — — — 34 — 34 — 34
Deferred tax on share 
based payment charge 12 — — — — — — (1) (1) — (1)
Exercise of share 
options 29 5  (3) — — — (2) — — — —
Adjustment arising 
from change in 
non-controlling 
interest — — — — — — (276) (276) 276 —
At 31 December 2012 17,111 33,297 (100,399) 1,840 7,984 11,638 38,250 9,721 — 9,721
Total comprehensive 
income — — — (1,231) — — (32,867) (34,098) — (34,098)
Movement on 
equalisation reserve 23 — — — — 145 — (145) — — —
Current tax credit on 
equalisation reserve 
movement 12 — — — — — — 31 31 — 31
Equity settled share 
based payment charge — — — — — 50 — 50 — 50
Deferred tax on share 
based payment charge 12 — — — — — — (1) (1) — (1)
Exercise of share 
options 29 9 (5) — — — — (9) (5) — (5)
At 31 December 2013 17,120 33,292 (100,399) 609 8,129 11,688 5,259 (24,302) — (24,302) www.cppgroupplc.com
66 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
2013 2012
Note £’000 £’000
Net cash from operating activities 31 20,158 11,086
Investing activities
Interest received 404 589
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (332) (2,485)
Purchases of intangible assets (2,460) (3,807)
Cash consideration in respect of sale of discontinued operation 26,086 —
Costs associated with disposal of discontinued operations (4,215) (905)
Cash disposed of with discontinued operations (3,731) —
Investment in joint venture (780) (477)
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities 14,972 (7,085)
Financing activities
Repayment of bank loans (30,500) —
Proceeds from new borrowings 11,249 —
Interest paid (1,089) (1,520)
Costs of refinancing (4,633) —
Issue of ordinary share capital (5) 2
Net cash used in financing activities (24,978) (1,518)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 10,152 2,483
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (287) (372)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 57,035 54,924
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 66,900 57,035
Analysed as:
Continuing operations 22 66,900 53,198
Discontinued operations 15 — 3,837
66,900 57,035
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2013 www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 67
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
 ǔ Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements 
1. General information
CPPGroup Plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 and domiciled in the United Kingdom. 
Its registered office is Holgate Park, York, YO26 4GA. The Group comprises CPPGroup Plc and its subsidiaries. The Group’s principal 
activity during the year was the provision of assistance products.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, the functional currency of the Company. Foreign operations 
are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
2. Adoption of new Standards
New Standards adopted
The following Standards and Interpretations have become effective and have been adopted in these financial statements. Their adoption 
has not had any material impact on the Group. No Standards or Interpretations have been adopted early in these financial statements. 
Standard/Interpretation Subject
IAS 19 (revised 2011) Employee benefits
IAS 27 (revised 2011) Separate Financial Statements
IAS 28 (revised May 2011) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
Amendments to IAS 1 (June 2011) Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income
Amendments to IFRS 1 (March 2012) Government Loans
Amendment to IFRS 7 (December 2011) Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
Annual improvements to IFRSs (2009–2011) Cycle
 
Standards not yet applied
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following relevant Standards and Interpretations which have not been 
applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU): 
Standard/Interpretation Subject Period first applies (Year ended)
Amendments to IAS 32 (December 2011) Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 31 December 2014
Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-financial Assets 31 December 2014
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 31 December 2015
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have a material impact  
on the Group.
3. Significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements on pages 62 to 110 present the performance of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013. 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, 
IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and therefore comply 
with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. The consolidated financial statements have also been prepared under the historical cost basis.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements the comparative amounts have been restated to reflect the Home3 joint venture as 
discontinued and the re-organisation of the operating segments to UK and Ireland, Europe and Latin America, and Asia Pacific. www.cppgroupplc.com
68 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Going concern
The Board of Directors have, at the time of approving the consolidated financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis of accounting in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Further details of the Directors’ assessment are set 
out in the Directors’ report on page 56. 
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of the Company and the entities under its control. 
Control is achieved when the Company: has power over the investee; is exposed, or has rights to variable return from its involvement with the 
investee; and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective 
date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal. Adjustments are made, where necessary, to the financial statements of 
subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with Group policies. All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses 
are eliminated on consolidation.
Joint ventures
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. The Group share of the net assets of joint ventures, 
including associated goodwill, is included in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Group’s share of its joint ventures’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement. When the 
Group’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, 
unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented 
within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from the Company’s equity holders.
Exceptional items
Items which are exceptional, being material in terms of size and/or nature, are presented separately from underlying business performance 
in the consolidated income statement. The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide an indication of the Group’s underlying 
business performance.
Government grants
Grants receivable from government bodies are recognised to the extent that the Group has substantively met the conditions of the grant. 
Grants received in respect of which Group obligations are on-going are deferred and recognised over the period in which the conditions 
are fulfilled. Government grants are presented as a reduction in applicable expenses.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The amount recognised 
as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account 
the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present 
obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is 
recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 69
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Share based payments
Prior to the Company’s shares being listed on the London Stock Exchange on 24 March 2010, the Group issued share options to certain 
of its employees through the Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP). Costs in relation to the ESOP are presented within exceptional items 
in the consolidated income statement.
Subsequent to its listing, the Group has issued share options to certain of its employees under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), 
the Restricted Stock Plan (RSP), the Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP) and the ShareSAVE Plan. Costs in relation to these plans are 
presented within other administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Share options are treated as equity settled if the Group has the ability to determine whether to settle exercises in cash or by the issue 
of shares. Share options are measured at fair value at the date of grant, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest, 
and adjusted for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions each year. Non-market vesting conditions include a change in control 
of the Group and are considered by the Directors at each year end. The fair value of equity settled share based payments is expensed 
in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity, subject 
to adjustment for forfeited options.
Share options are treated as cash settled if the terms of the scheme require or the Directors intend to settle share options with a cash 
payment. Cash settled options are measured at fair value at date of grant and then subsequently revalued at each year end. For cash 
settled share based payments, a liability is recognised for a proportion, based on the vesting period, of the fair value as calculated at 
the balance sheet date. Movements in the provision are charged to the consolidated income statement.
The fair value of share options is measured by use of the Black Scholes option pricing model and Monte Carlo simulation model.
Assistance products 
Recognition of revenue 
Revenue attributable to the Group’s assistance products is generally comprised of the prices paid by customers for the assistance 
products net of underwriting fees and exclusive of any sales taxes. 
Revenue is generally split into two categories: introduction fees and claims management fees. Introduction fees are recognised on 
inception of the arrangement. Claims management fees are recognised over the period of the underlying contract and, where revenue 
is deferred to match the Group’s future servicing obligations under assistance product contracts, the amount deferred corresponds to the 
relevant fair values of the un-provided services. The amount deferred is sufficient to cover future claims handling costs and an appropriate 
profit margin, and is calculated by reference to historical experience of claims handling costs and incidence. Provisions for cancellations 
are made at the time revenue is recorded and are deducted from revenue.
For certain other of the Group’s assistance products, there are no introduction fees. In these arrangements, revenue is comprised of the 
subscriptions received from members, net of underwriting fees and exclusive of any sales taxes. These subscriptions are recognised over 
the life of the service provided.
Wholesale, Packaged Accounts and other revenue is generally comprised of fees billed directly to Business Partners, exclusive of any 
sales taxes, and is recognised as those fees are earned.
Non-policy revenue is comprised of fees billed directly to customers or Business Partners for services provided under separate non-policy 
based arrangements. Such revenue is recognised, exclusive of any sales taxes, as those fees are earned.
Cost of sales 
Cost of sales attributable to the Group’s assistance products represents the costs of acquiring customers and includes marketing costs 
and commissions paid to Business Partners. Commissions are recognised in line with the revenue to which they relate. Marketing costs 
include all telemarketing, direct mail and fulfilment costs. These costs are expensed as incurred.
Cost of sales attributable to the assistance elements of the Group’s Packaged Account and wholesale products represents the costs of 
providing those services including third party costs. This includes all mailing and fulfilment costs which are expensed as incurred. Third 
party costs relate to relationships with suppliers who provide elements of the service and are expensed as incurred.
Insurance contracts
Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance risk at the inception of the contract. Insurance risk is transferred 
when the Group agrees to compensate a policyholder if a specified uncertain future event (other than a change in a financial variable) 
adversely affects the policyholder. 
Recognition of revenue
Revenue attributable to the Group’s insurance contracts comprises premiums paid by customers and is exclusive of any sales taxes 
and similar duties. Premiums from insurance policies are recognised as revenue on a straight line basis over the life of the policy.
Provisions for unearned premiums are made, representing the part of gross premiums written that is estimated to be earned in the following 
or subsequent financial periods, on a straight line basis for each policy. The provision for unearned premiums is recorded under insurance 
liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. www.cppgroupplc.com
70 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Insurance contracts continued
Cost of sales
Cost of sales attributable to the Group’s insurance contracts consists of the costs, both direct and indirect, of acquiring insurance policies, 
commissions, reinsurance premiums payable to third parties and insurance claims incurred (net of reinsurance recoveries).
Acquisition costs are amortised over the life of the average policy. Acquisition costs which are expensed in the following or subsequent 
accounting periods are recorded in the balance sheet as deferred acquisition costs and include a proportionate allowance for commissions 
and post-sale set up costs incurred in respect of unearned premium not amortised at the balance sheet date.
Reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the related business. 
Insurance claims provisions
Claims incurred comprise the Group’s claims payments and internal settlement expenses during the period together with the movement 
in the Group’s provision for outstanding claims over the period, including an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. Differences 
between the estimated cost and subsequent settlement of claims are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year 
in which they are settled.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same accounting period as the related claims.
Equalisation reserve
An equalisation reserve has been established in accordance with the requirements of the Equalisation Reserve Rules contained within 
the Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers and the General Prudential Sourcebook. Movements on the reserve are shown as a movement 
between retained earnings and the equalisation reserve.
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale and discontinued operations
Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction 
and the sale is highly probable. Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value 
less costs to sell. They are not depreciated or amortised from the point they are recognised as held for sale. Operations are classified 
as discontinued when they are either disposed or are part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose, and represent a major line of business 
or geographical area of operation.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the net fair 
value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity recognised at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially 
recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment annually.
On disposal of a subsidiary or joint venture operation, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain 
or loss on disposal.
Impairment
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units. If the recoverable amount of a cash generating unit 
is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit. 
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Intangible assets
Externally acquired software
Externally acquired software is measured at purchase cost and is amortised on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life of four years.
Internally generated software
Internally generated intangible assets arising from the Group’s software development programs are recognised from the point at which 
the following conditions are met:
 ц An asset is created that can be identified;
 ц It is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits; and 
 ц The development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated software is amortised on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life of four years.
Contractual arrangements with third parties
Some of the Group’s contractual arrangements give rise to intangible assets. Where a contractual payment gives access to and control 
of future economic benefits, in the form of future renewal income streams, this amount is recognised as an asset and then amortised 
in line with the forecast benefits over the shorter of the contractual arrangement and the period when benefits are expected to arise. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 71
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Intangible assets continued
Intangible assets arising on business combinations
Intangible assets arising from business combinations are initially stated at their fair values and amortised over their useful economic 
lives as follows:
Business Partner relationships: In line with projected related revenues.
Business Partner relationships represent the present value of net revenues and costs expected to arise from contractual arrangements  
and non-contractual relationships with existing and pipeline Business Partners at the date of acquisition.
Amortisation of contractual arrangements with third parties is charged to cost of sales, amortisation of all other intangible assets is 
charged to other administrative expenses.
Impairment
Annually the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its intangible assets to determine whether there is indication that those assets have 
suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent 
of the impairment loss, if any. Recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted at their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the assets for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of 
the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit may be increased to the 
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash generating unit in prior years. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are shown at purchase cost, net of accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the costs, less estimated residual value, of each asset over its expected useful 
life as follows:
Freehold property:   40 years straight line
Computer systems:  4 years straight line
Furniture and equipment: 4 years straight line
Leasehold improvements:  Over the shorter of the life of the lease and the useful economic life of the asset
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and bank deposits with a term from inception of three months or less, less bank 
overdrafts where there is a right to offset. Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right to offset 
with cash balances in the same currency.
Leases
Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Taxation
The current tax payable is based on the taxable profit or loss for the year. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates 
that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profits or losses, and is accounted for using 
the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax 
assets are regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available 
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiary undertakings and jointly 
controlled entities except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. www.cppgroupplc.com
72 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Taxation continued
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the consolidated income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly 
to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax 
assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Pension costs
Pension costs represent contributions made by the Group to defined contribution pension schemes. These are expensed as incurred.
Foreign currencies
In preparing the financial information of the individual entities that comprise the Group, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s 
functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary 
assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-
monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance 
sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. Exchange differences are classified 
as equity and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign entities are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and are translated at the closing rate.
On disposal of foreign operations, the cumulative amount of exchange differences previously recognised directly in equity for that foreign 
operation are to be transferred to the consolidated income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets
Trade receivables, loans, other receivables, cash, and cash equivalents that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, less allowance for any estimated irrecoverable amounts. 
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at the proceeds received, net of transaction costs. They are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in interest rates. For material risks the Group evaluates and considers 
the use of derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, to reduce its exposure to interest rate movements. 
When derivatives are used they are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
re-measured to their fair value at each balance sheet date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement 
immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 73
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of assumptions, estimates and judgements 
about future conditions. The use of available information and application of judgement are inherent in the formation of estimates. Actual 
results in the future may differ from those reported. The key estimates and assumptions used in these consolidated financial statements 
are set out below.
Critical judgements in applying accounting policies
Going concern
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, as the Board of Directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The going concern 
assessment considered the risks and uncertainties facing the Group, which include trading and customer redress. Further details of 
the assessment are provided in the Directors’ report on page 56.
Impairment of tangible and intangible non-current assets
As a result of the IT transformation programme, the IT asset base was reviewed in detail during the year which led to the recognition of 
impairments totalling £8,058,000. In making its judgement, Management considered the value in use of assets in respect of cash flow 
forecasts for identified Cash Generating Units (CGUs) over the period of the IT transformation programme. Further detail is included 
in notes 6 and 17.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Customer redress and associated costs
The customer redress and associated costs provision relates to costs associated with the FCA investigation into the Group’s sales 
processes in the UK. At 31 December 2013 the remaining balance of the provision is £37.4 million. The provision includes anticipated 
compensation payable to customers through a customer redress exercise together with professional fees associated with the customer 
redress exercise.
The customer redress exercise is on-going and whilst response rates are as expected there is a residual risk that they may exceed the level 
that is currently provided. Changes to the assumptions on response rates would lead to a change in the customer redress provision which 
would be reflected through the consolidated income statement.
Intangible assets arising from contractual arrangements with third parties
Where contractual payments have given rise to future economic benefits, these amounts are carried in intangible assets and amortised 
over the contract terms. The amortisation profile is calculated in line with the forecast future benefits over the shorter of the contractual 
arrangement and the period when benefits are expected to arise. The future economic benefits are estimated by reference to future 
renewal performance, taking into account historical renewal performance and the latest assumption of response rates in a customer 
redress exercise.
Changes to the estimates of renewal performance or the response rates in a customer redress exercise would change the periods in 
which the contractual payments are charged to the consolidated income statement. www.cppgroupplc.com
74 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
5. Segmental analysis
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly 
reviewed by the Board of Directors to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
The Group is managed on the basis of three broad geographical regions:
 ц UK and Ireland;
 ц Europe and Latin America (Spain, Portugal, France, Italy, Germany, Turkey, Mexico and Brazil);
 ц Asia Pacific (Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, India and China).
Segment revenues and performance have been as follows:
UK and Ireland
2013
£’000
Europe and
Latin America
2013
£’000
Asia 
Pacific
2013
£’000
Total
2013
£’000
Year ended 31 December 2013
Continuing operations
Revenue – external sales 128,990 42,603 6,438 178,031
Cost of sales (87,825) (21,317) (3,032) (112,174)
Gross profit 41,165 21,286 3,406 65,857
Depreciation and amortisation (5,869) (548) (40) (6,457)
Other administrative expenses (43,402) (13,605) (4,199) (61,206)
Regional operating (loss)/profit before exceptional items (8,106) 7,133 (833) (1,806)
Exceptional items (note 6) (37,506)
Operating loss after exceptional items (39,312)
Investment revenues 394
Finance costs: non-derivative instruments (4,305)
Loss before taxation (43,223)
Taxation (2,112)
Loss for the year from continuing operations (45,335)
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year from discontinued operations (note 15) 12,468
Loss for the year (32,867)
For the purposes of resource allocation and assessing performance, operating costs and revenues are allocated to the regions in which 
they are earned or incurred. The above does not reflect additional net charges of central costs of £1,983,000 presented within UK and 
Ireland in the tables above which have been charged to other regions for statutory purposes. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 75
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
5. Segmental analysis continued
UK and Ireland
2012
£’000
Europe and
Latin America
2012
£’000
Asia 
Pacific
2012
£’000
Total
2012
£’000
Year ended 31 December 2012 – restated (note 3)
Continuing operations
Revenue – external sales 215,343 47,982 6,544 269,869
Cost of sales (134,981) (24,176) (3,138) (162,295)
Gross profit 80,362 23,806 3,406 107,574
Depreciation and amortisation (7,229) (523) (35) (7,787)
Other administrative expenses (54,264) (14,373) (4,478) (73,115)
Regional operating profit/(loss) before exceptional items 18,869 8,910 (1,107) 26,672
Exceptional items (note 6) (43,942)
Operating loss after exceptional items (17,270)
Investment revenues 580
Other gains and losses (891)
Finance costs: non-derivative instruments (1,869)
Loss before taxation (19,450)
Taxation (1,474)
Loss for the year from continuing operations (20,924)
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year from discontinued operations (note 15) 3,694
Loss for the year (17,230)
For the purposes of resource allocation and assessing performance, operating costs and revenues are allocated to the regions in which 
they are earned or incurred. The above does not reflect additional net charges of central costs of £1,933,000 presented within UK 
and Ireland in the tables above which have been charged to other regions for statutory purposes.
Segment assets 
2013
£’000
2012
restated
(note 3)
£’000
UK and Ireland 85,913 123,611
Europe and Latin America 11,002 12,365
Asia Pacific 2,392 2,570
Total segment assets 99,307 138,546
Assets relating to discontinued operations — 7,783
Unallocated assets 142 16,604
Consolidated total assets 99,449 162,933
Goodwill, deferred tax and investments in joint ventures are not allocated to segments.  www.cppgroupplc.com
76 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
5. Segmental analysis continued
Capital expenditure
Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment
2013
£’000
2012
restated
(note 3)
£’000
2013
£’000
2012 
restated
(note 3)
£’000
Continuing operations
UK and Ireland 1,450 2,979 194 1,366
Europe and Latin America 128 472 42 523
Asia Pacific 26 55 5 42
Additions from continuing operations 1,604 3,506 241 1,931
Discontinued operations — 43 — 246
Consolidated total additions 1,604 3,549 241 2,177
Revenues from major products
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Continuing operations
Retail assistance policies 117,066 163,766 
Retail insurance policies 28,153 41,174
Packaged and wholesale policies 32,272 56,649
Non-policy revenue 540 8,280 
Revenue from continuing operations 178,031 269,869 
Discontinued operations 15,634 49,802
Consolidated total revenue 193,665 319,671
Major product streams are disclosed on the basis monitored by the Board of Directors. For the purpose of this product analysis, “retail assistance 
policies” are those which may be insurance backed but contain a bundle of assistance and other benefits; “retail insurance policies” are 
those which protect against a single insurance risk; “packaged and wholesale policies” are those which are provided by Business Partners 
to their customers in relation to an on-going product or service which is provided for a specified period of time; “non-policy revenue” are 
those which are not in connection with providing an on-going service to policyholders for a specified period of time.
Disclosures in notes 8, 19 and 23 regarding accounting for insurance contracts provide information relating to all contracts within the 
scope of IFRS 4, and therefore include both retail insurance policies and the insurance components of retail assistance and packaged 
and wholesale policies.
Geographical information
The Group operates across a wide number of territories, of which the UK and Spain are considered individually material. Revenue from 
external customers and non-current assets (excluding investments in joint ventures and deferred tax) by geographical location are  
detailed below:
External revenues Non-current assets
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Continuing operations
UK 125,432 211,186 7,008 28,159
Spain 19,767 21,620 432 529
Other 32,832 37,063 920 1,564
Total continuing operations 178,031 269,869 8,360 30,252
Discontinued operations 15,634 49,802 — 12,481
193,665 319,671 8,360 42,733 www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 77
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
5. Segmental analysis continued
Information about major customers
There are no customers in the current year from which the Group earns more than 10% of its revenue (2012: £28.8 million from the 
Group’s largest customer at that time).
6. Exceptional items 
Note
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Customer redress and associated costs 26 18,168 26,273
Impairment of IT assets 17,18 8,058 —
Restructuring costs 7 5,503 4,874
Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and freehold property 16,17,18 5,822 3,711
Regulatory penalties — 8,500
Legacy scheme share based payments 30 — 196
Strategic project costs (45) 388
Exceptional items included in operating loss 37,506 43,942
Tax on exceptional items (222) (5,663)
Total exceptional items after tax 37,284 38,279
The customer redress and associated costs of £18,168,000 (2012: £26,273,000) relates to the further costs required to compensate 
customers and professional fees associated with the customer redress exercise.
Impairment of IT assets £8,058,000 relates to the re-assessment of the carrying value of the Group’s IT asset base as a result of the IT 
transformation programme.
The restructuring costs of £5,503,000 (2012: £4,874,000) relate to redundancy programmes and associated costs across the Group, along 
with costs associated with the closure of the Chesterfield office. The majority of this cost is located in the UK.
Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and freehold building totals £5,822,000 (2012: £3,711,000) which comprises:
 ц £1,478,000 write down of the Homecare (Holdings) Limited goodwill balance (2012: £3,120,000 goodwill and intangible impairment of 
CPP Travel Services Limited). 
 ц £1,299,000 (2012: £591,000) impairment of the intangible asset for contractual arrangements with third parties, which reflects the 
impact the expected response rates in a customer redress exercise would have on the discounted forecast cash flows of the arrangement. 
 ц £3,045,000 impairment of the freehold property in the UK to its current market value.
Regulatory penalties represents the fine imposed by the FCA in 2012 as a result of its investigation into the Group’s sales processes in the UK. www.cppgroupplc.com
78 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
7 . Loss for the year
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
Note
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Loss for the year has been arrived at 
after charging/(crediting):
Operating lease charges 2,346 2,318 68 202 2,414 2,520
Net foreign exchange gains 61 (41) — — 61 (41)
Depreciation of property, plant and 
equipment 18 2,684 2,652 — 246 2,684 2,898
Amortisation of intangible assets 17 6,868 8,648 — 102 6,868 8,750
Loss on disposal of property, plant 
and equipment 200 135 — — 200 135
Customer redress and 
associated costs 6 18,168 26,273 — — 18,168 26,273
Impairment of IT assets 6 8,058 — — — 8,058 —
Other restructuring 6 2,580 — — — 2,580 —
Impairment of goodwill, intangible 
assets & freehold 6 5,822 3,711 — — 5,822 3,711
Regulatory penalties 6 — 8,500 — — — 8,500
Strategic project costs 6 (45) 388 3,259 2,715 3,214 3,103
    Share based payments 30 50 37 — — 50 37
    Restructuring costs 6 2,923 4,874 — — 2,923 4,874
    Other staff costs 34,684 49,294 2,600 8,920 37,284 58,214
Total staff costs 9 37,657 54,205 2,600 8,920 40,257 63,125
Write-down of inventories recognised 
as an expense 163 — — — 163 —
Movement on allowance for doubtful 
trade receivables 21 456 — — — 456 —
Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates for audit and non-audit services are as follows:
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 67 65
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and their associates for other services to the Group:
– Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 371 464
Total audit services 438 529
Audit related assurance services 30 242
Taxation compliance services 27 52
Other taxation advisory services 2 28
Corporate finance services 314 246
Other services 42 37
Total non-audit services 415 605 
853 1,019
Corporate finance services of £314,000 (2012: £246,000) relates to the preparation of a working capital report on the Group to support 
the issue of the circular required pursuant to the disposal of CPPNA Holdings Inc. which constituted a Class 1 transaction for the Group. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 79
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
8. Insurance revenues and costs
Revenues and costs arising from all of the Group’s insurance contracts as defined by IFRS 4 are set out below. An analysis of the Group’s 
revenue from retail insurance only policies is set out in note 5.
Revenue earned from insurance activities
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Gross premiums written 45,303 86,625 
Change in provision for unearned premiums 1,298 2,242
Earned premiums 46,601 88,867 
Costs incurred from insurance activities
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Reinsurance premiums incurred 5,085 7,299 
Claims paid
– Gross amount 22,415 38,331 
– Reinsurer’s share (4,435) (5,155)
– (Decrease)/increase in provision for gross claims (2,240) 960 
– Increase/(decrease) in provision for reinsurance claims 577 (225) 
16,317 33,911
Acquisition costs
– Costs incurred 3,675 15,782 
– Movement in deferred acquisition costs 8,889 5,085 
12,564 20,867
Other expenses 16,659 18,602 
50,625 80,679 
The following assumptions have a significant impact on insurance revenues and costs:
 ц Unearned premiums on prepaid insurance policies are recognised as revenue on a straight line basis over the life of the policy.
 ц Deferral of acquisition costs: Post-sale set up costs are recognised on a straight line basis over the expected life of the policy. 
Commission costs are recognised on a straight line basis from the end of the initial acceptance period over the expected life 
of the relevant policies, taking account of the expected levels of cancellations.
Changes to the expected life of classes of policies will therefore impact the period in which these items are recognised.  www.cppgroupplc.com
80 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
9. Staff costs
Staff costs during the year (including Executive Directors)
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Wages and salaries 29,354 42,934 2,338 8,019 31,692 50,953 
Social security costs 4,379 5,102 187 643 4,566 5,745 
Restructuring costs 2,923 4,874 — — 2,923 4,874
Share based payments (see note 30) 50 37 — — 50 37 
Pension costs 951 1,258 75 258 1,026 1,516
37,657 54,205 2,600 8,920 40,257 63,125
Average number of employees
2013
2012
restated
(note 3) 
Continuing operations
UK and Ireland 713 1,098
Europe and Latin America 408 383
Asia Pacific 46 51
Total continuing operations 1,167 1,532
Discontinued operations 41 179
1,208 1,711
Details of remuneration of Directors are included in the Remuneration report on pages 41 to 53.
10. Investment revenues
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Interest on bank deposits 394 580 10 9 404 589
11. Finance costs: non-derivative instruments
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Interest on borrowings 1,190 1,458 — — 1,190 1,458
Amortisation of capitalised loan issue costs 3,072 367 — — 3,072 367
Other 43 44 — 18 43 62
4,305 1,869 — 18 4,305 1,887 www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 81
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
12. T axation
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Continuing operations
Current tax (credit)/charge:
UK corporation tax 34 610
Foreign tax 1,761 2,211
Adjustments in respect of prior years (2,241) (1,019)
Total current tax (446) 1,802
Deferred tax charge/(credit):
Origination and reversal of timing differences (468) (788)
Impact of change in UK tax rates 696 306
Adjustments in respect of prior years 2,330 154
Total deferred tax 2,558 (328)
Total continuing operations 2,112 1,474
Discontinued operations 921 3,191
3,033 4,665
UK corporation tax is calculated at 23.25% (2012: 24.5%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions 
is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. The UK Finance Act 2013 was enacted on 2 July 2013. It provides for 
a reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax from 23% to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 and a further reduction to 20% from 
1 April 2015. As these rates were substantively enacted prior to 31 December 2013, they have been reflected in the UK deferred tax 
balance at 31 December 2013.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the loss per the consolidated income statement as follows:
2013
£’000
2012 
restated
(note 3)
£’000
Loss before tax from continuing operations (43,223) (19,450)
Effects of: 
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%) (10,049) (4,765)
Regulatory penalties — 2,083
Movement in unprovided deferred tax 5,731 843
Derecognition of deferred tax asset previously provided 2,960 1,436
Net expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1,249 1,156
Overseas tax losses not recognised 569 463
Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 873 418
Adjustments in respect of prior years 88 (865)
Impact of change in future tax rates on deferred tax 696 306
Shortfall of share option charge compared to tax allowable amount (5) 399
Total tax charged to income statement 2,112 1,474
  www.cppgroupplc.com
82 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
12. T axation continued
Income tax credited to reserves during the year was as follows:
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Current tax credit:
Movement on equalisation reserve (31) (382)
Total current tax credit (31) (382)
Deferred tax charge:
Timing differences on equity settled share based charge 1 4 
Other short term timing differences — (3)
Total deferred tax charge 1 1 
Total tax credited to reserves (30) (381)
13. Dividends
The Directors have not proposed a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013.
14. (Loss)/earnings per share
Basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per share have been calculated in accordance with IAS 33 “Earnings per Share”. Underlying (loss)/earnings 
per share have also been presented in order to give a better understanding of the performance of the business.
(Loss)/earnings
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
2013
£’000
2012
restated
(note 3)
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
restated
(note 3)
£’000
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
(Loss)/earnings for the purposes of basic 
and diluted (loss)/earnings per share (45,335) (20,812) 12,468 3,694 (32,867) (17,118)
Exceptional items (net of tax) 37,284 38,279 (10,389) 2,608 26,895 40,887
(Loss)/earnings for the purposes 
of underlying basic and diluted 
(loss)/earnings per share (8,051) 17,467 2,079 6,302 (5,972) 23,769
Number of shares
Number 
(thousands)
Number 
(thousands)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per share 171,546 171,457
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares on underlying earnings: share options — 4,095
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of underlying diluted 
(loss)/earnings per share 171,546 175,552
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
2013
Pence
2012
restated
(note 3)
Pence
2013
Pence
2012
restated
(note 3)
Pence
2013
Pence
2012 
Pence
Basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per share:
Basic and diluted (26.43) (12.13) 7.27 2.15 (19.16) (9.98)
Basic and diluted underlying 
(loss)/earnings per share:
Basic (4.69) 10.18 1.21 3.68 (3.48) 13.86
Diluted (4.69) 9.95 1.21 3.59 (3.48) 13.54 www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 83
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
15. Discontinued operations
On 3 May 2013 the Group completed the sale of CPPNA Holdings Inc. and its subsidiaries, which carried out all of the Group’s North 
American operation. The gross consideration on disposal was fixed at £26.1 million ($40 million).
As at 31 December 2013 the Board was committed to the disposal of its share of the Home3 joint venture. The disposal subsequently 
completed on 24 March 2014 for cash consideration of £0.3 million, further details are provided in note 33.
In accordance with IFRS5 ‘Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’ these operations have been presented as 
discontinued operations.
The consolidated income statement, summary of cash flows and assets and liabilities of these businesses are set out below:
(i) Consolidated income statement
2013 2012
North America
£’000
Home3
£’000
Total
£’000
North America
£’000
Home3
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue 15,634 — 15,634 49,802 — 49,802
Cost of sales (7,962) — (7,962) (26,578) — (26,578)
Gross profit 7,672 — 7,672 23,224 — 23,224
Administrative expenses (3,902) — (3,902) (13,138) — (13,138)
Share of loss of joint venture — (780) (780) — (477) (477)
Operating profit/(loss) 3,770 (780) 2,990 10,086 (477) 9,609
Investment revenues 10 — 10 9 — 9
Finance costs: non-derivative instruments — — — (18) — (18)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 3,780 (780) 3,000 10,077 (477) 9,600
Taxation (921) — (921) (3,191) — (3,191)
Profit/(loss) after tax 2,859 (780) 2,079 6,886 (477) 6,409
Profit/(loss) on disposal 10,403 (14) 10,389 (2,715) — (2,715)
Profit/(loss) for the year 13,262 (794) 12,468 4,171 (477) 3,694
On 3 May 2013 the Group completed the sale of its North American operation to AmTrust.
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Proceeds 26,086 —
Net assets sold (14,042) —
Costs associated with disposal (3,259) (2,715)
Currency translation differences reclassified on disposal 1,618 —
Profit/(loss) on disposal 10,403 (2,715)
(ii) Summary of cash flows
2013
£’000
2012
restated
(note 3) 
£’000
Net cash flows from operating activities 2,216 4,181
Net cash flows from investing activities (27) 1,225
Net cash flows from financing activities (1,266) (6,973)
Cash consideration in respect of sale of discontinued operation 26,086 —
Costs associated with the disposal of discontinued operation (4,215) (905)
Cash disposed of with discontinued operation (3,731) —
Investment in joint venture (780) (477)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) 18,283 (2,950) www.cppgroupplc.com
84 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
15. Discontinued operations continued
(iii) Assets and liabilities
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Goodwill — 11,934
Other intangible assets — 204
Property, plant and equipment — 343
Deferred tax asset — 290
— 12,771
Current assets
Trade and other receivables — 3,399
Cash and cash equivalents — 3,837
— 7,236
Total assets held for sale — 20,007
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables — (6,530)
Income tax liabilities — (469)
— (6,999)
Non-current liabilities
Other creditors — (131)
— (131)
Total liabilities held for sale — (7,130)
Net assets held for sale — 12,877
Movements in the Group’s share in its joint venture are as follows:
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Carrying amount at 1 January — —
Increase in investment 780 477
Losses recognised for the year (780) (477)
Carrying amount at 31 December — —
The Group has a 50% economic interest in Home3, with 49% of the issued ordinary share capital being allotted to the Group. The Group 
has provided Home3 with a subordinated loan facility, as well as incurring further costs which are subject to recharge to Home3 but will 
not be repaid and will be capitalised as part of the disposal transaction. These balances have been accounted for as investments in Home3 
with the trading losses recognised limited to the level of investment.
16. Goodwill
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Cost and carrying value:
At 1 January 1,478 16,521
Exchange adjustments — (539)
Impairment (1,478) (2,570)
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale — (11,934)
At 31 December — 1,478 www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 85
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
16. Goodwill continued
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected to benefit 
from that business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Homecare (Holdings) Limited — 1,478
The recoverable amounts of CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations 
are those regarding discount rates, renewal rates and expected selling prices and direct costs during the period. Management estimates 
discount rates using rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs. The 
growth rates are based on detailed business plans. The pre-tax rate used to discount the forecast cash flows from the relevant CGUs at 
31 December 2013 is 16% (2012: 16%).
At 31 December 2013, as a result of the discounted cash flow forecasts of the CGU the Directors decided to recognise a full impairment 
of the Homecare (Holdings) Limited goodwill balance. The impairment loss of £1,478,000 has been recognised as an exceptional item 
in the consolidated income statement.
17 . Other intangible assets
Contractual 
arrangements 
with third parties 
£’000
Business 
relationships
£’000
Internally 
generated 
software 
£’000
Externally 
acquired 
software 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2012 17,128  2,118  16,906  18,821  54,973 
Additions 292  — 1,571 1,686  3,549 
Disposals — (907) — (112) (1,019)
Exchange adjustments —  — (10)  (129) (139)
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale — — (237) (1,027) (1,264)
At 1 January 2013 17,420  1,211  18,230  19,239 56,100 
Additions — — 1,248 356 1,604
Disposals — — — (144) (144)
Exchange adjustments — — — (49) (49)
At 31 December 2013 17,420 1,211 19,478 19,402 57,511
Accumulated amortisation:
At 1 January 2012 6,732  636 12,301  12,678  32,347 
Provided during the year 3,490  525 2,400 2,335 8,750 
Disposals — (500) — — (500)
Exchange adjustments — — (11)  (25) (36)
Impairment 591 550 — — 1,141
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale — — (233) (827) (1,060)
At 1 January 2013 10,813  1,211 14,457  14,161  40,642 
Provided during the year 3,041 — 1,804 2,023 6,868
Disposals — — — (12) (12)
Exchange adjustments — — — (9) (9)
Impairment 1,299 — 2,920 2,504 6,723
At 31 December 2013 15,153 1,211 19,181 18,667 54,212
Carrying amount:
At 31 December 2012 6,607  — 3,773 5,078  15,458 
At 31 December 2013 2,267 — 297 735 3,299 www.cppgroupplc.com
86 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
17 . Other intangible assets continued
At 31 December 2013 as a result of the IT transformation programme which is reviewing the Group’s current IT platforms an impairment 
of £5,424,000 was recognised in relation to internally generated software and externally acquired software. These assets were identified 
as being located in CGUs that are not forecast to be cash generative over the term of the IT transformation programme and therefore have 
no value in use to the business. The forecast cash flows were discounted using the Group’s pre-tax discount rate of 16%. As a result an 
impairment of these assets was considered appropriate. This methodology also applies to the £2,634,000 impairment of computer 
systems included in note 18.
An impairment of £1,299,000 was recognised in the year within other intangible assets in respect of contractual arrangements with third 
parties. Current forecasts, which include a reduction in the expected renewal performance of the arrangement as a result of claims through 
the Scheme, results in the recognition of an impairment loss.
These impairment losses have been recognised as exceptional items through the consolidated income statement. The total impairment 
loss of £6,723,000 relates to the following segments; UK and Ireland £6,491,000; Europe and Latin America £165,000; and Asia Pacific 
£67,000.
18. Property, plant and equipment
Freehold land & 
property 
£’000
Leasehold 
improvements 
£’000
Computer 
systems 
£’000
Furniture & 
equipment 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2012 7,278 5,650 30,499 7,627 51,054
Additions — 553 1,386 238 2,177
Disposals — (60) (234) (41) (335)
Exchange adjustments — (19) (159) (70) (248)
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale — (240) (1,912) (585) (2,737)
At 1 January 2013 7,278 5,884 29,580 7,169 49,911
Additions — 15 157 69 241
Disposals — (249) (649) (573) (1,471)
Exchange adjustments — (14) (15) (32) (61)
At 31 December 2013 7,278 5,636 29,073 6,633 48,620
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 January 2012 1,787 4,057 24,137 6,600 36,581
Provided during the year 165 326 2,057 350 2,898
Disposals — (52) (223) (32) (307)
Exchange adjustments — (20) (115) (48) (183)
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale — (174) (1,718) (502) (2,394)
At 1 January 2013 1,952 4,137 24,138 6,368 36,595
Provided during the year 163 265 2,028 228 2,684
Disposals — (205) (635) (563) (1,403)
Exchange adjustments — 5 7 (8) 4
Impairment 2,063 982 2,634 — 5,679
At 31 December 2013 4,178 5,184 28,172 6,025 43,559
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2012 5,326 1,747 5,442 801 13,316
At 31 December 2013 3,100 452 901 608 5,061
Included in freehold land and property is freehold land at its cost value of £759,000 (2012: £759,000), which is not depreciated.
During the year the Group has recognised impairment losses in respect of freehold land and property and leasehold improvements totalling 
£3,045,000. This reflects a revision of the carrying value of the freehold property to its current market value. The impairment loss has 
been recognised as an exceptional item through the consolidated income statement and relates to the UK and Ireland segment. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 87
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
19. Insurance assets
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Amounts due from policyholders and intermediaries 1,362 15,642 
Deferred acquisition costs 1,402 10,291 
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers in respect of outstanding claims 623 1,308
3,387 27,241 
Reconciliation of movement in deferred acquisition costs
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
At 1 January 10,291 15,376 
Incurred during the year 548 15,623 
Amortised during the year (9,437) (20,708)
At 31 December 1,402 10,291 
Of the above balance, £nil (2012: £2,104,000) relates to a period greater than 12 months from 31 December 2013.
Amounts due from policyholders and intermediaries and amounts recoverable from reinsurers represent the total exposure to credit risk 
in respect of insurance activities.
Credit is not generally offered to retail customers on insurance premiums. Where credit is offered to wholesale insurance customers, 
the average credit period on insurance premiums is 45 days. The average credit period on amounts recoverable from reinsurers is 90 days. 
No interest is charged on insurance receivables at any time.
Individually or collectively material insurance receivables are reviewed for recoverability when an adverse change in credit quality is 
identified or when they become overdue. Credit risk is reduced as insurance receivables are dispersed amongst a broad customer base 
and where concentration exists the Group’s main counterparties are typically large companies with established credit records. Credit risk 
is mitigated through maintaining and managing the customer base.
Included in the Group’s insurance receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of £216,000 (2012: £1,782,000) which are past 
due at the balance sheet date, for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the 
Group believes that the amounts are still considered recoverable. 
The average age of overdue but un-provided debts is 179 days (2012: 65 days).
 Ageing of past due but not impaired insurance receivables
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Days outstanding since date of sales invoice:
45 – 90 days 19 1,694
91 – 120 days 9 6 
Over 120 days 188 82 
216 1,782 
20. Inventories
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Consumables and supplies 149 299  www.cppgroupplc.com
88 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
21. T rade and other receivables
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Trade receivables 8,441 14,842
Prepayments and accrued income 10,928 12,358
Other debtors 1,142 1,834
20,511 29,034
Trade and other receivables are predominantly non-interest bearing.
The Group’s trade receivables continue to relate to retail customer payments awaiting collection and wholesale counterparties. 
Since the timing of retail customer collection is controlled by the Group and is received within a specified period of processing the 
transaction, credit risk is considered low for these items. 
Where wholesale counterparty balances are individually or collectively material, they are reviewed for recoverability when an adverse 
change in credit quality is identified or when they become overdue. The Group has low historical levels of customer and counterparty 
credit defaults, due in part to the quality of relationship it has with its counterparties and their credit ratings. 
Where credit is offered to customers, the average credit period offered is 44 days (2012: 37 days). No interest is charged on trade 
receivables at any time. Disclosures regarding credit risk below relate only to counterparties or customers offered credit. 
Overall exposure continues to be mainly spread over a large number of customers but where concentration exists this is with highly 
rated counterparties.
Included in the Group’s trade receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of £897,000 (2012: £1,045,000) which are past due at 
the reporting date, for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the Group believes 
that the amounts are still recoverable. 
The average age of overdue but un-provided debts is 76 days (2012: 83 days).
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Days outstanding since date of invoice:
Up to 90 days 589 620 
91 – 120 days 176 236 
Over 120 days 132 189 
897 1,045 
Movement in the allowance for doubtful receivables
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
At 1 January — — 
Increase in allowance recognised in the income statement 456 —
At 31 December 456 — www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 89
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
22. Cash and cash equivalents
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Cash on demand 39,085 31,470 
Short term deposits 27,815 21,728 
66,900 53,198 
Short term deposits of £27,815,000 (2012: £21,728,000) represents cash deposits maintained by the Group’s insurance businesses 
for solvency purposes.
The terms of the VVOP agreed with the FCA restrict the disposition of assets within the UK’s regulated entities CPPL and HIL. Cash 
on demand includes cash balances of £32,706,000 (2012: £20,426,000) which cannot be distributed to the wider Group without FCA 
approval. This restricted cash whilst being unavailable to distribute to the wider Group, is available to the regulated entity in which it 
exists including for operational and customer redress purposes.
Concentration of credit risk is reduced by placing cash on deposit across a number of institutions with high credit ratings. Credit 
quality of counterparties are as follows:
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
AA 1,607 6,570
A 62,444 42,782
BBB 2,559 3,480
BB 167 294
B — 63
Rating information not available 123 9
66,900 53,198
Ratings are measured using Fitch’s long term ratings, which are defined such that ratings “AAA” to “BBB” denote investment grade 
counterparties, offering low to moderate credit risk. “AAA” represents the highest credit quality, indicating that the counterparty’s ability 
to meet financial commitments is highly unlikely to be adversely affected by foreseeable events. 
23. Insurance liabilities
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Claims reported 1,144 3,291
Claims incurred but not reported 230 323 
Total claims 1,374 3,614
Unearned premium 2,475 3,773
Amounts payable to reinsurers 140 138 
Total insurance liabilities 3,989 7,525 
Provisions for claims reported and processed are based on estimated costs from third party suppliers. Provisions for claims incurred 
but not reported are an estimate of costs for the small number of claims not yet processed at the year end. Claims outstanding at the 
year end are expected to be settled within the following 12 months.
Amounts payable to reinsurers fall due for payment within one month.
Provision for unearned premiums
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
At 1 January 3,773 6,015
Written in the year 45,303 86,625 
Earned in the year (46,601) (88,867)
At 31 December 2,475 3,773
Unearned premiums are released as revenue on a straight line basis over the life of the relevant policy. www.cppgroupplc.com
90 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
23. Insurance liabilities continued
Reinsurance cover
The Group reinsures certain of its insurance contracts. Claims provisions are stated gross of reinsurance in the consolidated balance sheet. 
The impact of reinsurance on the year end claims provision is as follows:
Gross 
£’000
Reinsurance 
£’000
Net 
£’000
Notified claims 3,291  (1,294) 1,997 
Incurred but not reported claims 323  (14) 309 
As at 31 December 2012 3,614  (1,308) 2,306 
Notified claims 1,144 (639) 505
Incurred but not reported claims 230 (92) 138
As at 31 December 2013 1,374 (731) 643
Movements in the claims provision, gross and net of reinsurance, are as follows. There have been no significant differences between year 
end claims provisions and the amounts settled in the subsequent year.
Gross 
£’000
Reinsurance 
£’000
Net 
£’000
As at 1 January 2012 2,653  (1,083) 1,570
Cash (paid)/received for claims settled in the year (38,330) 5,155  (33,175)
Increase/(reduction) in liabilities arising from current year claims 39,291  (5,380) 33,911
As at 1 January 2013 3,614  (1,308) 2,306 
Cash (paid)/received for claims settled in the year (22,415) 4,435 (17,980)
Increase/(reduction) in liabilities arising from current year claims 20,175 (3,858) 16,317
As at 31 December 2013 1,374 (731) 643
Equalisation reserve
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
At 1 January 7,984 6,423
Transfer from retained earnings 145 1,561
At 31 December 8,129 7,984
Equalisation reserves are established in accordance with Chapter 7.5 of the Integrated Prudential Sourcebook (PRU) and are in addition 
to the provisions required to meet the anticipated ultimate cost of settlement at the balance sheet date. As no actual liability exists at the 
balance sheet date, no provision is made in relation to movements in the claims equalisation reserve. However, as a claims equalisation 
reserve is still a requirement of PRU, an amount equal to the claims equalisation reserve is transferred from retained earnings to other 
reserves in the shareholders’ funds. Deferred tax is not included in this transfer.
24. T rade and other payables
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Current liabilities
Trade creditors and accruals 32,103 35,533
Other tax and social security 3,207 6,305
Other payables 5,317 7,016
Deferred income 8,377 7,733
49,004 56,587
Non-current liabilities
Other payables 9,494 6,500
Total trade and other payables 58,498 63,087
Trade creditors and accruals comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and on-going costs. The average credit period for trade 
purchases is 28 days (2012: 20 days). Interest is not suffered on trade payables. The Group has financial management policies in place 
to ensure that all payables are settled within the pre-agreed credit terms. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 91
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
25. Borrowings
The carrying value of the Group’s financial liabilities, for short term borrowings and long term borrowings, are as follows:
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Bank loans due within one year — 43,500
Less: unamortised issue costs — (92)
Borrowings due within one year — 43,408
Bank loans due outside of one year 13,000 —
Less: unamortised issue costs (1,653) —
Commission deferral agreement 11,250 —
Borrowings due outside of one year 22,597 —
Analysis of repayments:
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Within one year — 43,500 
In the second year — —
In the third to fifth years 24,250 — 
Total repayments 24,250 43,500
Less: unamortised issue costs (1,653) (92)
Total carrying value 22,597 43,408
The Group’s bank debt is in the form of a revolving credit facility (RCF). The Group is entitled to roll over repayment of amounts drawn 
down, subject to all amounts outstanding falling due for repayment on expiry of the facility on 31 July 2016. 
The RCF bears interest at a variable rate of LIBOR plus a margin of 4%. It is secured by fixed and floating charges on certain assets of 
the Group. The RCF includes a prepayment fee which increases over the term of the loan to a maximum level of 8% of the outstanding 
principal balance. The financial covenants of the RCF are based on the interest cover and leverage of the Group. The Group has been 
in compliance with these covenants since inception of the RCF. 
During the year the Group reached agreement with certain of its Business Partners to defer payment of commission that would otherwise 
become due over the twelve months up to 30 June 2014 (Commission Deferral Agreement), subject to all amounts outstanding falling due 
for repayment on expiry of the agreement on 31 July 2017. The Commission Deferral Agreement bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.5% and 
is secured by charges over the assets of CPPL in substantially similar form and terms to the security granted under the RCF.
The weighted average interest rates paid during the year were as follows:
2013
%
2012 
%
Bank loans 3.8 3.4
Commission deferral agreement 3.5 —
Weighted average 3.8 3.4
At 31 December 2013 the Group does not have any undrawn committed borrowing facilities (2012: £35.6 million). www.cppgroupplc.com
92 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
26. Provisions
Restructuring
costs
2013
£’000
Customer 
redress and 
associated 
costs 
2013 
£’000
Total 
2013 
£’000
Cash settled 
share based
payments 
2012 
£’000
Customer 
redress and
associated 
costs 
2012 
£’000
Total
2012 
£’000
At 1 January — 28,967 28,967 894 14,778 15,672
Charged to the income statement 1,750 18,168 19,918 3 26,273 26,276
Customer redress and associated costs 
paid in the year — (9,737) (9,737) — (12,084) (12,084)
Loan notes repaid in the year — — — (897) — (897)
Transfer to trade and other payables (1,750) — (1,750) — — —
At 31 December — 37,398 37,398 — 28,967 28,967
The customer redress and associated cost provision comprises anticipated compensation payable to customers through a customer 
redress exercise and associated professional fees.
Following discussions with the FCA and Central Bank of Ireland (CBI) an amount is included in the customer redress and associated costs 
provision for redress to Irish Card Protection customers where the sale was concluded directly by a Group company. No provision for redress 
has been made where the sale was concluded by a Business Partner.
Customer redress and associated costs are expected to be settled within one year of the balance sheet date. 
27 . Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax assets/(liabilities) recognised by the Group and the movements thereon during the current and 
prior years:
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£’000
Share based
payments 
£’000
Other short
term timing 
differences 
£’000
Total 
£’000
At 1 January 2012 1,031 630  (308) 1,353
Credited/(charged) to income statement 1,507  (626)  243  1,124 
(Charged)/credited to equity —  (4) 3  (1)
Transfer to assets classified as held for sale (135) — (155) (290)
At 1 January 2013 2,403  — (217) 2,186 
(Charged)/credited to income statement (2,424) 6 (140) (2,558)
Credited to equity — (1) — (1)
Exchange differences — — (12) (12)
At 31 December 2013 (21) 5 (369) (385)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are stated at tax rates expected to apply on the forecast date of reversal, based on tax laws substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.  www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 93
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
27 . Deferred tax continued
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where the Group is entitled to and intends to settle tax liabilities on a net basis. 
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Deferred tax assets 142 2,902
Deferred tax liabilities (527) (716)
(385) 2,186
At the balance sheet date the Group has unused tax losses of £38,100,000 (2012: £11,349,000) available for offset against future profits. 
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses due to the unpredictability of future profit streams in the underlying 
companies and restrictions on offset of taxable profits and losses between Group companies. Included in unrecognised deferred tax assets 
are losses of £nil (2012: £463,000) that will expire in 2013, £nil (2012: £129,000) that will expire in 2014, £380,000 (2012: £417,000) that 
will expire in 2015, £551,000 (2012: £937,000) that will expire in 2016, £1,102,000 (2012: £1,102,000) that will expire in 2017, £557,000 
(2012: £557,000) that will expire in 2018, £701,000 (2012: £701,000) that will expire in 2019, £39,000 (2012: £39,000) that will expire in 
2020, £674,000 (2012: £674,000) that will expire in 2021 and £555,000 (2012: £nil) that will expire in 2023. Other losses will be carried 
forward indefinitely.
There is no deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings.
28. Financial instruments
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern.
The Group does not have a target level of gearing but seeks to maintain an appropriate balance of debt and equity while providing returns 
for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders. The Group’s principal debt facility is a £13.0 million RCF, this replaced the £80.0 million 
RCF which was in place during the prior year and which expired on 31 March 2013 and was extended until 31 July 2013.
The Group makes adjustments to its capital structure in light of economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group 
may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Directors have considered the 
capital requirements of the Group, including as a result of the customer redress obligations and the availability of cash reserves, and have 
not proposed a final dividend in respect of the current year.
Externally imposed capital requirement
Two of the Group’s principal subsidiaries, Card Protection Plan Limited and Homecare Insurance Limited, have capital requirements 
imposed by the FCA in the UK. Both subsidiaries have complied with their respective imposed capital requirements throughout the current 
and previous year.
Card Protection Plan Limited
Card Protection Plan Limited is regulated by the FCA as an insurance intermediary, and is required to hold a minimum level of capital 
resources relative to regulated business revenue. 
The ratio of current and future capital resources to regulated business revenue is reported monthly to management to ensure compliance. 
There have been no instances of non-compliance in either the current or previous years.
The Group has agreed with the FCA, as part of the VVOP, to additional restrictions on the disposition of assets by Card Protection Plan Limited.
Homecare Insurance Limited
Homecare Insurance Limited is authorised by the PRA and regulated by the FCA as an insurance underwriter, and therefore maintains its 
capital resources in accordance with the FCA’s risk-based solvency regime, Individual Capital Assessment Standards (ICAS).
The current and future capital levels are reviewed each month and reported to the FCA to ensure on-going compliance and to support 
the quarterly FCA returns. There have been no instances of non-compliance in either the current or previous years. 
The Group has agreed with the FCA, as part of the VVOP, to additional restrictions on the disposition of assets by Homecare Insurance Limited.
Fair value of financial instruments
The fair value of non-derivative financial instruments is determined using pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using 
prices from observable current market transactions, hence all are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. Financial assets and 
liabilities are carried at the following amounts:
Financial assets
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Loans and receivables 76,471 69,874
Loans and receivables comprise cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and other receivables and taxes receivable.
There is no significant difference between the fair value and carrying amount of any financial asset. www.cppgroupplc.com
94 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
28. Financial instruments continued
Fair value of financial instruments continued
Financial liabilities
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (112,366) (130,200)
 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost comprise bank loans, trade creditors, accruals, taxes payable and provision for customer redress 
and associated costs.
There is no significant difference between the fair value and carrying amount of any financial liability, since liabilities are either short term 
in nature or bear interest at variable rates.
Financial risk management objectives
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. The Board of Directors 
determines the Treasury Policy of the Group and delegates the authority for execution of the policy to the Head of Treasury. Any changes 
to the Treasury Policy are authorised by the Board of Directors. The limited use of financial derivatives is governed by the Treasury Policy 
and derivatives are not entered into for speculative purposes.
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that short and medium term interest rates fluctuate. The Group manages this risk 
through the use of interest rate swaps when appropriate, in accordance with its Treasury Policy. The interest cover (being defined as the 
ratio of underlying EBITDA to interest paid) at 31 December 2013 is 7x (2012: 25x). 
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
The Group is mainly exposed to movements in LIBOR. The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 2% increase in LIBOR rates 
throughout the year. 2% represents the Directors’ assessment of a reasonably possible change in LIBOR rates. The sensitivity analysis 
includes the impact of changes in LIBOR on yearly average cash and bank loans.
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Decrease in loss before tax 617 236 
Increase in shareholders’ equity 617 236
Foreign currency risk
The Group has exposure to foreign currency risk where it has investments in overseas operations which have functional currencies other 
than Sterling and are affected by foreign exchange movements. The carrying amounts of the Group’s principal foreign currency 
denominated assets and liabilities are as follows:
Liabilities Assets
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Euro 9,983 8,673 7,392 8,647
US Dollar — 3,719 63 6,454
The Group disposed of its US Dollar operation on 3 May 2013 therefore the Group’s exposure to US Dollar foreign currency movements 
has significantly reduced.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 20% decrease in Euro against Sterling and 15% decrease in US Dollars against 
Sterling exchange rates. These represent the Directors’ assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The 
sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments and adjusts their translation at the 
year end for a change in foreign currency rates.
Euro currency impact US Dollar currency impact
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Loss before tax (86) (139) (8) (51)
Shareholders’ equity 432 4 (8) (357) www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 95
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
28. Financial instruments continued
Foreign currency risk continued
Eurozone sensitivity analysis
The Group operates in countries with Euro denominated currencies, and the potential for the Eurozone to break up represents a risk to the 
Group. Eurozone operations are in Germany, Ireland, Italy, France, Portugal and Spain. The total carrying amount of the Group’s net assets 
and profit before tax originating in the Eurozone are as follows:
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Net liabilities (6,528) (4,764) 
Profit before tax 4,389 8,006
A 20% deterioration in the Sterling: Euro exchange rate throughout the year would have increased Group operating loss 
by £731,000 (2012: £1,334,000).
Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty defaults on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group 
does not actively hedge its credit risk.
The Group’s retail trade and insurance receivables are mainly with a broad base of individual customers and are therefore not generally 
exposed to any one customer, resulting in low credit risk.
The Group’s Packaged Account and Wholesale activities can result in material balances existing with a small number of counterparties 
and therefore increased credit risk exists. The Group considers that it mitigates this increased credit risk through good quality relationships 
with counterparties and only partnering with counterparties with established credit ratings. 
Counterparty credit limits are determined in accordance with the Treasury Policy for cash and cash equivalents and the Counterparty and 
Credit Risk Policy for receivables. Any balance that falls into an overdue status is monitored. Further details of the monitoring of and 
provision for overdue debts are outlined for insurance receivables in note 19 and other receivables in note 21.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the consolidated financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents 
the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk.
Liquidity risk
The Group has a policy of repatriation and pooling of funding where possible in order to maximise the return on surplus cash. Group 
Treasury continuously monitors the level of short term funding requirements and balances the need for short term funding with the long 
term funding needs of the Group. The terms of the three year RCF to 31 July 2016, have led to the amount committed being reduced to 
£13.0 million which is fully drawn, liquidity risk has therefore increased in the period.
Compliance with financial ratios and other covenant obligations of the Group’s bank loans is monitored on a monthly basis by the Board 
of Directors.
Liquidity and interest risk tables
Liabilities
The following table details the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its financial liabilities, based on the undiscounted cash flows of 
financial liabilities and the earliest date at which the Group can be required to pay. The table includes both interest and principal cash flows 
and assumes no changes in future LIBOR rates.
Less than 
1 month 
£’000
1-3 
months 
£’000
3 months 
to 1 year 
£’000
1-5 
years 
£’000
Over
 5 years 
£’000
Total 
£’000
2012
Non-interest bearing liabilities 23,698 14,990 37,452  10,289 271 86,700
Variable rate instruments 83  43,666  — — —  43,749 
 23,781  58,656  37,452  10,289  271 130,449
2013
Non-interest bearing liabilities 12,366 10,844 49,701 14,960 246 88,117
Fixed rate instruments — — — 12,857 — 12,857
Variable rate instruments 49 97 438 14,964 — 15,548
12,415 10,941 50,139 42,781 246 116,522 www.cppgroupplc.com
96 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
28. Financial instruments continued
Liquidity and interest risk tables continued
Assets
The following table details the Group’s expected maturity for its non-derivative financial assets, based on the undiscounted contractual 
maturities of the financial assets.
Weighted
average 
effective 
interest rate
%
Less than 
1 month 
£’000
1-3 
months 
£’000
3 months 
to 1 year 
£’000
1-5 
years 
£’000
Over
 5 years 
£’000
Total 
£’000
2012
Non-interest bearing assets n/a 11,546 2,294 2,006 830 — 16,676
Variable interest rate 
instruments 1.0% 36,345 16,713 140 — — 53,198
47,891 19,007 2,146 830 — 69,874
2013
Non-interest bearing assets n/a 3,980 4,548 641 384 18 9,571
Variable interest rate 
instruments 1.0% 43,412 23,169 319 — — 66,900
47,392 27,717 960 384 18 76,471
Insurance risk
The Group applies a prudent approach to its management of potential exposure to risks arising from its insurance contracts.
The lines of policies underwritten are limited to General Insurance Classes underwritten by an entity within the Group which is authorised 
by the FCA. The lines of risk underwritten are restricted by the Group to those lines where the Group either has substantial experience or 
lines where the Group wishes to move into where it can enter such a line of business in a risk-controlled manner after appropriate Board 
consideration.
The Group’s lines of insurance business and thus its insurance risk portfolio are primarily focused on high volume, low transaction value, 
short term individual lines.
The Group has in place reinsurance arrangements to transfer a level of claims risk to third parties. The level reinsured is determined by 
periodic, and at least annual reviews.
The Group’s policy is to establish a specific claims reserve at any point in time on each line of business, based on claims reported up to 
and including the last day of each accounting period including an element to represent claims incurred but not yet reported. Details of 
claims reserves carried are provided in note 23.
The Directors consider the following to be the principal insurance risks and actions taken reducing risk to an acceptable level:
Changes in rates of claims
Trends in claim rates and other market data are reviewed on a regular basis and premiums for new contracts adjusted accordingly. Each 
class of contract has a large population of homogeneous policyholders and no insurance contracts are subject to concentration risk.
A 10% deterioration in the loss ratio during the year would have resulted in a £1,443,000 increase in loss before tax and reduction in 
shareholders’ equity (2012: £2,809,000), 10% representing the Directors’ assessment of the reasonably possible change in the loss ratio.
Changes in settlement cost per claim
The quantum or nature of settlement amounts is specified in policy documentation and the Group is not exposed to significant open ended 
commitments. Although settlement costs are not capped they generally vary within a small range, limiting the Group exposure. 
Reliance on key suppliers
The Group makes use of third party suppliers to fulfil the majority of claims. The performance and financial position of key suppliers 
is regularly monitored and alternative lines of supply sourced as necessary.
The Group therefore considers its exposure to risk arising from its insurance contracts to be appropriately managed. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 97
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
29. Share capital
2013 
Number
(thousands)
2013
£’000
2012 
Number
(thousands)
2012 
£’000
Called-up and allotted: Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each
At 1 January 171,487 17,111 171,430 17,106
Issue of shares in connection with:
Exercise of share options 101 9 57  5 
At 31 December 171,588 17,120 171,487 17,111
During the year, the Company issued 101,522 shares to option holders for total consideration of £4,000. Further details relating to share 
options are provided in note 30.
Of the 171,588,412 ordinary shares issued at 31 December 2013, 171,088,413 are fully paid and 499,999 are partly paid.
The ordinary shares are entitled to the profits of the Company which it may from time to time determine to distribute in respect of any 
financial year or period.
All holders of ordinary shares shall have the right to attend and vote at all general meetings of the Company. On a return of assets on liquidation 
the assets (if any) remaining, after the debts and liabilities of the Company and the costs of winding up have been paid or allowed for, shall 
belong to, and be distributed amongst, the holders of all the ordinary shares in proportion to the number of such ordinary shares held 
by them respectively.
30. Share based payment
Legacy schemes
The Group’s 2005 and 2008 ESOP Schemes were implemented in previous years to incentivise certain employees. Options in these 
schemes are exercisable at a price determined by the Board of Directors on the date of grant. There is no legacy scheme share based 
payment charge included in the income statement in the current year (2012: £196,000).
The IPO during 2010 represented a trigger event for the 2005 and 2008 ESOP Schemes. All outstanding legacy scheme options have 
now vested. Options lapse if not exercised within ten years of original grant and may lapse if the employee leaves the Group.
Details of share options outstanding during the year under the legacy schemes are as follows:
2013 2012
Number of 
share options
(thousands)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
(£)
Number of 
share options
(thousands)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
(£)
2005 ESOP Scheme
Outstanding at 1 January 2,358 1.97 3,135 2.03
Forfeited during the year (295) 1.32 (773) 2.22
Exercised during the year — — (4) 0.82
Outstanding at 31 December 2,063 2.06 2,358 1.97
Exercisable at 31 December 2,063 2.06 2,358 1.97
2008 ESOP Scheme
Outstanding at 1 January 1,365 1.79 3,866 1.79
Forfeited during the year (492) 1.79 (2,501) 1.79
Outstanding at 31 December 873 1.79 1,365 1.79
Exercisable at 31 December 873 1.79 1,365 1.79
There have been no exercises in the current year, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise in the prior year was £1.12.
The options outstanding for the 2005 Scheme and 2008 Scheme at 31 December 2013 had no remaining contractual life in either the 
current year or the prior year.
No 2005 Scheme or 2008 Scheme options have been granted in either the current or prior year. www.cppgroupplc.com
98 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
30. Share based payment continued
Post-IPO plans
Other administrative expenses include a charge of £50,000 (2012: £159,000 credit) arising from the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the 
Restricted Stock Plan (RSP), the Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP) and the ShareSAVE Plan. Options have been granted during the year 
under the LTIP to incentivise certain employees.
Details of share options outstanding during the period under these plans are as follows:
2013 2012
Number of 
share options
(thousands)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
(£)
Number of 
share options
(thousands)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
(£)
LTIP
Outstanding at 1 January 5,911 — 2,904 — 
Granted during the year 3,000 — 4,542  — 
Forfeited during the year (1,117) — (1,535) — 
Outstanding at 31 December 7,794 — 5,911 — 
RSP
Outstanding at 1 January 643 — 200 — 
Granted during the year — — 588  — 
Forfeited during the year (149) — (106) — 
Exercised during the year (89) — (39) —
Outstanding at 31 December 405 — 643 — 
Exercisable at 31 December 44 — 57 —
DSBP
Outstanding at 1 January 29 — 61  — 
Forfeited during the year — — (18) —
Exercised during the year (13) — (14) —
Outstanding at 31 December 16 — 29 — 
Exercisable at 31 December 16 — 9 —
ShareSAVE Plan
Outstanding at 1 January 334 1.34 1,235  1.35 
Forfeited / cancelled during the year (222) 1.31 (901) 1.35
Outstanding at 31 December 112 1.35 334 1.34
Nil-cost options and conditional shares granted during the year under the LTIP normally vest after three years, lapse if not exercised within 
10 years of grant and may lapse if option holders cease to be employed by the Group. Vesting of LTIP options and shares are also subject 
to achievement of performance criteria including total shareholder return and an absolute share price measure over a three year period. 
There have been no LTIP options exercised in either the current or prior year.
Nil-cost options and conditional shares granted during the year under the RSP normally vest after three years, lapse if not exercised within 
10 years of grant, and may lapse if option holders cease to be employed by the Group.
Nil-cost options and conditional shares granted during 2011 under the DSBP normally vest after three years, lapse if not exercised within 
10 years of grant and may lapse if option holders cease to be employed by the Group. The DSBP is a scheme to retain and further 
incentivise senior management by awarding a portion of their annual bonus in the form of share options. There have been no DSBP options 
granted in either the current or prior year.
Options granted during 2011 under the ShareSAVE Plan entitle option holders to contribute up to £250 per month to the plan. At the 
vesting date of either three or five years, option holders choose between return of their contributions in cash or purchase of shares at a 
discount to the market price on the date of grant. Options normally lapse and cash deposited is returned to option holders who cease to be 
employed by the Group during the vesting period. There have been no ShareSAVE plan options granted or exercised in either the current or 
prior year.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2013 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of two years (2012: two years) in the LTIP, 
one year (2012: two years) in the RSP, nil years in the DSBP (2012: one year) and one year (2011: two years) in the ShareSAVE Plan. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 99
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
30. Share based payment continued
Post-IPO plans continued
The principal assumptions underlying the valuation of the options granted during the year at the date of grant are as follows:
ShareSAVE LTIP RSP DSBP
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Weighted average share price — — £0.08 £0.48 — £0.45 — —
Weighted average exercise price — — — — — — — —
Expected volatility — — 154.00% 75.19% — — — —
Expected life — — 3 years 3 years — 3 years — —
Risk free rate — — 0.92% 0.47% — — — —
Dividend yield — — — — — — — —
The aggregate estimated fair value of the options and shares granted in the year under the LTIP is £20,000 (2012: £329,000 LTIP and RSP).
31. Reconciliation of operating cash flows
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Loss for the year (32,867) (17,230)
Adjustment for:
Depreciation and amortisation 9,552 11,648
Equity settled share based payment expense 50 34
Impairment loss on goodwill, intangible assets and freehold property 5,822 3,711
Impairment of IT assets 8,058 —
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 200 135
(Profit)/loss on disposal of discontinued operations (10,389) 2,715
Share of loss of joint venture 780 477
Investment revenues (404) (589)
Other gains and losses — 891
Finance costs: non-derivative instruments 4,305 1,887
Income tax expense 3,033 4,665
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (11,860) 8,344
Decrease in inventories 150 30
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 8,464 (2,063)
Decrease/(increase) in insurance assets 23,854 (2,689)
(Decrease)/increase in payables (2,526) 916
Decrease in insurance liabilities (3,535) (1,353)
Increase in provisions 8,431 14,192
Cash generated by operations 22,978 17,377
Exercise of share options — (899)
Income taxes paid (2,820) (5,392)
Net cash from operating activities 20,158 11,086 www.cppgroupplc.com
100 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
32. Commitments
Operating lease commitments
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and motor vehicles. The leases have normal terms, escalation clauses 
and renewal rights.
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring:
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Within one year 2,297 2,803
In the second to fifth years inclusive 4,423 6,672
After five years 898 1,093
7,618 10,568
33. Events after the balance sheet date
On 24 March 2014, the Group announced that it had completed the sale of its 49% shareholding in Home3 Assistance Limited (Home3) 
to Mapfre Abraxas Software Limited (Mapfre). Home3 was previously a joint venture company between the Group and Mapfre. As part 
of its exit of the joint venture the Group agreed to invest a further £1,000,000 to absorb its share of unrecognised losses in Home3. 
The £1,000,000 capital will be loaned by Mapfre to the Group with repayments occurring over a two-year period. Balances currently 
owed by Home3 to the Group will also be capitalised as part of the transaction (see note 34). The consideration for the Group’s entire 
holding of share capital in Home3 is £275,000 and will be offset against the loan balance.
On 7 April 2014, the Group entered into an agreement to transfer the majority of the Group’s business in Singapore to ACE Insurance 
Limited (ACE) for consideration of approximately £163,000. The transaction is expected to complete in May 2014.
As announced on 14 January 2014, the High Court sanctioned the Scheme, which is a vehicle to review claims and, where appropriate, 
pay redress to customers. The Scheme became effective on 31 January 2014 and will complete on 30 August 2014. The claims process 
is on-going and the Group has made provision for the expected level of redress, which is detailed in note 26. As the Scheme is not yet 
complete a risk remains that the response rates may exceed the level currently provided.  www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 101
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
 ǔ Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
Notes to the Company financial statements
34. Related party transactions and control
Ultimate controlling party
The Group is controlled by the Company’s majority shareholder, Mr Hamish Ogston.
Transactions with joint ventures
Transactions between the Group and its joint venture represent related party transactions.
The Group has undertaken the following transactions with its joint venture entity, Home3:
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Costs rechargeable to Home3 incurred by the Group 138 743
Balance receivable from Home3 at 31 December 2,299 2,565
The disposal of Home3 completed on 24 March 2014. As part of the disposal agreement the amounts receivable from Home3 of £2,299,000 
have been capitalised as an investment in the joint venture. £2,254,000 of this balance has already been provided through the consolidated 
income statement between 2011 and 2013. Further detail of the transaction is included in note 33.
Transactions with related parties
On 23 March 2013, the Group entered into an agreement with Mr Hamish Ogston to reimburse on demand any legal fees, costs and 
expenses which Mr Hamish Ogston had incurred or were incurred on his behalf in relation to the refinancing activities of the Group. 
The aggregate amount of costs reimbursed by the Group was £133,000. 
As part of the disposal of CPPNA Holdings Inc., agreements were entered into with David Pearce and Gregory Mazza who were directors 
of a subsidiary of CPPNA Holdings Inc. for the payment of a “sale” retention bonus. The aggregate amount paid was $466,000 in the case 
of David Pearce and $311,000 in the case of Gregory Mazza.
On 4 September 2013, Shaun Astley-Stone was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Group. Subsequent to his appointment 
Shaun Astley-Stone continued to provide consultancy services to certain companies within the Group, the fees in respect of these 
services totalled £32,000.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors and Senior Management team, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below:
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Short term employee benefits 3,769 3,782
Post-employment benefits 184 229
Termination benefits 547 684
Share based payments (144) (91)
4,356 4,603
Required disclosures regarding remuneration of the Directors are included in the Remuneration report on pages 41 to 53. www.cppgroupplc.com
102 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
2013 2012
Note £’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets 38 1 5
Investment in subsidiaries 39 15,122 15,717
15,123 15,722
Current assets
Debtors 40 52,805 49,322
Cash and cash equivalents 1,069 14,454
53,874 63,776
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 42 (14,540) (15,010)
Net current assets 39,334 48,766
Total assets less current liabilities 54,457 64,488
Provisions 43 (402) (408)
Net assets 54,055 64,080
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 44 17,120 17,111
Share premium account 45 33,292 33,297
Share based payment reserve 45 5,062 5,012
Profit and loss reserve 45 (1,419) 8,660
Equity shareholders’ funds 54,055 64,080
Approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 23 April 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Brent Escott   Craig Parsons
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer
Company registration number: 07151159
 
Company balance sheet
For the year ended 31 December 2013 www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 103
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
 ǔ Company balance sheet
 ǔ Notes to the Company financial statements
35. Parent company profit and loss account
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in the Companies Act 2006, Section 408, not to present its own profit and loss 
account. The Company reported a loss after tax for the year of £10,069,000 (2012: £6,820,000 loss). There have been no dividends 
received from subsidiary undertakings in either the current or prior year.
36. Significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The Directors have chosen to present these Company financial statements under the historical cost basis in accordance with applicable 
law and accounting standards generally accepted in the United Kingdom (UK GAAP). 
Cash flow statement
Under FRS 1 (revised) “Cash Flow Statements” the Company is not required to include a cash flow statement within these Company 
financial statements, since a consolidated cash flow statement for the Group is publicly available.
Dividend income
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Company’s right to receive payment has been established.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that 
the Company will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The amount 
recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, 
taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated 
to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is 
recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Share based payments
Prior to the Company’s shares being listed on the London Stock Exchange on 24 March 2010, the Company issued share options to certain 
of the Group’s employees through the ESOP. Subsequent to its listing, the Company has issued share options to certain of the Group’s 
employees under the LTIP, the RSP, the DSBP and the ShareSAVE Plan.
Share options are treated as equity settled if the Company has the ability to determine whether to settle exercises in cash or by the issue 
of shares. Share options are measured at fair value at the date of grant, based on the Company’s estimate of shares that will eventually 
vest, and adjusted for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions each period. The fair value of equity settled share based 
payments is charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in 
reserves, subject to adjustment for forfeited options.
Share options are treated as cash settled, if the terms of the scheme require or the Directors intend to settle share options with a cash 
payment. Cash settled options are measured at fair value at date of grant and subsequently revalued at each period end. For cash settled 
share based payments, a liability is recognised for a proportion, based on the vesting period, of the fair value as calculated at the balance 
sheet date. Movements in the provision are charged to the profit and loss account.
The fair value of the options are measured by use of the Black Scholes option pricing model and Monte Carlo simulation model.
Pension costs
Pension costs represent contributions made by the Company to defined contribution pension schemes. These are expensed as incurred.
Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and 
laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right 
to pay less tax at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on tax rates and law. Timing differences arise from 
the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in 
financial statements. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Depreciation is provided at rates calculated 
to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset over its expected useful life, as follows:
Computer systems:   4 years straight line
Investment in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment. As permitted by Section 615 of the Companies Act 2006, shares 
issued as consideration for acquisition of a subsidiary already under common control are deemed to have been issued at their par value.
 
Notes to the Company 
financial statements www.cppgroupplc.com
104 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
36. Significant accounting policies continued
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash in hand and bank deposits with a term from inception of three months or less, less bank 
overdrafts where there is a right to offset. Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right to offset 
with cash balances in the same currency.
Financial assets
Financial assets of the Company are classified according to their nature and purpose which is determined at the time of initial recognition. 
All of the financial assets held by the Company are classified as “loans and receivables”.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. All 
financial liabilities of the Company are classified as “other financial liabilities”.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
37 . Dividends
The Directors have not proposed a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013.
38. T angible fixed assets
Computer 
systems 
£’000
Cost:
At 1 January 2013 8
Additions —
Disposals (2)
At 31 December 2013 6
Accumulated Depreciation:
At 1 January 2013 3
Provided during the year 2
Disposals —
At 31 December 2013 5
Carrying amount:
At 31 December 2012 5
At 31 December 2013 1
39. Investment in subsidiaries
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Cost and carrying value:
At 1 January 15,717 15,787 
Acquisitions 39 —
Disposals (634) (70)
At 31 December 15,122 15,717
The disposal of £634,000 (2012: £70,000) relates to options previously exercised in relation to North America employees which were 
recognised as an investment at that time, and therefore formed part of the North American operation disposal transaction on 3 May 2013. 
The acquisition of £39,000 during the year (2012: £nil) relates to the share based payment charges in relation to share options held by 
overseas employees which are treated as capital contributions to the employing subsidiaries and therefore recognised as investments 
in subsidiary companies.
Notes to the Company financial statements continued www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 105
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
 ǔ Notes to the Company financial statements
39. Investment in subsidiaries continued
Investments in Group entities at 31 December 2013 are as follows:
Country of 
incorporation/
registration
Class of 
shares held
Percentage 
of share 
capital held
Investments in subsidiary undertakings held directly
CPP Group Plc England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Worldwide Holdings Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
Investments in subsidiary undertakings held through  
an intermediate subsidiary 
Airport Angel Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
Card Protection Plan Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Assistance Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Assistance Services Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP European Holdings Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Group Finance Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Holdings Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Insurance Administration Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP International Holdings Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Services Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
Detailregion Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
Green Suite Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
Homecare Assistance Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
Homecare (Holdings) Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
Homecare Insurance Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Travel Services Limited England & Wales Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Brasil Servicos de Assistencia Pessoal LTDA Brazil Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Commercial Consulting Services (Shanghai) Co Limited China Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP France SA France Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Creating Profitable Partnerships GmbH Germany Ordinary Shares 100%
one call GmbH Germany Ordinary Shares 100%
White Rock Limited Guernsey *
CPP Asia Limited Hong Kong Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Assistance Services Private Limited India Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Italia Srl Italy Ordinary Shares 100%
Servicios de Asistencia a Tarjetahabientes CPP Mexico, S.de 
R.L.de C.V Mexico Ordinary Shares 100%
Profesionales en Proteccion Individual, S.de R.L de C.V Mexico Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Mediacion Y Proteccion SL Spain Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Proteccion Y Servicios de Asistencia SAU Spain Ordinary Shares 100%
Key Line Auxiliar SL Spain Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Real Life Services Support SL Spain Ordinary Shares 100%
CPP Sigorta Aracilik Hizmetleri Anonim Sirketi Turkey Ordinary Shares 99.99%
CPP Yardim ve Destek Hizmetleri Anonim Sirketi Turkey Ordinary Shares 99.99%
*  A Protected Cell Company treated as a quasi-subsidiary. www.cppgroupplc.com
106 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
39. Investment in subsidiaries continued
Country of 
incorporation/
registration
Class of 
shares held
Percentage 
of share 
capital held
Investments in joint venture undertakings held via  
an intermediate subsidiary
Home 3 Assistance Limited** England & Wales Ordinary Shares 49%
** Home 3 Assistance Limited was disposed by the Group on 24 March 2014.
The principal activity of all of the subsidiaries is to provide services in connection with the Group’s major product streams.
40. Debtors
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Amounts due from Group entities 52,491 49,142
Prepayments 281 119
Other debtors 33 61
52,805 49,322
Amounts receivable from Group entities are unsecured, have no fixed date of repayment and bear interest at LIBOR plus a variable margin.
41. Deferred tax
Movements in deferred tax assets recognised by the Company are as follows:
Share based 
payments 
2013 
£’000
Share based 
payments 
2012 
£’000
At 1 January — 745 
Charged to profit and loss account — (745)
At 31 December — —
42. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Trade creditors 147 542
Amounts payable to Group entities 13,228 12,757
Accruals 1,165 1,711
14,540 15,010
Amounts payable to Group companies are unsecured, have no fixed date of repayment and incur interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 
a variable margin.
  www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 107
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
 ǔ Notes to the Company financial statements
43. Provisions
Cash settled 
share based 
payments 
2013 
£’000
Customer 
redress and 
associated costs 
2013 
£’000
Total 
2013 
£’000
Cash settled 
share based
payments 
2012 
£’000
Customer 
redress and
associated costs 
2012 
£’000
Total
2012 
£’000
At 1 January — 408 408 894 1,282 2,176
Charged to the profit and loss account — 261 261 3 973 976
Customer redress and associated costs 
paid in the year — (267) (267) — (1,847) (1,847)
Repayment of loan notes — — — (897) — (897)
At 31 December — 402 402 — 408 408
The customer redress and associated costs provision comprises other costs and professional fees associated with the customer redress exercise.
Customer redress and associated costs are anticipated to be settled within one year of the balance sheet date.
44. Share capital
2013 
Number
(thousands)
2013
£’000
2012 
Number
(thousands)
2012 
£’000
Issued:
At 1 January 171,487 17,111 171,430 17,106
Issue of shares:
Exercise of share options 101 9 57 5
At 31 December 171,588 17,120 171,487 17,111
During the year 101,522 10 pence ordinary shares have been issued to option holders for total consideration of £4,000. Further details 
relating to share options are provided in note 47.
Of the 171,588,412 ordinary shares issued at 31 December 2013, 171,088,413 are fully paid and 499,999 are partly paid.
45. Reserves
Share 
premium 
account 
£’000
Share 
based 
payment 
reserve 
£’000
Profit 
and loss 
reserve 
£’000
Total 
£’000
At 1 January 2013 33,297 5,012 8,660 46,969
Loss for the year — — (10,069) (10,069)
Equity settled share based payment charge — 50 — 50
Exercise of share options (5) — (10) (15)
At 31 December 2013 33,292 5,062 (1,419) 36,935
46. Reconciliation of movement in equity shareholders’ funds
2013
£’000
2012 
£’000
Loss for the year (10,069) (6,820)
Equity settled share based payment charge 50 32
Exercise of share options (6) 2
Movement in equity shareholders’ funds (10,025) (6,786)
Equity shareholders’ funds at 1 January 64,080 70,866
Equity shareholders’ funds at 31 December 54,055 64,080 www.cppgroupplc.com
108 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
47 . Share based payment
Legacy schemes
Legacy schemes comprise the 2005 and the 2008 ESOP Schemes which were implemented in previous years, to incentivise certain 
employees. Details of options outstanding held by the Company’s employees under these schemes are as follows:
2013 2012
Number of 
share options
(thousands)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
(£)
Number of 
share options
(thousands)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
(£)
2005 ESOP Scheme
Outstanding at 1 January 1,987 1.98 2,373 2.02
Forfeited in the year (182) 0.82 (406) 2.28
Transferred in from other Group companies — — 20 2.28
Outstanding at 31 December 1,805 2.10 1,987 1.98
Exercisable at 31 December 1,805 2.10 1,987 1.98
2013 2012
Number of 
share options
(thousands)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
(£)
Number of 
share options
(thousands)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
(£)
2008 ESOP Scheme
Outstanding at 1 January 1,045 1.79 3,022 1.79
Forfeited in the year (392) 1.79 (2,103) 1.79
Transferred in from other Group companies — — 126 1.79
Outstanding at 31 December 653 1.79 1,045 1.79
Exercisable at 31 December 653 1.79 1,045 1.79
The IPO during 2010 represented a trigger event for the 2005 and 2008 ESOP Schemes. On the date of the IPO 50% of the options 
outstanding vested, with 25% vesting in 2011 and 25% in 2012. Options lapse if not exercised within 10 years of original grant and 
may lapse if the employee leaves the Group.
The options outstanding for the 2005 Scheme and 2008 Scheme at 31 December 2013 had no remaining contractual life in either 
the current year or the prior year.
There have been no 2005 Scheme or 2008 Scheme exercises in the current year or prior year.
  www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 109
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s report
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated cash flow statement
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Company balance sheet
 ǔ Notes to the Company financial statements
47 . Share based payment continued
Post-IPO plans
Options have been granted by the Company to Group employees during the year under the LTIP to incentivise certain employees.
Details of share options outstanding during the year held by the Company’s employees under the plans are as follows:
2013 2012
Number of 
share options
(thousands)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£
Number of 
share options
(thousands)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
£
LTIP
Outstanding at 1 January 4,583 —  2,152 — 
Granted during the year 3,000 — 3,414 —
Forfeited during the year (489) — (1,063) —
Transferred in from other Group companies — — 80 —
Outstanding at 31 December 7,094 — 4,583 —
RSP
Outstanding at 1 January 262 —  72 — 
Granted during the year — — 228 —
Forfeited during the year (38) — (32) —
Exercised during the year (20) — (18) —
Transferred in from other Group companies — — 12 —
Outstanding at 31 December 204 — 262 —
Exercisable at 31 December 40 — 7 —
DSBP
Outstanding at 1 January 24 — 46 —
Forfeited during the year (8) — (13) —
Exercised during the year — — (14) —
Transferred in from other Group companies — — 5 —
Outstanding at 31 December 16 — 24 — 
Exercisable at 31 December — — 9 —
ShareSAVE Plan
Outstanding at 1 January 62  1.30  114  1.31 
Forfeited / cancelled during the year (31) 1.25 (52) 1.31
Outstanding at 31 December 31 1.36 62 1.30
Nil-cost options and conditional shares granted during the year under the LTIP normally vest after three years, lapse if not exercised within 
10 years of grant and may lapse if option holders cease to be employed by the Group. Vesting of LTIP options and shares are also subject 
to achievement of performance criteria including total shareholder return and an absolute share price measure over a three year period. 
There have been no LTIP options exercised in either the current or prior year.
Nil-cost options and conditional shares granted during the year under the RSP normally vest after three years, lapse if not exercised within 
10 years of grant and may lapse if option holders cease to be employed by the Group.
Nil-cost options and conditional shares granted during 2011 under the DSBP normally vest after three years, lapse if not exercised within 
10 years of grant and may lapse if option holders cease to be employed by the Group. The DSBP is a scheme to retain and further 
incentivise senior management by awarding a portion of their annual bonus in the form of share options. There have been no DSBP options 
granted in either the current or prior year.
Options granted in 2011 under the ShareSAVE Plan entitle option holders to contribute up to £250 per month. At the vesting date of either 
three or five years, option holders choose between return of their contributions in cash or purchase of shares at a discount to the market 
price on the date of grant. Options normally lapse and cash deposited is returned to option holders who cease to be employed by the 
Group during the vesting period. There have been no ShareSAVE Plan options granted or exercised in either the current or prior year.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2013 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of three years (2012: two years) in the 
LTIP, one year (2012: two years) in the RSP, nil years in the DSBP (2012: one year) and one year (2012: two years) in the ShareSAVE Plan. www.cppgroupplc.com
110 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
47 . Share based payment continued
Post-IPO plans continued
The principal assumptions underlying the valuation of the options granted during the year at the date of grant are as follows:
ShareSAVE LTIP RSP DSBP
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Weighted average share price — — £0.08 £0.48 — £0.45 — —
Weighted average exercise price — — — — — — — —
Expected volatility — — 154.00% 75.19% — — — —
Expected life — — 3 years 3 years — 3 years — —
Risk free rate — — 0.92% 0.47% — — — —
Dividend yield — — — — — — — —
The aggregate estimated fair value of the options and shares granted in 2013 under the LTIP is £20,000 (2012: £152,000 LTIP and RSP).
48. Related parties and control
Certain bank loans taken out by Group entities are secured against the assets of the Company. The total amount outstanding on these 
loans at 31 December 2013 amounted to £13,000,000 (2012: £43,500,000). The Company is party to a cross-guarantee in respect of a 
bank account netting arrangement in which it is a participant alongside certain other Group companies. Cash and cash equivalents includes 
an overdraft of £1,500,000 (2012: £8,400,000 cash balance) which is held a bank account subject to this arrangement.
The Company has taken the exemption available under FRS 8 “Related Party Transactions” not to disclose transactions with subsidiaries 
all of whose shares are held within the Group.
The Company’s ultimate controlling party is set out in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements. Emoluments of the Company’s 
Directors are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 41 to 53. www.cppgroupplc.com
Group overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information
CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 111
Company offices 
Group Head Office
CPPGroup Plc
Holgate Park
York
YO26 4GA
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1904 544500
Fax: +44 (0)1904 544933
www.cppgroupplc.com 
www.cppdirect.co.uk
UK & Ireland
Y ork Contact Centre
Holgate Park
York
YO26 4GA
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0)1904 544500
Fax: +44 (0)1904 544933
T amworth Contact Centre
Centurion Court 
Centurion Way
Watling Street
Wilnecote
Tamworth
Staffordshire
B77 5PN
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1827 725023
Fax: +44 (0)1827 725030
CPP T ravel Services Limited
CPPGroup Plc
2 Castle Street 
Manchester 
M3 4LZ
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0)161 827 1483
Fax: +44 (0)161 827 1433
 
Europe & Latin America
CPP Spain
Parque Empresarial Alvento
Via de los Poblados 1
Edif. B, 2ª Planta
28033 Madrid
Spain
Tel: +34 91 121 16 00
Fax: +34 91 121 16 16
CPP Italy
Centro Direzionale Colleoni
Via Paracelso, 22 – 5º Piano
20041 Agrate Brianza
Monza e Brianza
Italy
Tel: +39 039 657801
Fax: +39 039 6894 293
CPP France
120 rue Jean Jaurès
92300 Levallois-Perret
France
Tel: +33 1 47 30 56 20
Fax: +33 1 47 30 56 28
CPP Portugal
Avenida da Liberdade, 40–7º
1269-041 Lisbon
Portugal
Tel: +351 213 241 730
Fax: +351 213 479 688
CPP Germany
Große Elbstraße 39
22767 Hamburg
Germany
Tel: +49 40 76 99 67 0
Fax: +49 40 76 99 67 111
CPP T urkey
Degirmen Sokak. Nida Kule Plaza. Kat:13 
Ofis: 22
34742 Kozyatagı Istanbul
Turkey
Tel: +90 216 665 25 25
Fax: +90 216 665 25 24
CPP Mexico
Cto. Guillermo Gonzalez Camarena
No. 1000 Piso 1, Desp. 102-B
Col. Centro Ciudad Santa Fe
Mexico, D.F.C.P.01210
Tel: +55 8000-3147
Fax: +55 8000-3148
CPP Brazil
Alameda Mamore
989-10th Floor
06454-040 Alphaville
Barueri
São Paulo
Brazil
Tel: +55 11 4689 5757
Fax: +55 11 4208 2942
Asia Pacific 
CPP India
114-117 Bestech Chambers
Radisson Blu Suites
B Block, Sushant Lok – I
Gurgaon – 122002
Haryana
India
Tel: +91 124 409 3900
Fax: +91 124 404 1004
CPP Hong Kong
14/F Chung Nam Building
1 Lockhart Road
Wanchai
Hong Kong
Tel: +852 3653 0000
Fax: +852 3653 0050 
CPP Singapore
(Registered Office address)
80 Robinson Road
#02-00, Singapore 068898
Tel: +65 6333 6986
Fax: +65 6333 8637
CPP Malaysia
(Registered Office address)
3-2 3rd Mile Square
No. 151 Jalan Kelang Lama
Batu 3 ½
58100 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Tel: +60 3-7987 5300
Fax: +60 3-7987 5200
(Business address)
Level 16
1 Sentral, Jalan Stesen
Sentral 5
KL Sentral
50470 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel: +60 3 2168 5600
Fax: +60 3 2168 5799
CPP China
Room 6015, 6/F, The 21st Century Building 
210 Century Avenue
Lujiazui, Pudong, Shanghai 200120 
Tel: +86 21 5172 7312
Fax: +86 21 5172 7325
Financial statements
 ǔ Notes to the Company financial statements
Shareholder information
 ǔ Company offices
Shareholder information www.cppgroupplc.com
112 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Shareholder information
Registered office:
CPPGroup Plc
Holgate Park
York
YO26 4GA
Tel: +44 (0)1904 544500
The Company’s shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange 
under share code ‘CPP.L’. Company information and share 
price details are available on the corporate website at  
www.cppgroupplc.com.
Company registration number:
07151159
Corporate brokers:
Numis Securities Limited
The London Stock Exchange Building
10 Paternoster Square
London 
EC4M 7LT
Auditor:
Deloitte LLP
1 City Square
Leeds
LS1 2AL
Legal advisers:
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP
Exchange House
Primrose Street
London
EC2A 2HS
Shareholders who have a query regarding their shareholding 
should contact the Company’s share registrars at:
Capita Asset Services
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU
By telephone +44(0)20 8639 3399 
When contacting the registrar please have the investor code 
and information relating to the name and address in which 
the shares are held.
Investor relations
Requests for further copies of the Annual Report & Accounts, 
or other investor relations enquiries, should be addressed to 
the registered office. Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral ® company and its Environmental 
Management System is certified to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are 
recycled for further use and, on average, 99% of any waste associated with 
this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Core Silk, a paper containing virgin fibre sourced 
from well managed, responsible, FSC® certified forests.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and 
delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a verified 
carbon offsetting project. Head office:
CPPGroup Plc
Holgate Park
York YO26 4GA
United Kingdom
+44 (0)1904 544500
www.cppgroupplc.com CPPGroup Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
