 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Croda International Plc 
Cowick Hall  Snaith 
Goole  East Y orkshire 
DN14 9AA  England 
Tel +44 (0)1405 860551 
Fax +44 (0)1405 861767
www.croda.com
Designed and produced by Dawson Design Manchester
Croda International Plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial highlights 1
Chairman’s statement 2
Chief Executive’s review 4
Financial review 12
Safety, health and the environment 16
Board of directors 22
Directors’ report 24
Directors’ remuneration report 27
Corporate governance 37
Group independent auditors’ report 43
Group income statement 44
Group statement of comprehensive income and expense 44
Group balance sheet 45
Group statement of changes in equity 46
Group statement of cash flows 47
Group cash flow notes 48
Group accounting policies 49
Notes to the Group accounts 56
Company independent auditors’ report 82
Company balance sheet 83
Company accounting policies 84
Notes to the Company accounts 86
Principal subsidiary companies 90
Shareholder information 91
Five year record 94
Contents 1
Financial highlights
2009 2008
Revenue - continuing operations £916.2m £911.1m
Profit before tax - continuing operations before 
exceptional items £106.4m £96.3m
Profit before tax - total before exceptional items £101.3m £103.1m
Profit before tax £89.2m £96.3m
Earnings per share - continuing operations before 
exceptional items 53.0p 48.0p
Earnings per share - total before exceptional 
items 50.2p 51.7p
Earnings per share - basic 17.6p 45.3p
Dividends per share 21.50p 19.75p
Sales by market 1999
n Consumer Care 39%
n Industrial Specialities 61%
Sales by market 2009 *
n Consumer Care 51%
n Industrial Specialities 49%
Sales by destination 1999
n Europe 52%
n Americas 30%
n Asia 10%
n Rest of World 8%
Sales by destination 2009 *
n Europe 47%
n Americas 32%
n Asia 16%
n Rest of World 5%
* Continuing operations
In order to show underlying 
business performance, throughout 
the Chairman’s statement, Chief 
Executive’s review and the Financial 
review, sales are stated for continuing 
operations. Operating profit and pre-
tax profit are stated for continuing 
operations before exceptional site 
closure costs of £17.2m. In 2008, 
the exceptional costs related to 
discontinued operations. Further 
details of discontinued operations are 
included in Note 7 of the Notes to the 
Group accounts. 2
Strong 
EBITDA was 
boosted 
by working 
capital 
reductions
Martin Flower  
Non-executive Chairman
Chairman’s statement
2009 was another record year for Croda, producing pre-tax 
profits 10.5% up on 2008 despite one of the deepest global 
recessions of all time. The constant focus on product innovation, 
markets and customers, combined with ongoing cost reduction, 
has enabled us to achieve another year of pre-tax profit growth 
despite challenging conditions in the global economy.
Full Year Results
Revenue increased by 0.6% for the year 
to £916.2m (2008: £911.1m). This result 
was boosted by favourable currency 
translation (+11.8% versus 2008) that 
mitigated significant first half volume 
losses in Industrial Specialities. Falling 
commodity prices reduced output prices 
in Industrial Specialities but had little 
effect on Consumer Care. 
Turnover was up 11.8% in Consumer 
Care and down 9.0% in Industrial 
Specialities as we continued to focus on 
quality of business over volume growth. 
Consumer Care achieved an operating 
profit increase of 17.2% and in Industrial 
Specialities profits declined by 35.1%. All 
the reduction came in the first half, with 
the lack of the previous year’s £8.2m 
glycerine pricing windfall adding to the 
effects of market destocking. A return 
to growth in sales and operating profit 
occurred in the second half.
Pre-tax profit was up 10.5% to £106.4m 
(2008: £96.3m). Restructuring and cost 
savings following the acquisition of 
Uniqema in 2006 continued throughout 
2008 and 2009, boosting return on sales 
to 13.1% despite the adverse effects of 
the recession and glycerine pricing.  
A largely non-cash cost increase of £3.9m 
relating to share based payments as a 
result of the strong share price in 2009, 
and the reduction in the IAS19 pension 
funding credit of £6.4m were broadly 
balanced by a currency translation benefit 
of £11.1m. Falling debt levels and lower 
global interest rates significantly reduced 
underlying interest costs. Continuing 
earnings per share before exceptional 
items increased 10.4% from 48.0p in 
2008 to 53.0p in 2009.
Cash flow was particularly impressive 
with net debt falling £109.6m to £288.5m 
(2008: £398.1m). Strong EBITDA was 
boosted by working capital reductions 
as we completed the post Uniqema 
reorganisation of our selling and 
distribution arrangements. Favourable 
currency translation accounted for 
£21.7m of the reduction in net debt. All 
this meant that our key banking ratio, net 
debt to EBITDA, fell below two times, 
significantly below our covenant limit of 
three times.
Retirement Benefits
The IAS19 pension deficit increased to 
£203.5m (2008: £88.5m). The market 
value of investments increased but the 
discount rates used to calculate the 
schemes’ liabilities fell, despite rising 
inflation expectations, due to a reduction 
in corporate bond yields.  3
Restructuring
During the year we announced the 
closures of our sites at Bromborough 
in Merseyside and Wilton in North 
Y orkshire. Bromborough ceased 
production in November 2009 and its 
results are treated as discontinued as 
we have exited the specific commodity 
markets supplied by this site. Wilton 
ceased production in January 2010. 
Since nearly all products at Wilton 
are being transferred to other Croda 
sites worldwide, this business has been 
treated as continuing in 2009 and 2008.
Dividend 
The Board has proposed an increase in 
the final dividend of 10.7% to 15.00p, 
taking the full year dividend to 21.50p, 
up 8.9% on the 19.75p paid last year. 
In 2008, we stated that in future our 
dividend increases would be ‘more 
aligned’ with earnings growth achieved. 
This was a change to our previous 
policy of more modest dividend growth 
as we improved dividend cover.
Outlook
The strong trading performance 
during the fourth quarter of 2009 
has continued into 2010 and we 
are confident of achieving significant 
progress in the current year.
Martin Flower  
Chairman
Keravis is a patented hair 
strengthening biopolymer 
derivative which acts to 
strengthen the hair by affecting 
both the biomechanical 
properties within the hair cortex 
and the frictional properties 
at the cuticle surface. This 
has resulted in global success 
in premium hair cleansing, 
conditioning and styling products. 4 4
In 2009, in 
the worst 
recession 
in living 
memory, 
Croda 
delivered a 
record  
pre-tax 
profit
Mike Humphrey  
Group Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s review
A key feature of the Croda business model is the ability to 
sell thousands of different products to thousands of different 
customers all over the world. Our relentless focus on 
innovation in specialities has given us the ability to get true value 
for our products.
Over the last decade, in good times and 
bad times, Croda has achieved pre-tax 
profit growth every year. In 2009, in 
the worst recession in living memory, 
Croda delivered a record pre-tax profit 
of £106.4m, up 10.5% (2008: £96.3m). 
This performance followed a significant 
increase in pre-tax profit in 2008 and is a 
testament to the rigorous adherence to 
our strategy and the execution ability of 
our high quality team around the world. 
We continued to reshape the business 
during the year and maintain our strict 
policy of ‘quality of business over volume’. 
In the first half of the year, demand in 
some industrial markets was down over 
50% but, as a result of our value added 
strategy, the full year increase in pre-tax 
profit was delivered.
During the year we closed our loss-
making commodity oleochemical factory 
at Bromborough. We also ceased 
production at our Wilton site following 
Dow’s decision to close a vital raw 
material site in the UK. Almost all of 
Wilton’s output has been transferred 
to other Croda sites around the world. 
We would like to thank the departing 
workforces of these sites for their hard 
work and professionalism during what has 
been a very difficult time for both them 
and their families.
In Consumer Care, we increased our 
margins to 22.4%, increased sales by 
11.8% and improved operating profits 
by 17.2% to £104.9m. In a time of deep 
global recession, we increased sales to 
all of our key global accounts in Personal 
Care. 
In Industrial Specialities, sales were down 
by 9.0% to £448.5m due to the severe 
downturn in demand in many markets. 
There were healthy signs of recovery 
later in 2009 and operating profits were a 
respectable £15.0m for the full year.
In addition to the outstanding pre-tax 
profit outcome, we had an impressive 
cash flow which resulted in debt 
reduction of £109.6m to £288.5m, 
including currency translation benefits. 
This was a notable performance in 
tough conditions and in a year where 
we invested £39.8m in new plant and 
equipment.
Performance and Prospects
Consumer Care
There are three main business areas 
within the Consumer Care segment: 
Personal Care, Health Care and Crop 
Care. In 2009, sales increased by 11.8% to 
£467.7m (2008: £418.4m) and operating 
profits increased 17.2% to £104.9m 
(2008: £89.5m).
The macro trends in Personal Care 
fit very well with Croda’s innovation 
platform - natural, renewable raw 
materials, vanity and an ageing, but 
increasingly affluent, population. Croda 
is recognised as the world leader in 
speciality ingredients for Personal Care. 
The total market for ingredients is over 
£4.5 billion and is extremely fragmented, 
with hundreds of suppliers. The market 
grows at about one and a half to two 
times global gross domestic product 
(GDP), with higher growth in the rapidly 
developing markets such as Asia and Latin 
America.  5 5
Essenskin
TM 
& Dynalift
TM
 are 
used in Dr. Brandt’s time 
arrest v-zone neck cream 
to help firm and tighten the 
neck and décolletage. 6 6
Herbs of Gold in Australia 
use Croda’s Incromega oils 
in their Omega 3 products. 
The value to human health 
of Omega 3 supplements 
is now accepted by 
the worldwide medical 
profession. 7 7
Normally, we supply a very small 
percentage of the total raw material in 
any formulation. It may be a small part, 
but it is often the vital part that makes 
the product work and supports the 
essential marketing claims. The output 
of new products from our innovation 
centres across the world continues to 
increase to meet the ever changing 
demands of this fast moving, vibrant 
industry. We remain confident of 
continued progress in this exciting market. 
In 2009, strong growth was seen in South 
America and Asia, boosting more modest 
uplifts in North America and Europe.
Health Care is one of our fastest growing 
business areas. Croda’s essential fatty 
acids (EFAs) and excipients are designed 
to meet the market’s growing appetite 
for natural, self-medication and an ageing 
population’s desire for extended health 
and well-being. This market continued to 
grow rapidly in 2009 and we expect high 
levels of growth to continue. The lipids 
(EFAs) market is growing at 15 to 25% 
per year and the excipients market grows 
at approximately 4% a year. Croda is a 
world leader in the production of super 
high purity essential fatty acids such as 
Omega 3s, which are finding increasing 
use in the treatment of a number of 
inflammatory conditions and also in 
heart disease medication. Excipients 
are valuable vehicles which carry active 
ingredients used in topical treatments. 
Like high purity lanolin in wound 
treatment creams, they can often have 
a synergistic and beneficial effect on the 
efficacy of the active ingredient. Strong 
growth was seen in this sector in both 
2008 and 2009.
Since 2006, Crop Care has also been 
one of our fastest growing businesses. 
Our target market is worth over £500m 
a year.  After a strong 2008 and first 
quarter of 2009, sales in the rest of the 
year were down compared to 2008. This 
was due to adverse climatic conditions in 
a number of geographies, which disrupted 
the planting cycle and reduced demand 
for all agrochemicals. The mega trend of 
a rapidly growing global population and a 
need for a parallel increase in crop yields, 
combined with a desire to constantly 
reduce environmental impact, gives 
us every confidence that high growth 
rates will return to this market in 2010 
and subsequent years. Croda produces 
adjuvants, vehicles and seed coating 
ingredients, which are used by a growing 
number of companies in many countries.
Industrial Specialities
There are five main business areas 
in our Industrial Specialities segment: 
Polymer Additives, Lubricant Additives, 
Home Care, Coatings and Polymers and 
Geo Tech. Overall, these markets were 
severely hit by the recession in the first 
six months of 2009, with appreciable 
recovery in the second half. Sales were 
down by 9.0% to £448.5m (2008: 
£492.7m) and continuing operating profit 
fell by 35.1% to £15.0m (2008: £23.1m). 
In the second half, year on year profits 
were up 120.3% on a sales increase of 
2.5%. Lower commodity prices and the 
absence of the previous year’s £8.2m 
windfall glycerine profit, combined with 
the lack of demand in ultimate consumer 
markets led to the overall decline in 
profits. Lower overall GDP figures had 
a much smaller effect. Our focus on 
growing the speciality portfolio and 
reducing our dependence on commodity 
fatty acids and glycerine leads us to be 
confident of future profit growth in this 
area.
Chief Executive’s review 8 8
Chief Executive’s review
In Polymer Additives, Croda is the 
global market leader in slip additives for 
polyolefins and is very strong in a number 
of additives such as anti-static agents for 
a range of other plastics. In spite of the 
recession, sales in this sector were at the 
same level as the previous year.
The Lubricant Additives business area is 
ultimately exposed to the automotive 
and engineering sectors, which virtually 
stopped in the first half of 2009. Sales 
were well down year on year, but recent 
months have shown increasing demand 
for our environmentally benign additives. 
The desire for less harmful lubricants and 
reduced fuel consumption are trends that 
match our innovation programme and 
we expect that the market will have an 
increasing demand for greener products.
Sales in Home Care were slightly ahead 
of 2008, as the market increased its 
appetite for our more environmentally 
friendly ingredients.
Progress on transforming our Coatings 
and Polymers business from one that 
relies on commodities to a more dynamic, 
focused speciality portfolio was slowed 
by the recession. Sales were down and 
customer development on our exciting 
new products to reduce Volatile Organic 
Compounds and mitigate environmental 
impact also slowed. We are seeing good 
signs of a turnaround as end market 
demand returns to a more normal level.
Geo Tech is a new business area, formed 
to take advantage of our technology 
advantage in mining chemicals, oil field 
chemicals and water treatment. These are 
rapidly growing markets driven by the 
need to maximise resource extraction 
and provide clean water for a growing 
population.
In all our business areas, we have sales 
of commodity products such as fatty 
acids and glycerine, where we have no 
real pricing power. The margins are low 
compared to our speciality products, 
though in some cases we sell low 
value products which are produced 
as by-products when we make other 
higher value chemicals. We continue to 
reduce the impact of commodities on 
our business. We have sold businesses 
(Chicago and Klang), restructured (the 
closure of Bromborough) and walked 
away from unprofitable product streams. 
Continuing turnover of commodities 
in 2009 was £135.8m compared to 
£165.1m in 2008. We cannot move out of 
commodity products completely, but we 
will continue to explore ways of reducing 
our exposure to them.
Atmer 7325, Croda’s easy to use 
additive concentrate containing a 
synergistic mixture of anti-static 
agents, is used in plastic shampoo 
bottles. It reduces static on the 
surface of the bottles which in 
turn reduces the amount of dust 
pick-up, giving more aesthetically 
pleasing products on store 
shelves. 9 9
Perfad fuel additives, based 
on renewable sustainable 
raw materials, are used in 
Ultra Low Sulphur Diesel 
across Europe and North 
America to reduce friction 
and prolong fuel pump life. 10 10
Croda offers an 
innovative solution for the 
enhancement of sugar cane 
production. Atlox Semkote 
is a polymer range that 
enables cost-effective seed 
coating. 11 11
Chief Executive’s review
Strategy
The core principles of Croda’s strategy 
have remained valid since 1999. We test 
them every year and every year we have 
found them to be a solid framework 
for successful growth. Our aim is to be 
a leading, independent, global speciality 
chemical company. We will only invest in 
businesses, current and future, that can:
n be truly global 
n create profitable innovation 
n operate in end markets that have long  
 term growth well above global GDP 
n realistically sustain high operating 
 margins.
Our focus on markets and market drivers 
means we are well aligned with the 
mega trends which will shape the future 
consumer and industrial markets. Trends 
like an ageing population, health and 
well-being, sustainability and the correct 
use of renewable resources present great 
challenges and even greater opportunities. 
Croda’s culture of pragmatic innovation 
in every aspect of the business, not just 
in product development, means we are 
well-placed to be a truly leading speciality 
chemicals company. We have offices and 
technical facilities in 36 countries and 
operate 19 state of the art factories 
across Europe, Asia and the Americas. 
Through this network we are able to 
match and, in many instances, exceed our 
customers’ rapid globalisation.
Our operating companies are set sales, 
profit growth and operating margin 
targets that form the basis of our budgets 
and strategic plans. We report annually 
on our progress against five key financial 
performance indicators:
n Return on sales 
n EPS growth 
n Post tax ROIC 
n Net debt to EBITDA 
n EBITDA to interest cover.
Summary
Croda is a truly global company with 
less than 7% of its sales in the UK. Our 
customer focused business model has 
been the basis of our success for many 
years. We will continue to increase this 
focus to create our future success.
Mike Humphrey 
Group Chief Executive
Croda is a 
truly global 
company  12
Continuing 
pre-tax 
profit 
before 
exceptional 
items was 
up 10.5% to 
£106.4m
Sean Christie  
Group Finance Director
Financial review
Continuing pre-tax profit after 
exceptional items was down 7.4% to 
£89.2m (2008: £96.3m) due to the 
exceptional costs relating to the closure 
of Wilton. Profit for the year was £24.0m 
(2008: £61.2m) with the exceptional 
costs and pre-closure losses relating 
to Bromborough added to the Wilton 
closure costs at this level.
Interest costs were significantly lower, 
despite the reduced IAS19 credit, as 
borrowing levels fell and interest rates 
reduced.
Exceptional Items
The main exceptional items relate 
to the closures of Bromborough and 
Wilton. Cash costs such as redundancy, 
demolition, product transfer costs and 
security are expected to amount to 
£21.9m. Non-cash asset write downs 
were £29.9m. There was a small net 
credit of £1.4m relating to a previously 
discontinued business and a tax credit 
of £6.3m. The majority of the cash cost 
relating to Bromborough will be spent 
during 2010. The cash costs relating to 
Wilton are expected to be incurred over 
both 2010 and 2011.
 
Earnings per Share
Continuing earnings per share before 
exceptional items increased 10.4% to 
53.0p (2008: 48.0p) with the pre-tax 
profit growth enhanced by a marginally 
lower tax rate but diluted by a small 
increase in the number of shares in issue.
Dividend
The Board has increased the final 
dividend by 10.7% to 15.00p  
(2008: 13.55p). This takes the total 
dividend payable for 2009 to 21.50p, 
an increase of 8.9% on the previous 
year’s payout of 19.75p. Dividend cover 
increases to 2.5 times (2008: 2.4 times).
Debt and Liquidity
Net debt was reduced by £109.6m 
to £288.5m (2008: £398.1m). Strong 
EBITDA, allied to working capital 
reductions as we finalised the main 
elements of our global sales and 
distribution restructuring, generated 
significant cash. Control of capital 
expenditure and favourable currency 
translation underpinned the high level of 
debt reduction. Our key borrowing ratio, 
net debt to EBITDA, fell to 1.8 times 
(2008: 2.6 times) against a covenant of 
less than 3 times. 
Pre-tax Profit
The operating results for the continuing businesses are 
discussed in the Chairman’s statement and the Chief Executive’s 
review.
Continuing pre-tax profit before exceptional items was up 
10.5% to £106.4m (2008: £96.3m). This was after absorbing a 
largely non-cash cost increase of £3.9m relating to share based 
payments as a result of our strong share price performance 
in 2009 and a £6.4m reduction in our IAS19 pension funding 
interest credit, also a non-cash item. Adverse glycerine pricing of 
£8.2m versus 2008 was another major profit variance. On the 
plus side, there was an £11.1m currency translation benefit. 13
Interest cover increased to 11.3 times 
(2008: 9.3 times) against a covenant of 
greater than 4 times. In January 2010 
we took out a $100m, 10 year fixed 
rate loan at 5.94% as the first step in 
refinancing our committed facilities, 
most of which expire in June 2011. We 
maintain good relationships with our key 
banks and will be working to refinance 
our other facilities by the end of 2010. 
The underlying strength and resilience of 
the Group’s trading, combined with the 
reducing core debt requirement, leads us 
to expect adequate market demand for 
our committed debt requirements.
Retirement Benefits
The gross IAS19 deficit increased 
to £203.5m (2008: £88.5m) despite 
the underlying market value of the 
investments increasing by over 13%. 
Corporate bond rates fell despite 
rising inflation expectations and this 
increased the current value of the 
liabilities. Post tax, the deficit is £150.0m  
(2008: £63.4m). We have announced a 
number of changes to our UK employee 
contribution rates and benefits effective 
from September 2010, the main ones 
being a move to a contribution rate of 
8% of salary for the 60ths benefit accrual 
and limiting the benefit accrual to 80ths 
for new starters. 
Financial KPIs
Performance against our five key KPIs 
(before exceptional items) is shown in 
the following table:
All KPIs were ahead of target except 
Return on Sales where we continue to 
make significant progress towards our 
objective of a minimum margin of 15%. 
The Return on Sales target subdivides 
into 20% for Consumer Care, which 
we are achieving and 10% for Industrial 
Specialities, which is where the shortfall 
arises. As Croda reduces its exposure to 
commodities we will move closer to our 
target margin in this division.
Target 2009
2008 
As reported
Return on Sales >15% 13.1% 12.0%
EPS Growth +5-10% +10.4% +39.4%
Post tax ROIC** >WACC* 10.5% 9.8%
Debt/EBITDA <3x 1.8x 2.6x
EBITDA Interest Cover >4x 11.3x 9.4x
* WACC: Weighted average cost of capital, currently 6.8% (2008: 6.7%)
** ROIC: Return on Invested Capital
EPS and dividend
0
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
DPS
EPS
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55 14
Financial review
Risk Management
Croda co-ordinates its approach to risk 
management globally through its Risk 
Management Committee. This Committee 
is chaired by the Group Finance Director 
and comprises the heads of each business 
unit, the Group Financial Controller 
and the Company Secretary. It meets 
quarterly and reports directly to the 
Board.
Risks facing the Group are regularly 
reviewed and the Committee evaluates 
the controls and procedures we have in 
place to mitigate these risks. 
The key risks facing Croda are ranked 
in order of a combination of economic 
consequence and likelihood of 
occurrence as follows:
People and Process
Major site event involving the loss of 
a site
Significant operational problems could 
have an adverse effect on Croda’s 
financial position. We are reliant on 
the continued operation of various 
manufacturing sites.
Loss of key personnel
We rely on employees such as divisional 
boards and technical experts whose 
vision and knowledge is critical to 
maintaining the Group’s success. We have 
procedures in place to identify and retain 
key employees and to develop succession 
plans for key positions.
Interruption of raw material supply
Interruption of key raw materials would 
significantly impact operations and our 
financial position. Interruption of supply 
could arise from implementation of new 
more rigorous legislation, or from market 
shortage. We purchase key raw materials 
under medium to long term contracts 
and manage our raw materials stock 
levels taking these considerations into 
account.
Major environmental incident
Violations of safety, health and 
environmental regulations could limit 
operations and expose the Group to 
liability, cost and reputational impact. In 
addition to maintaining compliance with 
national and international standards, we 
maintain strictly audited internal safety 
and health programmes. 
External Environment
Product liability
Croda sells into a number of highly 
regulated markets. Non-compliance with 
quality regulations could expose the 
Group to liability. Quality management 
procedures are in place for each site, 
and all manufacturing sites hold, or are 
working towards, ISO9001 standards.
Major sites have been audited against 
Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) 
standards.
Regulatory compliance
As a chemical producer, Croda is subject 
to a number of national chemical 
legislations and violation of these could 
limit markets into which we can sell. 
The most significant legislation currently 
facing the Group is the implementation 
of REACH (Registration, Evaluation 
and Authorisation of Chemicals) in 
Europe. We have introduced a range of 
procedures which will ensure that we are 
well prepared for the new regulations, 
and pre-registration has been completed 
for all relevant chemicals. 15
Business Systems
IT systems failure
Croda relies on IT systems to operate 
effectively and efficiently and to facilitate 
communication globally. Failure of these 
systems for a prolonged period of time 
will have an impact on operations and 
ultimately our financial position. 
Following the acquisition of Uniqema, 
Croda inherited a number of diverse IT 
systems. Failure to integrate these quickly 
(or failure of the systems themselves) 
will hinder effective communication 
throughout the Group and distract 
focus. We have a global IT group who 
are experienced in IT implementation 
and back up processes and we have hot 
standby systems in place. 
Financial
Management of pension fund assets
Croda has legal commitments relating 
to the provision of pensions and the 
operation of our pension schemes. 
Pension fund assets are managed by 
independent investment managers but, 
in current market conditions, increased 
future funding requirements may have 
an adverse effect on Croda’s financial 
position.
Working capital management
Cash flow generation from the 
effective management of working 
capital is required to support the cash 
outflows arising from servicing of debt, 
capital programmes and pension fund 
requirements.
A nominated member of the Risk 
Management Committee is responsible 
for ensuring best practice is followed 
in tackling each risk area and that 
continuous progress is made in reducing 
the risks faced by the Group.
All divisions, sites and certain functions 
have risk registers relevant to their area 
which are reviewed by internal audit 
to assure they are appropriate and the 
necessary controls are in place.
Sean Christie 
Group Finance Director
Financial KPIs
Returns on sales - target 15%
0%
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
10%
5%
15%
20%
EPS growth - target 5-10% pa
0
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
20
60
ROIC - target > WACC
0%
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
10%
5%
15%
Debt ratios
0
2005
EBITDA 
interest cover 
target > 4x
Debt/EBITDA 
target < 3x
2006 2007 2008 2009
10
5
15
40 16 16
Safety, health and the 
environment
Principles:
1. We believe that all accidents,  
 incidents and work related ill health  
 are preventable and we manage  
 our business with this aim, including  
 the provision of adequate resources  
 for the prevention of major accident  
 hazards.
2. Because we are human, mistakes can  
 be made; but because we are  
 committed, intelligent human beings,  
 we investigate to identify the basic  
 causes and take action to prevent  
 these mistakes being repeated.
3. As an absolute minimum we will  
 comply with all national regulations,  
 but in addition we set our own   
 demanding internal corporate   
 standards on matters relating   
 to safety, health and the environment  
 and endeavour to comply with them  
 throughout our international  
 operations.
4. Site management teams within  
 the Group are measured for  
 their contribution to the continuous  
 improvement of safety, health and  
 environmental performance in their  
 area of responsibility. Individual  
 employees each have a responsibility  
 to participate in, and contribute to,  
 the improvement of the corporate  
 SHE performance.
5.  We will continue to search out  
 new ways of conserving all the natural  
 resources used in our processes.
6. We will continue to innovate in order  
 to improve our products and  
 processes so that their effect on safety,  
 health and the environment is reduced.
7. We will continue to improve  
 communication and the exchange  
 of views with employees, employee  
 representatives, customers,  
 contractors, suppliers, neighbours  
 and any other individual or  
 organisation affected by our business.
We have assessed the significant safety, 
health and environmental hazards posed 
by the Company’s activities, and an 
appropriate set of arrangements has been 
implemented to control these hazards. 
The effectiveness of these arrangements 
is monitored and reviewed on a regular 
basis with action taken to redress any 
deficiencies and ensure continuous 
improvement.
Mike Humphrey 
Group Chief Executive 
Director responsible for SHE
Croda International Plc is a manufacturer of speciality chemicals 
employing approximately 3,500 people worldwide.
The Company operates its business in a manner which actively 
seeks to prevent or minimise the possibility of its operations 
causing harm to people, plants or animals. We strive to provide 
the resources to educate and involve every individual in the 
Company in achieving this objective. 
It is my belief that aspiring to excellence in the management of 
safety, health and the environment is vital to ensuring the long 
term future and profitability of the Company. 17 17
The Group controls its business by the 
delegation of much of its management 
responsibility, including SHE matters, to its 
site heads and senior managers. 
The overall strategy, development of 
policy and review of SHE performance 
within the Group is controlled by the 
Group SHE Steering Committee. The 
Group SHE department assists in setting 
standards, providing guidance, brokering 
best practice and auditing the sites against 
international standards as well as Croda’s 
internal standards.
In 2007, a new Group SHE Manual was 
produced to combine the best practices 
available from Croda and Uniqema 
following the acquisition of Uniqema in 
September 2006. This document provides 
the framework upon which the individual 
site SHE management systems are based. 
Sites are regularly audited for compliance 
with this manual and all Croda 
manufacturing sites have the objective of 
certification to BS EN ISO 14001 and  
BS OHSAS 18001 by the end of 2010.
The results of SHE audits and other 
relevant performance indicators are used 
to focus the Group SHE initiatives and 
the annual Group SHE objectives. The 
audit process, used by the Group SHE 
department to audit the manufacturing 
sites, has been externally validated by 
BSI in 2004 as being in accordance with 
BS EN ISO 19011 auditing guidelines 
for quality/environmental management 
systems.
Indicators of SHE performance
The Group has published annual safety, 
health and environmental objectives and 
targets since 2001. 
A new set of four year continuous 
improvement targets for the key safety 
and environmental objectives were issued 
in 2007 using 2006 as the baseline and 
running until the end of 2010.
Where necessary the performance 
against these objectives and targets 
has been re-based on current 
manufacturing operations at the end of 
2009. For example, in 2009 the site at 
Bromborough, UK was closed and all data 
relating to the site has been removed 
from the statistics. 18 18
Safety, health and the 
environment
SHE management
Objective:
T o continually improve the effectiveness of our SHE management systems.
Target:
All former Uniqema manufacturing sites to be certified to BS EN ISO 14001 and BS OHSAS 18001 by the end of 2010.
Six of the former Uniqema sites are already certified to both BS EN ISO 14001 and BS OHSAS 18001 and the remaining four sites are 
expected to achieve certification by the target date.
Energy consumption
Objective:
T o continually improve the energy efficiency of our manufacturing processes.
Target:
Based on 2006, to improve energy efficiency (GJ/tonne manufactured) at all manufacturing sites by 2% each year (8% overall) until the end of 
2010.
In 2009, the Group energy efficiency per tonne was worse by 3.7% compared to 2008 and worse by 13.5% since 2006. This is due to much 
reduced manufacturing volumes.
In absolute figures the energy used in 2009 was lower by 6.2% compared to 2008 and lower by 15.3% compared to 2006.
Progress with energy reduction projects is demonstrated by our continued compliance with the energy reduction targets of the UK Climate 
Change Agreement and the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. In 2009, we saw the full energy savings effect of the wind turbine at the Hull, UK 
site and significant improvements in the energy efficiency of the boiler house at the Atlas Point, USA plant after bringing management of the 
unit in-house at the end of 2007.
Air emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs)
Objective:
T o minimise the mass of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) released to air from our processes.
Target:
Based on 2006, all manufacturing sites to reduce VOC emissions (kg/tonne manufactured) by 5% per year (20% overall) until the end of 
2010.
In 2009, there was a 3.9% reduction in the amount of VOCs per tonne released to air compared to 2008 and an overall reduction of 21.2% 
since 2006. 
In absolute figures the amount of VOCs emitted during 2009 was reduced by 13.0% compared to 2008 and reduced by 41.2% since 2006. 
This improvement was due to major investment during the period to control the releases of VOCs.
Indicators of SHE performance 19 19
Waste disposal
Objective:
T o minimise the quantities of waste disposed to landfill.
Target:
Based on 2006, to reduce waste to landfill (kg/tonne manufactured) by 5% each year (20% overall) until the end of 2010.
The waste data relates to waste generated by the manufacturing operations. One off disposals of waste not directly associated with the 
manufacturing process, for example, construction excavations or contaminated land remediation, are excluded.
In 2009, waste disposed to landfill per manufactured tonne increased by 4.0% compared to 2008 and has decreased by 36.2% since 2006.
In absolute figures the waste disposed to landfill during 2009 was reduced by 5.8% compared to 2008 and has reduced by 52.4% since 2006.
Waste water discharges
Objective:
T o reduce the environmental impact the Group has on controlled waters. 
Target:
All manufacturing sites to achieve greater than 97.5% compliance with their effluent discharge consents in every year and for year on year 
continuous improvement towards 100% compliance.
In 2009, the compliance with our effluent discharge consents was 96.8% compared to 97.0% in 2008 and the baseline compliance of 91.6% 
in 2006.
Consumption of mains water
Objective:
T o reduce the Group requirements for mains water.
Target:
All manufacturing sites to reduce the use of mains water (m
3
 per tonne manufactured) by 2.5% each year (10% in all) until the end of 2010.
In 2009, the mains water used per manufactured tonne reduced by 9.6% compared to 2008 and increased by 18.5% since 2006. 
In absolute figures the mains water used by the Group reduced by 18.2% compared to 2008 and reduced by 11.6% since 2006. 20 20
Safety, health and the 
environment
Assessment of process risks
Objective for 2009:
T o assess the individual risk of fatality from the site activities and to identify whether this risk meets a recognised criterion.
Target for 2009:
T o use improved risk assessment techniques to confirm that the individual risk of fatality from site activities meets the Group criterion by the 
end of 2009.
In 2009, 18 out of 20 manufacturing sites were able to demonstrate that their activities met the Group criterion for process risks. Two sites 
have yet to complete the assessment work.
Objective for 2010:
T o ensure that no change is introduced that increases the individual risk of fatality (IRF) from all site processes to an intolerable level.
Target for 2010:
All manufacturing sites to demonstrate annual improvements in evaluating process risks for new processes and the management of change 
for existing processes.
Control of process risks
Objective:
T o demonstrate and monitor the effectiveness of control for each manufacturing process.
Targets for 2009: 
T o clearly and concisely record the critical parameters and controls that are in place for the safe operation of all processes by the end of 
2009.
T o develop a system to monitor, investigate and report all significant deviations from the safe process conditions by the end of 2009.
In 2009, all manufacturing sites had clearly and concisely recorded the critical parameters and controls that are in place for the safe operation 
of all processes by means of a basis of safety document complying with the Group format.
The basis of safety document identifies all credible significant manufacturing process deviations. In 2009, there were 14 calls on the last layer 
of protection and 38 calls on the last layer of prevention. All these incidents were investigated thoroughly with a view to preventing a further 
occurrence.
Target for 2010: 
All manufacturing sites to demonstrate annual improvements in the reporting and investigation of significant deviations from safe operating 
conditions.
SHE initiatives 2009
Personal accidents
In 2009 there was a decrease in the reportable accident rate from 0.33 to 0.25 per 
 100,000 man hours.
Process safety performance
Croda recognises that whilst the personal injury accident rate is an important indicator 
of SHE performance, it is also critical to monitor those events which might lead to 
process incidents. Very infrequently, such an event can result in a catastrophic accident. 
It is important that these events are recognised so that remedial action can be taken 
and the risk of a catastrophic accident reduced. As reported last year, the Group 
has developed and implemented a system for monitoring the performance of those 
engineering control measures which are critical to the safe operation of its processes.
This initiative has now taken the form of a set of Group process safety objectives. 21 21
Review of process risks
Objective:
T o regularly review the process risk assessments.
Target: 
T o develop a programme to ensure that all process risk assessments are reviewed at least once every five years.
T o monitor the timely completion of the review programme.
In 2009, each manufacturing site developed a programme for the review of process risk assessments at least once every five years. At 
present, 87% of manufacturing processes have been reviewed in the last five years. The programme will deliver 100% of processes reviewed 
in the last five years by the end of 2012.
In 2009, 19 out of 20 sites met the scheduled review programme for 2009. 
Reduction of process risk
Objective:
T o reduce process risks to as low as reasonably practicable.
Target: 
T o ensure that actions arising from process risk assessments are prioritised and appropriately managed.
T o monitor planned completion rates of all actions.
In 2009, all actions arising from process risk assessments were prioritised. At the end of the year there were no overdue high priority actions.
At the end of the year 19 out of 20 sites had an overall planned action completion rate better than the Group internal target.
During the final quarter of 2008 the Group commenced a series of lengthy detailed 
audits of the process safety management system at each of our manufacturing sites 
against the standards identified in the Group SHE Manual. 
In 2009, all of the major accident hazard sites have been audited and the remaining 
lower risk sites will be audited in 2010.
Enforcement action
In 2009, there were no prosecutions against the Group. 22
Board of directors
Sean Christie BSc, FCMA, FCT 
Group Finance Director 
Sean Christie was appointed to the 
Croda Board as Group Finance Director 
in April 2006. He previously held a 
number of senior finance positions in 
Northern Foods Plc, where he was 
Group Finance Director from 1994 to 
2004. He is a non-executive director of 
Cherry Valley Farms Ltd. 
Michael Buzzacott* BA, FCCA 
Senior independent non-executive 
director 
Michael Buzzacott joined the Croda 
Board in August 2004 and was appointed 
Chairman of the Audit Committee in 
April 2007. Prior to his retirement in 
2004, he spent over 34 years with BP 
where he held a number of senior 
international roles including Regional 
Finance and Control Director of Asia, 
Chief Executive Polymers and Olefins 
Division and finally Group Vice President 
Petrochemicals. He is a non-executive 
director of Scapa Group plc and Genus 
plc. During 2009, he retired as a non-
executive director of Rexam PLC. 
Martin Flower  
Non-executive Chairman 
Martin Flower was appointed to the 
Croda Board in May 2005 and became 
Chairman at the end of September 
2005. He is Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee and a member 
of the Remuneration Committee. He 
formerly held various senior executive 
positions over 36 years with Coats plc, 
culminating in a period as Chairman 
before his retirement in 2004. He was 
also Deputy Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director of Severn Trent 
Plc until June 2006. He is currently a 
non-executive director of The Morgan 
Crucible Company plc and Low & 
Bonar PLC. Early in 2010 he retired as 
Chairman of Autogrill Holdings UK Plc 
(formerly Alpha Group Plc). 23
Stanley Musesengwa* 
Independent non-executive director 
Stanley Musesengwa joined the Tate 
& Lyle Group in 1979 as a refinery 
manager and subsequently performed a 
number of different roles in Africa, before 
becoming Regional Director, Tate & Lyle 
Africa in 1995. In December 1999 he 
was appointed Chief Executive Officer of 
Tate & Lyle Europe. He was appointed to 
the Tate & Lyle Board in April 2003 and 
took up the position of Chief Operating 
Officer in May 2003 until his retirement 
in 2008. He joined the Croda Board in 
May 2007 and was appointed Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee in 2009.
Nigel T urner* 
Independent non-executive director
Nigel Turner joined the Croda Board 
in June 2009. He has over 35 years 
experience in corporate finance and 
was the Chairman of Numis Securities 
Ltd and Deputy Chairman of Numis 
Corporation plc from December 2005 
until his retirement in November 2007. 
From 2000 until 2005 he was with ABN 
AMRO following 15 years with Lazard 
Brothers in London where he was 
Managing Director and a member of the 
Supervisory Board. Nigel has been the 
Senior Independent Director of  
Genus plc since 2007.
* Member of audit, remuneration and nomination 
committees
Mike Humphrey 
Group Chief Executive 
Mike Humphrey was appointed to 
the Croda Board in 1995 and became 
Group Chief Executive at the beginning 
of 1999. He joined Croda in 1969 
as a management trainee and was 
appointed Managing Director of Croda 
Singapore in 1988, Croda Application 
Chemicals in 1990 and Croda 
Chemicals in 1991. He is a member of 
the Nomination Committee. 24
Directors’ report
The directors’ report is required to include a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended  
31 December 2009, including an analysis of the development and performance of the Group during the year and the position of the 
Group at the end of the financial year, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group (known as a “Business 
Review”). 
The information which makes up the Business Review can be found in the following sections of the annual report, all of which are 
incorporated into this directors’ report by reference:
n 	 Chairman’s statement on pages 2 and 3 
n 	 Chief Executive’s review on pages 4 to 11 
n 	 Financial review on pages 12 to 15 
n 	 Safety, health and the environment report on pages 16 to 21 
n 	 Principal risks and uncertainties as discussed in the Financial review section on pages 12 to 15.
Further information on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) can be found in our CSR report on our website at www.croda.com
Principal activities of the Company and subsidiaries 
Croda International Plc is a holding company operating from headquarters at Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, East Y orkshire, and providing 
central direction for a speciality chemicals group with operations across the globe.
Research and development
Research and development activities are undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and 
understanding. Further details can be found in the Chief Executive’s review on pages 4 to 11.
Profit and dividends 
The results for the year are set out on page 44.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 15.00p per share (2008: 13.55p). If approved by shareholders, total dividends for the year 
will amount to 21.50p per share (2008: 19.75p per share). Details of dividends are shown in note 9 on page 62.
Disposals 
During the year the Group closed its oleochemical site at Bromborough in Merseyside. Prior to closure, the triacetin business carried 
on at the site was sold to Polynt UK Limited. Further details appear in note 7 on page 60. 
Directors 
The Company’s Articles of Association (‘the Articles’) give the directors power to appoint and replace directors. Under the terms of 
reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the 
board of directors. The Articles also require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) following appointment and all directors who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at 
either of them, to submit themselves for re-election. The present directors of the Company are shown on pages 22 and 23. David Dunn 
retired on 29 April 2009. Nigel Turner was appointed after the AGM in 2009 and so will stand for election at the AGM in April 2010. 
Mike Humphrey and Sean Christie are required to retire by rotation and so will be standing for re-election at the AGM. Details of the 
directors’ service contracts are given in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 27 to 36. 
Apart from the share option schemes, long term incentive schemes and service contracts, no director had any beneficial interest in any 
contract to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during the year. 
A statement indicating the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company, including share 
options, is shown in the directors’ remuneration report on page 34. 
The directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to 
the provisions of relevant statutes, the Company’s Memorandum and Articles and any directions given by special resolution. 
Directors’ indemnities
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its 
directors. The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its directors and the secretary which represent “qualifying third party 
indemnity provisions” (as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006), in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the 
directors (or secretary) may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors (or secretary) or employees of the Company 
or of any associated company. In addition, such indemnities have been granted to other officers of the Company who are directors of 
subsidiary companies within the Group. The Company has also granted an indemnity representing “qualifying pension scheme indemnity 
provisions” (as defined by section 235 of the Companies Act 2006) to a paid director of the corporate trustee of the Group’s UK 
pension schemes.
Share capital
At the date of this report, 139,949,969 ordinary shares of 10 pence each have been issued and are fully paid up and quoted on the 
London Stock Exchange. The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares are set out in the Articles, copies of 
which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary. There are no restrictions on the 
voting rights attached to the Company’s ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company. No person holds securities in 
the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company. The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Directors’ report 25
Directors’ report
Further information which fulfils the requirements of Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 and which should be treated as forming 
part of this report by reference are included in the following sections of the annual report:
n 	 details of the structure of the Company’s share capital and the rights attached to the Company’s shares are set out on pages 75  
 and 79
n 	 details of the employee share schemes are set out on pages 75 to 79.
Power to issue shares
At the 2009 AGM, authority was given to the directors to allot unissued shares in the Company up to a maximum amount equivalent 
to approximately one third of the issued share capital (excluding shares held in treasury) for general purposes, plus up to a further one 
third of the Company’s issued share capital (excluding shares held in treasury), but only in the case of a rights issue. No such shares 
have been issued. A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the directors to allot equity securities in the 
Company for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the then Companies Act 1985. Both these authorities expire on the 
date of the 2010 AGM to be held on 28 April 2010 and so the directors propose to renew them for a further year. 
Last year the members also renewed the Company’s authority to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares. No purchases were made 
during the year. The Company will be seeking to renew its authority to purchase its own shares at the 2010 AGM. Shares will only be 
purchased if the Board believes that such purchases will improve earnings per share and be in the best interests of the shareholders 
generally. It is the Company’s intention that any shares purchased will be held as treasury shares.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
Further details of the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan can be found on page 92.
Articles of Association
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the Company’s Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders.
Significant contracts and change of control
The Group has borrowing facilities which may require the immediate repayment of all outstanding loans together with accrued interest 
in the event of a change of control. The rules of the Company’s employee share plans set out the consequences of a change in control 
of the Company on participants’ rights under the plans. Generally such rights will vest and become exercisable on a change of control 
subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions. Neither of the executive directors’ service contracts contain provisions which 
are affected by a change of control and there are no other agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, alter or 
terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company which are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact 
on the Group.
The Company does not have any contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group.
Audit information
The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and 
that each director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
Employees
We recognise that business success depends on retaining our skilled, motivated workforce who form the Croda global team. We aim 
to create a fair, diverse and high-quality working environment that allows all employees to demonstrate their abilities without facing 
discrimination and where individuals are recognised and rewarded for the contribution they make to the continued growth of our 
business.
Development & training
The focus of our HR practices continues to be the development of the skills, knowledge and abilities of our employees. Through our 
philosophy of internal promotion, we invest in our employees now to better prepare ourselves for the future. All of our training and 
development activities focus on ensuring employees are equipped to run our businesses in an ever more complex global environment. 
During 2009 employees each received an average of 22 hours of training.
Our leadership programmes continue to concentrate on strengthening the quality of leaders at all levels in the organisation. Through 
offering a number of project based learning opportunities, we enable our employees to continually develop their careers whilst meeting 
business objectives. During 2009, we adapted our development activities to meet the needs of the individual through an increased focus 
and investment in initiatives like mentoring and coaching. The ongoing evaluation of our training and development activities has helped 
us to ensure that time and money is not wasted on misplaced and ineffective training programmes.
HR systems & processes
A planned programme of global implementations and upgrades to current HR operating systems has been completed, resulting in the 
establishment of a standardised and unified HR management information system. We believe that having a global HR system that offers 
individual operating units flexibility in terms of data management is essential to ensuring our HR reporting is efficient and effective. 
The global implementation of a new Job Evaluation Scheme is nearing completion and it has succeeded in balancing the needs of the 
Group with the needs of local employees. Once completed it will enable us to better understand our organisational structures across 
the globe, the type of roles we offer and the talent within them.  26
Directors’ report
Communication
By listening to our employees and establishing dialogue, we try to reflect employee thinking in our business activities. Our global sites 
held, on average, 16 face to face meetings with employees during the year, focusing on business performance, SHE targets, community 
projects and other specific projects. 
The importance of communication was heightened with the closure of our manufacturing facility at Bromborough in the UK. Through 
working closely with the unions, the site consultation committees and educating managers on change and personal transitions, we have 
been able to make this difficult process as less painful for the employees involved. 
CSR/Community involvement
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is embedded in the way we run our business. Customers want to buy products from a company 
they can trust, suppliers want to form business partnerships with a company they can rely on and employees want to work for a 
company they respect. Our 2009 CSR report details progress we have made against our stretching targets relating to the four Pillars of 
‘Our Responsibility’. 
One of the continuing strengths of our business is the commitment that we have towards the local communities in which we operate. 
These local communities provide the dedicated and talented resource that makes Croda what it is today. We have a well established 
history in the area of community involvement. Placing this recognition of community engagement under the CSR umbrella has provided 
a framework that allows us to monitor our activities and to think more critically about what we do, how we do it and for what purpose.
Within the community, our focus continues to be on education. Ensuring there is future talent for the industry is critical to our business 
growth. Mentoring, teaching, site visits, presentations, awards, work experience and apprenticeship schemes are just some of the activities 
we have been involved in across the globe.
Supplier payment policy 
Group policy concerning the payment of suppliers is that each operating unit agrees terms of payment at the beginning of business 
or makes the supplier aware of the standard payment terms and pays in accordance with those terms or other legal obligations. At 
31 December 2009, the Group had an average of 33 days (2008: (restated) 43 days) purchases outstanding in trade creditors. The 
Company’s trade creditors are not material. 
Charitable and political donations 
Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted to £38,000 (2008: £57,000). No donations were made for political 
purposes (2008: £Nil). 
Annual General Meeting 
The AGM will be held at Carlton T owers, Carlton, Goole, East Y orkshire, DN14 9LZ on Wednesday, 28 April 2010 at 12 noon. The 
notice of meeting and explanation of the business to be considered at the AGM are contained in a separate document issued to 
shareholders with this annual report. 
Independent auditors 
Our auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee, a resolution regarding their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the AGM.
Substantial shareholders 
As at 19 February 2010, the Company had been notified under DTR5 of the Financial Services Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares:
By order of the Board 
Louise Scott  
Company Secretary  
23 February 2010
Ordinary shares    % of share capital Nature of holding
Standard Life Investments Ltd 6,679,711 4.91% Direct 1.90%, Indirect 3.01%
Prudential plc 6,923,666 5.08% Direct
Legal & General Group Plc 5,446,588 3.99% Direct
Massachusetts Financial Services Company 7,219,521 5.03% Direct
Directors’ report 27
Directors’ remuneration report
The directors present their remuneration report which covers the remuneration of both executive and non-executive directors and 
certain senior executives. The report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. The first section of the report contains unaudited information and the second section audited information. The report will 
be subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in April 2010.
Section 1: Unaudited information
The role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee reviews and approves the annual salaries, bonus arrangements, service agreements and other employment conditions 
of the executive directors and certain members of the senior executive management team designated by the Board. In so doing it takes 
due account of pay and conditions in the Group as a whole and receives information on pay proposals for other employees throughout 
the Group. It also approves the design of, and determines targets for, any performance related/bonus pay schemes operated by the 
Group, approves the total annual payments made under such schemes, reviews the design of all share incentive plans for approval by 
the Board and shareholders and approves the award of long-term incentives. The Committee has delegated responsibility for setting the 
remuneration of the Chairman. The full terms of reference of the Committee are published on the Company’s website  
(www.croda.com).
Membership and operation
The Committee comprises all non-executive directors including the Chairman and is chaired by Stanley Musesengwa. The Group Chief 
Executive is usually invited to attend all meetings but neither he nor the Chairman attend when their individual remuneration is being 
discussed. The Committee met five times during the year. Other directors and employees of the Company who attended some, or all, 
of the meetings during the year and provided advice and services to the Committee were Pamela Broughton (Group VP Personnel), 
Graham Myers (Group Financial Controller/Treasurer) and Louise Scott (Company Secretary). All have the appropriate qualifications 
and experience to advise the Committee on aspects of the Group’s policies and practices.
Hewitt New Bridge Street (HNBS) has been appointed by the Committee to provide independent advice on remuneration policy and 
practice. During the year, HNBS attended two meetings of the Committee in connection with the remuneration review, details of which 
appear later in this report.
Policy on directors’ and senior executives’ remuneration
The key objectives of Croda’s executive remuneration policy are:
n 	 to ensure that individual rewards and incentives are comparable with those provided by similar companies having regard to the  
 Group’s turnover, business sector and market worth and the need for skills to manage international businesses 
n 	 to enable the Group to attract and retain high calibre people 
n 	 to give full consideration to the relevant principles on directors’ remuneration set out in the 2008 Financial Reporting Council  
 Combined Code  
n 	 to ensure a balance between fixed and performance related remuneration, the latter being related to objective measurement of the  
 financial performance of the Company.
The Committee believes that the interests of shareholders and directors are more closely aligned by the operation of short-term 
incentives which encourage the achievement of stretching profit targets and under which rewards may be delivered in the form of 
cash and shares, combined with share-based long-term incentives that reward performance against three year earnings per share and 
relative total shareholder return targets. In designing an appropriate incentive structure for the executive directors and senior executive 
management team, the Committee endeavours to set challenging performance criteria that are aligned with the Group’s strategy for the 
business and the enhancement of shareholder value. In line with the Association of British Insurers’ (ABI’s) Guidelines on Responsible 
Investment Disclosure, the Committee ensures that the incentive structure for executive directors and senior executive management 
will not raise environmental, social or governance (ESG) risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour. More generally, with 
regard to the overall remuneration structure, there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from taking into account 
corporate governance on ESG matters and it takes due account of issues of general operational risk when structuring incentives.
2009 remuneration review
As explained in last year’s report, HNBS provided advice on salary levels in the market place for consideration as part of the annual 
pay review of the executive directors and senior executives carried out in November 2008. Increases for 2009 were awarded on the 
back of the record performance in 2008, which was achieved in spite of the difficult economic environment, and which saw dividends 
increased for shareholders. Following on from that review, in 2009 the Committee commissioned HNBS to carry out a detailed review 
of the total remuneration packages of the executive directors and senior executives. 
HNBS reaffirmed the Committee’s belief that it is difficult to identify a sufficient number of companies who have operations directly 
comparable with those of the Company. Consequently, the remuneration packages were benchmarked, as had been done previously, 
against a group of international general manufacturing companies, similar in terms of size (including twelve month average market 
capitalisation and turnover) and scope of international operations, and a separate group of companies with comparable market 
capitalisations and international scope to those of Croda Executive and Finance Committee members were also benchmarked against 
survey data. As an overall comment, pay was found to be within expected market ranges. Consequently it was decided that the broad 
remuneration package would remain consistent with prior years.
Directors’ remuneration report 28
Directors’ remuneration report
No amendments will be made in 2010 to the performance measures, or the range of targets, for the long term incentive schemes as 
the Committee considered them to remain suitably challenging. More particularly, maintaining the current range of performance targets 
for the purposes of our long-term incentive plans was considered by the Committee to result in tougher targets given that the base 
year from which future performance will be measured is at record levels and the current economic outlook remains challenging.
During the year, the Committee also resolved that it would be appropriate to accelerate the vesting of the awards made in 2007 under 
the Croda International Bonus Co-Investment Plan (“BCIP”). The 2007 BCIP awards’ performance period ended on 31 December 2009 
and, since the extent of vesting is clear, the Committee considers it appropriate to make a minor amendment under the plan rules 
to accelerate the vesting of these awards to ensure that they are the subject of favourable tax treatment. This amendment will result 
in early vesting prior to the end of the current tax year on 5 April 2010. However, to ensure that the interests of shareholders are 
protected, a formal claw-back agreement has been entered into which will operate for the period between early vesting and the normal 
vesting date.
Whilst not directly relevant to Croda, the Committee has also noted the key conclusions of the Financial Services Authority Code and 
Walker Review during the year and has concluded that Croda continues to take into account the principles of sound risk management 
when setting pay. 
In order to encourage an open and constructive dialogue with our major investors and the main shareholder protection bodies, the 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee wrote to them prior to the New Y ear to inform them of the Committee’s decisions and 
proposals in relation to remuneration policy for 2010. As part of this dialogue, the Committee discussed the possibility of increasing 
the BCIP matching ratio for executive directors and members of the Executive and Finance Committees from its current level of one 
matching share being awarded for each share purchased from net annual cash bonus, to two shares being awarded. This would ensure 
a consistent approach to BCIP matching awards for all participants. Despite widespread support for this proposal from the Company’s 
institutional investors that were consulted, the Committee decided that it was not an appropriate time to amend the current 
remuneration policy (full details of the operation of the BCIP are set out on the following page). Due account was also given to the 
more general feedback obtained and the Committee will ensure that its remuneration policy is kept under review.
Components of executive directors’ remuneration
Basic salary
The salaries are paid monthly in cash and are reviewed annually with effect from 1 January. Following the 2009 remuneration review 
described above, and having taken account of another year of outstanding performance by the Company, its executives and the results 
of the HNBS benchmarking exercise, the Committee has increased the annual base salaries of executive directors with effect from  
1 January 2010:
Performance-related annual bonus 
The Company operates bonus schemes for its executive directors and senior executives. Bonus payments are not pensionable. The 
2009 bonuses for executive directors were calculated by reference to the amount by which the income for the year, which is defined as 
the Group EBITDA for continuing operations before exceptional items and any charges or credits under IFRS2 ‘Share based payments’ 
less a notional interest charge on working capital employed during the year (the “2009 Income”), exceeded the income for 2008 
calculated on the same basis (the “base income”). Bonuses for 2009 are payable on a graduated scale once the 2009 Income exceeds 
the base income by inflation (defined as the harmonised index of consumer prices (CPI)), with maximum bonuses due at CPI plus 8%. 
Income is measured after providing for the cost of any bonuses. The target range set for 2010 is considered equally challenging to that 
set in prior years given the high base income that was delivered in 2009 and continuing uncertain economic conditions. The maximum 
bonuses due in 2010 have been set at CPI plus 11.35%. The Committee has the discretion to take safety, health and environmental 
performance into consideration in determining the overall level of individual bonus payments and can reduce the bonus award if it 
considers it appropriate to do so. 
The maximum amount of bonus payable to the executive directors is 100% of salary with the net element of any bonus in excess of 
50% of salary being compulsorily invested in the BCIP . Bonuses earned by each director in respect of 2009 are included in the table of 
directors’ remuneration on page 32 and represent 100% of basic salary, based on achievement in excess of the maximum bonus targets 
set at the start of the year. The maximum bonus opportunities have been set at these same levels for 2010. The performance targets 
will require out-performance of the 2009 Income before bonuses become eligible for payment. The Committee remains comfortable 
that the structure of the annual bonus does not encourage the pursuit of strategies that may involve inappropriate risk-taking and 
that the mandatory reinvestment of net bonuses in excess of 50% of salary into shares in any year is considered to strengthen further 
alignment with shareholders and foster a longer-term link between annual performance and reward.
Long-term incentives
Long-term incentives are provided to executive directors through two long-term incentive plans, the BCIP and the Croda International 
Long-term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”), which were both adopted in 2005. These replaced the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes 
(“ESOS”). It is the Committee’s policy, subject to unforeseen circumstances, that these will comprise the sole long-term elements of the 
total remuneration package of executive directors for the foreseeable future. It is also the Committee’s policy to continue exercising its 
right to decide the number of LTIP awards to be granted to each executive director subject to plan limits.
Executive director
Basic salary at  
31 December 2009 
Basic salary at  
1 January 2010 % increase
M Humphrey £546,000 £560,000 2.6
M S Christie £303,000 £309,500 2.1
Directors’ remuneration report 29
BCIP
The BCIP operates in conjunction with the annual bonus schemes and allows participants to invest a proportion of their net annual 
cash bonus in Company shares. Participants have to agree to hold the invested shares for three years in return for which they receive 
a conditional award entitling them to additional shares subject to the achievement of the BCIP’s performance condition. The maximum 
number of shares over which an award can be granted to an employee in a single year is limited to shares having a market value not 
exceeding 100% of the employee’s salary. The level of awards differ between participants, with executive directors and members of the 
Executive and Finance Committees receiving one matching share for each share invested whilst other participants receive two matching 
shares. It is compulsory for members of the former group, whose gross bonus could exceed 50% of their annual salary, to invest the 
excess over 50%, net of tax, in shares unless they are within three years of anticipated retirement date.
For the first awards which were made in 2006, the vesting of 100% of the award was conditional on Croda’s earnings per share before 
exceptional items exceeding CPI over the three year performance period. This performance condition was met. A revised performance 
condition adopted in 2007 for awards made after 2006 is structured to require the achievement of a challenging sliding scale of 
adjusted earnings per share growth (“EPS”) targets in excess of retail price inflation (“RPI”):
If the performance target is met the shares will be transferred to the employee. If the employee does not retain their invested shares 
until the release date their award lapses. It is intended that the same performance target will be applied to any BCIP awards made in 
2010 and the matching ratio will continue to remain at one matching share being awarded for each share purchased from net annual 
bonus for executive directors and members of the Group Executive and Finance Committees.
In view of the forthcoming increase to the marginal rate of income tax the Committee has accelerated vesting of the BCIP awards 
made on 26 April 2007 which would otherwise not vest until 26 April 2010. This will maintain a more beneficial tax treatment prior to 
the end of the current tax year (5 April 2010) for those executives affected by the tax rate increase. The extent of vesting is already 
established, as it is based on a three year performance period which ended on 31 December 2009. The rules of the BCIP scheme allow 
amendments for tax reasons without the requirement to obtain shareholder approval. This proposal formed part of the consultation 
with shareholders and was supported. However, to ensure that the interests of shareholders are protected, a formal claw-back 
agreement has been entered into which will operate for the period between early vesting and the normal vesting date.
LTIP
Participation in the LTIP is limited to executive directors and senior executives. Annual awards of shares are made based on varying 
percentages of salary with the maximum entitlement being shares having a market value of 100% of the employee’s salary. Awards are 
subject to performance conditions measured over a period of not less than three years. 
The target for awards made prior to 2007 was set so that awarded shares would vest if the growth in Croda’s EPS exceeded CPI plus 
3% each year over the three year performance period, with 50% vesting at this level and the maximum 100% vesting for performance 
of CPI plus 9% each year. For performance between these two levels, the awards would vest on a straight-line basis. The maximum 
performance target was met in respect of the 2005 and 2006 awards.
A revised performance condition for awards made from 2007 onwards is split into two separate parts, each with a separate 
performance condition. Half of any LTIP award will vest based on a condition measuring the Company’s relative total shareholder 
return (TSR) against the constituents of the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts). There are a limited number of direct competitors 
to Croda and the Committee was mindful of the dangers inherent in operating a relative TSR-based performance condition with 
a comparator group comprised of only a small number of companies. The FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) was, therefore, 
considered an appropriate comparator group by the Committee. Vesting will take place on the following sliding scale:
2006 Awards Post 2006 Awards
Adjusted EPS growth over the 
three year period
Proportion of award vesting Adjusted EPS growth over the 
three year period
Proportion of award vesting
Less than CPI No vesting Less than RPI + 12% No vesting
CPI 100% RPI + 12% 30%
RPI + 24% 100%
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points
Rank of the Company’s TSR against the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) Vesting % (TSR part)
Below median 0%
Median 30%
Upper quartile 100%
Between median and upper quartile 30% - 100% pro rata
Directors’ remuneration report 30
Directors’ remuneration report
The remaining half of the awards vest based on the same EPS growth condition that is set for the BCIP , with 30% of this part of the 
award vesting for EPS growth of RPI + 12%, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for EPS growth of RPI + 24%.
If the performance target is met, the shares will be transferred to the employee. Awards made in 2010 will remain in line with awards 
made in 2009 for executive directors in terms of the quantum of awards (expressed as a multiple of salary) and the performance 
targets. The Committee believes that this is entirely appropriate given the strong trading performance delivered in 2009, Croda’s share 
price growth during the course of a turbulent year for global stock markets and the need to retain and motivate the highly performing 
and well regarded management team.
Senior Executive Share Option Schemes
Following the adoption of the BCIP and the LTIP , the operation of the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes has been discontinued 
except in relation to options already granted. The only options now outstanding were granted between 2000 and 2003. The options 
were granted subject to performance conditions which required basic EPS before exceptional items to grow at RPI plus 7% per annum 
over the performance period for 100% of the options granted to be exercisable. The performance conditions have been satisfied in full. 
Mike Humphrey is the only director who holds these options and details of his options are shown in the table on page 34. 
It is the Company’s current intention to satisfy awards under the BCIP and the LTIP and the exercise of share options primarily from 
shares held in the Employee Share Ownership Trust, treasury shares and shares purchased in the market and not by the issue of new 
shares. Details of shares held for this purpose are given in note 25 on page 79. 
Share ownership policy
The Company has adopted share ownership guidelines which apply to all executive directors and members of the Group Executive 
Committee and the Group Finance Committee. Executives are required to build up a target shareholding of shares with a market value 
equivalent to 100% of salary from time to time through a combination of share purchases and the retention of incentive shares. On the 
exercise of SAYE and executive share options or the vesting of LTIP and/or BCIP awards, executives are required to retain shares from 
the shares awarded representing 50% of the net of tax gain until the target is met or exceeded. The target is expected to be reached 
within five years. Both executive directors have holdings well in excess of the target shareholdings.
Pension and other benefits 
Croda has a number of different pension plans in the countries in which it operates. Pension entitlements for Croda’s executives are 
tailored to local market practice, the length of service and age of the participants. The principal pension plans in the UK are defined 
benefit schemes which provide a pension based on a proportion of final salary. The Company is flexible in the manner in which pension 
provision is made for executive directors with the aim of balancing the needs of the director against the liability of the Company. Hence, 
it makes contributions by direct contribution to the Croda defined benefit pension scheme or by way of a cash supplement in lieu of 
pension benefits to enable the funding of personal pension arrangements. 
Other customary benefits such as company cars or car allowances, health benefits, the UK SAYE Scheme and the Croda Share Incentive 
Plan (which are available to all eligible UK employees), are made available to executive directors. Benefits in kind are not pensionable. 
The Committee reviews the individual components and the balance of these components from time to time.
Components of senior executives’ remuneration
There are nine members of the Group Executive Committee and Finance Committee in addition to the two executive directors. The 
reward structure for these senior executives is broadly similar to that of the executive directors although there are some differences in 
LTIP participation.
Service contracts and external appointments
Policy
The Committee’s policy on executive directors’ service contracts is for them to contain a maximum notice period of one year. In 
respect of termination, the Committee’s policy is to deal with each case on its merits, in accordance with the law and any further policy 
adopted by the Committee at the time. In the event of early termination, other than for cause, the relevant director’s then current 
salary and contractual benefits would be taken into account in calculating any liability of the Company. For clarification, the Company’s 
policy is that no entitlement to unearned bonus will be taken into account when determining payments on early termination. 
The principal contractual benefits provided in addition to salary are the provision of a car, pension, medical insurance and life assurance. 
Annual bonuses and long-term incentives are non-contractual and are dealt with in accordance with the rules of the relevant schemes.
2005 & 2006 Awards Post 2006 Awards
Adjusted EPS growth over the 
three year period
Proportion of award vesting 
(EPS part)
Adjusted EPS growth over the 
three year period
Proportion of award vesting 
(EPS part)
Less than CPI + 9% No vesting Less than RPI + 12% No vesting
CPI + 9% 50% RPI + 12% 30%
CPI + 21% 100% RPI + 24% 100%
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points Straight-line vesting occurs between these points
Directors’ remuneration report 31
Specific contracts
Mike Humphrey entered into a new service contract on 21 December 2005 which is terminable by the Company on one year’s notice 
and by Mike Humphrey on six months’ notice. The Company may also terminate the contract at any time with immediate effect and 
Mike Humphrey would be entitled to receive compensation equivalent to twelve months’ salary plus the value of his pension benefits 
(valued at 20% of basic salary), bonus entitlement (50% based on the assumption that performance targets are deemed to have been 
achieved) and the value of other benefits, payable in equal monthly instalments for twelve months or, if less, the remaining period of any 
notice period not yet completed. Such payments would discontinue or reduce to the extent that he obtained alternative employment 
(i.e. any such payments would be phased and subject to mitigation to the extent that any alternative employment was commenced).
The Committee has engaged with its major institutional investors (and shareholder protection bodies) on the issue of the Chief 
Executive’s legacy contract during the year under review. The Committee is aware of the recommendations of the 2008 joint ABI and 
NAPF statement (and the more recent NAPF policy update) but has not felt it appropriate to seek to renegotiate the terms of this 
contract at a time when the Chief Executive has presided over a sustained period of very strong performance, over a matter which 
is a legacy issue. As noted above, the contracts of any future executive director appointments, as a matter of policy, would not include 
provisions on termination for any unearned bonus and, indeed, the Committee is committed to setting future contracts after having due 
regard to current and emerging best practice guidelines in this area. 
Sean Christie has a service contract dated 15 December 2006 with substantially the same terms as those of Mike Humphrey’s contract 
except that there is no entitlement to bonus on termination by the Company with immediate effect. 
External appointments
Executive directors are permitted to accept external non-executive appointments with the prior approval of the Board. It is normal 
practice for executive directors to retain fees provided for non-executive appointments. During the year Sean Christie was a non-
executive director of Cherry Valley Farms Limited for which he received fees of £25,000. 
Apart from service agreements and share schemes, no director has had any material interest in any contract with the Company or its 
subsidiaries requiring disclosure under the Companies Act 2006.
Policy on non-executive directors’ remuneration
The Board is responsible for determining the policy on, and level of, the remuneration of non-executive directors. The aim is to attract 
non-executive directors who through their experience can further the interests of the Company through their stewardship and 
contribution to strategic development. The Board’s policy is to provide cash fees at a level commensurate with companies of Croda’s 
size, not to grant share options to non-executive directors and to encourage non-executive directors to establish a holding of Croda 
shares.
Components of non-executive directors’ remuneration
Non-executives’ pay comprises cash fees, paid monthly. All non-executive directors are reimbursed for travel and related business 
expenses reasonably incurred in performing their duties. Non-executive directors’ fees are determined on the basis of current fee levels 
in similar businesses and are reviewed by the Board at least every two years.
The Chairman’s fees are determined by the Remuneration Committee and since 1 January 2009 these have been £153,000. The fees 
of the remaining non-executive directors are determined by the Chairman and the executive directors. Since 1 January 2009 the 
basic annual fee for a non-executive director has been £41,000, with an additional £6,000 for chairing a committee and the Senior 
Independent Director receiving an additional £3,000. 
T erms of appointment
The Chairman and non-executive directors have letters of appointment for an initial fixed term of three years subject to earlier 
termination by either party on written notice. In each case, this term can be extended by mutual agreement. They have no entitlement 
to contractual termination payments. The dates of their initial appointments are set out below:
Original appointment date
M C Flower 16 May 2005
M C Buzzacott 2 August 2004
S Musesengwa 7 May 2007
P N N Turner 1 June 2009
Directors’ remuneration report 32
Directors’ remuneration report
T otal shareholder return: Croda International vs FTSE 250
In the opinion of the directors the FTSE 250 is the most appropriate index against which the total shareholder return of the Company 
should be measured because it is an index of similar sized companies to Croda International Plc.
Section 2: Audited information
Directors’ remuneration
Notes
1 † Highest paid director
2 Benefits incorporate all assessable tax benefits arising from employment by the Company and relate in the main to the provision of a company car, fuel  
 allowances and private medical insurance.
3 The bonuses shown relate to the year ended 31 December 2009.
Basic
salary
£
Bonus
£
Benefits
£
Fees
£
2009
T otal
£
2008
T otal
£
M Humphrey† 546,000 546,000 30,003 – 1,122,003 1,068,812
M S Christie 303,000 303,000 18,033 – 624,033 582,609
M C Flower – – – 153,504 153,504 140,504
M C Buzzacott – – – 49,000 49,000 42,500
S Musesengwa – – – 45,000 45,000 37,500
P N N Turner  
(appointed 1 June 2009) – – – 23,919 23,919 –
D M Dunn  
(resigned 29 April 2009) – – – 16,667 16,667 45,000
849,000 849,000 48,036 288,090 2,034,126 1,916,925
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
31/12/2004 31/12/2005
FTSE 250 Croda International
Date
31/12/2006 31/12/2007 31/12/2008 31/12/2009
350
T otal Shareholder Return (Rebased)
Directors’ remuneration report 33
Pension rights 
Prior to 6 April 2006, Mike Humphrey accrued pension benefits under the Croda International Supplemental Scheme (“CISS”). He 
will be entitled on retirement at age 60 to a pension equal to his accrued pension at 5 April 2006 (accrued at a rate of two-thirds of 
his annual pensionable remuneration as at 5 April 2006, pro-rated by the ratio of his actual service accrued prior to 5 April 2006 and 
prospective service to age 60), increased to age 60 at the rate which applies to all preserved pensions in the CISS. If Mike Humphrey 
retires before age 60 a reduced pension is payable unless retiring at the Company’s request. In the event of death, a pension equal to 
two-thirds of the director’s pension would become payable to his surviving spouse. Mike Humphrey’s pension in payment is guaranteed 
to increase in line with the rate of inflation up to a maximum of 10% per annum. During 2009, Mike Humphrey was paid £109,200 
(2008: £104,004) in addition to his basic salary to enable him to make independent provision for his retirement.
Sean Christie accrues pension benefits under the CISS with an accrual rate of 1/60th and an entitlement to retire at age 65. If Sean 
Christie retires before age 65 a reduced pension is payable unless retiring at the Company’s request. In the event of death, a pension 
equal to 50% of the director’s pension would become payable to his surviving spouse. Sean Christie’s pension in payment is guaranteed 
to increase in line with the rate of inflation up to a maximum of 2.5% per annum. 
Both Mike Humphrey and Sean Christie are also entitled to death in service benefits from the CISS.
Defined benefit schemes
Notes
1 The figures shown represent: the amount of annual pension benefits based on service to, and pensionable earnings at, 5 April 2006 for Mike Humphrey (with  
 standard preserved increases to 31 December 2009); and the amount of annual pension benefits which would have been preserved for Sean Christie had he left  
 service on 31 December 2009, based on service to, and pensionable earnings at, that date.
2 The figure represents the difference between the total accrued pension at 31 December 2009 and the corresponding pension at the beginning of the year.
3 The figure represents the difference between the total accrued pension at 31 December 2009 and the corresponding pension at the beginning of the year after  
 an adjustment to exclude inflation was provided as required under paragraph 9.8.8 (12) (a) of the Listing Rules.
4 Transfer values are quoted on the basis recommended by the scheme actuary for valuation of accrued benefits if the member had transferred benefits to another  
 approved scheme on the relevant date. The increase in transfer value between 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2009 takes account of changes in  
 market conditions over the period. 
5 The figure represents the difference between transfer values of the accrued benefits at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008, less contributions paid by  
 the director.
6 The figure represents the transfer value of the increase in accrued benefits over the period, adjusted for inflation, less contributions paid by the director.
7 Following the change to the basis for the calculation of cash equivalent transfer values reported last year, the trustee of the CISS amended the basis further with  
 effect from December 2009. In the light of changes in market conditions, and based on actuarial advice, the trustee of the CISS amended the basis by reducing  
 the assumed discount rate by 0.5% p.a. In addition, the mortality assumptions were updated to allow for expected improvements in life expectancy. In the case of  
 Mike Humphrey, the transfer value figure as at 31 December 2009 would have been around 10% lower, reflecting the fact that Mike Humphrey is closer to the  
 age at which his pension is payable on an unreduced basis. In the case of Sean Christie, the transfer value figure as at 31 December 2009 would have been around  
 30% lower if the basis had not been amended. 
Members of the CISS have the option to pay voluntary contributions. Neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included 
in this table.
Accrued 
pension at 
31.12.09
1
£000
Increase 
in accrued 
pension 
during the 
year
2
£000
Increase 
in accrued 
pension 
during 
the year 
(excluding 
inflation)
3
£000
Transfer  
value of 
accrued 
pension at 
31.12.08
4
£000
Transfer  
value of 
accrued 
pension at 
31.12.09
4, 7
£000
Increase in 
transfer value 
over the 
year
5, 7
£000
Transfer 
value of the 
increase in 
the accrued 
pension
6, 7
£000
M Humphrey 281 13 7 5,438 7,443 2,005 184
M S Christie 16 6 5 90 180 72 40
Directors’ remuneration report 34
Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests at 31 December 2009 of the directors of the Company and their families in the shares of the Company are:
Mike Humphrey has an interest in 100 7.5% preference shares but no other director had any interest in the 5.9%, 6.6% or 7.5% 
preference shares of the Company.
† The BCIP shares comprise 115,137 shares invested by the directors (2008: 79,017) and 115,137 shares which are the subject of conditional awards  
 (2008: 79,017).
†† The SIP shares comprise 3,058 Partnership shares (2008: 2,552) and 3,058 Matching shares (2008: 2,552).
Share options
Options are granted over ordinary shares of 10p each under the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes and the Savings-Related 
Share Option Scheme.
Senior executive share options 
Mike Humphrey is the only director who holds options under the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes and details of his options are 
set out below:
None of the terms and conditions of the share options were varied during the year. All performance conditions attaching to the share 
options have been satisfied. 
SAYE share options
Employees are customarily invited to participate in a Save As Y ou Earn Share Option Scheme once a year. Prior to 2006, the savings 
contract was traditionally for five years but since that time a three year savings contract has been offered. The option price is the value 
of ordinary shares at date of grant discounted by 20%. Options are normally exercisable for a six month period following completion of 
the savings contract.
Date of grant Earliest exercise date Exercise price
Number at  
1 January 2009 
(10p shares) Exercised in year
Number at  
31 December 2009  
(10p shares)
M Humphrey
22 March 2000 22 March 2003 256p 109,300 109,300 -
5 March 2003 5 March 2006 230p 150,000 - 150,000
259,300 109,300 150,000
Date of grant Earliest exercise date Expiry date
Exercise 
price
Number at  
1 January 2009 
(10p shares)
Exercised 
in year
Granted 
in year
Number at  
31 December 2009  
(10p shares)
M Humphrey
22 September 2005 1 November 2010 30 April 2011 328p 1,410 - - 1,410
18 September 2006 1 November 2009 30 April 2010 384p 973 973 - -
16 September 2008 1 November 2011 30 April 2012 509p 590 - - 590
15 September 2009 1 November 2012 30 April 2013 533p - - 681 681
2,973 973 681 2,681
M S Christie
18 September 2006 1 November 2009 30 April 2010 384p 2,434 2,434 - -
15 September 2009 1 November 2012 30 April 2013 533p - - 1,702 1,702
2,434 2,434 1,702 1,702
At 31 December 2009 At 1 January 2009
Ordinary
shares
BCIP†
ordinary 
shares
Executive
options
SAYE
options
SIP††
ordinary
shares LTIP
Ordinary
shares
BCIP† 
ordinary 
shares
Executive
options
SAYE
options
SIP††
ordinary
shares LTIP
M Humphrey 262,075 110,260 150,000 2,681 4,776 290,487 164,623 99,550 259,300 2,973 4,270 271,289
M S Christie - 120,014 - 1,702 1,340 115,703 - 58,484 - 2,434 834 94,885
M C Flower 22,925 - - - - - 21,579 - - - -
M C Buzzacott 10,000 - - - - - 9,500 - - - - -
S Musesengwa 15,000 - - - - - 15,000 - - - - -
P N N Turner  
(appointed  
1 June 2009)
15,000 - - - - - - - - - - -
Directors’ remuneration report 35
LTIP
Details of awards made under the Croda LTIP are set out below:
* Award price is based on the average mid-market price of a Croda ordinary share for the first 30 dealing days of the financial year in which the award is made.
Gains made on exercise of share options and LTIPs
The gains are calculated according to the market price of Croda International Plc ordinary shares of 10p each on the date of exercise, 
although the shares may have been retained.
The market price of the Company’s shares at 31 December 2009 was 800p and the range of market prices during the year was 
between 456.5p and 805p. 
Date of grant
Award price*
(£)  Earliest vesting date
Market price 
at date of 
award
Number at  
1 January 2009 
(10p shares)
Exercised 
in year
Granted 
in year
Number at  
31 December 2009  
(10p shares)
M Humphrey
23 February 2006 4.6965 23 February 2009 496p 89,428 89,428 - -
22 February 2007 5.9273 22 February 2010 663p 78,451 - - 78,451
20 February 2008 5.0285 20 February 2011 604p 103,410 - - 103,410
18 February 2009 5.0264 18 February 2012 509p - - 108,626 108,626
271,289 89,428 108,626 290,487
M S Christie
26 April 2006 4.6965 26 April 2009 495p 24,393 24,393 - -
22 February 2007 5.9273 22 February 2010 663p 28,731 - - 28,731
20 February 2008 5.0285 20 February 2011 604p 41,761 - - 41,761
18 February 2009 5.0264 18 February 2012 509p - - 45,211 45,211
94,885 24,393 45,211 115,703
Exercise date Shares exercised Scheme Exercise price Market price 
Gain  
(before tax) £ 
M Humphrey 30 April 2009 89,428 LTIP NIL 544p 486,488.32
30 April 2009 23,012 BCIP NIL 544p 125,185.28
2 November 2009 973 SAYE 384p 758p 3,639.02
2 November 2009 109,300 ESOS 256p 758p 548,686.00
1,163,998.62
M S Christie 30 April 2009 24,393 LTIP NIL 544p 132,697.92
30 November 2009 2,434 SAYE 384p 744.5p 8,774.57
141,472.49
Directors’ remuneration report
BCIP
Details of the awards made under the Croda BCIP are set out below:
Date of grant Earliest vesting date
Market price at 
date of award
Number at  
1 January 2009 
(10p shares)
Granted 
during the 
year
Released 
during the 
year
Number at  
31 December 2009  
(10p shares)
M Humphrey
26 April 2006 26 April 2009 495p 23,012 - 23,012 -
26 April 2007 26 April 2010 633p 4,857 - - 4,857
1 May 2008   1 May 2011 696.5p 21,886 - - 21,886
30 April 2009 30 April 2012 544p - 28,567 - 28,567
49,755 28,567 23,012 55,310
M S Christie
26 April 2007 26 April 2010 633p 7,692 - - 7,692
1 May 2008   1 May 2011   696.5p 21,550 - - 21,550
30 April 2009 30 April 2012 544p - 30,765 - 30,765
29,242 30,765 - 60,007 36
Directors’ remuneration report
Share Incentive Plan
Mike Humphrey and Sean Christie participate in the plan which, as a HMRC approved arrangement, is offered to all employees on the 
same terms. They each save the maximum of £125 per month permitted under the regulations. Matching shares are allocated on a one 
for one basis for each Partnership share purchased by the employee. Shares are purchased on a monthly basis. During the year Mike 
Humphrey and Sean Christie each purchased 253 Partnership shares and were allocated 253 Matching shares. The average purchase 
price was 606.35p.
Since 31 December 2009 Mike Humphrey and Sean Christie have each purchased 31 Partnership shares and have been awarded a 
corresponding number of Matching shares under the SIP at an average price of 817p per share. Otherwise there has been no change in 
the directors’ interests in shares or options granted by the Company between the end of the financial year and 23 February 2010.
On behalf of the Board
S Musesengwa 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
23 February 2010
Directors’ remuneration report 37
Corporate governance
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and to complying with the provisions of The Financial Reporting 
Council’s Combined Code on Corporate Governance (“the Code”) where practicable. This statement, together with the directors’ 
remuneration report, set out on pages 27 to 36, describes how the relevant principles of governance set out in the 2008 version of the 
Code are applied to the Company. 
The Board
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the overall leadership of the Company and in this role it assists in the development of a 
clear strategy for the Group, monitors operational and financial performance against agreed goals and objectives and ensures that 
appropriate controls and systems are in place to manage risk. It comprises the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance 
Director and three independent non-executive directors who have a range of business, financial and international skills and experience. 
This provides an appropriate balance within the Board. Biographical notes appear on pages 22 and 23. The Chairman and the Group 
Chief Executive have written accountabilities that have been approved by the Board.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it and this is posted on the Company’s website (www.croda.com). 
The Chairman and non-executive directors meet together without the executive directors present on an ad hoc basis and the non-
executive directors meet at least annually in the absence of the Chairman in order to appraise his performance. In addition to formal 
Board meetings, the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive meet on a regular basis. 
All members of the Board have full access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. Where necessary the directors may 
take independent professional advice at the Company’s expense. Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect 
of liabilities incurred as a result of their positions to the extent permitted by law. In addition the Company maintained directors’ and 
officers’ liability insurance cover throughout the year.
Training and briefings are available to all directors on appointment and subsequently, as appropriate, taking into account their existing 
experience, qualifications and skills. In order to build and increase the non-executive directors’ familiarity with, and understanding of, the 
Group’s people and businesses and the markets in which it operates, presentations from senior managers are made at Board meetings 
on a regular basis. The Board also usually holds at least one Board meeting a year at a Croda operating site. This year the Board held 
one meeting at Ditton in the UK and also one in the USA during a visit to our two manufacturing sites at Atlas Point and Mill Hall 
and the USA headquarters and technology centre at Edison. These visits allow the non-executives to tour the sites and observe the 
operations at first hand as well as providing the opportunity to meet the local management and employees and gain their insight into 
the business. Non-executive directors also undertake site visits on an individual basis. 
Attendance at meetings
Details of the attendance by directors at the AGM, meetings of the Board and the Board committees on which they are eligible to sit 
are set out below: 
† Attended by invitation
In addition to the formal Board meetings, all the directors attended a half day meeting to review the Group’s strategy. They also met 
with the Company’s financial and public relations advisers to discuss the feedback from investors and analysts to the Group’s 2008 
annual results. 
Re-election of directors
The Company’s Articles of Association require the directors to offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years. At this 
year’s AGM, Nigel Turner will be standing for election for the first time following his appointment in June 2009 and Mike Humphrey and 
Sean Christie will be retiring under Article 85 and offering themselves for re-election. Further details about the directors are given in the 
notice of the AGM which is in a separate document issued to shareholders with the annual report. 
Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee
Eligible to 
attend Attended
Eligible to 
attend Attended
Eligible to 
attend Attended
Eligible to 
attend Attended
M C Flower 9 8 6 6 5 5 - 3†
M C Buzzacott 9 9 6 6 5 5 3 3
D M Dunn  
(resigned 29 April 2009) 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1
S Musesengwa 9 9 6 6 5 5 3 3
P N N Turner  
(appointed 1 June 2009) 5 5 4 4 3 3 2 2
M Humphrey 9 9 6 6 - 5† - 3†
M S Christie 9 9 - - - - - 3†
Corporate governance 38
Corporate governance
Conflicts of interest
The Board has an established process for declaring and monitoring actual and potential conflicts. The Articles of Association of the 
Company allow the non-conflicted members of the Board to authorise a conflict or potential conflict situation. No conflicts were 
identified or authorised during the year.
Non-executive directors 
Croda complies with the Code in having experienced non-executive directors who represent a source of strong independent advice 
and judgement. At present there are four such directors, including the Chairman and the senior independent director, Michael Buzzacott, 
each of whom has significant commercial experience. Their understanding of the Group’s operations is enhanced by regular business 
presentations and by site visits.
The non-executive Chairman was independent on his appointment in 2005 but, as Chairman, is not classified as independent. The issue 
of independence in relation to the other non-executive directors was considered specifically when Nigel Turner joined the Board, as 
both he and Michael Buzzacott are non-executive directors of Genus Plc. The Board did not consider that these roles would affect their 
judgement in relation to Croda and its business and therefore, it is the Board’s opinion that all the non-executive directors who have 
served during the year are independent in character and judgement with no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or 
could appear to affect, their judgement.
In order that David Dunn could attend the 2009 AGM and be available to report to shareholders in his capacity as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee he remained in office for approximately one week beyond the end of his nine year term. Otherwise, during 
2009 no non-executive director or the Chairman had served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first 
election. 
Details of the professional commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are included in their biographies on pages 22 
and 23. The Board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the performance of their respective duties to the Company.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors can be inspected during normal business hours at the Company’s 
registered office by contacting the Company Secretary and are available at the AGM.
Board committees
The Board has three main committees which are established by Board resolution and each has written terms of reference which can be 
found on the Group’s website (www.croda.com). 
Audit Committee 
Michael Buzzacott (Chairman) 
Stanley Musesengwa 
Nigel Turner
The Audit Committee, which consists of all the non-executive directors other than the Chairman, meets at least three times a year to 
coincide with key dates in the Company’s financial reporting cycle. Following David Dunn’s retirement from the Board in April 2009, the 
Committee temporarily comprised two independent non-executive directors rather than the three recommended by the Code. This 
situation was rectified with the appointment of Nigel Turner in June 2009. No meetings took place in the intervening period.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Committee members has the relevant financial and accounting experience to enable them 
to contribute to the Committee’s work. The Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, 
the Group Risk and Control Manager and representatives from the external and internal auditors attend meetings by invitation. The 
chairman of the Audit Committee holds independent meetings with the Group Risk and Control Manager and also with the external 
auditors. 
The Committee’s remit is to assist the Board to fulfil its responsibility for ensuring that the Group’s financial systems provide accurate 
and up to date information on its financial position and that the Group’s published financial statements represent a true and fair 
reflection of this position. As part of its normal responsibilities the Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the 
Company. This includes reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the statements and the consistency 
of, and any changes to, accounting policies. In addition it is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the Company’s internal 
controls and risk management systems including that of the Company’s internal audit function in the context of the Company’s overall 
risk management system. It reviews and assesses the annual internal audit plan and all reports on the Company from the internal 
auditors and agrees the annual audit plan with the external auditors and reviews the findings of the audit and the interim review with 
the external auditors.
During the year the Committee Members also:
n 	 received reports and presentations concerning key specific risks identified by the Risk Management Committee 
n 	 monitored compliance with the Group risk management programme 
n 	 revised the Group fraud policy as part of its remit to review the Company’s procedures for detecting fraud and monitor internal  
 controls 
n 	 revised the internal audit charter which sets out the framework in which the internal audit function provides services to the Group  
 and reports to the Committee. 
Corporate governance 39
Audit independence
The Committee and the Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the Group’s external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP (“PwC”), in their reporting to shareholders. The PwC audit partner is present at all Audit Committee meetings to ensure full 
communication of matters relating to the audit.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, 
and feedback is provided to senior members of PwC unrelated to the audit. This activity also forms part of PwC’s own system of quality 
control.
The scope of the forthcoming year’s audit is discussed in advance by the Audit Committee. Audit fees are reviewed by the Committee 
and then referred to the Board for approval. The rotation of audit partners’ responsibilities within PwC, as required by their profession’s 
ethical standards, is actively encouraged and has taken place.
Assignments awarded to PwC have been, and are, subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Committee so that 
audit independence is not compromised. The chairman of the Audit Committee is required to give prior approval of work carried out 
by PwC and its associates in excess of predetermined thresholds; part of this review is to determine that other potential providers of 
the services have been adequately considered.
These controls provide the Committee with adequate confidence in the independence of PwC in their reporting on the audit of the 
Group.
Remuneration Committee 
Stanley Musesengwa (Chairman) 
Michael Buzzacott 
Martin Flower  
Nigel Turner
The Remuneration Committee, which consists of non-executive directors, is responsible for advising on remuneration policy for senior 
executives and for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors and the Chairman. The Group Chief Executive is 
normally invited to attend all its meetings. Following David Dunn’s retirement from the Board in April 2009, the Committee temporarily 
comprised two independent non-executive directors rather than the three recommended by the Code. This situation was rectified with 
the appointment of Nigel Turner in June 2009. No meetings took place in the intervening period.
The terms of reference of the Committee are posted on the Company’s website (www.croda.com). Further details of the Committee’s 
activities during the year can be found in the directors’ remuneration report set out on pages 27 to 36 . A resolution will be proposed 
at the AGM to approve the report.
Nomination Committee 
Martin Flower (Chairman) 
Michael Buzzacott  
Mike Humphrey  
Stanley Musesengwa 
Nigel Turner
The Nomination Committee consists of the non-executive directors and the Group Chief Executive and is responsible for nominating, 
for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board and succession planning. It meets on an ad hoc basis and its terms 
of reference are posted on the Company’s website (www.croda.com). 
The Committee concluded the search for a new non-executive director to replace David Dunn on his retirement and Nigel Turner was 
appointed on 1 June 2009. 
During the year the Committee maintained its focus on the development of the senior management team. It also built on the work 
carried out last year in relation to the layer of management below Board and Group Executive/Finance Committee level by reviewing 
a succession planning exercise carried out with the aim of identifying employees within the Group with the potential to become senior 
executives. 
The Committee carried out its customary corporate governance review and was satisfied that the size, structure and composition 
of the Board and the required time commitment from non-executive directors remained appropriate and that all the non-executive 
directors continued to fulfil the criteria of independence and were able to commit the required time for the proper performance of 
their duties.
Corporate governance 40
Corporate governance
Board and committee evaluation
The annual self evaluation exercise was carried out under the supervision of the Chairman to arrive at an assessment of the 
effectiveness of the Board, the Chairman and each of the committees. The exercise employed a questionnaire completed by each 
Board member. A summary of the results was then presented to the Board for discussion. The Chairman also discussed the comments 
separately with individual directors as part of their own appraisals. The senior independent director discussed the Chairman’s 
performance with the other non-executive directors before feeding back comments to the Chairman. The outcome will be a continuing 
focus during 2010 on succession planning for, and the development of, senior personnel. 
Other committees
The management of the business is delegated by the Board to the Group Chief Executive. He utilises a series of committees to assist 
him in this task.
Group Executive Committee 
Mike Humphrey (Chairman) - Group Chief Executive 
Sean Christie - Group Finance Director 
David Barraclough - President – Asia Pacific 
Miguel De Bellis - President – Latin America 
Bryan Dobson - President – Global Operations 
Steve Foots - President – Consumer Care Europe 
Kevin Gallagher - President – North America 
Keith Layden - President – Actives & Enterprise Technology 
Kevin Nutbrown - President – Industrial Specialities Europe 
Louise Scott - Company Secretary & Legal Counsel
The Group Executive Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the heads of regional 
business and operational functions. It meets quarterly and its remit is responsibility for the development and implementation of strategy, 
operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets, the monitoring of operating and financial performance, the assessment and control 
of risk and the prioritisation and allocation of resources. 
Finance Committee
The Finance Committee meets monthly to review monthly operating results, identify operational and risk issues and examine capital 
expenditure proposals. Its members are:
Mike Humphrey (Chairman) - Group Chief Executive 
Sean Christie - Group Finance Director 
Graham Myers - Group Financial Controller/Treasurer  
Bryan Dobson - President – Global Operations
Risk Management Committee
Sean Christie (Chairman) - Group Finance Director 
David Barraclough - President – Asia Pacific 
Miguel De Bellis - President – Latin America 
Bryan Dobson - President – Global Operations 
Steve Foots - President – Consumer Care Europe 
Kevin Gallagher - President – North America 
Keith Layden - President – Actives & Enterprise Technology 
Graham Myers - Group Financial Controller/Treasurer  
Kevin Nutbrown - President – Industrial Specialities Europe 
Louise Scott - Company Secretary & Legal Counsel
The Risk Management Committee includes all members of the Group Executive Committee and the Finance Committee other than 
the Group Chief Executive. Its role is to evaluate, propose policies and monitor processes to control the business, operational and 
compliance risks faced by the Group. It normally meets four times a year. 
Routine Business Committee 
The Routine Business Committee comprises the two executive directors with the Company Secretary and Group Financial Controller 
acting as alternates. The Committee may make decisions with one executive director and the alternate for the other executive director 
being present. It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed 
previously by the Board or the Group Executive Committee. 
Corporate governance 41
Investor relations
The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders. The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director maintain regular contact with major shareholders and they ensure that their views are communicated to the Board as a whole 
through the reporting of feedback from shareholder meetings and the provision of brokers’ reports. The Board invites the Company’s 
brokers and financial public relations advisers to attend at least one meeting each year at which the economic and investment 
environment, Croda’s performance, both generally, and in comparison with its sector peers, and investor reaction are discussed. The 
senior independent director and other non-executive directors are available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested. 
However, no such meetings were requested during the year.
The AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders to raise questions with the members of the Board. The directors are also 
available to answer questions after the meeting in a more informal setting. The annual report and accounts including Notice of AGM are 
sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting. There is a separate investor relations section on the Company’s 
website (www.croda.com) which includes, amongst other items, presentations made to analysts.
Internal control 
The Code principle C.2.1 on internal control requires the directors to conduct, at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of 
the Group’s system of internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls, and report to the 
shareholders that they have done so. In accordance with the Turnbull guidance (2005) and in order to discharge this responsibility, the 
directors have utilised an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility, and delegated authority. 
In particular there are clear procedures and defined authorities to act for: 
n 	 capital investment, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review  
n 	 financial reporting, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework  
n 	 comprehensive monitoring and quantification of business risks, under the direction of the Risk Management Committee. 
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and has 
reviewed its operational effectiveness throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the annual report using a process 
which involves:
n 	 written confirmations from relevant senior executives and divisional directors concerning the operation of those elements of the  
 system for which they are responsible  
n 	 internal audit work carried out by Deloitte & T ouche LLP who report to the Audit Committee 
n 	 reports from the external auditors. 
Such a system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable but 
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Going concern 
The Group’s activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief 
Executive’s review and the financial position of the Company, its cashflows and liquidity are described in the Financial review.
The financial statements, which appear on pages 44 to 89, have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate 
enquiries, including a review of forecasts, strategic plans and banking facilities, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Compliance
The information contained in this report demonstrates that, apart from the temporary and minor deviations resulting from the 
gap between the retirement of David Dunn and the appointment of Nigel Turner, the Company has complied fully with the Code 
throughout 2009. 
Corporate governance 42
Corporate governance
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the annual report, the directors’ remuneration report and the financial 
statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors’ remuneration report and the Group and the Company 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors have prepared 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union, and the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors have also elected to 
comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The Group and Company financial statements are 
required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group 
for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:
n 	 select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently; 
n 	 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;  
n 	 state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the Company  
 financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and  
 explained in the financial statements; and 
n 	 prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Company will continue in  
 business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements and the directors’ 
remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose details are set out on pages 22 to 23 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
n 	 the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view  
 of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and 
n 	 the Chief Executive’s review on pages 4 to 11 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the  
 position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board
Louise Scott 
Company Secretary 
23 February 2010
Corporate governance 43
Group independent auditors’ report
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Croda International Plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprises 
the Group income statement, Group statement of comprehensive income and expense, Group balance sheet, Group statement of 
changes in equity, Group statement of cash flows, Group cash flow notes, the Accounting policies and the related notes. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 42, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the 
Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for, and only for, the Company’s members as a body in accordance with  
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the Group financial statements: 
n 	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then  
 ended;  
n 	 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and  
n 	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
n 	 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is  
 consistent with the Group financial statements; and 
n 	 the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on page 42 with respect to internal control and risk  
 management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
n 	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or  
n 	 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
n 	 a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
n 	 the directors’ statement, set out on page 42, in relation to going concern; and  
n 	 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008  
 Combined Code specified for our review. 
Other matters
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended  
31 December 2009 and on the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
Steve Denison (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Leeds 
26 February 2010
Group independent auditors’ report 44
Group income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Group statement of comprehensive income and expense
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Note 2009  
£m
2009  
£m
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
2008  
£m
2008  
£m
Before 
exceptional 
items
Exceptional 
items T otal
Before 
exceptional 
items
Exceptional 
items T otal
Continuing operations
Revenue 1 916.2 - 916.2 911.1 - 911.1 
Cost of sales (680.0) (17.2) (697.2) (698.7) - (698.7)
Gross profit 236.2 (17.2) 219.0 212.4 - 212.4 
Net operating expenses 2, 3 (116.3) - (116.3) (99.8) - (99.8)
Operating profit 1 119.9 (17.2) 102.7 112.6 - 112.6 
Financial expenses 4 (15.7) - (15.7) (25.5) - (25.5)
Financial income 4 2.2 - 2.2 9.2 - 9.2 
Profit before tax 106.4 (17.2) 89.2 96.3 - 96.3 
Tax 5 (34.6) 2.1 (32.5) (31.5) - (31.5)
Profit after tax from  
continuing operations 71.8 (15.1) 56.7 64.8 - 64.8 
Profit after tax from  
discontinued operations 7 (3.7) (29.0) (32.7) 5.0 (8.6) (3.6)
Profit for the year 3 68.1 (44.1) 24.0 69.8 (8.6) 61.2 
Attributable to:
Minority interest 0.2 0.2 
Equity shareholders 23.8 61.0 
24.0 61.2 
Earnings per 10p share Pence per 
share
Pence per 
share
Basic
T otal 8 17.6 45.3 
Continuing operations 8 41.8 48.0
Diluted
T otal 8 17.3 44.6 
Continuing operations 8 41.1 47.2
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Profit for the year 24.0 61.2 
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:
Currency translation differences (7.1) 26.4 
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedges 2.1 (2.8)
Actuarial movement on retirement benefit liabilities (note 12) (141.8) (23.9)
Deferred tax on actuarial movement on retirement benefit liabilities (note 5) 38.5 5.7 
(108.3) 5.4 
T otal comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (84.3) 66.6 
Attributable to:
Minority interest - 0.5 
Equity shareholders (84.3) 66.1 
(84.3) 66.6 
Group income statement 45
Group balance sheet
at 31 December 2009
Note 2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 13 202.0 203.4 
Property, plant and equipment 14 341.8 392.4 
Investments 16 12.5 12.7 
Deferred tax assets 6 73.9 49.4 
630.2 657.9 
Current assets
Inventories 17 148.9 201.9 
Trade and other receivables 18 159.0 185.8 
Cash and cash equivalents 45.0 42.3 
Assets classified as held for sale - 1.1 
352.9 431.1 
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 (179.0) (179.8)
Borrowings and other financial liabilities 20 (48.8) (87.2)
Provisions 21 (30.6) (7.0)
Current tax liabilities (14.7) (10.2)
(273.1) (284.2)
Net current assets 79.8 146.9 
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings and other financial liabilities 20 (285.0) (355.6)
Other payables (3.6) (4.7)
Retirement benefit liabilities 12 (203.5) (88.5)
Provisions 21 (24.5) (41.5)
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (35.2) (49.2)
(551.8) (539.5)
Net assets 158.2 265.3 
Shareholders' equity
Preference share capital 24 1.1 1.1 
Ordinary share capital 22 14.0 14.0 
Called up share capital 15.1 15.1 
Share premium account 93.3 93.3 
Reserves 48.1 154.9 
T otal shareholders' equity 156.5 263.3 
Minority interest in equity 26 1.7 2.0 
T otal equity 158.2 265.3 
Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the accounts on 23 February 2010
Martin Flower  Sean Christie
Chairman    Group Finance Director
Group balance sheet 46
Group statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Share 
capital 
£m
Share 
premium 
amount 
£m
Other 
reserves 
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
Minority 
interests 
£m
T otal  
£m
At 1 January 2008 15.1 93.3 7.9 101.7 1.7 219.7 
Profit for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders - - - 61.0 - 61.0 
Other comprehensive (expense)/income - - 26.1 (21.0) - 5.1 
Transactions with owners:
Dividends on equity shares - - - (22.9) - (22.9)
Share based payments - - - 1.5 - 1.5 
Consideration received for sale of own shares 
held in trust - - - 0.6 - 0.6 
T otal transactions with owners - - - (20.8) - (20.8)
Transactions with minority interests:
Share of profit after tax - - - - 0.2 0.2 
Currency translation differences - - - - 0.3 0.3 
Dividends paid to minority shareholders - - - - (0.2) (0.2)
T otal transactions with minority interests - - - - 0.3 0.3 
T otal equity at 31 December 2008 15.1 93.3 34.0 120.9 2.0 265.3 
At 1 January 2009 15.1 93.3 34.0 120.9 2.0 265.3 
Profit for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders - - - 23.8 - 23.8 
Other comprehensive (expense)/income - - (6.9) (101.2) - (108.1)
Transactions with owners:
Dividends on equity shares - - - (27.1) - (27.1)
Share based payments - - - 3.0 - 3.0 
Consideration received for sale of own shares 
held in trust - - - 1.6 - 1.6 
T otal transactions with owners - - - (22.5) - (22.5)
Transactions with minority interests:
Share of profit after tax - - - - 0.2 0.2 
Currency translation differences - - - - (0.2) (0.2)
Dividends paid to minority shareholders - - - - (0.3) (0.3)
T otal transactions with minority interests - - - - (0.3) (0.3)
T otal equity at 31 December 2009 15.1 93.3 27.1 21.0 1.7 158.2 
Other reserves include the Capital redemption reserve of £0.9m (2008: £0.9m) and the Translation reserve of £26.2m  
(2008: £33.1m).
Group statement of changes in equity 47
Group statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 December 2009
Note 2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated by operations ii 196.9 120.8 
Interest paid (20.5) (22.5)
Tax paid (21.5) (41.3)
Net cash generated by operating activities 154.9 57.0 
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) - (4.1)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (39.8) (51.9)
Purchase of computer software - (0.1)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.7 0.6 
Proceeds from sale of businesses (net of costs) 2.7 49.4 
Proceeds from sale of other investments - 0.2 
Cash paid against non-operating provisions (5.1) (1.2)
Interest received 0.6 1.6 
Net cash absorbed by investing activities (40.9) (5.5)
Cash flows from financing activities
Additional borrowings - 67.5 
Repayment of borrowings (66.9) (85.4)
Capital element of finance lease repayments (0.4) (0.3)
Net transactions in own shares 22,25 1.6 0.6 
Dividends paid to shareholders 9 (27.1) (22.9)
Dividends paid to minority shareholders 9 (0.3) (0.2)
Net cash absorbed by financing activities (93.1) (40.7)
Net movement in cash and cash equivalents i,ii 20.9 10.8 
Cash and cash equivalents brought forward 17.3 1.2 
Exchange differences (1.0) 5.3 
Cash and cash equivalents carried forward 37.2 17.3 
Cash and cash equivalents carried forward comprise
Cash at bank and in hand 45.0 42.3 
Bank overdrafts (7.8) (25.0)
37.2 17.3 
Group statement of cash flows 48
Group cash flow notes
for the year ended 31 December 2009
(i) Reconciliation to net debt Note 2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Movement in cash and cash equivalents iii 20.9 10.8 
Movement in debt and lease financing iii 67.3 18.2 
Change in net debt from cash flows 88.2 29.0 
New finance lease contracts (0.3) (0.6)
Exchange differences 21.7 (60.5)
109.6 (32.1)
Net debt brought forward (398.1) (366.0)
Net debt carried forward iii (288.5) (398.1)
(ii) Cash generated by operations 2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Continuing operations
Operating profit 102.7 112.6 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation 34.7 31.0 
Profit on disposal of fixed assets (0.2) (0.1)
Exceptional items 17.2 - 
Other provisions charged 0.7 0.4 
Share based payments 4.3 1.6 
Cash paid against operating provisions (note 21) (10.4) (17.1)
Pension fund contributions in excess of service cost (16.6) (8.9)
Movement in inventories 30.7 (13.9)
Movement in receivables 18.4 23.5 
Movement in payables 9.5 (14.5)
Cash generated by continuing operations 191.0 114.6 
Discontinued operations 5.9 6.2 
196.9 120.8 
(iii) Analysis of net debt
2009  
£m
Cash flow 
£m
Exchange 
movements  
£m
Other  
non-cash  
£m
2008  
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 45.0 4.6 (1.9) - 42.3 
Bank overdrafts (7.8) 16.3 0.9 - (25.0)
Movement in cash and cash equivalents 20.9 
Borrowings repayable within one year (40.4) 49.9 1.5 (30.0) (61.8)
Borrowings repayable after one year (284.5) 17.0 21.1 30.0 (352.6)
Finance leases (0.8) 0.4 0.1 (0.3) (1.0)
Movement in borrowings and other financial liabilities 67.3 
T otal net debt (288.5) 88.2 21.7 (0.3) (398.1)
Group cash flow notes 49
Group accounting policies
Group accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been 
consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of 
financial instruments, share based payments and pension asset valuations at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS. The standards used are those published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and endorsed 
by the European Union (EU) at the time of preparing these statements (February 2010). A summary of the more important Group 
accounting policies is set out below.
Accounting estimates and judgements
The Group’s critical accounting policies under IFRS have been set by management with the approval of the Audit Committee. The 
application of these policies requires estimates and assumptions to be made concerning the future and judgements to be made on 
the applicability of policies to particular situations. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical 
experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Under 
IFRS an estimate or judgement may be considered critical if it involves matters that are highly uncertain or where different estimation 
methods could reasonably have been used, or if changes in the estimate that would have a material impact on the Group’s results are 
likely to occur from period to period. The critical judgements required when preparing the Group’s accounts are as follows:
(i) Provisions – as disclosed in note 21, the Group has made significant provision for potential environmental liabilities and for the  
 costs of the restructuring exercise following the acquisition of Uniqema. The rationale behind these and other provisions is  
 discussed in note 21. The directors believe that these provisions are appropriate based on information currently available.
(ii) Goodwill and fair value of assets acquired (note 13) – the Group’s goodwill carrying value increased significantly in 2006 following  
 the acquisition of Uniqema. The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment and the Group’s goodwill  
 value has been supported by detailed value-in-use calculations relating to the recoverable amounts of the underlying cash  
 generating units. These calculations require the use of estimates. However, as recoverable amounts significantly exceed carrying  
 values, including goodwill, there is no impairment within a reasonable range of assumptions.
(iii) Retirement benefit liabilities – as disclosed in note 12, the Group’s principal retirement benefit schemes are of the defined  
 benefit type. Y ear end recognition of the liabilities under these schemes and the valuation of assets held to fund these liabilities  
 require a number of significant assumptions to be made, relating to levels of scheme membership, key financial market indicators  
 such as inflation and expectations on future salary growth and asset returns. These assumptions are made by the Group in  
 conjunction with the schemes’ actuaries and the directors are of the view that any estimation should be prudent and in line with  
 consensus opinion.
New IFRS standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2009
The IASB and IFRIC have issued additional standards which are effective for this accounting period. The following standards and 
interpretations have been adopted by the Group:
(i) IAS 1 (revised), ‘Presentation of financial statements’ – The revised standard brings new disclosure requirements regarding ‘non- 
 owner changes in equity’ and ‘owner changes in equity’, which are now required to be shown separately. Under this revised  
 guidance the Group has elected to continue to present two performance statements: an income statement and a statement of  
 comprehensive income and expense (previously the ‘Statement of Recognised Income and Expense’). These financial statements  
 have been prepared under the revised disclosure requirements.
(ii) IFRS 8, ‘Operating Segments’ – IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14, ‘Segment reporting’ and aligns segment reporting with the requirements  
 of the US standard SFAS 131, ‘Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information’. The new standard requires  
 a ‘management approach’ under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting  
 purposes. The Group adopted IFRS 8 from 1 January 2009. These financial statements have been prepared under the revised  
 disclosure requirements. However, this has not resulted in a change to the reported segments, which remain as Consumer Care  
 and Industrial Specialities.
(iii) IFRS 2 (amendment), ‘Share-based payment’ – The amendment to the standard deals with vesting conditions and cancellations. It  
 clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only. The Group has adopted IFRS 2  
 (amendment) from 1 January 2009. The amendment does not have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
(iv) IFRS 7 ‘Financial instruments – Disclosures’ (amendment) – The amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair value  
 measurement and liquidity risk. In particular, the amendment requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of a fair value  
 measurement hierarchy. The Group has applied IFRS 7 from 1 January 2009 and it does not have a material impact on the Group’s  
 financial statements.
(v) IAS 23 (amendment), ‘Borrowing costs’ – The amendment to the standard requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly  
 attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset (one that takes a substantial period of time to get  
 ready for use or sale) as part of the cost of that asset. The option of immediately expensing those borrowing costs will be removed.  
 The Group applied IAS 23 (amendment) from 1 January 2009, but the standard is currently not applicable to the Group as there  
 are no qualifying assets. 50
Group accounting policies
New IFRS standards and interpretations not applied
The IASB and IFRIC have issued additional standards and interpretations which are effective for periods starting after the date of these 
financial statements. The following standards and interpretations have yet to be adopted by the Group:
(i) IFRIC 17, ‘Distribution of non-cash assets to owners’ (effective on or after 1 July 2009). The interpretation provides guidance on  
 accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes non-cash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of reserves  
 or as dividends. IFRS 5 has also been amended to require assets are classified as held for distribution only when they are available  
 for distribution in their present condition and the distribution is highly probable. The Group will apply IFRIC 17 from 1 January  
 2010. It is not expected to have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
(ii)  IAS 27 (revised), ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’ (effective from 1 July 2009). The revised standard requires the  
 effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these  
 transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses. The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost. Any  
 remaining interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. The Group will apply  
 IAS 27 (revised) prospectively to transactions with non-controlling interests from 1 January 2010. This is currently not expected to  
 have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
(iii) IFRS 3 (revised), ‘Business combinations’ (effective from 1 July 2009). The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition  
 method to business combinations, with some significant changes. For example, all payments to purchase a business are to be  
 recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently re-measured through the  
 income statement. There is a choice on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree  
 either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. All acquisition related costs  
 should be expensed. The Group will apply IFRS 3 (revised) prospectively to all business combinations from 1 January 2010.
 (iv) IAS 38 (amendment), ‘Intangible assets’. The amendment is part of the IASB’s annual improvements project published in April 2009  
 and the Group will apply IAS 38 (amendment) from 1 January 2010. The amendment clarifies guidance in measuring the fair value  
 of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination and it permits the grouping of intangible assets as a single asset if each  
 asset has a similar useful economic life. The amendment will not result in a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
 (v) IFRS 5 (amendment), ‘Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations’, (and consequential amendment to IFRS 1,  
 ‘First-time adoption’) (effective from 1 July 2009). The amendment is part of the IASB’s annual improvements project published in  
 April 2009. The amendment clarifies that all of a subsidiary’s assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale if a partial disposal  
 sale plan results in loss of control. Relevant disclosure should be made for this subsidiary if the definition of a discontinued  
 operation is met. A consequential amendment to IFRS 1 states that these amendments are applied prospectively from the date  
 of transition to IFRSs. The Group will apply the IFRS 5 (amendment) prospectively to all partial disposals of subsidiaries from  
 1 January 2010.
 (vi) IAS 1 (amendment), ‘Presentation of financial statements’. The amendment is part of the IASB’s annual improvements project  
 published in April 2009. The amendment provides clarification that the potential settlement of a liability by the issue of equity is not  
 relevant to its classification as current or non-current. By amending the definition of current liability, the amendment permits a  
 liability to be classified as non-current (provided that the entity has an unconditional right to defer settlement by transfer of cash  
 or other assets for at least 12 months after the accounting period) notwithstanding the fact that the entity could be required by  
 the counterparty to settle in shares at any time. The Group will apply IAS 1 (amendment) from 1 January 2010. It is not expected  
 to have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
(vii) IFRS 2 (amendment), ‘Group cash-settled share-based payment transaction’ (effective from 1 January 2010). In addition to  
 incorporating IFRIC 8, ‘Scope of IFRS 2’, and IFRIC 11, ‘IFRS 2 – Group and treasury share transactions’, the amendments expand  
 on the guidance in IFRIC 11 to address the classification of group arrangements that were not covered by that interpretation. The  
 new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
Group accounts
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that 
are presently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated 
financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition is 
measured as the fair value of the assets given plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities 
and contingent liabilities assumed, in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective 
of the extent of any minority interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of identifiable net assets acquired is 
recorded as goodwill.
Group accounting policies 51
Group accounting policies
Associates
Associated undertakings are those companies in which the Group has a beneficial interest of between 20% and 50% in the equity 
capital and where the Group exercises significant influence over commercial and financial policy decisions. The consolidated income 
statement includes the Group’s share of post-acquisition profits after tax and the consolidated balance sheet includes the Group’s share 
of the underlying net tangible assets of associated undertakings.
Intangible assets
Goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired. Goodwill arises where the fair value of the 
consideration given for a business exceeds such net assets. Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and subject to impairment 
review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is allocated to cash 
generating units for the purpose of this impairment testing. 
Research and development
Research expenditure, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is charged to 
income in the year in which it is incurred. Internal development expenditure, whereby research findings are applied to a plan for the 
production of new or substantially improved products or processes, is charged to income in the year in which it is incurred unless it 
meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’. Measurement and other uncertainties generally mean that such criteria are 
not met. Where the recognition criteria are met, intangible assets are capitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives from 
product launch. Intangible assets relating to products in development are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date or 
earlier upon indication of impairment. Any impairment losses are written off immediately to income.
Computer software
Acquired computer software licenses covering a period of greater than one year are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to 
acquire and bring to use the specific software. These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives (three to five years).
Revenue recognition
Sales of goods
Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods, excludes inter-company sales and value-added taxes and represents net invoice 
value less estimated rebates, returns and settlement discounts. 
The Group supplies products to customers from its various manufacturing sites and warehouses and in some limited instances from 
consignment inventory held on customer sites, under a variety of standard terms and conditions. In each case revenue is recognised 
when the transfer of legal title, which is defined and generally accepted in the standard terms and conditions, arises between the Group 
and the customer. This will nearly always be on dispatch or delivery, but never before dispatch. Provisions for sales discounts and rebates 
to customers are based upon the terms of sales contracts and are recorded in the same period as the related sales as a deduction 
from revenue. The Group estimates the provision for sales discounts and rebates based on the terms of each agreement at the time the 
revenue is recognised.
Interest and dividend income
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognised when the 
right to receive payment is established.
Segmental reporting
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products and services that are subject to risks or returns 
that are different from those of other segments. Operating segments presented in the financial statements are consistent with the 
internal reporting provided to the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Makers, which have been identified as the Group Finance 
Committee and the Group Executive Committee.
Employee benefits
Pension obligations
The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under IAS 19 ’Employee Benefits’. In respect of defined benefit plans (pension 
plans that define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors 
such as age, years of service and compensation) obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at 
fair value. The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the net of the plan obligations and 
assets. No allowance is made in the past service liability in respect of either the future expenses of running the schemes or for  
non-service related death in service benefits which may arise in the future. The operating costs of such plans are charged to operating 
profit and the finance costs are recognised as financial income or an expense as appropriate. Service costs are spread systematically 
over the lives of employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise. Actuarial gains and losses are 
recognised immediately in the Group statement of comprehensive income and expense. Payments to defined contribution schemes 
(pension plans under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity) are charged as an expense as they fall due. 52
Group accounting policies
Other post-retirement benefits
Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees. The entitlement to these benefits is usually 
conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period. The expected 
costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit 
pension plans. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Group statement of comprehensive income and expense. 
These obligations are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever 
an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is 
demonstrably committed to either (i) terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without 
possibility of withdrawal or, (ii) providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Share based payments
The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated using the Black-Scholes or binomial model as appropriate. In accordance 
with IFRS 2 ’Share-based Payments’ the resulting cost is charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the options. 
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting, as the Group does not use market-based 
performance criteria.
Currency translations
Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, 
which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency.
Transactions and balances
Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the financial period. Exchange profits or losses on trading 
transactions are included in the Group income statement except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying 
net investment hedges, which, along with other exchange differences arising from non-trading items are dealt with through reserves.
Group companies
The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are 
translated into the presentation currency as follows:
(i) assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
(ii) income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable  
 approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are  
 translated at the dates of the transactions); and
(iii)  all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and 
other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders’ equity. When a foreign operation is 
sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and for accounting purposes. Temporary differences arise from the inclusion of 
profits and losses in the accounts in different periods from which they are recognised in tax assessments and primarily arise as a result 
of the difference between tax allowances on tangible fixed assets and the corresponding depreciation charge and upon the pension 
fund deficit. Full provision is made for the tax effects of these differences. No provision is made for unremitted earnings of foreign 
subsidiaries where there is no commitment to remit such earnings. Similarly, no provision is made for temporary differences relating to 
investments in subsidiaries since realisation of such differences can be controlled and is not probable in the foreseeable future. Deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised.
All taxation is calculated on the basis of the tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are non-recurring material items which are outside the normal scope of the Group’s ordinary activities such as 
liabilities and costs arising from a fundamental restructuring of the Group’s operations. Such items are disclosed separately within the 
financial statements.
Group accounting policies 53
Group accounting policies
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation, with the exception of assets acquired as part of a business 
combination which are initially recorded at fair value. The Group’s policy is to write off the difference between the cost of all property, 
plant and equipment, except freehold land, and their residual value on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. Reviews are 
made annually of the estimated remaining lives and residual values of individual productive assets, taking account of commercial and 
technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear and adjustments are made where appropriate. Under this policy it becomes 
impractical to calculate average asset lives exactly. However, the total lives range from approximately 15 to 40 years for buildings, and 3 
to 15 years for plant and equipment. All individual assets are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that the carrying value 
may not be recoverable. By far the bulk of the Group’s ‘plant and equipment’ asset class relates to the value of plant and equipment 
at the Group’s manufacturing facilities. Consequently, the Group does not seek to analyse out of this class other items such as motor 
vehicles and office equipment.
Impairment of non-financial assets
The Group assesses at each year end whether an asset may be impaired. If any evidence of impairment exists, the estimated 
recoverable amount is compared to the carrying value of the asset and an impairment loss is recognised where appropriate. In addition 
to this, goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if 
their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. A discontinued 
operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations. 
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for 
sale.
Leases
Assets acquired under finance leases are included in the balance sheet under tangible fixed assets at an amount reflecting the fair value 
of the asset and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their estimated useful lives. The capital element of future lease 
rentals is included in creditors. Finance charges are allocated to the income statement each year in proportion to the capital element 
outstanding. The cost of operating leases is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rates and short-term currency rate fluctuations.
Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at cost. Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument 
as either: (i) a hedge of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge); or (ii) a hedge of highly 
probable forecast transactions (cash flow hedge);
(i) Fair value hedge
 Changes in the fair value of derivatives, for example interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts, that are designated and  
 qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset  
 or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
(ii) Cash flow hedge
 The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised  
 in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts  
 accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss  
 (for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results  
 in the recognition of a non-financial asset (for example, inventory) or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity  
 are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. When a hedging instrument  
 expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity  
 at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.  
 When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately  
 transferred to the income statement.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not 
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Any difference between the proceeds (net of 
transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the 
effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement 
of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. 54
Group accounting policies
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable amount on a first in first out basis. Cost comprises all expenditure, 
including related production overheads, incurred in the normal course of business in bringing the inventory to its location and condition 
at the balance sheet date. Net realisable amount is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any applicable 
variable selling costs. Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective inventory where appropriate. Profits arising on intra 
Group sales are eliminated in so far as the product remains in Group inventory at the year end.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective 
interest method, less impairment losses.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short term deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an 
integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash 
flow statement.
Environmental and restructuring provisions
The Group is exposed to environmental liabilities relating to its operations and liabilities arising from the restructuring of its operations 
following the acquisition of Uniqema. Provisions are made immediately where a constructive or legal obligation is identified, can be 
quantified and it is regarded as more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. The Group 
does consider the impact of discounting when establishing provisions and provisions are discounted when the impact is material and the 
timing of cash flows can be estimated with reasonable certainty. 
Share capital
(a) Investment in own shares
(i) Employee Share Ownership Trusts
 Shares acquired by the Trustees, funded by the Company and held for the continuing benefit of the Company are shown as a  
 reduction in shareholders’ funds. Movements in the year arising from additional purchases by the Trustees of shares or the receipt of  
 funds due to the exercise of options by employees are accounted for within reserves and shown as a movement in shareholders’  
 funds in the year. Administration expenses of the trusts are charged to the Company’s income statement as incurred.
(ii) Treasury shares
 Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital as treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any  
 directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders  
 until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration  
 received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity  
 attributable to the Company’s equity holders.
(b) Preference share capital
Preference share capital is classified as equity as the Group has full discretion over the transfer of benefits associated with the shares.
(c) Dividends
All dividends, including preference dividends, are recognised as a liability when the liability is irrevocable. Accordingly, final dividends are 
recognised when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Investments
Investments in quoted securities are stated at fair value, being the appropriate quoted market value, with movements in the fair value 
passing through the income statement. Investments in unquoted securities are carried at fair value unless such value cannot be reliably 
measured, in which case the investments are carried at cost. Investments are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date 
or earlier upon indication of impairment.
Held to maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: currency risk, interest-rate risk, liquidity risk, and credit risk. The Group’s 
overall risk management strategy is approved by the Board and implemented and reviewed by the Risk Management Committee. 
Detailed financial risk management is then delegated to the Group Finance department which has a specific policy manual that sets 
out guidelines to manage financial risk. Regular reports are received from all operating companies to enable prompt identification of 
financial risks so that appropriate action may be taken.
Group accounting policies 55
Group accounting policies
Currency risk
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to currency risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect 
to the US Dollar and the Euro. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and 
net investments in foreign operations. Entities in the Group use forward contracts and foreign currency bank balances to manage their 
foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities. The Group’s risk management policy 
is to hedge transactional risk up to three months forward. The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets 
are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations is not 
specifically hedged but is reduced primarily through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies where it is efficient to 
do so.
For 2009, had the Group’s basket of reporting currencies been 10% weaker/stronger than the actual rates experienced, post-tax profit 
for the year would have been £8m (2008: £9m) lower/higher than reported, primarily as a result of the translation of the profits of the 
Group’s overseas entities, and equity would have been £11m (2008: £13m) lower/higher.
Interest rate risk
The Group has both interest bearing assets and liabilities. The Group has a policy of maintaining at least 50% of its gross borrowings at 
floating interest rates and at 31 December 2009 over 70% of Group borrowings were at floating rates. At the time of the Uniqema 
acquisition, the Group was required to fix a proportion of its debt and has had a £100m sterling swap at a fixed interest rate for a 
period of 3 years. This swap expires on 31 January 2010.
Based on the above, had interest rates moved by 10 basis points in the territories where the Group has substantial borrowings, post tax 
profits would have moved by £0.2m (2008: £0.3m) due to increased interest expense on the Group’s floating rate borrowings.
Liquidity risk
The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and short-term committed facilities designed to ensure the Group has sufficient 
funds available for operations and planned investments. The Group also has a share buyback programme which is managed to ensure 
the efficiency of the Group’s funding structure.
On a regular basis, management monitors forecasts of the Group’s cash flows against both internal targets and those targets imposed 
by external lenders. As shown in note 20, the Group has substantial committed, unused facilities and the directors are confident this 
situation will remain the case for the foreseeable future.
Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. It has policies in place to ensure that sales of products are made to 
customers with an appropriate credit history. Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high-credit quality financial 
institutions. The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, as well as maintaining an optimal capital structure to reduce overall cost of 
capital.
In order to maintain this optimal structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid, issue new shares, return capital to 
shareholders or dispose of assets to reduce net debt.
Underlying growth coupled to Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) is the key perceived driver of shareholder value within the Group. 
The acquisition of Uniqema reduced the ROIC, but also reduced Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) since the deal was 
predominantly financed through debt. The Group’s target is to maintain the ROIC at a higher level than the WACC, a target achieved 
in 2009. In addition, the Group employs two widely used ratios to measure our ability to service our debt. Both net debt/EBITDA and 
EBITDA interest cover were ahead of target in 2009.
Additional information on performance against key performance indicators can be found in the Financial review on page 13. 56
Notes to the Group accounts
1. Segmental analysis
At 31 December 2009 the Group continued to be organised on a worldwide basis into two main business segments, relating to the 
manufacture and sale of the Group’s products which are destined for either the Consumer Care market or the market for Industrial 
Specialities. These are the segments for which summary management information is presented to the Group’s Finance and Executive 
Committees, which are deemed to be the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Makers. There is no material trade between segments. 
Segmental results include items directly attributable to a specific segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. 
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, inventories and trade and other receivables.
The Group manages its business segments on a global basis. The operations are based mainly in the following geographical areas; 
Europe, with manufacturing sites in the UK, France, Holland, Germany, Italy and Spain; the Americas, with manufacturing sites in the USA 
and Brazil; and Asia, with manufacturing sites in Singapore, Japan, India, Korea and Indonesia. The Group is domiciled in the UK.
The Group’s revenue from external customers in the UK is £56.9m (2008: £46.8m), in the US is £184.7m (2008: £182.1m) and the 
total revenue from external customers from other countries is £674.6m (2008: £682.2m).
The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets located in the UK is £52.6m (2008: £77.6m), 
and the total of these non-current assets located in other countries is £303.6m (2008: £330.7m). Goodwill has not been split by 
geography as this asset is not attributable to a geographical area.
No single external customer represents more than 5% of the total revenue of the Group.
2. Net operating expenses
Additional information on the nature of operating expenses, including depreciation and employee costs, is provided in note 3.
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Income statement
Revenue - continuing operations
Consumer Care 467.7 418.4 
Industrial Specialities 448.5 492.7 
T otal Group revenue 916.2 911.1 
Operating profit - continuing operations before exceptional items
Consumer Care 104.9 89.5 
Industrial Specialities 15.0 23.1 
T otal Group operating profit before exceptional items 119.9 112.6 
Balance sheet
T otal assets
Segment total assets:
Consumer Care 481.7 536.7 
Industrial Specialities 370.0 446.8 
T otal segment assets 851.7 983.5 
Assets classified as held for sale - 1.1 
Tax assets 73.9 49.4 
Cash, other financial assets and other investments 57.5 55.0 
T otal Group assets 983.1 1,089.0 
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Analysis of net operating expenses by function:
Distribution costs 45.1 45.8 
Administrative expenses 71.2 54.0 
116.3 99.8 
Notes to the Group accounts 57
Notes to the Group accounts
Exceptional items
In July 2009 the Group announced the closure of its operations at Wilton in North Y orkshire, United Kingdom. There have been 
exceptional non-cash asset write downs of £5.1m, a tax credit of £2.1m and exceptional cash closure costs of £12.1m, which are all 
expected to be incurred during the course of 2010 and 2011.
3. Profit for the year
4. Net financial expenses
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
The Group profit for the year is stated after charging:
Depreciation and amortisation (notes 13 & 14)
Owned assets 34.7 33.2 
Leased assets 0.9 0.8 
Staff costs (note 10) 172.5 157.9 
Redundancy costs
Non-exceptional 0.2 0.1 
Exceptional 15.2 5.8 
Inventories
Cost recognised as expense in cost of sales 667.5 677.2 
Net (release)/write down in year (4.9) 10.4 
Profit on disposal and write off of fixed assets (0.2) (0.1)
Research and development 21.1 17.6 
Hire of plant and machinery 1.8 2.1 
Other operating lease rentals 5.1 2.3 
Bad debt exposure (note 18) 2.7 2.2 
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Services provided by the Group's auditors
Audit services
Fees payable to Company auditor for the audit of parent 
company and consolidated accounts 0.1 0.1 
Non audit services
Fees payable to the Company's auditor and its associates for other services:
The audit of the Company's subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.6 
Tax services 0.2 0.2 
1.0 0.9 
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Financial expenses
Syndicated acquisition funding 11.5 22.0 
7.37% guaranteed senior loan notes due 2008 - 0.3 
Other bank loans and overdrafts 4.2 3.2 
15.7 25.5 
Financial income
Expected return on pension scheme assets less interest on 
scheme liabilities (note 12) (0.7) (7.1)
H.I.G. Capital LLC loan note (1.0) (0.5)
Bank interest receivable and similar income (0.5) (1.6)
(2.2) (9.2)
Net financial expenses 13.5 16.3  58
Notes to the Group accounts
5. Tax
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
(a) Analysis of tax charge for the year
Continuing operations
United Kingdom current tax
Corporation tax (0.7) 7.7 
Relief for overseas taxes on dividends remitted to UK - (7.7)
(0.7) - 
Overseas current corporate taxes 27.5 26.6 
Current tax 26.8 26.6 
Deferred tax 5.7 4.9 
32.5 31.5 
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
(b) Tax on items charged to equity
Deferred tax on actuarial movement on retirement benefit liabilities (38.5) (5.7)
Deferred tax on share based payments (1.0) 0.1 
(39.5) (5.6)
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
(c) Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
Profit before tax from continuing operations 89.2 96.3 
Tax at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, 28.0% (2008: 28.5%). 25.0 27.4 
Effect of:
Prior years' over provisions (0.5) - 
Tax cost of remitting overseas income to the UK 0.5 0.7 
Expenses and write offs not deductible for tax purposes 3.1 0.7 
Effect of higher overseas tax rates 4.4 2.7 
32.5 31.5 
Notes to the Group accounts 59
Notes to the Group accounts
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method at a rate of 28% in the United Kingdom and at 
rates appropriate to each overseas subsidiary. 
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in all cases where such assets arise, as it is probable the assets will be recovered.
Deferred tax is only recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries to the extent that remittance is expected in the 
foreseeable future. If all earnings were remitted, an additional £2.6m of tax would be payable.
All movements on deferred tax balances have been recognised in income with the exception of the charges shown in note 5(b), which 
have been recognised directly in equity.
6. Deferred tax
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
The deferred tax balances included in these accounts are attributable to the following:
Deferred tax assets
Retirement benefit obligations 53.5 25.1 
Restructuring provisions 2.0 3.0 
Other provisions 18.4 21.3 
73.9 49.4 
Deferred tax liabilities
Excess of capital allowances over depreciation 31.9 45.9 
Revaluation gains 1.9 1.9 
Other 1.4 1.4 
35.2 49.2 
The movement on deferred tax balances during the year is summarised as follows:
Deferred tax charged through income statement 
Continuing operations before exceptional items (7.8) (4.9)
Discontinued operations before exceptional items 1.4 - 
Exceptional items 5.7 10.0 
Deferred tax credited directly to equity (note 5(b)) 39.5 5.6 
Exchange differences (0.3) 0.2 
38.5 10.9 
Net balance brought forward 0.2 (10.7)
Net balance carried forward 38.7 0.2 
Deferred tax charged through the income statement relates to the following:
Restructuring provisions (0.8) (1.6)
Retirement benefit obligations (8.4) (7.4)
Excess of capital allowances over depreciation 5.5 1.9 
Exceptional items 5.7 10.0 
Other (2.7) 2.2 
(0.7) 5.1  60
Notes to the Group accounts
7. Discontinued operations
In April 2009, continuing its strategy to reduce exposure to basic commodity sectors, the Group announced the closure of its 
operations at Bromborough in Merseyside, United Kingdom. This represents an exit from the commodity oleochemicals sector in 
the UK. There have been exceptional non-cash asset write downs of £20.6m and exceptional cash closure costs of £9.8m, of which 
£2.8m was incurred in 2009 and the remainder is expected to be spent during 2010. There was a small net credit of £1.4m relating to 
previously discontinued businesses.
During 2008, the Group sold its 46.5% stake in its associate, Baxenden Chemicals Limited, to Chemtura Corporation for £13m and its 
Chicago Oleochemicals business was sold to H.I.G. Capital LLC for £46.8m. 
The impact of the operations discontinued in 2009 and 2008 is as follows:
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Revenue 29.6 91.5 
Net operating expenses (34.7) (85.1)
Pre-tax operating results from discontinued operations (5.1) 6.4 
Income from disposed associate - 0.4 
Tax 1.4 (1.8)
Post tax operating results from discontinued operations and 
income from disposed associate (3.7) 5.0 
Loss on disposal (32.8) (9.9)
Tax 3.8 1.3 
Net exceptional loss on disposal (29.0) (8.6)
T otal loss after tax from discontinued operations (32.7) (3.6)
Cash flows from discontinued operations
Net cash flows from operating activities 5.9 6.2 
Notes to the Group accounts 61
Notes to the Group accounts
8. Earnings per share
T otal  
2009  
£m
Continuing 
operations 
2009  
£m
Discontinued 
operations 
2009  
£m
T otal  
2008  
£m
Continuing 
operations 
2008  
£m
Discontinued 
operations 
2008  
£m
Profit for the year before exceptional items 68.1 71.8 (3.7) 69.8 64.8 5.0 
Exceptional items (44.1) (15.1) (29.0) (8.6) - (8.6)
Minority interests and preference dividend (0.3) (0.3) - (0.3) (0.3) - 
23.7 56.4 (32.7) 60.9 64.5 (3.6)
Number 
m 
Number 
m 
Number 
m 
Number 
m 
Number 
m 
Number 
m 
Weighted average number of 10p ordinary 
shares in issue for basic calculation 135.0 135.0 135.0 134.4 134.4 134.4 
Deemed issue of potentially dilutive shares 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.3 
Average number of 10p ordinary shares for 
diluted calculation 137.3 137.3 137.3 136.7 136.7 136.7 
Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence 
Basic earnings per share 17.6 45.3 
Basic earnings per share before  
exceptional items 50.2 51.7 
Basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations 41.8 48.0 
Basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations before exceptional items 53.0 48.0 
Basic loss per share from discontinued 
operations (24.2) (2.7)
Diluted earnings per share 17.3 44.6 
Diluted earnings per share before 
exceptional items 49.4 50.8 
Diluted earnings per share from continuing 
operations 41.1 47.2 
Diluted earnings per share from continuing 
operations before exceptional items 52.1 47.2 
Diluted loss per share from discontinued 
operations (23.8) (2.6)
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trusts (note 25) and those held as treasury shares 
(note 22) which are treated as cancelled as, except for a nominal amount, dividends have been waived.
For diluted earnings per share the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all 
potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
Additional earnings per share measures are included above to give a better indication of the Group’s underlying performance. 62
Notes to the Group accounts
9. Dividends
10. Employees
Pence per 
share
2009  
£m
Pence per 
share
2008  
£m
Ordinary
Interim
2008 interim, paid October 2008 - - 6.20 8.3 
2009 interim, paid October 2009 6.50 8.8 - - 
Final
2007 final, paid June 2008 - - 10.80 14.5 
2008 final, paid June 2009 13.55 18.2 - - 
20.05 27.0 17.00 22.8 
Preference (paid June and December) 0.1 0.1 
Dividends paid to minority shareholders 0.3 0.2 
27.4 23.1 
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Group employment costs including directors
Wages and salaries 133.0 123.6 
Share based payment charges (note 23) 6.9 3.0 
Social security costs 20.4 18.6 
Other pension costs (note 12) 12.2 12.7 
172.5 157.9 
2009  
Number
2008  
Number
Average employee numbers
Consumer Care 1,497 1,547 
Industrial Specialities 1,939 1,906 
Discontinued operations 107 176 
3,543 3,629 
Average employee numbers by function
Production 2,327 2,406 
Selling and distribution 769 774 
Administration 447 449 
3,543 3,629 
The directors are proposing a final dividend of 15.00p per share, amounting to a total dividend of £20.3m, in respect of the financial 
year ending 31 December 2009. It will be paid on 3 June 2010 to shareholders registered on 30 April 2010 and has not been accrued 
in these financial statements. The total dividend for the year ending 31 December 2009 is 21.50p per share (£29.1m).
Redundancy costs of £15.4m (2008: £5.9m) are excluded from the above analysis.
As required by the Companies Act 2006, the figures disclosed above are weighted averages based on the number of employees at each 
month end.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had 3,461 (2008: 3,624) employees in total.
Notes to the Group accounts 63
Notes to the Group accounts
10. Employees (continued)
12. Retirement benefit liabilities
The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes throughout the world. The principal schemes are in the UK and cover 
the vast majority of the Group’s UK employees. These schemes are of the defined benefit type with assets held in separate trustee 
administered funds and are funded. In the US, the Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme as well as providing unfunded post-
retirement medical benefits for employees. In other countries benefits are determined in accordance with local practice and regulations 
and funding is provided on several bases. The acquisition of Uniqema resulted in the Group inheriting that business’ retirement benefit 
obligations and associated funding. These obligations are grouped with the obligations of the existing Croda schemes in the relevant 
region in the analyses below.
Defined benefit schemes
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of these schemes are as follows:
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Key management compensation including directors
Wages and salaries 5.4 4.9 
Share based payment charges 1.2 0.8 
Social security costs 0.8 0.7 
Other pension costs 0.4 0.4 
7.8 6.8 
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Present value of retirement benefit liabilities
UK - pension schemes (569.7) (397.2)
US - pension and medical schemes (99.4) (102.9)
Rest of World (111.4) (109.2)
(780.5) (609.3)
Fair value of schemes' assets
UK - pension schemes 453.2 399.0 
US - pension and medical schemes 57.8 59.7 
Rest of World 66.0 62.1 
577.0 520.8 
Net liability (203.5) (88.5)
Key management comprises the members of the main Board, Group Executive Committee and Group Finance Committee.
The gross and net liability above includes an amount of £54.8m in respect of unfunded schemes (2008: £57.8m).
11. Directors’ remuneration
Detailed information concerning directors’ remuneration, interests and options is shown in the parts of the directors’ remuneration 
report subject to audit on pages 32 to 36 which form part of the annual report and accounts. 64
Notes to the Group accounts
12. Retirement benefit liabilities (continued)
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in equity:
Opening balance (7.3) (25.5)
Net actuarial losses charged in year 103.3 18.2 
96.0 (7.3)
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Analysis of amounts recognised in income statement:
Charged to operating profit
Current service cost 8.5 9.4 
Credited to net financial expenses
Interest on scheme liabilities 37.0 37.6 
Expected return on assets (37.7) (44.7)
(0.7) (7.1)
Net charge to income statement before tax 7.8 2.3 
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Movement in present value of retirement benefit liabilities in the year:
Opening balance 609.3 643.6 
Current service cost 8.5 9.4 
Past service and settlements on restructuring and disposal of businesses (0.7) (0.8)
Interest cost 37.0 37.6 
Actuarial loss/(gain) 174.2 (110.7)
Contributions paid in
Employee 2.3 1.9 
Benefits paid (29.6) (26.1)
Exchange differences on overseas schemes (20.5) 54.4 
780.5 609.3 
Movement in fair value of schemes' assets in the year:
Opening balance 520.8 584.3 
Expected return 37.7 44.7 
Excess/(shortfall) of actual compared to expected return 32.4 (134.6)
Contributions paid in
Employee 2.3 1.9 
Employer 25.1 18.3 
Benefits paid out (29.6) (26.1)
Exchange differences on overseas schemes (11.7) 32.3 
577.0 520.8 
The actual gain on scheme assets in the year was £70.1m (2008: loss £89.9m).
T otal employer contributions to the schemes in 2010 are expected to be £23m.
Of the amount charged to operating profit, £6.8m (2008: £7.5m) was included in cost of sales and £1.7m (2008: £1.9m) was included 
in administrative expenses.
Notes to the Group accounts 65
Notes to the Group accounts
12. Retirement benefit liabilities (continued)
In all territories, including the UK, assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice from the Group’s actuaries, 
published statistics and experience in each territory. The following mortality tables have been used in respect of the Group’s key 
schemes: UK: PA92 Calendar year 2005 -3 for current non-pensioners and PA92 Calendar year 2005 -2 for pensioners; USA: UP 1994 
Projected to 2002 by Scale AA; Netherlands: AG Prognosetafel 2008-2050; Germany: Heubeck RT 2005G.
UK pension schemes
The financial assumptions used to assess the UK scheme liabilities were:
US pension and post-retirement medical schemes
The financial assumptions used to assess the US scheme liabilities were:
For funded schemes throughout the Group, the expected return on scheme assets has been derived as the weighted average of 
the expected returns from each of the main asset classes. The expected return for each class reflects a combination of historical 
performance analysis, the forward looking views of the financial markets (as suggested by the yields available) and the views of 
investment organisations.
A 1% change in the assumed medical cost inflation rate would alter the charge to the income statement by £0.2m.
2009 2008 
Valuation method Projected unit Projected unit
Discount rate 5.7% 6.7%
Inflation rate 3.8% 2.9%
Rate of increase in salaries 5.0% 4.1%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.8% 2.9%
Expected return on scheme assets 8.0% 7.6%
2009 2008 
Valuation method Projected unit Projected unit
Discount rate 5.8% 6.3%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.0% 4.0%
Expected return on scheme assets 8.3% 8.3%
Medical cost inflation rate 8.5% 9.0%
The assets in the schemes comprised: 2009  
% of fair value
2008  
% of fair value
Equities 58.3 66.1 
Bonds 16.1 16.2 
Property 8.3 9.2 
Other 17.3 8.5 
100.0 100.0 
History of UK schemes’ deficits and experience gains and losses: 2009  
£m
2008  
£m
2007  
£m
2006  
£m
Present value of retirement benefit liabilities (569.7) (397.2) (483.4) (506.7)
Fair value of scheme assets 453.2 399.0 475.9 421.0 
Net (liability)/asset (116.5) 1.8 (7.5) (85.7)
Experience gain/(loss) on assets 23.6 (109.9) (12.1) 9.4 
Experience (loss)/gain on liabilities (165.9) 103.7 (8.9) 0.3  66
Notes to the Group accounts
The assets in the schemes comprised: 2009  
% of fair value
2008  
% of fair value
Equities 38.5 37.9 
Government bonds 41.5 38.4 
Other 20.0 23.7 
100.0 100.0 
Other defined benefit schemes
The Group has retirement benefit liabilities in a number of other territories, notably Germany and Holland, and all schemes have been 
established in line with local custom and practice. The main German scheme is unfunded and has a closing obligation of £31.0m  
(2008: £33.0m), whilst the Dutch scheme is largely funded and has a net obligation of £7.4m (2008: £6.6m) comprising a gross liability 
of £70.2m and assets of £62.8m.
12. Retirement benefit liabilities (continued)
History of US schemes’ deficits and experience gains and losses: 2009  
£m
2008  
£m
2007  
£m
2006  
£m
Present value of retirement benefit liabilities (99.4) (102.9) (76.5) (71.4)
Fair value of scheme assets 57.8 59.7 56.2 45.4 
Net liability (41.6) (43.2) (20.3) (26.0)
Experience gain/(loss) on assets 6.0 (14.9) (2.4) 0.2 
Experience (loss)/gain on liabilities (5.4) 2.5 (9.5) 1.6 
The financial assumptions used to assess the Dutch and German scheme 
liabilities were:
2009  
Holland
2008  
Holland
2009 
Germany
2008 
Germany
Valuation method
Projected 
unit
Projected 
unit
Projected 
unit
Projected 
unit
Discount rate 5.3% 5.8% 5.5% 5.9%
Inflation rate 2.3% 2.3% 2.0% 2.0%
Rate of increase in salaries 3.0% 3.0% 2.8% 2.8%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.3% 2.3% 2.0% 2.0%
Expected return on scheme assets 6.1% 6.1% n/a n/a
Defined contribution schemes 2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Contributions paid charged to operating profit 3.7 3.3 
Notes to the Group accounts 67
Notes to the Group accounts
13. Intangible assets
Goodwill is tested at each year end for impairment with reference to the relevant cash generating unit’s (CGUs) recoverable amount 
compared to the unit’s carrying value including goodwill. The relevant CGU when testing the Uniqema goodwill of £193.4m is the 
Group’s Consumer Care operating segment. The recoverable amount is based on value in use calculations using pre-tax discounted cash 
flow projections based on the Group’s strategic plan for the first three years and a growth rate thereafter of 3% (2008: 3%).
The cashflows have been discounted using the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, which for these purposes has been calculated 
to be approximately 7.6% before tax (2008: 7.4%).
The key assumptions underpinning the strategic plan employed in the value in use calculation are that market share will not change 
significantly and that gross and operating margins will remain broadly constant. The directors believe there are no significant changes in 
assumptions which would give rise to an impairment charge in the year.       
 
Goodwill 
£m
Computer 
software 
£m
T otal 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2008 199.9 4.0 203.9 
Exchange differences - 1.1 1.1 
Additions 0.5 0.1 0.6 
Disposals and write offs - (0.7) (0.7)
At 31 December 2008 200.4 4.5 204.9 
At 1 January 2009 200.4 4.5 204.9 
Exchange differences - (0.5) (0.5)
Disposals and write offs - (2.3) (2.3)
At 31 December 2009 200.4 1.7 202.1 
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2008 - 0.4 0.4 
Exchange differences - 0.2 0.2 
Charge for the year 0.1 1.1 1.2 
Disposals and write offs - (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 December 2008 0.1 1.4 1.5 
At 1 January 2009 0.1 1.4 1.5 
Exchange differences - (0.1) (0.1)
Charge for the year 0.1 0.8 0.9 
Disposals and write offs - (2.2) (2.2)
At 31 December 2009 0.2 (0.1) 0.1 
Net carrying amount
At 31 December 2009 200.2 1.8 202.0 
At 31 December 2008 200.3 3.1 203.4  68
Notes to the Group accounts
14. Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
T otal  
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2008 119.7 396.8 516.5 
Exchange differences 34.4 123.1 157.5 
Additions 3.6 48.8 52.4 
Business disposals and closures (9.4) (59.1) (68.5)
Other disposals and write offs (1.7) (7.2) (8.9)
At 31 December 2008 146.6 502.4 649.0 
At 1 January 2009 146.6 502.4 649.0 
Exchange differences (11.8) (43.6) (55.4)
Additions 9.4 30.7 40.1 
Business disposals and closures (15.7) (56.9) (72.6)
Other disposals and write offs (0.7) (8.9) (9.6)
At 31 December 2009 127.8 423.7 551.5 
Depreciation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2008 28.3 146.0 174.3 
Exchange differences 15.2 69.6 84.8 
Charge for the year 4.5 28.3 32.8 
Business disposals and closures (2.1) (27.3) (29.4)
Other disposals and write offs (0.8) (5.1) (5.9)
At 31 December 2008 45.1 211.5 256.6 
At 1 January 2009 45.1 211.5 256.6 
Exchange differences (5.5) (24.7) (30.2)
Charge for the year 4.5 30.2 34.7 
Business disposals and closures (5.0) (37.3) (42.3)
Other disposals and write offs (0.6) (8.5) (9.1)
At 31 December 2009 38.5 171.2 209.7 
Net book amount
At 31 December 2009 89.3 252.5 341.8 
At 31 December 2008 101.5 290.9 392.4 
Notes to the Group accounts
The net book value of assets held by the Group under finance leases at 31 December 2009 was £0.9m (2008: £1.0m). The leased 
equipment serves the lease obligations in note 20. 69
Notes to the Group accounts
15. Future commitments
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Group capital projects
At 31 December 2009 the directors had authorised the 
following expenditure on capital projects:
Contracted but not provided for 10.0 7.5 
Authorised but not contracted for 18.8 24.9 
28.8 32.4 
Operating leases - minimum lease payments
At 31 December 2009 the Group's future minimum lease 
commitments were due as follows:
Within one year 3.6 5.1 
From one to five years 6.8 11.6 
After five years 2.7 5.2 
13.1 21.9 
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
H.I.G. Capital LLC loan note 11.7 11.9 
Other investments 0.8 0.8 
12.5 12.7 
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Raw materials 27.7 37.3 
Work in progress 8.9 8.6 
Finished goods 112.3 156.0 
148.9 201.9 
The Group leases various buildings, vehicles and other plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements. The 
leases have various terms typical of lease agreements for the particular class of asset.
Loan note        
The Group received a US $ denominated loan note as part of the consideration for the disposal of its Chicago Oleochemical business 
(note 7). The note is held directly by one of our US entities. It is classified as a held to maturity investment and carries a notional 
coupon of 6% per annum payable at maturity. On receipt the loan was valued at a discount rate of 9.5% being the estimated market 
rate at the time applicable to the issuer. The US $ balance is translated to Sterling at the prevailing year end exchange rate.
Other investments
Other investments of £0.8m (2008: £0.8m) comprise equity securities classified as available-for-sale and are included at cost, as fair value 
cannot be measured reliably, or, if quoted on an active market, at market value.
The Group consumed £667.5m (2008: £677.2m) of inventories during the period.
16. Investments
17. Inventories 70
Notes to the Group accounts
18. Trade and other receivables
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade receivables 131.4 157.0 
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (5.2) (3.5)
Trade receivables - net 126.2 153.5 
Other receivables 23.4 22.4 
Prepayments 9.4 9.9 
159.0 185.8 
The ageing of the Group’s year end overdue receivables is as follows: 2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Impaired
Less than 3 months 3.6 1.3 
3 to 6 months 0.1 0.6 
Over 6 months 1.5 1.6 
5.2 3.5 
Not impaired
Less than 3 months 12.1 32.1 
3 to 6 months 1.1 1.7 
Over 6 months 0.4 2.3 
13.6 36.1 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Sterling 27.3 31.2 
US Dollar 34.9 67.6 
Euro 66.0 53.7 
Other 30.8 33.3 
159.0 185.8 
Movements on the Group’s provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2009 
£m
2008 
£m
At 1 January 3.5 1.9 
Exchange differences (0.4) 0.7 
Charged to income statement 2.7 2.2 
Net write off of uncollectible receivables (0.6) (1.3)
At 31 December 5.2 3.5 
The individually impaired receivables relate to customers in unexpectedly difficult economic circumstances. The overdue receivables 
against which no provision has been made relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default nor any 
other indication that settlement will not be forthcoming.
Amounts charged to the income statement are included within administrative expenses. The other classes of receivables do not contain 
impaired assets.
Notes to the Group accounts 71
Notes to the Group accounts
19. Trade and other payables
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade payables 59.1 77.9 
Other taxation and social security 7.9 6.2 
Other payables 24.7 20.0 
Accruals and deferred income 87.3 75.7 
179.0 179.8 
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Current
Assets
Trade and other receivables 149.6 175.9 
Liabilities
Trade and other payables 91.7 104.1 
Interest rate swaps 0.3 - 
Syndicated acquisition funding 30.0 30.0 
Other unsecured bank loans and overdrafts due within one 
year or on demand 18.2 56.8 
Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.4 
140.5 191.3 
Non-current
Liabilities
Interest rate swaps - 2.4 
Syndicated acquisition funding 235.5 261.2 
€136m term facility 33.8 90.5 
Other unsecured bank loans 15.2 0.9 
Obligations under finance leases 0.5 0.6 
285.0 355.6 
20. Borrowings, other financial liabilities and other financial assets
This note should be read in conjunction with the further liquidity disclosures in our accounting policies note and the Financial review.
Elements of the syndicated acquisition funding facility are due for repayment over the five year term of the facility. However, the bulk 
of the facility falls due for repayment upon expiry of the agreement in June 2011. Interest is charged at a floating rate based on LIBOR 
or EURIBOR, depending upon the drawdown currency, plus a variable margin. The margin the Group pays on its borrowings over and 
above standard rates is determined by the Group’s net debt to EBITDA ratio. The €136m term facility all falls due for repayment in June 
2011 and is on broadly similar terms to the syndicated acquisition funding.       
  72
Notes to the Group accounts
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
Repayments fall due as follows:
Within one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 48.2 86.8 
Interest rate swap 0.3 - 
Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.4 
48.8 87.2 
After more than one year
Loans repayable
Within one to two years 284.5 30.8 
Within two to five years - 321.8 
Interest rate swap - 2.4 
Obligations under finance leases payable between years two and five 0.5 0.6 
285.0 355.6 
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
Within one year 0.3 0.4 
Within two to five years 0.6 0.7 
0.9 1.1 
Future finance charges on finance leases (0.1) (0.1)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 0.8 1.0 
Undiscounted maturity analysis of financial liabilities
Within one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 48.8 88.7 
Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.4 
49.1 89.1 
After more than one year
Loans repayable
Within one to two years 290.1 32.1 
Within two to five years - 350.9 
Obligations under finance leases 0.6 0.7 
290.7 383.7 
20. Borrowings, other financial liabilities and other financial assets (continued)
The analysis above includes estimated interest payable to maturity on the underlying loans. For the loans due after more than one year 
£3.8m (2008: £12.4m) of the interest falls due within one year of the balance sheet date, £1.8m (2008: £10.6m) within one to two 
years and £Nil (2008: £5.0m) within two to five years. 
Notes to the Group accounts 73
Notes to the Group accounts
Interest rate and currency profile of Group financial liabilities Fixed rate 
Weighted average
T otal 
£m
Fixed 
£m
Floating 
£m
Interest 
rate  
(%)
Fixed 
period 
(years)
Sterling 147.4 100.0 47.4 5.19 0.1 
US Dollar 62.4 - 62.4 - - 
Euro 123.5 - 123.5 - - 
Other 0.5 - 0.5 - - 
At 31 December 2009 333.8 100.0 233.8 5.19 0.1 
Sterling 176.8 100.0 76.8 5.99 1.1 
US Dollar 106.2 - 106.2 - - 
Euro 154.6 - 154.6 - - 
Other 5.2 - 5.2 - - 
At 31 December 2008 442.8 100.0 342.8 5.99 1.1 
Book value 
2009 
£m
Fair value 
2009 
£m
Book value 
2008 
£m
Fair value 
2008 
£m
Cash deposits 45.0 45.0 42.3 42.3 
Other investments 12.5 12.5 12.7 12.7 
Syndicated acquisition funding (265.5) (265.5) (291.2) (291.2)
€136m term facility (33.8) (33.8) (90.5) (90.5)
Other bank borrowings (33.4) (33.4) (57.7) (57.7)
Obligations under finance leases (0.8) (0.8) (1.0) (1.0)
Interest rate swaps (0.3) (0.3) (2.4) (2.4)
Interest rate risk        
During 2006, the Group took out interest rate swaps with a notional value of £100m. These swaps are designated cash flow hedges of 
the floating rate acquisition funding drawn down in 2006 and result in an interest payment or receipt as above based on the differential 
between the floating rate of the acquisition funding (UK Sterling LIBOR) plus margin and the fixing rate of 5.19% plus margin. The swaps 
expire on 31 January 2010. There is no intention at the current time to enter into any further interest rate swaps following the issuing 
of a ten year fixed rate $100m loan note in January 2010.
As at 31 December 2009, aside from the elements of the Group’s debt left fixed as a result of the swaps described above, all Group 
debt and cash was exposed to repricing within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
At 31 December 2009, the Group’s fixed rate debt was at a weighted average rate of 5.19% (2008: 5.99%). The Group’s floating rate 
liabilities are predominantly based on LIBOR and its overseas equivalents.
Fair values
The table below details a comparison of the book and fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities. Where there are no 
readily available market values to determine fair values, cash flows relating to the various instruments have been discounted at prevailing 
interest and exchange rates to give an estimate of fair value.
For financial instruments with a remaining life of greater than one year, fair values are based on cash flows discounted at prevailing 
interest rates. Accordingly, the fair value of cash deposits and short term borrowings approximates to the book value due to the short 
maturity of these instruments. The same applies to trade and other receivables and payables excluded from the above analysis.
As noted in the accounting policies note on page 55, the Group’s management of its currency risk includes the use of forward foreign 
currency contracts. The fair value of the contracts in place at 31 December 2009 was £0.4m (2008: £0.1m).
20. Borrowings, other financial liabilities and other financial assets (continued) 74
Notes to the Group accounts
20. Borrowings, other financial liabilities and other financial assets (continued)
Financial instruments
Effective 1 January 2009, the Group adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 for financial instruments that are measured in the balance sheet 
at fair value. This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following hierarchy:
n 	 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1)  
n 	 Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or  
 indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2) 
n 	 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).
All of the Group’s financial instruments are classified as level 1.
Borrowing facilities
As at 31 December 2009, the Group had undrawn committed facilities of £Nil (2008: £53.1m) expiring in more than two years, 
£96.1m (2008: £Nil) expiring between one and two years and £31.8m (2008: £7.6m) expiring within one year. In addition the Group 
had other undrawn facilities of £37.2m (2008: £39.8m) available.
In January 2010 the Group issued a $100m loan note. This is repayable in 2020 and carries a fixed rate of 5.94%.
Environmental 
£m
Restructuring 
£m
Discontinued 
£m
Other 
£m
T otal  
£m
At 1 January 2009 16.6 20.1 - 11.8 48.5 
Exchange differences (0.9) (0.6) - (0.7) (2.2)
Charged to income statement - 12.1 9.8 0.7 22.6 
Cash paid against provisions (2.3) (6.7) (2.8) (3.7) (15.5)
Non-cash movement in provisions - - - 1.7 1.7 
At 31 December 2009 13.4 24.9 7.0 9.8 55.1 
Analysis of total provisions 2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Current 30.6 7.0
Non-current 24.5 41.5
55.1 48.5
21. Provisions
The environmental provision relates to soil and potential ground water contamination on a number of sites, both currently in use 
and previously occupied, in Europe and the Americas. Restructuring provisions relate to the ongoing plans to integrate the acquired 
Uniqema business with the existing Croda businesses and costs associated with the closure of the Wilton site. Other provisions relate 
primarily to onerous contracts within the acquired Uniqema business. 
In relation to the environmental provision, the directors consider that the balance will be utilised within 20 years. With regard to the 
restructuring provision, whilst utilisation has occurred in 2009, the closure of the Wilton site resulted in a further charge in the year. 
The directors’ view is that there will be significant elements, notably in respect of employee costs, that will be utilised in 2010 and 
that the balance will be largely utilised by 2011. Based on information currently available and on the detailed plans established for the 
restructuring of the Group, this level of provision is considered appropriate by the directors. The discontinued provision was established 
in 2009 on the closure of the Bromborough facility and the discontinuance of its associated business. The directors expect the 
provision to be fully utilised during 2010. Other provisions largely relate to the finalisation of the fair value exercise related to the fair 
value adjustments in respect of onerous contracts and fixed asset decommissioning following the Uniqema acquisition in 2006. These 
provisions will be largely utilised during 2010. The Group has considered the impact of discounting on its provisions and has concluded 
that, as a consequence of the significant utilisation expected in a relatively short timescale, the impact is immaterial.
Provisions are made where a constructive or legal obligation can be quantified and where the timing of the transfer of economic 
benefits relating to the provisions cannot be ascertained with any degree of certainty.
Notes to the Group accounts 75
Notes to the Group accounts
Year option 
granted
Number of 
shares Price Options exercisable from
Croda Savings-Related
Share Option Scheme 2004 4,917 226p 1 November 2009 to 30 April 2010
2005 141,706 328p 1 November 2010 to 30 April 2011
2006 4,865 384p 1 November 2009 to 30 April 2010
2007 247,189 520p 1 November 2010 to 30 April 2011
2008 156,593 509p 1 November 2011 to 30 April 2012
2009 166,135 533p 1 November 2012 to 30 April 2013
Croda International Overseas
Sharesave Scheme 2005 153,451 328p 1 November 2010 to 30 November 2010
2007 503,737 520p 1 November 2010 to 30 November 2010
2008 244,904 509p 1 November 2011 to 30 November 2011
2009 309,986 533p 1 November 2012 to 30 November 2012
Croda International Senior
Executive Share Option Schemes 2000 44,537 256p 22 March 2003 to 21 March 2010
2001 33,065 258p 7 March 2004 to 6 March 2011
2002 37,927 261p 13 March 2005 to 12 March 2012
2003 324,985 230p 5 March 2006 to 4 March 2013
Croda International Long-T erm
Incentive Plan 2007 199,196 Nil 22 February 2010 to 21 February 2011
2008 303,191 Nil 20 February 2011 to 19 February 2012
2009 329,519 Nil 18 February 2012 to 17 February 2013
Croda International Bonus
Co-Investment Plan 2007 84,777 Nil 26 April 2010
2008 195,079 Nil 1 May 2011
2009 347,753 Nil 30 April 2012
22. Ordinary share capital
During 2009 a resolution was passed to increase the ordinary share capital by the creation of 58,111,250 ordinary shares of 10p each 
(total value £5,811,125).
In 2009, options were granted to employees under the Croda Savings-Related Share Option Scheme to subscribe for 169,368 ordinary 
shares at an option price of 533p per share and under the International Sharesave Scheme to subscribe for 317,222 shares at an option 
price of 533p per share. No options were granted in 2009 under the Senior Executive Share Option Scheme. No-cost options to 
subscribe for 329,519 ordinary shares were granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan during the year and no-cost options over a 
further 347,753 shares were granted under the Bonus Co-Investment Plan.
During the year consideration of £1.6m was received on the exercise of options over 568,631 shares. The options were satisfied with 
shares transferred from the Group’s employee share trusts. Since the year end a further 51,082 shares have been transferred from the 
schemes.
There are outstanding options to subscribe for ordinary shares as follows:
Ordinary shares of 10p 2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Authorised at 1 January and 31 December 23.1 17.3 
Issued at 1 January and at 31 December 14.0 14.0  76
Notes to the Group accounts
23. Share based payments
The impact of share based payment transactions on the Group’s financial position is as follows: 2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Analysis of amounts recognised in income statement:
Charged in respect of equity-settled share based payment transactions 2.0 1.6 
Charged in respect of cash-settled share based payment transactions 4.9 1.4 
6.9 3.0 
Analysis of amounts recognised in balance sheet:
Liability in respect of cash-settled share based payment transactions 4.6 2.3 
The key elements of each scheme along with the assumptions employed to arrive at the charge in the income statement are set out 
below.
Croda Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”)
The SAYE scheme, established in 1983, grants options annually in September to employees of the Group at a fixed exercise price, being 
the market price of the Company’s shares at the grant date discounted by up to 20%. Employees then enter into a savings contract 
over 3 to 5 years and, subject to continued employment, are entitled to exercise options at the end of the period based on the amount 
saved. Options are exercisable for a 6 month period following completion of the savings contract. As the option is equity settled, under 
IFRS 2 charges are only made in respect of options granted after 7 November 2002. For options granted in the year, the fair value per 
option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Number
2008 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 919,477 411 942,756 364 
Granted 169,368 533 174,232 509 
Forfeited (50,988) 511 (40,365) 448 
Exercised (304,051) 302 (157,146) 227 
Outstanding at 31 December 733,806 478 919,477 411 
Exercisable at 31 December 16,390 13,146 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 747 521 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 2.0 2.2 
Grant date 2009
Share price at grant date 666p
Exercise price 533p
Number of employees 325
Shares under option 169,368
Vesting period 3 years
Expected volatility 35%
Option life 6 months
Expected life -
Risk free rate 2.1%
Dividend yield 3.0%
Possibility of forfeiture 7.5% p.a.
Fair value per option at grant date 198p
Notes to the Group accounts 77
Notes to the Group accounts
23. Share based payments (continued)
Croda International Overseas Sharesave Scheme (“International”)
The International scheme, established in 1999, has the same option pricing model, savings contract and vesting period as the SAYE 
scheme. At exercise, employees are paid a cash equivalent for each option purchased, being the difference between the exercise price 
and market price at the exercise date. As the scheme is cash settled, IFRS 2 applies to all options in existence during the year, regardless 
of grant date. For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value 
are as follows:
Croda International Senior Executive Share Option Scheme (“Executive”)
The Group previously granted options to senior employees each year which are subject to satisfaction of performance conditions 
before they can be exercised. The performance conditions are discussed in the directors’ remuneration report (page 30). As with the 
SAYE scheme, the Executive Scheme is equity settled and as a consequence only the options granted in 2003 fall within the scope of 
IFRS 2. No further options will be granted under this scheme.
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Number
2008 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 1,303,664 338 1,271,052 419 
Granted 317,222 533 285,248 509 
Forfeited (109,463) 474 (185,534) 448 
Exercised (296,304) 312 (67,102) 239 
Outstanding at 31 December 1,215,119 257 1,303,664 338 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 756 535 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 1.6 1.9 
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Number
2008 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 718,935 245 834,061 245 
Forfeited (2,299) 256 (5,475) 256 
Exercised (264,823) 257 (109,651) 248 
Outstanding at 31 December 451,813 238 718,935 245 
Exercisable at 31 December 451,813 602,367 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 678 649 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 2.6 2.8 
Grant date 2009
Share price at grant date 666p
Exercise price 533p
Number of employees 604
Shares under option 317,222
Vesting period 3 years
Expected volatility 35%
Option life 1 month
Expected life -
Risk free rate 1.3%
Dividend yield 2.5%
Possibility of forfeiture 7.5% p.a.
Fair value per option at 31 December 295p 78
Notes to the Group accounts
23. Share based payments (continued)
Croda International Long-T erm Investment Plan (“LTIP”)
The LTIP was established in 2005 and grants no cost options to senior employees which vest after 3 years dependent upon an EPS 
performance related sliding scale (non-market condition) and the Group’s total shareholder return (market condition). The LTIP is 
discussed in detail in the directors’ remuneration report (pages 29 to 30). For options granted in the year, the fair value per option 
granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
Bonus Co-Investment Plan (“BCIP”)
The BCIP was established in 2005 and grants no cost options to senior employees which vest after 3 years dependent upon a 
performance related condition. For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the 
calculation of the value are as follows:
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Number
2008 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 760,657 - 710,989 - 
Granted 329,519 - 303,191 - 
Forfeited - - (6,537) - 
Exercised (227,565) - (246,986) - 
Outstanding at 31 December 862,611 - 760,657 - 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 527 666 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 2.3 2.3 
Market condition Non-market condition
Grant date 18 February 2009 18 February 2009
Share price at grant date 509p 509p
Number of employees 11 11
Shares under option 164,759 164,760
Vesting period 3 years 3 years
Option life 1 year 1 year
Expected life - -
Dividend yield 3.9% 3.9%
Possibility of forfeiture 3.5% 3.5%
Fair value per option at grant date 282p 454p
Grant date 30 April 2009
Share price at grant date 544p
Number of employees 54 
Shares under option 347,753 
Vesting period 3 years
Dividend yield 3.6%
Possibility of forfeiture 5.0%
Fair value per option at grant date 489p
Notes to the Group accounts 79
Notes to the Group accounts
25. Shareholders’ funds
Investments in own shares represent the Croda International Plc Qualifying Share Ownership Trust (QUEST), the Croda International 
Plc Employee Benefit Trust (CIPEBT) and the Croda International Plc AESOP Trust (AESOP), which each hold shares purchased on the 
open market to satisfy the future issue of shares under the Group’s share option schemes. As at 31 December 2009 the QUEST was 
financed by a repayable on demand loan from the Company of £2.2m (2008: £3.1m) and held 0.2m (2008: 0.5m) shares at a cost of 
£2.2m (2008: £3.1m) with a market value of £1.6m (2008: £2.6m). As at 31 December 2009 the CIPEBT was financed by a repayable 
on demand loan from the Company of £5.0m (2008: £5.6m) and held 0.4m (2008: 1.0m) shares at a cost of £5.0m (2008: £5.6m) with 
a market value of £3.6m (2008: £5.4m). 
As at 31 December 2009 the AESOP had issued all its previously held shares, as financed by the Company, and thus had no residual 
loan balance with the Company. All of the shares held by the QUEST and CIPEBT were under option at 31 December 2009 and, 
except for a nominal amount, the right to receive dividends has been waived.
23. Share based payments (continued)
24. Preference share capital
Croda International Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”)
The SIP was established in 2003 and has similar objectives to the SAYE scheme in terms of increasing employee retention and share 
ownership. Under the SIP scheme, employees enter into an agreement to purchase shares in the Company each month. For each share 
purchased by an employee, the Company awards a matching share which passes to the employee after 3 years’ service. The matching 
shares are allocated each month at market value with this fair value charge being recognised in the income statement in full in the year 
of allocation.
The preference shares have no redemption rights and carry no voting rights other than in certain circumstances affecting the rights 
of the preference shareholders, details of which are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. The three classes of preference 
shares rank pari passu with each other but ahead of the ordinary shares on winding up. Rights on a winding up are limited to repayment 
of capital and any arrears of dividends.
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Number
2008 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 462,012 - 266,933 - 
Granted 347,753 - 195,079 - 
Forfeited (111) - - - 
Exercised (182,045) - - - 
Outstanding at 31 December 627,609 - 462,012 - 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 1.8 1.4 
2009 
£000
2008 
£000
The authorised, issued and fully paid preference share capital comprises:
5.9% preference shares of £1 616 616 
6.6% preference shares of £1 499 499 
7.5% preference shares of £1 22 22 
1,137 1,137  80
Notes to the Group accounts
26. Minority interests
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
At 1 January 2.0 1.7 
Exchange differences (0.2) 0.3 
Profit for the year 0.2 0.2 
Dividend paid to minority shareholders (0.3) (0.2)
At 31 December 1.7 2.0 
27. Contingent liabilities
The Company has guaranteed loan capital and bank overdrafts of subsidiary undertakings amounting to £54.1m (2008: £112.2m).
Notes to the Group accounts 81
Croda International Plc
Parent company financial statements
Pages 82 to 89 represent the separate financial statements of Croda 
International Plc as required by the Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’).
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
Act and UK accounting standards and are thus presented separately to the 
Group financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with the 
International Accounting Standards. 82
Company independent auditors’ report
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Croda International Plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which 
comprise the Company balance sheet, the Company accounting policies and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 42, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is 
to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for, and only for, the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 
n 	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2009; 
n 	 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and  
n 	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
n 	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act  
 2006; and  
n 	 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared  
 is consistent with the parent company financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion: 
n 	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received  
 from branches not visited by us; or  
n 	 the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement  
 with the accounting records and returns; or  
n 	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or  
n 	 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Other matters
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2009. 
Steve Denison (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Leeds 
26 February 2010
Company independent auditors’ report 83
Company balance sheet
at 31 December 2009
Note
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets D 2.5 2.0 
Investments
Subsidiary undertakings E 481.0 518.4 
Other F 0.6 0.6 
484.1 521.0 
Current assets
Debtors G 15.1 14.1 
Cash at bank and in hand 6.2 9.5 
21.3 23.6 
Creditors
Falling due within one year H (124.3) (102.6)
Net current liabilities (103.0) (79.0)
Creditors
Falling due after one year H (245.4) (311.1)
Net assets 135.7 130.9 
Capital and reserves
Preference share capital 24 1.1 1.1 
Ordinary share capital 22 14.0 14.0 
Called up share capital 15.1 15.1 
Share premium account K 93.3 93.3 
Reserves K 27.3 22.5 
Shareholders' funds 135.7 130.9 
Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the accounts on 23 February 2010
Martin Flower  Sean Christie
Chairman    Group Finance Director
Company balance sheet 84
Company accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. They have all been applied 
consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, unless otherwise stated.
Accounting basis
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the previous revaluation of properties, in 
compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority 
and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards. Whilst the consolidated accounts have been prepared under IFRS, as required by 
European law, the Company’s accounts continue to be prepared under UK GAAP as permitted.
Land and buildings
In the past the Company’s principal properties have been valued periodically by professional valuers on an open market, existing use 
basis. Following the Company’s adoption of FRS 15 in 2001, no further revaluations will be carried out and previous book values will be 
retained. Notwithstanding the requirements of FRS 15, all fixed assets are written down to their recoverable amount in the event that 
any impairment review carried out in accordance with FRS 11 indicates that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value. The 
profit or loss on the disposal of land and buildings included in the profit and loss account represents the difference between the net 
proceeds of sale and the net book amount.
Depreciation
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation less depreciation. Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write down the 
cost of all tangible fixed assets, except freehold land, over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis. The estimated average life 
for each major asset category is:
n 	 Freehold buildings 15 to 40 years  
n 	 Computers and office equipment 3 to 5 years 
n 	 Cars 3 years 
n 	 Plant and machinery 10 to 15 years
Leased assets
The cost of operating leases is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Pensions
The defined benefit pension obligations of the Company are financed by contributions to separate funds. As the Company is unable to 
reliably and consistently measure its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the funds, the Company accounts as though the funds 
were defined contribution funds and charges contributions paid directly to the profit and loss account.
Currency translations
Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the financial period. Exchange profits or losses on trading 
transactions are included in the profit and loss account. Other exchange differences arising from non-trading items are dealt with 
through reserves.
Financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rates and short-term currency rate fluctuations. 
Receipts and payments on interest rate instruments are recognised on an accruals basis in the profit and loss account over the life of 
the instrument.
Instruments accounted for as hedges are designated as a hedge at the inception of the contract. Gains or losses are recognised on 
maturity of the underlying transaction.
Employee Share Ownership Trusts
Shares acquired by the Trustees, funded by the Company and held for the continuing benefit of the Company are shown as a reduction 
in shareholders’ funds. Movements in the year arising from additional purchases by the Trustees of shares or the receipt of funds due to 
the exercise of options by employees are accounted for within reserves and shown as a movement in shareholders’ funds in the year. 
Administration expenses of the trusts are charged to the Company’s profit and loss account as incurred.
Share based payments
The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated using the Black-Scholes or binomial model as appropriate. In accordance 
with FRS 20 ’Share-based Payment’ the resulting cost is charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the options. The 
value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting, as the Company does not use market-based 
performance criteria.
Dividends
All dividends, including preference dividends, are recognised as a liability when the liability is irrevocable. Accordingly, final dividends are 
recognised when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Company accounting policies 85
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and other accounting purposes. Temporary differences arise from the inclusion of 
profits and losses in the accounts in different periods from which they are recognised in tax assessments and primarily arise as a result 
of the difference between tax allowances on tangible fixed assets and the corresponding depreciation charge, and upon the pension 
fund deficit. Full provision is made for the tax effects of these differences. No provision is made for unremitted earnings of foreign 
subsidiaries where there is no commitment to remit such earnings. Similarly, no provision is made for temporary differences relating to 
investments in subsidiaries since realisation of such differences can be controlled and is not probable in the foreseeable future. Deferred 
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised. All taxation is calculated on the basis of the tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date. 
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Any difference between the proceeds (net of 
transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the 
effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer 
settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective 
interest method, less impairment losses.
Investments
Shares in subsidiary undertakings
Shares in subsidiary undertakings are initially stated at cost. Provision is made where, in the opinion of the Directors, a permanent 
diminution in value has occurred.
Unquoted securities
Investments in unquoted securities are carried at fair value unless such value cannot be reliably measured, in which case the investments 
are carried at cost. 
Financial risk factors
The Group accounting policy for financial risk factors is also relevant to the preparation of the Company financial statements and is 
disclosed on pages 54 and 55.
Company accounting policies 86
Notes to the Company accounts
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Company employment costs including directors
Wages and salaries 4.6 6.8 
Share based payments (note J) 2.0 1.5 
Social security costs 0.9 1.0 
Other pension costs 4.2 0.6 
11.7 9.9 
Number Number
Average employee numbers
Management and administration 74 68 
A. Profit and loss account
Of the Group’s profit for the year £28.7m (2008: £17.5m) is dealt with in the profit and loss account of the Company which was 
approved by the Board on 23 February 2010 but which is not presented as permitted by s.408 Companies Act 2006. Included in the 
Company profit and loss account is a charge of £0.1m (2008: £0.1m) in respect of the Company’s audit fee.
C. Retirement benefit obligations
The Company’s employees are members of the UK defined benefit schemes, details of which are disclosed in note 12 to the Group 
accounts. Whilst the Group reports under IFRS, the UK GAAP equivalent figures for the UK schemes would not be significantly 
different. As the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the schemes, due mainly to changes 
in the Group’s corporate structure over the years, the Company has accounted as though the schemes were defined contribution 
schemes and has charged the contributions paid each year to the profit and loss account.
B. Employees
D. Tangible fixed assets
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
T otal  
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2009 2.1 1.3 3.4 
Additions 0.8 0.1 0.9 
Disposals - (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2009 2.9 1.3 4.2 
Depreciation
At 1 January 2009 0.9 0.5 1.4 
Charge for year 0.2 0.2 0.4 
Disposals - (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2009 1.1 0.6 1.7 
Net book amount
At 31 December 2009 1.8 0.7 2.5 
At 31 December 2008 1.2 0.8 2.0 
Notes to the Company accounts 87
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 4.1 1.1 
Corporate taxation 7.1 7.1 
Other debtors 3.3 5.3 
Prepayments 0.6 0.6 
15.1 14.1 
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Net book amount of land and buildings
Freehold 1.8 1.2 
Historical cost of land and buildings
Cost 0.3 0.3 
1988 valuations 1.9 1.9 
At 31 December 2.2 2.2 
Revaluation surpluses (1.1) (1.1)
Restated to historical cost 1.1 1.1 
Depreciation (0.7) (0.7)
Historical net book amount
At 31 December 0.4 0.4 
D. Tangible fixed assets (continued)
E. Subsidiary undertakings
G. Debtors
Shares 
£m
Loans 
£m
T otal  
£m
Cost less amounts written off
At 1 January 2009 262.6 255.8 518.4 
Exchange differences - (15.5) (15.5)
Additions 0.3 - 0.3 
Amounts repaid (4.1) (109.0) (113.1)
Amounts invested - 90.9 90.9 
At 31 December 2009 258.8 222.2 481.0 
Other 
investments 
£m
T otal  
£m
Cost or valuation of net equity
At 1 January 2009 and 31 December 2009 0.6 0.6 
F . Investments
The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 90.
Other investments comprise unlisted investments included at directors’ valuation based on appropriate attributable net assets.
Notes to the Company accounts 88
Notes to the Company accounts
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings (note I) 109.2 80.7 
Trade creditors 0.3 0.2 
Other taxation and social security 1.2 1.1 
Other creditors 5.9 9.4 
Accruals and deferred income 5.5 8.8 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 2.2 2.4 
124.3 102.6 
Amounts falling due after one year
Borrowings (note I) 225.9 275.3 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 19.5 35.8 
245.4 311.1 
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
Syndicated acquisition funding 255.9 305.3 
Interest rate swaps 0.3 2.4 
Bank loans and overdrafts repayable on demand 78.9 48.3 
335.1 356.0 
Repayments fall due as follows:
Within one year
Syndicated acquisition funding 30.0 30.0 
Interest rate swaps 0.3 2.4 
Bank loans and overdrafts 78.9 48.3 
109.2 80.7 
After more than one year
Loans repayable
 Within one to two years 225.9 30.0 
 Within two to five years - 245.3 
225.9 275.3 
H. Creditors
I. Financial instruments
The Company’s objectives, policies and strategies in respect of financial instruments are outlined in the accounting policies note on page 
84 which forms part of the annual report and accounts. Short term debtors and creditors have been excluded from all of the following 
disclosures.
Financial liabilities
The Company holds interest rate swaps to hedge against the Group’s US$ fixed rate debt and against the floating rate acquisition 
funding. Details are given in note 20 of the Group accounts. As required under UK GAAP , the fair value of the swaps has been 
recognised on the Company balance sheet. 
Notes to the Company accounts 89
L. Contingent liabilities 
The Company has guaranteed loan capital and bank overdrafts of subsidiary undertakings amounting to £54.1m (2008: £112.2m). 
Details of investments in own shares are disclosed in note 25 of the Group accounts.
J. Share based payments
The total charge for the year in respect of share based remuneration schemes was £2.0m (2008: £1.5m). In addition, as the Company 
has issued options over its own shares to employees of its subsidiary companies, the Company has to increase the cost of its investment 
in the relevant subsidiary by the fair value of the options granted.
The key elements of each scheme are disclosed in note 23 of the Group accounts.
K. Reserves
Share 
premium 
account  
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Revaluation 
reserve 
£m
Profit 
and loss 
account 
£m
T otal  
£m
At 1 January 2009 93.3 0.9 2.1 19.5 115.8 
T otal recognised income in year - - - 28.0 28.0 
Dividends - - - (27.1) (27.1)
Share based payments - - - 2.3 2.3 
Consideration received for sale of own shares (held in trust) - - - 1.6 1.6 
At 31 December 2009 93.3 0.9 2.1 24.3 120.6 
Notes to the Company accounts 90
Principal subsidiary companies
Incorporated and/or 
principally operating in
Group beneficial 
interest %
Principal operating companies
Croda Europe Ltd UK 100
John L Seaton & Co Ltd UK 100
Uniqema UK Ltd* UK 100
Croda Argentina SA Argentina 100
Croda Australia Australia 100
Croda Belgium NV Belgium 100
Croda do Brasil Ltda Brazil 100
Croda Canada Ltd Canada 100
Croda Chile Chile 100
Croda China Trading Company Ltd China 100
Croda Trading (Shanghai) Co Ltd China 100
Croda Colombia Colombia 100
Croda France SAS France 100
Crodarom SAS France 100
Sederma SAS France 100
Croda Chocques SAS France 100
Uniqema GmbH & Co KG Germany 100
Croda GmbH Germany 100
Croda Hong Kong Company Ltd Hong Kong 100
Croda Chemicals (India) Pvt Ltd* India 100
PT Croda Indonesia Ltd Indonesia 60
Croda Italiana SpA Italy 100
Uniqema Italia SRL Italy 100
Croda Japan KK Japan 100
Croda Mexico SA de CV Mexico 100
Uniqema BV Netherlands 100
Uniqema Nederland BV Netherlands 100
Croda Peruana SAC Peru 100
Croda Poland Sp z o o* Poland 100
Croda Russia Russia 100
Croda Singapore Ptd Ltd* Singapore 100
Croda (SA) Pty Ltd South Africa 100
Croda Korea South Korea 100
Croda Woobang Co Ltd South Korea 60
Croda Ibérica SA Spain 100
Croda Nordica AB Sweden 100
Croda (Thailand) Co., Ltd* Thailand 100
Croda Dubai UAE 100
Croda Inc USA 100
Croda Zimbabwe (Pvt) Ltd Zimbabwe 100
Principal holding companies
Croda Chemicals International Ltd* UK 100
Croda Overseas Holdings Ltd* UK 100
Croda Holdings SAS France 100
Croda Investments Inc USA 100
* Companies owned directly by Croda International Plc. 
Companies incorporated in the UK are registered in England.
Full details of investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings will be attached to the Company’s annual return made to the 
Registrar of Companies. Those not listed above were either not trading or not material.
Principal subsidiary companies 91
Shareholder information
Operating heads
Corporate calendar
David Barraclough President - Asia Pacific 
Miguel De Bellis President - Latin America
Bryan Dobson President - Global Operations
Steve Foots President - Consumer Care Europe
Kevin Gallagher President - North America
Keith Layden President - Actives & Enterprise Technology
Kevin Nutbrown President - Industrial Specialities Europe
2010 Annual General Meeting 28 April 2010
2009 Final ordinary dividend payment 3 June 2010
2010 Half year results announcement 27 July 2010
2010 Interim ordinary dividend payment 7 October 2010
2010 Preference dividend payments 30 June 2010
31 December 2010
2010 Full year results announcement February 2011
Analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 23 February 2010
Number of holders Number of shares
% of  
issued capital
By size of holding
1 – 1,000 1,607 374,768 0.26
1,001 – 5,000 2,143 2,378,339 1.70
5,001 – 10,000 786 2,471,674 1.77
10,001 – 50,000 248 1,746,633 1.25
50,001 – 100,000 229 5,726,573 4.09
100,001 – 500,000 83 6,042,177 4.32
500,001 – upwards 174 121,209,805 86.61
5,270 139,949,969 100.00
By type of holder
Private holders 3,480 8,355,716 5.98
Institutional and corporate holders 1,786 127,275,238 90.94
Treasury shares 1 3,757,589 2.68
Shares held in Croda trusts 3 561,426 0.40
5,270 139,949,969 100.00
Investor relations
Shareholders can now get up to date information on Stock Exchange announcements, key dates in the corporate calendar, the 
Croda share price and brokers’ estimates by visiting our corporate web site at www.croda.com and clicking on the section called 
“Investor”.
Shareholders can receive shareholder communications electronically by registering on the Registrars’ website,  
www.capitashareportal.com and following the instructions. T o register, shareholders will require their investor code (IVC). This is 
an 11 digit number starting with either five or six zeros and can be found on your dividend tax voucher or your share certificate. 
Receiving corporate communications by email has a number of benefits, including being more environmentally friendly, reducing 
unnecessary waste, faster notification of information to shareholders and eventually leading to a reduction in company costs. 
Shareholders who register on the above website can also check their shareholding, view their dividend history, elect for the 
dividend reinvestment plan and register changes of address and dividend mandate instructions.
Shareholder information 92
Shareholder information
Share price information
As well as being available on our website, the latest ordinary share price is available on the Financial Times Cityline service  
(0905 817 1690) (calls cost 75 pence per minute from a BT landline and the average duration is 1 minute per stock) or via the BBC’s 
broadcast teletext service.
The middle market values of the listed share capital at 31 December 2009, or last date traded*, were as follows:
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”) 
Ordinary shareholders may wish to know about this plan, which allows you to use your dividends to buy further shares in Croda. The 
DRIP is administered by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd (“CIRGT”). CIRGT will instruct the broker to buy shares on the dividend payment date 
at the then current market price. Any cash left over which is insufficient to purchase a whole share will be carried forward and held, 
without interest, in a client money bank account. The DRIP commission charged to the shareholder is 1% of the purchase price of the 
shares, with a minimum charge of £2.50. This is exclusive of stamp duty reserve tax at 0.5% of the deal value. Should you wish to apply 
you should request an application pack by telephoning 0871 664 0381 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras) or, if calling from 
overseas, +44 20 8639 3402; alternatively you can email shares@capitaregistrars.com
Overseas Shareholders 
Capita has an International Payment Service that allows you to receive your dividend payments in your local currency, sent directly to 
your local bank account - potentially saving you time and money. Further details are available from Shareholder Administration, Capita 
Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU; telephone UK: 0871 664 0386 (calls cost 10 pence per minute 
plus network extras) or +44 20 8639 3405 (from outside the UK) or by logging on to www.capitaregistrars.com/international
Share dealing
Share dealing services are available for shareholders to either sell or buy Croda ordinary shares. For further information on these 
services, please contact:
UK shareholders only - Capita Share Dealing Services 
www.capitadeal.com (on-line dealing) 
0871 664 0446 (telephone dealing) - calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
UK & overseas shareholders - Stocktrade  
Telephone dealing 0845 601 0995 (from outside the UK +44 131 240 0414) quoting reference Low Co0238  
For further information visit www.stocktrade.co.uk/Croda
Relating to beneficial owners of shares with ‘information rights’
Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information 
rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares 
rather than to the Company’s registrar, Capita Registrars, or to the Company directly.
Capital gains tax
The market values of the listed share capital at 31 March 1982 were as follows:
Ordinary shares 800p
5.9% preference shares 75p*
6.6% preference shares 100p*
Ordinary shares 77.5p
Deferred ordinary shares 40.5p
5.9% preference shares 42.5p
6.6% preference shares 47.5p
7.5% preference shares (estimated) 45.0p
Shareholder information 93
Warning to shareholders
In recent years many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence 
concerning investment matters. These are typically from overseas based “brokers” who target UK shareholders offering to sell them 
what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments. These operations are commonly known as “boiler 
rooms”. These “brokers” can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) 
has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around £20,000. It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this 
way; many of the victims have been investing successfully for several years. Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited 
advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
n 	 Make sure that you get the correct name of the person and organisation 
n 	 Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.fsa.gov.uk/Pages/register 
n 	 Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0300 500 5000 or visiting www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk 
n 	 If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/law/alerts/overseas.shtml
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk
Company Secretary and registered office 
A L Scott (Company Secretary) 
Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, East Y orkshire, DN14 9AA  
Tel: +44 (0)1405 860551  
Fax: +44 (0)1405 861767 
Website: www.croda.com
Registered in England number 206132 
Registrars 
Capita Registrars  
Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, West Y orkshire, HD8 0GA 
Tel: 0871 664 0300 (from UK) - calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras 
+ 44 20 8639 3399 (from overseas) 
Fax: 01484 601512(from UK) 
+ 44 1484 601512 (from overseas) 
Website: www.capitaregistrars.com 
E-mail: shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.com
Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Merchant bankers 
UBS Limited
Solicitors 
Eversheds LLP
Stockbrokers 
UBS Limited  
Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc
Pension fund managers 
UBS Global Asset Management (UK) Limited 
Schroder Investment Management Limited 
Legal & General Investment Management  
Macquarie Capital Funds (Europe) Limited 
CB Richard Ellis Collective Investors Limited 
Edinburgh Partners Limited         
Rockspring Hanover Real Estate Investment Management Limited 
SteelRiver Offshore Infrastructure Associates Limited 
Innisfree Limited    
Consulting actuaries 
T owers Watson
Shareholder information 94 94
Five year record
Earnings
Summarised balance sheet
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
2006 
£m
2005 
£m
Turnover 916.2 911.1 804.8 480.1 289.9 
Operating profit 119.9 112.6 83.0 59.7 51.4 
Profit before tax 106.4 96.3 60.8 52.5 49.4 
Profit after tax 71.8 64.8 40.2 35.0 32.2 
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders * 23.7 60.9 87.2 7.9 32.6 
% % % % % 
Operating profit as a % of turnover ** 13.1 12.0 10.3 7.5 17.7 
Return on invested capital (ROIC) ** 10.5 9.8 8.1 6.9 12.5 
Effective tax rate 32.5 32.0 33.9 33.3 34.8 
pence pence pence pence pence 
Earnings per share (before exceptional items) * 50.2 51.7 37.1 28.9 25.6 
Dividends per share 21.50 19.75 15.75 14.30 13.35 
times times times times times
Net debt/EBITDA ** 1.8 2.6 2.8 3.3 0.4
EBITDA interest cover ** 11.1 9.4 5.8 4.2 35.1
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
2006 
£m
2005 
£m
Fixed assets 556.3 608.5 555.8 551.5 130.3 
Stock 148.9 201.9 161.4 133.5 53.4 
Debtors 159.0 185.8 186.4 192.5 55.7 
Creditors (182.6) (184.5) (178.8) (198.4) (44.6)
Other - 1.1 1.6 2.0 15.4 
Capital employed 681.6 812.8 726.4 681.1 210.2 
Dividends, tax, provisions and other (31.1) (60.9) (81.4) (64.9) 1.7 
Pension fund liability (203.5) (88.5) (59.3) (159.9) (107.1)
447.0 663.4 585.7 456.3 104.8 
Shareholders funds 156.5 263.3 218.0 124.5 79.7 
Minority interests 1.7 2.0 1.7 1.9 0.9 
158.2 265.3 219.7 126.4 80.6 
Net debt 288.5 398.1 366.0 329.9 24.2 
446.7 663.4 585.7 456.3 104.8 
Gearing (%) 182.4 150.1 166.6 261.0 30.0 
* T otal Group figures. All other figures are continuing operations only. 
** 2006 pro-forma full year Uniqema
Earnings exclude exceptional items in order to present a clearer year on year comparison.
Five year record This Annual Report is printed on Satimatt Club paper, 
selected from mixed sources. Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Croda International Plc 
Cowick Hall  Snaith 
Goole  East Y orkshire 
DN14 9AA  England 
Tel +44 (0)1405 860551 
Fax +44 (0)1405 861767
www.croda.com
Designed and produced by Dawson Design Manchester
Croda International Plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2009
