 Repor t
Annual
2010
& Accounts To remain an 
independent 
company and 
operate as one 
global team
We will continue 
to be an ethical 
and responsible 
company
We will  
continually 
improve
   The 
Croda
      Vision There will be a place  
for many styles of  
leadership, but all  
leaders will have as  
their primary objective 
to build other leaders
We can only achieve  
our goals through  
excellent and constant 
communication,  
creativity and setting  
clear objectives at  
every level
We will remain a  
‘fun’, lively, stimulating 
and exciting place 
to work, where all 
employees have the 
courage to question, 
and all functions and 
individuals are valued
Directors’ report 
Business review
Financial highlights 1
Products and markets 2
Chairman’s statement 3
Chief Executive’s review 5
Financial review 9
Corporate Social Responsibility 13
Governance
Board of directors 21
Corporate governance 23
Remuneration report 28
Other disclosures 40
Group independent auditors’ report 44
Financial statements
Group income statement 45
Group statement of comprehensive 
income and expense
45
Group balance sheet 46
Group statement of changes in equity 47
Group statement of cash flows 48
Group cash flow notes 49
Group accounting policies 50
Notes to the Group accounts 57
Company independent auditors’ report 83
Company balance sheet 84
Company accounting policies 85
Notes to the Company accounts 87
Other information
Principal subsidiary companies 95
Shareholder information 96
Five year record 99
Contents 1
Financial highlights 
Directors’ report | Business review
2010 2009
Revenue - continuing operations £1,001.9m £827.5m
Profit before tax - continuing operations before  
exceptional items £192.3m £108.0m
Profit before tax £192.3m £90.8m
Earnings per share - continuing operations before 
exceptional items 95.4p 53.8p
Earnings per share - basic 96.1p 17.6p
Dividends per share 35.0p 21.5p
Gearing 80.3% 182.4%
Sales by market 1998
n Consumer Care 35%
n Industrial Specialities 65%
Sales by market 2010 *
n Consumer Care 52%
n Industrial Specialities 48%
Sales by  
destination 1998
n Europe 57%
n Americas 26%
n Asia 7%
n Rest of World 10%
Sales by  
destination 2010 *
n Europe 43%
n Americas 35%
n Asia 17%
n Rest of World 5%
In order to show underlying business performance, throughout the Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review and 
the Financial review, sales and profits are stated for continuing operations. In 2010, there were no exceptional costs for 
continuing operations. In 2009, operating profit and pre-tax profit are stated for continuing operations before exceptional 
costs of £17.2m. Further details of discontinued operations and exceptional items are included in note 7 to the financial 
information.
* Continuing operations 2
Sales by market 2010 *
n Consumer Care 52%
n Industrial Specialities 48%
Products and markets
Consumer Care
Personal Care
We create products for the skin care, 
sun care, hair care, baby care, colour 
cosmetics, male grooming, bath and 
shower and antiperspirant markets.
These include inorganic UV absorbers, 
lanolins, emollients, polymers, proteins, 
surfactants and skin care actives.
Health Care
Our high purity ingredients are used 
in the pharmaceutical, dermatological, 
nutraceutical, functional food and 
animal health markets. 
These include concentrated omega 
fatty acids, ultra pure medical grade 
lanolins, Super Refined™ excipients 
and a wide range of surfactants, 
solubilisers, emulsifiers and fatty acid 
esters.
Crop Care
We provide inert ingredients and 
adjuvants for the full spectrum of 
agrochemical applications.
These include polymeric surfactants, 
dispersants, wetting agents, emulsifiers, 
stabilisers, adjuvants and seed coating 
binders.
Industrial Specialities
Coatings and Polymers
We provide environmentally friendly, 
high performance solutions to paint 
formulators, resin manufacturers and 
additive producers. 
This includes a wide range of naturally 
derived oleochemicals and speciality 
surfactants.
Home Care
We supply ingredients for laundry, 
household, industrial and institutional 
cleaning applications, as well as for 
wipes, tissues, nappies and hygiene 
articles.
These include proteins and their 
derivatives, softeners, surfactants, 
solvents, emulsifiers, solubilisers, 
hydrotropes, tissue lotions, botanical 
extracts, fatty acids and glycerine.
Polymer Additives
We provide speciality effects for a 
wide range of industrial and consumer 
plastics, packaging and rubber 
applications.
These include slip, anti-block, anti-
static, anti-fog, mould and torque 
release agents as well as UV absorbers, 
dispersants and concentrates.
Lubricant Additives
We supply ingredients based on 
renewable raw materials to automotive 
and industrial lubricant markets.
These multi-functional esters, 
polyalkylene glycols and speciality 
lubricant additive products deliver high 
performance, energy efficient solutions 
to meet the challenging demands of the 
lubricant industry.
Geo Technologies
We provide innovative, efficient 
solutions for the oil field, mining and 
water treatment markets.
These include demulsifiers for the 
oil field industry, emulsifiers for 
explosives and water soluble polymer 
components for the formulation of 
water treatments.
Process Additives
We supply ingredients and additives for 
use in a range of market applications 
including rubber, candles, textiles, 
leather and surfactants.
These include the full range of our 
products; from base oleochemical fatty 
acids and glycerine to esters, polymeric 
surfactants and amides.
Croda is a world leader in the sale and manufacture of natural based speciality chemicals. Our extensive 
range of products is sold to thousands of customers in a wide variety of markets. Our activities can be 
broadly classified into two sectors, Consumer Care and Industrial Specialities. The markets served by each 
of these sectors, along with the key product groups, are outlined below. 3
Chairman’s statement
Full Year Results
Record turnover and profits were achieved 
in 2010.
Turnover was over £1 billion for the first 
time at £1,001.9m, up 21.1% on 2009’s 
£827.5m. Pre-tax profits increased 78.1% 
to £192.3m (2009: £108.0m). Continuing 
earnings per share were up 77.3% at 
95.4p (2009: 53.8p).
Demand was strong in all business 
areas within both sectors and across 
all major geographies. Latin America, 
Asia and Africa accounted for 32.4% of 
Group turnover and that does not include 
ingredients we sell in Europe and America 
where our customers export finished 
products to consumers in those markets.
Consumer Care turnover was up 14.0% to 
£516.4m (2009: £453.1m). All business 
areas recorded at least double digit 
growth, with Personal Care and Crop 
Care leading the way. Operating profit 
increased 31.8% to £136.5m (2009: 
£103.6m).
Industrial Specialities turnover was up 
29.7% to £485.5m (2009: £374.4m). Our 
strategy to focus on lower volume, high 
specification, high quality ingredients 
to our five markets was central to our 
progress. This further benefitted the 
operating profit where profits rose 
246.9% to £62.1m (2009: £17.9m). 
The first half of 2009 had been adversely 
affected by customer destocking as a 
result of the recession but nevertheless 
this was a very pleasing result. 
Return on sales increased to 12.8% 
(2009: 4.8%), beating our previous 10% 
target and making good progress towards 
the new, more challenging 15% goal.
Cash flow was again very impressive with 
a £68.2m reduction in net debt. EBITDA 
drove the result, which was achieved 
despite a working capital increase as 
activity levels rose dramatically.
Disposals and Acquisitions
We continue to streamline the business 
and focus on high value speciality 
products.
On 10 May 2010 we announced that we 
had agreed to sell the Emmerich site 
and associated business in Germany to 
KLK Emmerich GmbH, a subsidiary of the 
KLK Group, for €55.0m. As part of the 
transaction, the purchaser assumed the 
IAS 19 retirement benefit obligations 
relating to the business of €38.4 million 
so that cash payable at completion was 
€16.6m.There was an exceptional profit 
before tax on the sale of £0.9m.
In November 2010 we bought out our 
joint venture partners’ 40% share in our 
Indonesian company for $1.6m. Since 
the year end we have sold our 60% 
shareholding in the Korean joint venture 
to the non-controlling shareholders for 
£2.2m. Korea remains an important 
market for Croda and our sales, 
distribution and technical operations 
in the country are unaffected by the 
disposal.
All these businesses were acquired with 
Uniqema in 2006.
Martin Flower 
Non-executive Chairman
Croda has delivered an unbroken run of continuing 
sales and profit growth for over ten years. This is a 
testament to the focus on a clear strategy which is 
communicated and executed throughout the business. 
This year has seen record results, with strong 
demand, tight cost control and the benefits of past 
restructuring producing the uplift.
Turnover was 
over £1 billion 
for the first 
time
Directors’ report | Business review 4
Retirement Benefits
Our gross IAS 19 pension deficit reduced 
from £203.5m to £147.8m. The sale of 
Emmerich in May 2010 was the biggest 
element of the reduction as it removed 
almost all of our pension liabilities in 
Germany. The deficit was then further 
reduced in 2010 by additional Company 
contributions and increased asset values 
from stronger global equity markets 
outweighing increased liabilities as a 
consequence of slightly lower corporate 
bond rates. 
Dividend 
Given the strong performance across all 
our businesses, the Board will propose an 
increase in the final dividend of 68.3% 
to 25.25p (2009: 15.0p). This will give a 
total dividend for the year of 35.0p, up 
62.8% on 2009’s 21.5p.
Share Buyback 
With Croda’s performance and prospects 
being so strong it makes sense to 
maximise our investment in the 
business through capital expenditure and 
acquisitions where appropriate. 
We expect to increase capital expenditure 
in 2011 to a higher level than that seen in 
recent years in order to increase capacity, 
but there is a limit to what can be spent 
in any one year without disrupting 
operations.
Despite this increase, we expect to 
generate a significant amount of cash in 
2011 and with our net debt to EBITDA 
ratio already below one times, we believe 
that returning excess cash to shareholders 
by resuming our share buyback 
programme is a logical move. We see the 
programme as tactical and continue to 
monitor suitable acquisition opportunities. 
In the absence of such acquisitions, we 
would expect to buy shares worth around 
£50m in the market over the next year.
Outlook 
The strong trading performance during the 
fourth quarter has continued into 2011. 
We are continuing to see significant raw 
material inflation and have increased our 
prices as we entered the year to protect 
our profitability. Across both Consumer 
Care and Industrial Specialities, our global 
markets continue to grow and we are 
confident of making further progress in 
the current year.
Martin Flower 
Chairman
As a business, we 
seek to provide 
our customers with 
products that meet 
market demands and, 
wherever possible,  
with environmentally 
friendly solutions
Croda’s Polymer 
Additives business 
launched Atmer™ 7510 in 
2010. This additive provides 
several benefits to customers 
using recycled PET plastics, 
including increased product 
quality and energy savings 
due to more efficient 
processing. 5
Chief Executive’s review
Performance and Prospects
Consumer Care
There are three main business areas 
within the Consumer Care segment: 
Personal Care, Health Care and Crop Care. 
In 2010, sales increased by 14.0% to 
£516.4m (2009: £453.1m) and operating 
profits increased 31.8% to £136.5m 
(2009: £103.6m) with the underlying 
margin from the extra sales boosted by 
the benefits of last year’s restructuring 
and tight cost control. Return on sales 
increased to 26.4% (2009: 22.9%).
Personal Care is the largest of the 
business areas and sales grew faster than 
the Consumer Care average, with the 
strongest growth in prestige and high end 
salon products to our largest customers. 
Sales were particularly strong in North 
America and Europe. Our innovation and 
new product pipeline remains very strong 
and this is fuelling demand.
Health Care saw double digit growth 
despite capacity constraints in the first 
half of the year. New high purity Omega 
3 capacity will be operational in the first 
half of 2011.
After a quiet first quarter, Crop Care 
achieved very strong sales with North 
American and European markets again 
seeing the highest growth.
Industrial Specialities
There are five main business areas in 
our Industrial Specialities segment: 
Polymer Additives, Lubricant Additives, 
Home Care, Coatings & Polymers and 
Geo Technologies. 2010 sales were up 
29.7% to £485.5m (2009: £374.4m) and 
continuing operating profit increased by 
246.9% to £62.1m (2009: £17.9m) for 
the same reasons as those behind the 
Consumer Care profit uplift. In addition,  
the comparatives in the first half of 2009 
were very weak as a result of the global 
recession. Return on sales increased to 
12.8% (2009: 4.8%), beating our previous 
target of 10% and the 2010 result 
showed good progress towards our new 
15% target.
In Polymer Additives, good sales growth 
was achieved throughout the year despite 
some capacity issues, with sales doubling 
in China versus 2009.
Lubricant Additives were also capacity 
constrained in the early part of the year, 
following the Wilton closure, with strong 
demand for “green” high performance 
products.
In Home Care, sales were again strong. 
The quality of the portfolio that remains 
after the sale of Emmerich is high and we 
have been particularly successful in selling 
new biodegradable products in North 
America.
Coatings & Polymers saw strong growth 
with sales to the electronics industry in 
Asia performing well.
Geo Technologies saw a windfall in 
North America as a result of the Gulf of 
Mexico cleanup. This was, however, again 
countered by capacity issues early in the 
year following the closure of Wilton.
Mike Humphrey  
Group Chief Executive
Sales were very strong in 2010 in both reporting 
sectors. Industrial Specialities had the highest growth, 
particularly in the first half, with weak comparatives 
in 2009 due to the recession. 
Strong sales 
and profit 
growth in both 
sectors
Directors’ report | Business review We can only achieve  
our goals through  
excellent and constant 
communication,  
creativity and setting  
clear objectives at  
every level
MixXIN ME™, Versflex™ 
and NatraGems™ are Croda’s 
Blue Technology range of 
ingredients for facial skin, body 
and hair care formulations. These 
ingredients allow our customers 
to process their formulations 
at ambient temperatures and 
reduce the energy consumption 
of the process by up to 80%.
6 A new office building for 
Croda’s European commercial 
functions at Cowick Hall, 
UK, was completed in 2010. 
Considerations were made to 
reduce the environmental impact 
of the building at all stages. The 
offices are warmed by geothermal 
heat from water around 100 
metres below the ground.
We will remain a  
‘fun’, lively,  
stimulating and exciting 
place to work, where 
all employees have the 
courage to question, 
and all functions and 
individuals are valued
7 8
Chief Executive’s review
Strategy
This section of the Chief Executive’s 
review is largely unchanged from last 
year. This is indicative of the robustness of 
Croda’s core principles and of the Group’s 
success in implementing its strategy.
The core principles of Croda’s strategy 
have remained valid since 1999. We test 
them every year and every year we have 
found them to be a solid framework for 
successful growth. Our aim is to be a 
leading, independent, global speciality 
chemical company. We will only invest in 
businesses, current and future, that can:
n	 be truly global
n	 create profitable innovation
n	 operate in end markets that have long  
 term growth well above global GDP
n	 realistically sustain high operating  
 margins.
Our focus on markets and market drivers 
means we are well aligned with the 
mega trends which will shape the future 
consumer and industrial markets. Trends 
like an ageing population, health and 
well-being, sustainability and the correct 
use of renewable resources present 
great challenges and even greater 
opportunities. 
Croda’s culture of pragmatic innovation 
in every aspect of the business, not just 
in product development, means we are 
well-placed to be a truly leading speciality 
chemicals company. We have offices and 
technical facilities in 36 countries and 
operate 17 state of the art factories across 
Europe, Asia and the Americas. Through 
this network we are able to match and, 
in many instances, exceed our customers’ 
rapid globalisation.
Our operating companies are set sales, 
profit growth and operating margin 
targets that form the basis of our budgets 
and strategic plans. We report annually 
on our progress against five key financial 
key performance indicators and these are 
assessed on page 10:
n	 Return on sales
n	 EPS growth
n	 Post tax ROIC
n	 Net debt to EBITDA
n	 EBITDA interest cover.
Summary
Croda is a truly global company with only 
5% of its sales in the UK. Our customer 
focused business model has been the 
basis of our success for many years. We 
will continue to increase this focus to 
create our future success.
In a number of areas we were short of 
capacity in 2010 following the Wilton 
closure. We have addressed this issue 
during 2010 and will install further 
capacity in the current year.
Our new product pipeline is strong and 
global demand in our chosen markets 
remains robust.
2011 has started well and we expect to 
report further progress in the current year.
Mike Humphrey 
Group Chief Executive
We will  
continually 
improve
In 2010, four of our 
manufacturing sites have 
been accredited to the 
European Federation for Cosmetic 
Ingredients (EFfCI) quality standard. 
The standard is designed to ensure 
the consistency, quality and purity 
of cosmetic ingredients above the 
standards of ISO 9001. A further 
five of our sites are working 
towards accreditation in 2011.
Directors’ report | Business review 9
Financial review
Exceptional Items
There was a pre-tax exceptional credit 
on the sale of Emmerich of £0.9m in 
2010. We sold the Bromborough site post 
closure and realised an exceptional  
pre-tax credit amounting to £3.0m, 
including unused provision releases.
Earnings per Share
Continuing earnings per share before 
exceptional items increased 77.3% to 
95.4p (2009: 53.8p) driven by the pre-tax 
profit growth.
Dividend
We propose to increase the final dividend 
by 68.3% to 25.25p (2009: 15.0p). This 
will give a total dividend for the year 
of 35.0p, up 62.8% on 2009’s 21.5p. 
Dividend cover increases to 2.7x  
(2009: 2.5x).
Debt and Liquidity
We negotiated a ten year $100m 
fixed rate private placement in January 
2010, then in November replaced our 
committed bank arrangements with new 
facilities totalling £410m that run to May 
2015.
As a result of the strong cash flow, net 
debt stood at £220.3m (2009: £288.5m). 
We, therefore, have £253m of headroom 
on our committed facilities. Our main 
banking ratio, net debt to EBITDA, fell to 
below one times for the first time since 
the acquisition of Uniqema.
Sean Christie  
Group Finance Director
Pre-tax Profit
Pre-tax profit increased 78.1% to £192.3m  
(2009: £108.0m) with financing costs falling due to 
lower borrowings, lower interest rates and a higher 
pension funding credit.
EPS and dividend
0
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
DPS EPS
20
40
60
80
100
We propose to 
increase the 
final dividend 
by 68.3%
Directors’ report | Business review 10
Financial KPIs
Performance against our five main KPIs 
(before exceptional items) is shown in 
the following table:
Retirement Benefits
The gross IAS 19 deficit reduced from 
£203.5m to £147.8m and, post tax, the 
deficit at the end of 2010 was £45.1m 
lower than last year at £104.9m. The sale 
of Emmerich was the biggest element 
of the reduction as it removed almost all 
of our pension liabilities in Germany. In 
2010, the Company paid £16.7m  
(2009: £16.6m) to reduce the deficit 
as agreed with our trustees around the 
world. In addition to these moves, global 
equity markets were stronger, increasing 
the funds’ assets. 
We have made some changes to our 
pension schemes in the UK during 2010 
with new employees accruing pension 
benefits at 1/80th of salary per annum. 
Existing employees were able to retain 
their 1/60th accrual rate but their 
contribution increased to 8% of salary. 
All KPIs were ahead of target in 2010. 
Consumer Care significantly exceeded the 
return on sales target with a return of 
26.4% and Industrial Specialities return on 
sales in 2010 was 12.8%. We have made 
great progress over the last few years in 
increasing the profitability of Industrial 
Specialities and are confident that our 
new goal of 15% is achievable.
Target 2010
2009 
As reported
Return on Sales >15% 19.8% 13.1%
EPS Growth +5-10% +77.3% +10.4%
Post tax ROIC >WACC* 19.3% 10.5%
Debt/EBITDA <3x 1.0x 1.8x
EBITDA Interest cover >4x 36.7x 11.3x
* WACC: Weighted average cost of capital, 2010 
average estimated 7.5% (2009: 6.8%).
To remain an 
independent 
company and 
operate as one 
global team
Croda’s continuing success is 
shared with our employees 
via employee share ownership 
schemes. In 2010 over 65% of our 
global workforce held investments 
in the Company through the 
schemes, taking advantage of 
discounted share prices and a 
record high share price.  11
Financial review
Risk Management
Croda’s approach to risk management 
is unchanged from last year. The 
Group co-ordinates its approach to risk 
management globally through its Risk 
Management Committee. This committee 
is chaired by the Group Finance Director 
and comprises the heads of each business 
unit, the Group Financial Controller and 
the Company Secretary. It meets quarterly 
and reports directly to the Board.
Risks facing the Group are regularly 
reviewed and the Committee evaluates 
the controls and procedures we have in 
place to mitigate these risks. 
The key risks facing Croda are ranked 
in order of a combination of economic 
consequence and likelihood of occurrence 
as follows:
People and Process
Major site event involving the loss of a 
site
Significant operational problems could 
have an adverse effect on Croda’s 
financial position. We are reliant on 
the continued operation of various 
manufacturing sites.
Loss of key personnel
We rely on employees such as divisional 
board members and technical experts 
whose vision and knowledge is critical to 
maintaining the Group’s success. We have 
procedures in place to identify and retain 
key employees and to develop succession 
plans for key positions.
Interruption of raw material supply
Interruption in the supply of key raw 
materials would significantly impact 
operations and our financial position. 
Interruption of supply could arise from 
implementation of new, more rigorous 
legislation, or from market shortage. 
We purchase key raw materials under 
medium to long term contracts and 
manage our raw material stock levels 
taking these considerations into account.
Major environmental incident
Violations of safety, health and 
environmental regulations could limit 
operations and expose the Group to 
liability, cost and reputational impact. In 
addition to maintaining compliance with 
national and international standards, we 
maintain strictly audited internal safety 
and health programmes. 
External Environment
Product liability
Croda sells into a number of highly 
regulated markets. Non-compliance with 
quality regulations could expose the 
Group to liability. Quality management 
procedures are in place for each site and 
all manufacturing sites hold ISO 9001 
standards. Major sites have also been 
audited against Good Manufacturing 
Practice (GMP) standards.
Regulatory compliance
As a chemical producer, Croda is subject 
to a number of national chemical 
legislations and violation of these could 
limit markets into which we can sell. 
The most significant legislation currently 
facing the Group is the implementation 
of REACh (Registration, Evaluation and 
Authorisation and restriction of Chemicals) 
in Europe. We have introduced a range 
of procedures which will ensure that we 
maintain compliance with this regulation 
and successfully completed our first phase 
of registrations in 2010.
Financial KPIs
0%
10%
5%
15%
20%
ROIC - target > WACC (7.5%)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Directors’ report | Business review
Return on sales - target 15%
0%
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
10%
5%
15%
20%
EPS - target growth 5-10% pa
0
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
20
40
60
80
100
Debt ratios
0
2006
EBITDA 
interest cover 
target > 4x
Debt/
EBITDA 
target 
< 3x
2007 2008 2009 2010
10
5
15
20
25
30
35
40 12
Business Systems
IT systems failure
Croda relies on IT systems to operate 
effectively and efficiently, and to facilitate 
communication globally. Failure of these 
systems for a prolonged period of time 
will have an impact on operations and 
ultimately our financial position. 
Following the acquisition of Uniqema, 
Croda inherited a number of diverse 
IT systems. Failure to integrate these 
systems quickly (or failure of the systems 
themselves) will hinder effective 
communication throughout the Group and 
distract focus. We have a global IT group 
who are experienced in IT implementation 
and back up processes and we have hot 
standby systems in place. 
Financial
Management of pension fund assets
Croda has legal commitments relating 
to the provision of pensions and the 
operation of our pension schemes. 
Pension fund assets are managed by 
independent investment managers but, 
in current market conditions, increased 
future funding requirements may have 
an adverse effect on Croda’s financial 
position.
Working capital management
Cash flow generation from the effective 
management of working capital is 
required to support the cash outflows 
arising from servicing of debt, capital 
programmes and pension fund 
requirements.
A nominated member of the Risk 
Management Committee is responsible 
for ensuring best practice is followed 
in tackling each risk area and that 
continuous progress is made in reducing 
the risks faced by the Group.
All divisions, sites and certain functions 
have risk registers relevant to their area 
which are reviewed by internal audit 
to assure they are appropriate and the 
necessary controls are in place.
Sean Christie 
Group Finance Director 13
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Introduction
2010 has been another successful year 
for Croda and we have sustained year on 
year growth in both market capitalisation 
and profit. Our long term strategy has 
been both informed by, and enabled 
further investment in, all aspects of our 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
programme which is central to our 
business.
In previous years we have used this 
section of our Annual Report to describe 
our approach to Safety, Health and the 
Environment (SHE) and the targets we 
set ourselves to measure our progress 
in these areas. However, we recognise 
that being an ethical and responsible 
business encompasses a wider range 
of issues. Accordingly, we are including 
this expanded CSR section in our Annual 
Report for the first time in addition to 
publishing our fourth full CSR Report. By 
including CSR in our Annual Report we 
hope to meet the growing demand for 
transparency and social reporting from 
a wider range of stakeholders than ever 
before.
CSR in Croda is organised around the four 
Pillars of Corporate Social Responsibility 
-Our Partners, Our People, Our Neighbours 
and Our World. Our approach to the four  
Pillars is managed by a cross-functional 
Steering Committee, comprising of senior 
managers from a range of functions 
across all of the regions in which we 
operate.
Our corporate mission statement, the 
Croda Vision, describes our culture and 
underpins our approach to CSR. In 2010, 
we have continued our commitment to 
excellent and constant communication 
with Our Partners in supplier, NGO and 
customer collaborations that secure the 
sustainability and safety of our products. 
We have continued to be an ethical and 
responsible company by reducing the 
impact of our operations on Our World 
with a focus on energy efficiency and a 
new emphasis on the use of non-fossil 
energy. We have continued to improve 
our commitment to Our Neighbours by 
rolling out our community investment 
programme, the “1% Club”, to cover each 
of our 17 manufacturing sites worldwide. 
We have also shown that all functions 
and individuals are valued, investing in 
Our People by developing a university 
accredited new manager training 
programme and a global HR system that 
will ensure all of our global team have 
access to an annual appraisal.
Throughout this section you will read 
more about our progress against the CSR 
targets we set ourselves for 2010 and 
details of the targets we have set for 
2011, along with case studies highlighting 
how CSR and our Vision are embedded in 
our business. For more information on the 
issues discussed, please read our 2010 
CSR Report or visit www.croda.com/csr.
Directors’ report | Business review 14
Group Chief Executive Statement
Croda was founded 86 years ago and 
a responsible and ethical approach to 
business has always been part of its 
ethos.
We develop, manufacture and sell 
speciality chemicals and it is essential that 
our customers, investors, employees and 
neighbours are confident that we operate 
responsibly. 
Croda’s business strategy is to develop 
speciality chemical products to supply 
market sectors which need innovation, 
show strong long term growth and 
are global in nature. This strategy has 
consistently delivered strong financial 
results.
The challenge for Croda is to achieve 
this growth while operating responsibly 
with regard to the environment and our 
many stakeholders. One element of our 
CSR policy states that ‘we will minimise 
any negative impact on the environment 
that might be associated with our 
operations or our products, searching out 
new ways to conserve natural resources 
and innovating to improve our products 
and processes’. A number of specific 
challenges have emerged over recent 
years.
Safety – personal, product and process – 
has always been Croda’s highest priority. 
We are an established leader in process 
safety and are fully compliant with the 
European Union’s Registration, Evaluation, 
Authorisation & restriction of Chemicals 
(REACh) legislation, which ensures product 
safety. However, I am disappointed in 
our personal safety performance in 2010, 
which will be an area for focus in 2011.
We seek to develop products that are as 
natural as possible but need to balance 
this with product efficacy. In 2010, 68% 
of Croda’s raw materials came from 
renewable resources. 
However, today a broader assessment 
needs to be made of the overall 
sustainability of our products. This 
includes the incorporation of intelligent 
design, water usage and carbon footprint. 
Energy usage is another challenging 
area as the Company continues to grow. 
2010 saw the continuing trend for Croda 
to move away from large volume, high 
energy consumption businesses. This has 
reduced our overall energy consumption. 
However, our Vision states that ‘we will 
continually improve’ and in response 
to this challenge Croda is developing 
new chemistries to achieve the effects 
our customers seek with reduced 
environmental impact.
These improvements have been achieved 
by Croda’s skilled and dedicated global 
team working in collaboration with our 
customers and suppliers. In 2010 we 
have also continued to develop close 
relationships with ‘Our Neighbours’ 
and I am particularly pleased with the 
science outreach programme, involving 
educational institutions close to our 
manufacturing sites around the world, 
that will hopefully create the next 
generation of Croda employees.
Meeting the challenges of Corporate 
Social Responsibility is fundamental to 
Croda achieving its business objectives. I 
am confident Croda is heading in the right 
direction.
Mike Humphrey 
Group Chief Executive 15
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Our Partners
Every day, consumers benefit from the 
thousands of day-to-day products in 
which Croda ingredients are used. We 
achieve this through interaction with 
many partners. Our suppliers help to 
ensure that we source renewable raw 
materials in a responsible way. Our 
customers work with us to develop 
products that consumers want. Official 
bodies provide guidance on the 
regulations that allow our business to 
operate. NGOs help us to understand and 
continually improve the environmental 
performance and inherent safety of our 
products. 
In 2010, we set two objectives that 
encapsulated the key issues addressed in 
working with Our Partners. These were 
Responsible Sourcing and Climate Change. 
Responsible Sourcing
Being able to responsibly and securely 
source the raw materials we require to 
make our products is key to the long 
term sustainability of our business. In 
2010, we have continued to work with 
the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm 
Oil (RSPO) in developing guidelines for 
quantifying palm oil derivative usage in 
order to support sustainable palm oil. We 
have also worked towards the certification 
of our Incromega
TM
 and Omelife
TM
 fish 
oil derivatives to the International 
Fishmeal and Fish Oil Organisation’s (IFFO) 
Responsible Sourcing audit standard, 
which is the first to cover the entire 
supply chain. We expect to receive full 
accreditation in 2011.
As consumers become ever more 
environmentally aware, the demand for 
responsibly sourced products increases. 
We help our customers satisfy this 
demand by constantly innovating new 
products with proven efficacy and with a 
strong basis in renewable raw materials.
Climate Change
Concern for climate change is part of 
Croda being an ethical and responsible 
company in the modern world. We are 
constantly seeking ways to minimise 
the negative impact of our operations 
by investing in improvements to our 
manufacturing facilities. We are also 
a continuing member of the Carbon 
Disclosure Project.
In 2010, we have worked with partners 
from the School of Analytical Chemistry 
at the University of Manchester, UK, in 
developing a Product Carbon Footprinting 
(PCF) tool, C-CaLC. The tool is free to UK 
industry and will enable cradle-to-gate 
PCF assessment at more than half of our 
global manufacturing sites by 2012. Fully 
understanding the carbon footprint of 
our processes and our contribution to the 
life cycle of individual products will help 
us to address the analysis needs of our 
customers and support our own process 
optimisation and energy reduction plans.
In 2010, 68% of  
the raw materials 
we purchased came 
from renewable 
sources
Directors’ report | Business review
In 2011, we will 
implement Product 
Carbon Footprinting 
of key technologies 
in the majority of 
our manufacturing 
sites 16
Our People
Our business success depends on our 
ability to attract and retain individuals 
who are passionate about personal and 
business growth and want to make a 
significant contribution to the future of 
Croda. We recognise our employees 
want to make a difference and through 
open and honest dialogue we are 
able to design reward strategies and 
development opportunities that meet the 
individual needs of our global workforce. 
We have continued to monitor our 
commitment to Our People with a 
number of objectives, two of which are 
discussed below. You can read more 
about these and our other Our People 
objectives in our full 2010 CSR Report.
Employee Development
We value all the individuals that make up 
our global team and in 2010 extensive 
work was undertaken in the area of 
performance appraisals. ‘Croda Aspire’, 
a Company wide performance appraisal 
system which has personal and career 
development at its core, was launched 
this year and it is envisaged that by 2013 
all employees will be appraised through 
the new process.
In 2010, we also had a target of 
delivering an average of 21 hours training 
per employee. Through a combination 
of internal and external training courses, 
webinars, one-to-one coaching, 
sponsored further education and distance 
learning we have exceeded this target. 
We have increased this target to 22 hours 
per employee for 2011.
Openness of Communication
The objectives we set with Our People 
could not be achieved without excellent 
and constant communication with our 
employees. We utilise many forms 
of communication in engaging with 
our employees and in 2010, all of our 
manufacturing sites and large commercial 
offices have held communication sessions 
with more than six sessions on average. 
These sessions have enabled senior 
leaders to keep employees informed, 
engaged and focused on business 
goals, whilst also providing a forum for 
employee feedback.
In 2011, we will continue to monitor 
engagement, targeting to hold at least 
two employee communications sessions 
at each of our manufacturing sites and 
sales offices. Our intention is to focus on 
sharing best practice around the Group 
before extending our targets further.
In 2010, Croda 
provided over 
93,000 hours of 
training to our 
global  
workforce
...all leaders will 
have as their 
primary objective 
to build other 
leaders
...all functions 
and individuals 
are valued
Croda’s operation in Thane, 
India, is an example of Group 
best practice in occupational 
health checks, having provided 
checks for over 95% of 
employees and 154 contractors 
in 2010. The company also 
provided first aid training to 100 
employees, members of their 
families and teachers at a local 
school. We will  
continue to be 
an ethical and 
responsible 
company
After refurbishment of Croda’s 
sales office in South Africa 
and the closure of the offices at 
the Wilton Centre, UK, some of 
the sites’ furniture was no longer 
required. Employees at each of the 
sites identified charities – Waste to 
Wonder, Little Eden and Abraham 
Kriel – and donated the furniture to 
them.
Employees at Croda’s offices 
in Argentina have worked with 
customers and a local recycling 
company in 2010 to start a 
programme of packaging recycling. 
Through the initiative, over  
US $6,000 has been raised and used 
to fund a number of projects with 
a neighbouring charity, Fundación 
Nordelta.
17 18
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Our Neighbours
Community engagement is recognised 
as an important activity and one that is 
valued at all levels of our Company. Not 
only does the business see the value that 
formal community engagement plans can 
deliver, but our global team also takes 
pride in the communities in which Croda 
operates and looks for the business to 
support them in community activities. It 
is this balance between the satisfaction 
of community and business needs that 
ensures our approach is both relevant for 
our local communities and a sustainable 
part of our business now and in the 
future.
Our commitment to the community is 
focused around three objectives. 
Openness of Communication
Formal and informal communication 
with Our Neighbours has always been 
an important activity for Croda. It is not 
always easy to undertake but it does 
allow for the identification of issues and 
opportunities on which both the business 
and the local community can act. 
In 2010, we carried out a survey at our 
manufacturing sites and sales offices to 
identify the stakeholders that matter to 
our business in the communities with 
whom we interact. In 2011, using the 
results of the survey, we will continue to 
engage with Our Neighbours, focusing 
our efforts on the stakeholder groups 
common to our sites and offices around 
the world.
Community Involvement
Community involvement provides value 
to our employees, our business and to the 
local communities in which we operate. 
Our involvement in the community not 
only highlights the commitment we 
make to Our Neighbours but also acts 
to generate significant goodwill that can 
be advantageous to our business. This 
commitment is most clearly illustrated 
through the employee volunteering 
initiative that we started in 2003, the 1% 
Club. 
During 2010 we completed the 
implementation of the 1% Club at all of 
our global manufacturing sites, enabling 
every one of our 3,200 employees around 
the world to spend time actively involved 
in their communities. We completed 
4,157 hours of community activity, a  
nine-fold increase on 2009. This 
impressive first year saw 295 individuals, 
or over 9% of our global workforce, 
accessing the scheme.
Community Education
As a business with established expertise 
in the areas of science, engineering 
and technology, our activities with local 
schools, colleges and universities have 
always been an important element of our 
engagement with local communities.
In 2011, we will further our commitment 
to community education by developing 
regional science-led programmes where 
we have significant R&D activity, namely 
the UK, Holland, USA, France, Brazil, 
Singapore, India and Japan. The aim of 
this project will be to deliver enhanced 
and coordinated training to junior 
managers and graduate trainees who will 
implement regional STEM projects with 
local educational facilities.
In 2010, Croda 
employees gave  
more than 4,150 
hours of their  
working time to help 
good causes in their  
local area
Directors’ report | Business review 19
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Our World
The challenge that any business faces 
in addressing environmental issues is 
balancing the changing needs of the 
business as it grows with the efficient use 
of resources and minimising its impact on 
the environment.
Following the acquisition of Uniqema 
in 2006, we set a number of targets 
to measure our Safety, Health and 
Environmental (SHE) performance. 2010 
marks the end of the post acquisition 
target period. As such, this year is 
a pertinent time to reflect on our 
performance in SHE areas and contrast 
them against our financial results. 
Consumption of energy, water and 
disposal of waste to landfill are issues 
that are of material significance to our 
business and the wider environment. 
By contrasting the yearly progress in 
these metrics (from operations at the 
end of each respective year) against our 
annual profits over the target period, it 
can clearly be seen that as our business 
has become significantly more profitable, 
we have also successfully reduced our 
environmental impact. 
Our numerous Our World objectives are 
discussed in detail in our 2010 CSR report. 
The following examples illustrate the 
efforts Croda is making to minimise its 
environmental impact.
Energy Consumption
Energy consumption is a crucial issue 
for businesses as the cost of energy 
continues to rise and concerns for climate 
change remain in the public eye. We 
cannot power our business without 
energy and so it is important that we 
remain committed to reducing the energy 
consumption of our operations, a goal 
that will be achieved by setting clear 
objectives for energy efficiency. 
Our manufacturing sites have made 
considerable reductions in their total 
energy usage, with a 7.5% decrease 
against 2006 levels. However, the total 
product output volumes at the end 
of 2010 were 16.6% lower than the 
2006 baseline. As a result, we did not 
meet the four year target we set for 
energy reduction per tonne of product 
manufactured, largely due to the 
changing nature of our product mix as we 
integrated the Uniqema business.
In the future we intend to maintain our 
focus on energy consumption and in 
2011 we will begin to measure total 
energy consumption as well as energy 
consumption per tonne output. We 
believe that these metrics, taken together, 
will better reflect our energy usage and 
will target a further 5% reduction of total 
energy consumption by 2015. 
By 2015 we aim 
to source at least 
25% of the Group’s 
energy requirements 
from non-fossil fuel 
sources
We aim to reduce 
our total CO
2
 
emissions by over 
20,000 tonnes 
and our water 
consumption by  
over 800,000 m
3
  
by 2015
160
180
200 8000
7000
6000
5000
4000
3000
2000
1000
0
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Contrasting Annual Group Profit against Environmental Performance
Year
Total Energy (TJ) Total Water (x10,000m
3
) 
Total Waste (tonnes)
Profit (£ million)
Total Water Total Energy Profit Total Waste
Directors’ report | Business review 20
Water
Water scarcity is an important issue 
to address when considering the 
environmental impact of our operations. 
By continually developing our processes 
and investing in new technologies that 
minimise the amount of water we use, 
we play our part in ensuring that water 
is available for agricultural and domestic 
purposes.
Despite reducing our consumption of 
potable water by 12.6% based on 2006 
levels, we have not achieved our four 
year target for consumption of potable 
water per manufactured tonne. Again, 
the changing nature of our product mix 
and the reduction in tonnage output has 
had a significant impact on our ability to 
do so. Although we are disappointed to 
have missed our target, we are pleased 
to have decreased the total volume of 
water we use. Overall, our consumption 
of water has reduced by 2.9% since 2006 
and we intend to continue this trend 
through further recycling and process 
modifications at our manufacturing sites, 
with a target of a further 10% reduction 
by 2015.
Personal Safety
Our commitment in 2010 was to achieve 
a reduction in the frequency of injuries at 
our manufacturing sites and commercial 
offices.
At the end of 2010 we did not manage 
to achieve the reduction in accident rates 
that we targeted and actually saw a slight 
increase to 0.32 (2009: 0.25) accidents 
per 100,000 hours. Although we have 
missed our target, it is worth noting that 
very few of the accidents sustained in 
2010 were of a serious nature or related 
to chemical handling. Most injuries 
recorded in the last year were due to 
manual handling, slips, trips, falls or 
collisions with objects. However, we 
believe that all accidents are preventable 
and are encouraged that accidents 
continue to be properly reported so 
that their causes may be identified and 
appropriately addressed.
Our personal safety performance in 2010 
was disappointing and as a starting point 
we would like to reduce the injury rate 
to be at least better than the average 
for the countries and industry in which 
we operate. We believe that a target 
injury rate of 0.2 accidents per 100,000 
hours worked can be achieved by our 
employees and is a level we have 
performed at in the past. We recognise 
that this target will not be easy to achieve 
and considerable effort will be required 
on the part of management and the 
workforce to improve safety awareness 
and culture.
Waste Disposal
In 2006, we committed to reduce the 
quantities of waste we disposed to 
landfill. We recognised that landfill 
is an unsustainable form of waste 
management and so set a target to 
reduce waste to landfill (kg/tonne 
manufactured) by 5% per year (20% 
overall by the end of 2010). 
At the end of the 2006 to 2010 
improvement period, our manufacturing 
sites had surpassed the target we set, 
having reduced waste to landfill per tonne 
by 22.7%. We were also particularly 
pleased that over this period five of our 
manufacturing sites sent absolutely no 
waste to landfill.
From 2011, we have set a Group target of 
a further 20% reduction over the next five 
years, based on the performance in 2010. 
We will also begin to measure absolute 
waste in addition to ‘waste per tonne’ 
in order to give a more comprehensive 
picture of our performance.
Since 2006 we have 
reduced our waste 
to landfill by 22.7%. 
In 2010, five of our 
manufacturing sites 
generated zero 
waste to landfill 21
Board of directors
Martin Flower  
Non-executive Chairman 
Martin Flower was appointed to the Croda Board in May 2005 and became Chairman at the 
end of September 2005. He is chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee. He formerly held various senior executive positions over 36 years 
with Coats plc, culminating in a period as Chairman before his retirement in 2004, and he was 
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Severn Trent Plc until June 2006. In 2010 
he retired as Chairman of Autogrill Holdings UK Plc (formerly Alpha Group Plc). He is currently a 
non-executive director of The Morgan Crucible Company plc and is Chairman of Low &  
Bonar PLC. 
Sean Christie BSc, FCMA, FCT 
Group Finance Director 
Sean Christie was appointed to the Croda Board as Group Finance Director in April 2006. He 
previously held a number of senior finance positions in Northern Foods Plc and was Group 
Finance Director from 1996 to 2004. He was a non-executive director of KCOM Group plc for 
eight years until 2007 and a non-executive director of Cherry Valley Farms Ltd from 2006 until 
the company was sold in 2010. 
Michael Buzzacott* BA, FCCA 
Senior independent non-executive director 
Michael Buzzacott joined the Croda Board in August 2004 and was appointed Chairman of the 
Audit Committee in April 2007. Prior to his retirement in 2004 he spent over 34 years with BP 
where he held a number of senior international roles including Regional Finance and Control 
Director of Asia, Chief Executive Polymers and Olefins Division and finally Group Vice President 
Petrochemicals. He retired as a non-executive director of Rexam PLC in 2009 and is currently a 
non-executive director of Scapa Group plc and Genus plc. 
Stanley Musesengwa* 
Independent non-executive director 
Stanley Musesengwa joined the Tate & Lyle Group in 1979 as a refinery manager and 
subsequently performed a number of different roles in Africa, before becoming Regional 
Director, Tate & Lyle Africa in 1995. In December 1999 he was appointed Chief Executive Officer 
of Tate & Lyle Europe. He was appointed to the Tate & Lyle Board in April 2003 and took up the 
position of Chief Operating Officer in May 2003 until his retirement in 2008. He joined the Croda 
Board in May 2007 and was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in 2009.
Directors’ report | Governance 22
Steve Foots 
President, Europe 
Steve Foots was appointed to the Croda Board in July 2010 as an Executive Director. Steve joined 
Croda as a graduate trainee in 1990 and was appointed Managing Director of Croda Europe 
Industrial Specialities in 2000 and Croda Europe Consumer Care in 2004. Steve is President of 
Croda Europe and has been a member of the Group Executive Committee since January 2007. 
Mike Humphrey 
Group Chief Executive 
Mike Humphrey was appointed to the Croda Board in 1995 and became Group Chief Executive 
at the beginning of 1999. He joined Croda in 1969 as a management trainee and was 
appointed Managing Director of Croda Singapore in 1988, Croda Application Chemicals in 1990 
and Croda Chemicals in 1991. He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Nigel Turner* 
Independent non-executive director
Nigel Turner joined the Croda Board in June 2009. He has over 35 years experience in corporate 
finance and was the Chairman of Numis Securities Ltd and Deputy Chairman of Numis 
Corporation plc from December 2005 until his retirement in November 2007. From 2000 until 
2005 he was with ABN AMRO following fifteen years with Lazard Brothers in London where 
he was Managing Director and a member of the Supervisory Board. Nigel has been the Senior 
Independent Director of Genus plc since 2008.
Steve Williams* 
Independent non-executive director 
Steve Williams joined the Croda Board in July 2010 as a non-executive director. Steve retired as 
General Counsel and Chief Legal Officer of Unilever plc and Unilever NV during 2010. Prior to 
joining Unilever in 1986, Steve spent 11 years at Imperial Chemical Industries PLC in the legal 
and company secretarial departments. From 1995 until 2004 he was a non-executive director 
of Bunzl plc. From 2004 until 2010 he was Senior Independent Director of Arriva plc. Since 2008 
he has been a non-executive director of Whitbread PLC and he is also the Senior Independent 
Director. Steve is Chairman of the De La Warr Pavilion Charitable Trust and Chairman of Arts & 
Business Limited. 
* Member of Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees  23
At the date of this report, the Company is subject to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2008 by the 
Financial Reporting Council (“FRC”) which is publicly available at www.frc.org.uk (the “Code”). The Board is committed to high 
standards of corporate governance and to complying with the provisions of the Code where practicable. This report, together 
with the directors’ remuneration report, set out on pages 28 to 39, describes how the relevant principles of governance set out 
in the Code are applied to the Company. In May 2010, the FRC published a new code, the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
“Governance Code”) which will replace the Code for financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010. The Company has already 
adopted principles from the Governance Code and will modify its practices where appropriate.
Compliance
The information contained in this report demonstrates that the Company has complied fully with the provisions set out in Section 1 
of the Code throughout 2010.
The Board
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the overall leadership of the Company and in this role it assists in the development of a 
clear strategy for the Group, monitors operational and financial performance against agreed goals and objectives and ensures that 
appropriate controls and systems are in place to manage risk. It has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it and 
this is posted on the Company’s website (www.croda.com). The Board comprises the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the 
Group Finance Director, the President of Croda Europe and four independent non-executive directors, who have a range of business, 
financial and international skills and experience. This provides an appropriate balance within the Board. Biographical notes appear 
on pages 21 and 22. The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive have written accountabilities that have been approved by the 
Board.
The Chairman and non-executive directors meet together without the executive directors present on an ad hoc basis and the 
non-executive directors meet at least annually in the absence of the Chairman in order to appraise his performance. In addition to 
formal Board meetings, the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive meet on a regular basis. 
All members of the Board have full access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. Where necessary the directors may 
take independent professional advice at the Company’s expense. Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect 
of liabilities incurred as a result of their positions to the extent permitted by law. In addition the Company maintained directors’ and 
officers’ liability insurance cover throughout the year.
Training and briefings are available to all directors on appointment and subsequently, as appropriate, taking into account their 
existing experience, qualifications and skills. In order to build and increase the non-executive directors’ familiarity with, and 
understanding of, the Group’s people and businesses and the markets in which it operates, presentations from senior managers are 
made at Board meetings on a regular basis. The Board also usually holds at least one Board meeting a year at a Croda operating 
site. This year the Board held one meeting at Leek in the UK and also one in France during a visit to our manufacturing site at 
Chocques and the headquarters of Sederma. These visits allow the non-executives to tour the sites and observe the operations 
at first hand, as well as providing the opportunity to meet the local management and employees and gain their insight into the 
business. Non-executive directors also undertake site visits on an individual basis. 
Attendance at meetings
Details of the attendance by directors at meetings of the Board and the Board committees on which they are eligible to sit are set 
out below:
† Attended by invitation
In addition to the formal Board meetings, all the directors attended a half day meeting to review the Group’s strategy. They also 
met with the Company’s financial and public relations advisers to discuss the feedback from investors and analysts on the Group’s 
2009 annual results.
Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee
Eligible 
to attend Attended
Eligible  
to attend Attended
Eligible  
to attend Attended
Eligible 
to attend Attended
M C Flower 8 8 4 4 3 3 - 3†
M C Buzzacott 8 8 4 4 3 3 3 3
S Musesengwa 8 7 4 3 3 3 3 3
P N N Turner 8 8 4 4 3 3 3 3
S G Williams  
(appointed 1 July 2010) 4 4 1 1 1 1 2 2
M Humphrey 8 8 4 4 - 3† - 3†
M S Christie 8 8 - - - - - 3†
S E Foots  
(appointed 1 July 2010) 4 4 - - - - - 2†
Corporate governance
Directors’ report | Governance
Corporate governance 24
Re-election of directors
The Company’s Articles of Association require the directors to offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years and 
for newly appointed directors to offer themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) after the date of their 
appointment. Ordinarily this means that, at this year’s AGM, Mike Buzzacott and Stanley Musesengwa would be standing for  
re-election and Steve Williams and Steve Foots would be standing for election for the first time following their appointments 
on 1 July 2010. However, the Board has taken note of the new provision in the Governance Code requiring directors of FTSE 350 
companies to be subject to annual election and so all the directors will be standing for election. Following individual performance 
assessments, the Board is satisfied that each director continues to perform effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role. 
Further details about the directors are given in the notice of the AGM which is in a separate document issued to shareholders with 
the annual report. 
Conflicts of interest
The Board has an established process for declaring and monitoring actual and potential conflicts. The Articles of Association of the 
Company allow the non-conflicted members of the Board to authorise a conflict or potential conflict situation. No conflicts were 
identified or authorised during the year.
Non-executive directors 
Croda complies with the Code in having experienced non-executive directors who represent a source of strong independent 
advice and judgement. At present there are five such directors, including the Chairman and the senior independent director, Mike 
Buzzacott, each of whom has significant commercial experience. Their understanding of the Group’s operations is enhanced by 
regular business presentations and by site visits.
The independence of the non-executive directors is kept under review. The non-executive Chairman was independent on his 
appointment in 2005 but, as Chairman, is not classified as independent. In relation to the other non-executive directors, Nigel 
Turner and Mike Buzzacott both serve as non-executive directors of Genus Plc, a company which has no other connection with 
Croda’s business, and Steve Williams retains a consultancy role with Unilever plc, a customer of the Company. The Board does 
not consider that these roles would affect their judgement in relation to Croda and its business and therefore, it is the Board’s 
opinion that all the non-executive directors who have served during the year are independent in character and judgement with no 
relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
During 2010 no non-executive director or the Chairman had served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their 
first election.
Details of the professional commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are included in their biographies on pages 
21 and 22. The Board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the performance of their respective duties to the Company.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors can be inspected during normal business hours at the 
Company’s registered office by contacting the Company Secretary and are available at the AGM.
Board committees
The Board has three main committees which are established by Board resolution and each has written terms of reference which 
can be found on the Company’s website (www.croda.com). 
Report of the Audit Committee 
Mike Buzzacott (Chairman) 
Stanley Musesengwa 
Nigel Turner 
Steve Williams
The Audit Committee, which consists of all the non-executive directors other than the Chairman, meets at least three times a year 
to coincide with key dates in the Company’s financial reporting cycle. The Board is satisfied that each of the Committee members 
has the recent and relevant financial and accounting experience to enable them to contribute to the Committee’s work. The Group 
Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the President of Croda Europe, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Risk and 
Control Manager and representatives from the external and internal auditors attend meetings by invitation. The Chairman of the 
Audit Committee holds independent meetings with the Group Risk and Control Manager and also with the external auditors, 
without the executives being present. 
The Committee’s remit is to assist the Board to fulfil its responsibility for ensuring that the Group’s financial systems provide accurate 
and up to date information on its financial position and that the Group’s published financial statements represent a true and fair 
reflection of this position. As part of its normal responsibilities the Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements 
of the Company. This includes reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the statements and 
the consistency of, and any changes to, accounting policies. In addition it is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal controls and risk management systems, including that of the Company’s internal audit function in the context 
of the Company’s overall risk management system. It reviews and assesses the annual internal audit plan and all reports on the 
Company from the internal auditors. It also agrees the annual audit plan with the external auditors and reviews the findings of the 
audit and the interim review with the external auditors.
Corporate governance 25
During the year the Committee members also:
l received reports and presentations concerning key specific risks identified by the Risk Management Committee; 
l monitored compliance with the Group risk management programme;
l reviewed the Group’s disaster recovery procedure in relation to IT and a report on the audit of certain IT outsourcing arrangements  
 by the internal auditors; and
l commissioned and oversaw a tender process for the role of internal auditors leading to the appointment of new internal auditors. 
Audit independence
The Committee and the Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the Group’s external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP (“PwC”), in their reporting to shareholders. The PwC audit partner is present at all Audit Committee meetings to ensure full 
communication of matters relating to the audit.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of 
management, and feedback is provided to senior members of PwC unrelated to the audit. This activity also forms part of PwC’s own 
system of quality control.
The scope of the forthcoming year’s audit is discussed in advance by the Audit Committee. Audit fees are reviewed by the 
Committee and then referred to the Board for approval. The rotation of audit partners’ responsibilities within PwC is required by 
their profession’s ethical standards, is actively encouraged and has taken place.
Assignments awarded to PwC have been, and are, subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Committee 
so that audit independence is not compromised. The chairman of the Audit Committee is required to give prior approval of work 
carried out by PwC and its associates in excess of predetermined thresholds. Part of this review is to determine that other potential 
providers of the services have been adequately considered.
These controls provide the Committee with adequate confidence in the independence of PwC in their reporting on the audit of the 
Group.
Report of the Nomination Committee 
Martin Flower (Chairman) 
Mike Buzzacott  
Mike Humphrey  
Stanley Musesengwa 
Nigel Turner 
Steve Williams
The Nomination Committee consists of the non-executive directors and the Group Chief Executive. It meets on an ad hoc basis and 
is responsible for nominating, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board and succession planning. 
As part of its remit to keep the structure and composition of the Board under review, the Committee nominated Steve Williams 
and Steve Foots for appointment by the Board in 2010. Steve Williams was recommended as a potential Board member by 
Spencer Stuart, an external search consultant, which maintains contact with the Company on an ad hoc basis. Each member of the 
Committee and the Group Finance Director met with Mr Williams prior to making the nomination and the Committee as a whole 
considered that his experience and skills would be a valuable complement to those present on the Board. In the case of Steve 
Foots, he was put in charge of Croda Europe, which represents the major part of the Group’s business, following a reorganisation of 
the Group’s business in 2010. His nomination to the Board recognised the high level of responsibility he carries within the business 
and his ability to contribute to the wider understanding and leadership of the Group’s operations. Steve Foots has been with Croda 
since 1990 and so is well known to the Committee members.
The Committee continued its emphasis on the creation of a robust succession planning and development programme for senior 
employees below Board and Group Executive/Finance Committee level. As part of this it reviewed and endorsed new Group wide 
leadership development programmes aimed at providing a consistent and long term approach to leadership development from 
graduate to senior executive level.
The Committee carried out its customary corporate governance review and was satisfied that the size, structure and composition of 
the Board and the required time commitment from non-executive directors remained appropriate and that all the non-executive 
directors continued to fulfil the criteria of independence and were able to commit the required time for the proper performance of 
their duties.
Remuneration Committee 
Stanley Musesengwa (Chairman) 
Mike Buzzacott 
Martin Flower  
Nigel Turner 
Steve Williams
The Remuneration Committee, which consists of the non-executive directors, is responsible for advising on remuneration policy for 
senior executives and for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors and the Chairman. The Group Chief 
Executive is normally invited to attend all its meetings.
Further details of the Committee’s activities during the year can be found in the directors’ remuneration report set out on pages 28 
to 39. A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to approve the report.
Corporate governance
Directors’ report | Governance
Corporate governance 26
Board and Committee evaluation
The annual self evaluation exercise was carried out under the supervision of the Chairman to arrive at an assessment of the 
effectiveness of the Board, the Chairman and each of the committees. The exercise employed a questionnaire completed by 
each Board member. A summary of the results was then presented to the Board for discussion. The Chairman also discussed the 
comments separately with individual directors as part of their own appraisals. The senior independent director discussed the 
Chairman’s performance with the other non-executive directors before feeding back comments to the Chairman. Bearing in mind 
the Governance Code provision requiring external facilitation of the Board evaluations of FTSE 350 companies at least every three 
years, the Committee intends to take some preliminary external advice during the course of 2011 on matters such as desired 
attributes and skills of directors, planning for Board succession and evaluation techniques.
Other Committees
The management of the business is delegated by the Board to the Group Chief Executive. He utilises a series of committees to assist 
him in this task.
Group Executive Committee 
Mike Humphrey (Chairman) - Group Chief Executive 
Sean Christie - Group Finance Director 
David Barraclough - President – Asia Pacific 
Miguel De Bellis - President – Latin America 
Steve Foots - President – Europe 
Kevin Gallagher - President – North America 
Keith Layden - President – Actives & Enterprise Technology 
Kevin Nutbrown - President – Global Operations 
Louise Scott - Company Secretary & Legal Counsel
The Group Executive Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the heads of regional business 
and operational functions. It meets quarterly and is responsible for the development and implementation of strategy, operational 
plans, policies, procedures and budgets, the monitoring of operating and financial performance, the assessment and control of risk 
and the prioritisation and allocation of resources. 
Finance Committee
Mike Humphrey (Chairman) - Group Chief Executive 
Sean Christie - Group Finance Director 
Graham Myers - Group Financial Controller/Treasurer  
Kevin Nutbrown - President – Global Operations
The Finance Committee meets monthly to review operating results, identify operational and risk issues and examine capital 
expenditure proposals.
Risk Management Committee
Sean Christie (Chairman) - Group Finance Director 
David Barraclough - President – Asia Pacific 
Miguel De Bellis - President – Latin America 
Steve Foots - President – Europe 
Kevin Gallagher - President – North America 
Keith Layden - President – Actives & Enterprise Technology 
Graham Myers - Group Financial Controller/Treasurer  
Kevin Nutbrown - President – Global Operations 
Louise Scott - Company Secretary & Legal Counsel
The Risk Management Committee includes all members of the Group Executive Committee and the Finance Committee other than 
the Group Chief Executive. Its role is to evaluate, propose policies and monitor processes to control the business, operational and 
compliance risks faced by the Group. It normally meets four times a year. 
Group SHE Steering Committee
The Group also operates a Safety, Health and Environment (“SHE”) Steering Committee which is chaired by Kevin Nutbrown, 
President – Global Operations, and comprises the heads of regional businesses, operational functions and the VP Group SHE. It 
meets quarterly and monitors progress against the Group SHE objectives and targets, reviews safety performance and determines 
the requirement for new or revised SHE policies, procedures and objectives.
Routine Business Committee 
The Routine Business Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director with the Company Secretary 
and Group Financial Controller acting as alternates. The Committee may make decisions with one executive director and the 
alternate for the other executive director being present. It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of 
matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or the Group Executive Committee. 
Corporate governance 27
Investor relations
The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders. The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director maintain regular contact with major shareholders and ensure that their views are communicated to the Board as a whole 
through the reporting of feedback from shareholder meetings and the provision of brokers’ reports. The Board invites the Company’s 
brokers and financial public relations advisers to attend at least one meeting each year at which the economic and investment 
environment, Croda’s performance, both generally and in comparison with its sector peers, and investor reaction are discussed. 
The senior independent director and other non-executive directors are available to attend meetings with major shareholders if 
requested, however, no such meetings were requested during the year.
The AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders to raise questions with the members of the Board. The directors are also 
available to answer questions after the meeting in a more informal setting. The annual report, including notice of AGM, is sent to 
shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting. There is a separate investor relations section on the Company’s 
website (www.croda.com) which includes, amongst other items, presentations made to analysts.
Internal control 
The Code principle C.2.1 on internal control requires the directors to conduct, at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls, and report to the 
shareholders that they have done so. In accordance with the Turnbull guidance (2005) and in order to discharge this responsibility, 
the directors have utilised an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility, and delegated 
authority. 
In particular there are clear procedures and defined authorities to act for: 
l  capital investment, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review processes;
l  financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated accounts, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting  
 framework. This framework is enshrined in the Group’s “Cowick Ordinance” policy document which sets out the core business  
 processes and accounting principles to be employed at all Group companies. Compliance with the Ordinance is ensured by regular  
 internal reviews supplemented by focused auditor effort; and
l comprehensive monitoring and quantification of business risks, under the direction of the Risk Management Committee. The  
 Group co-ordinates its approach to risk management globally through its Risk Management Committee. This Committee is chaired  
 by the Group Finance Director and comprises the heads of each business unit, the Group Financial Controller and the Company  
 Secretary. Each operating site and function within the Group compiles its own risk register, highlighting the key risks it faces  
 along with the mitigating controls in place to offset the risk. These registers are reviewed and consolidated to ensure there is a  
 comprehensive view of the material risks facing the Group along with the controls in place to mitigate these risks.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and has 
reviewed its operational effectiveness throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the annual report using a 
process which involved:
l written confirmations from relevant senior executives and divisional directors concerning the operation of those elements of the  
 system for which they are responsible;
l internal audit work carried out by Deloitte & Touche LLP who report to the Audit Committee; and
l reports from the external auditors. 
Such a system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provides 
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Board also, where appropriate, ensured that 
necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy significant failings or weaknesses identified from the review of 
effectiveness of internal controls. 
Going concern 
The Group’s activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the 
Chief Executive’s review and the financial position of the Company, its cashflows and liquidity are described in the Financial review.
The financial statements, which appear on pages 45 to 94, have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making 
appropriate enquiries, including a review of forecasts, strategic plans and banking facilities, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. 
Corporate governance
Directors’ report | Governance
Corporate governance 28
Remuneration report
Dear Shareholder, 
As described in the Business review, 2010 was an outstanding year for Croda, particularly in light of the continuing tough global 
economic conditions.
The results demonstrate the ability of our business to deliver growth in difficult market conditions and, in particular, the effective 
leadership of our highly regarded management team.
The Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) consider the remuneration paid to our management team to fairly reflect their 
performance during the year. The annual bonus paid out in full (arising from the 2010 income, as calculated for the purpose of the 
bonus scheme, significantly exceeding the maximum targeted income) and the 2008 LTIP and BCIP awards’ performance targets 
were also met in full which reflected a growth in earnings per share of 155% over the three year period ended 31 December 2010 
and a total shareholder return created of over 170% (which resulted in Croda being amongst the top five performing FTSE 250 
companies over the three year performance period). 
As we look to the future, we are making a number of amendments to our remuneration policy for 2011 with a view to ensuring 
that the Committee is satisfied that it has a remuneration policy in place that enables recruitment, retention and motivation of the 
quality of executive talent required to continue to successfully deliver sustainable growth in our business and further create returns 
for our shareholders.
In summary, for 2011, changes to our remuneration policy are to include:
l adjustments to base salary levels to reflect appropriate comparative benchmarks, the strong performance of our management  
 team and the promotion of the President of Croda Europe to the Board;
l Bonus Co-Investment Plan (“BCIP”) matching awards are to take place based on the gross equivalent investment in Croda shares  
 as opposed to the net investment which is reflective of wider market practice (this change does not require an increase in the  
 BCIP plan limit); and
l seeking shareholder approval at the AGM to increase the normal Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) limit to 200% of salary (from  
 100% of salary) to provide flexibility from 2012 to grant awards at above 100% of salary if this is considered appropriate.  
 Awards in 2011 will continue to be restricted to 100% of salary. The Committee has agreed to inform major shareholders in  
 advance of the quantum and targets that will apply to future years’ LTIP awards should it be considered appropriate to grant at  
 above 100% of salary.
In line with investors’ best practice expectations, the above proposals were the subject of a pre-consultation with our major 
shareholders and shareholder representative bodies, of whom the overwhelming majority were supportive. 
The Committee believes that the revised policy will provide it with sufficient flexibility to meet its objective of retaining and 
motivating the Company’s management team. In addition, given that a substantial proportion of the total package is weighted 
towards long-term performance and the deferral requirement that forms part of the annual bonus arrangements, the Committee is 
comfortable that the current arrangements do not inadvertently encourage undue risk taking.
As a result, the Committee looks forward to your support of our remuneration policy at the 2011 AGM.
S Musesengwa
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Remuneration report 29
The directors present their remuneration report which covers the remuneration of both executive and non-executive directors and 
certain senior executives. This report sets out the policy for the financial year just ended, for the forthcoming year and, subject to 
ongoing review, for subsequent years. The report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. The first section of the report contains unaudited information and the second section audited information. 
The report will be subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in April 2011.
Section 1: Unaudited information
The role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee reviews and approves the annual salaries, bonus arrangements, service agreements and other employment 
conditions of the executive directors and certain members of the senior executive management team designated by the Board. In 
so doing it takes due account of pay and conditions in the Group as a whole and receives information on pay proposals for other 
employees throughout the Group. It also approves the design of, and determines targets for, any performance related/bonus pay 
schemes operated by the Group, approves the total annual payments made under such schemes, reviews the design of all share 
incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders and approves the award of long-term incentives. The Committee has 
delegated responsibility for setting the remuneration of the Chairman. The full terms of reference of the Committee are published 
on the Company’s website (www.croda.com).
Membership and operation
The Committee comprises all non-executive directors including the Chairman and is chaired by Stanley Musesengwa. The Group 
Chief Executive is usually invited to attend all meetings but neither he nor the Chairman attends when their individual remuneration 
is being discussed. The Committee met three times during the year. Other directors and employees of the Company who attended 
some, or all, of the meetings during the year and provided advice and services to the Committee were Samantha Brook (VP Human 
Resources), Graham Myers (Group Financial Controller/Treasurer) and Louise Scott (Company Secretary & Legal Counsel). All have 
the appropriate qualifications and experience to advise the Committee on aspects of the Group’s policies and practices.
Hewitt New Bridge Street (HNBS) have been appointed by the Committee to provide independent advice on remuneration policy 
and practice. During the year, HNBS attended one meeting of the Committee in connection with the remuneration review, details of 
which appear later in this report.
Policy on directors’ and senior executives’ remuneration
The key objectives of Croda’s executive remuneration policy are:
l to ensure that individual rewards and incentives are comparable with those provided by similar companies having regard to the  
 Group’s turnover, business sector and market worth and the need for skills to manage international businesses;
l to enable the Group to attract and retain high calibre people;
l to give full consideration to the relevant principles on directors’ remuneration set out in the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code;  
 and 
l to ensure a balance between fixed and performance related remuneration, the latter being related to objective measurement of  
 the financial performance of the Company.
The Committee believes that the interests of shareholders and directors are more closely aligned by the operation of short-term 
incentives which encourage the achievement of stretching profit targets and under which rewards may be delivered in the form of 
cash and shares, combined with share-based long-term incentives that reward performance against three year earnings per share 
and relative total shareholder return targets. In designing an appropriate incentive structure for the executive directors and senior 
executive management team, the Committee endeavours to set challenging performance criteria that are aligned with the Group’s 
strategy for the business and the enhancement of shareholder value. In line with the Association of British Insurers’ Guidelines on 
Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee ensures that the incentive structure for executive directors and senior executive 
management will not raise environmental, social or governance (ESG) risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour. 
More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from 
taking into account corporate governance on ESG matters and it takes due account of issues of general operational risk when 
structuring incentives. 
The Committee takes due account of remuneration structures elsewhere in the Group when setting pay for the executive directors 
(for example, consideration is given to the overall salary increase budget and the incentive structures that operate across the 
Group).
Directors’ report | Governance
Remuneration report
Remuneration report 30
Remuneration report
Balance between fixed and variable pay
As described previously, a substantial proportion of the executive directors’ pay is performance related. The charts below illustrate 
the balance between fixed and performance related pay at target and maximum performance levels based on the remuneration 
policy that is to operate in the current financial year (the full policy is described in detail below).
As can be seen from the charts, a substantial proportion of the total package is weighted towards long-term performance through 
the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) and Bonus Co-Investment Plan (“BCIP”) long-term incentive arrangements. In addition, there 
is a deferral requirement that forms part of the annual bonus arrangements (which requires bonus awards in excess of 50% of 
salary to be deferred into Croda shares for a period of three years). After taking due account of these factors, allied to the rigorous 
process that is undertaken in setting incentive plan targets and determining payouts (including regular liaison between the Audit 
and Remuneration Committees as appropriate) the Committee is comfortable that the current arrangements do not inadvertently 
encourage undue risk taking. In testing the LTIP and BCIP performance targets, independent third party advisors provide information 
in respect of the extent to which targets are met, with audited results used to determine vesting in respect of EPS targets. 
The Committee reviews the remuneration of the executive directors on an annual basis and, as has been the practice in each 
of the last two years, in 2010 it commissioned HNBS to provide up to date benchmark data to assist in this process. The 2009 
remuneration review had identified that the remuneration of the executive directors was beginning to fall behind comparable 
market practice and so this needed to be re-examined in the light of the Company’s strong financial performance. Accordingly, the 
remuneration packages were benchmarked, as had been done previously, against a group of international general manufacturing 
companies, similar in terms of size (including six month average market capitalisation and turnover) and scope of international 
operations, and a separate group of pan sector companies with comparable market capitalisations and international scope to those 
of Croda. In general, total remuneration was found to be below market median levels and so increases in base salary have been 
introduced from 1 January 2011 to redress this position. In arriving at its decisions on these increases the Committee took account 
of the salary increases for 2011 proposed for employees throughout the Group and the outstanding performance of the individual 
executive directors delivered during 2010. In addition, the revised salary of the President of Croda Europe took into account his 
promotion to the main Board in July 2010. It is also proposed to increase the level of awards made under the LTIP to the Group 
Finance Director and the President of Croda Europe subject to the present maximum of 100% of salary.
No amendments will be made in 2011 to the performance measures, or the range of targets, for the long-term incentive schemes 
as the Committee considered them to remain suitably challenging. The Committee recognised that the base year from which 
future performance will be measured is at a higher point than in previous years and so the targets will be very demanding in 
the opinion of the Committee. However, the award structure under the BCIP is to be aligned with market practice so that awards 
made to executive directors and members of the Group Executive and Finance Committees will in future be made on a gross of 
tax rather than a net of tax basis (this change does not result in an increase in quantum beyond the limits previously approved by 
shareholders at the time of the BCIP’s introduction in 2005). In addition, the opportunity is being taken to put forward a resolution 
at this year’s AGM to increase the maximum award levels under the LTIP from 100% of salary to 200% of salary. There is no current 
intention to increase actual award levels in 2011 beyond 100% of salary, but flexibility is required from 2012 to grant at higher 
levels, particularly given the fact that the Company competes for talent in the international market, where long-term incentive 
awards are often higher than in the UK. 
Major investors and the main shareholder protection bodies were informed of these changes and proposals early in 2011 with the 
overwhelming majority supportive of the revised policy. In response to the feedback received, the Committee resolved to notify 
major investors and the main shareholder protection bodies in advance, in relation to both quantum and targets for LTIP awards, if 
awards are to be granted above 100% of salary in 2012.
Target
Maximum
0% 20% 40%
Base salary Annual bonus LTIP & BCIP
60% 80% 100%
Assumptions
Target: annual bonus award of 50% of salary 
plus threshold vesting under the LTIP and 
BCIP (the BCIP assumes 50% of target bonus 
invested in the plan).
Maximum: maximum bonus award plus 
full vesting under LTIP and BCIP (the BCIP 
assumes a maximum bonus award which is 
invested in the BCIP in full).
Benefits: (including pension) have been 
excluded from the analysis for simplicity.
Fixed and Variable Pay: Average Executive Director at Target and Maximum Performance Levels 31
Performance-related annual bonus 
The Company operates bonus schemes for its directors and senior executives. Bonus payments are not pensionable. The 2010 
bonuses for executive directors were calculated by reference to the amount by which the income for the year, which is defined as 
the Group EBITDA for continuing operations before exceptional items and any charges or credits under IFRS2 ‘Share based payments’ 
less a notional interest charge on working capital employed during the year (the “2010 Income”), exceeded the income for 2009 
calculated on the same basis (the “base income”). Bonuses for 2010 are payable on a graduated scale once the 2010 Income 
exceeds the base income by inflation (defined as the consumer prices index (CPI)), with maximum bonuses due at CPI plus 11.35%. 
Income is measured after providing for the cost of any bonuses. The target range set for 2011 is considered at least as challenging 
to that set in prior years given the high base income that was delivered in 2010 and continuing uncertain economic conditions. 
The maximum bonuses in 2011 have been set as due at CPI plus 10%. The Committee has the discretion to take safety, health and 
environmental performance into consideration in determining the overall level of individual bonus payments and can reduce the 
bonus award if it considers it appropriate to do so. 
The maximum amount of bonus payable to the executive directors is 100% of salary with the net element of any bonus in excess 
of 50% of salary being compulsorily invested in the BCIP . Bonuses earned by each director in respect of 2010 are included in the 
table of directors’ remuneration on page 35 and represent 100% of basic salary, based on achievement in excess of the maximum 
bonus targets set at the start of the year. The Committee was satisfied that a maximum bonus award should be payable in respect 
of the 2010 financial year in view of actual performance significantly exceeding the maximum target and following a review of the 
safety, health and environmental performance of the Group. The maximum bonus opportunities have been set at these same levels 
for 2011. The performance targets will require out-performance of the 2010 Income before bonuses become eligible for payment. 
The Committee remains comfortable that the structure of the annual bonus does not encourage the pursuit of strategies that may 
involve inappropriate risk-taking and that the mandatory reinvestment of net bonuses in excess of 50% of salary into shares in any 
year is considered to strengthen further alignment with shareholders and foster a longer-term link between annual performance 
and reward.
Long-term incentives
Long-term incentives are provided to executive directors through two long-term incentive plans, the BCIP and the LTIP , which 
were both adopted in 2005. These replaced the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes. It is the Committee’s policy, subject to 
unforeseen circumstances, that these will comprise the sole long-term elements of the total remuneration package of executive 
directors for the foreseeable future. It is also the Committee’s policy to continue exercising its right to decide the number of LTIP 
awards to be granted to each executive director subject to plan limits. 
BCIP
The BCIP operates in conjunction with the annual bonus schemes and allows participants to invest a proportion of their net annual 
cash bonus in Company shares. Participants have to agree to hold the invested shares for three years in return for which they 
receive a conditional award entitling them to additional shares subject to the achievement of the BCIP’s performance condition. 
The maximum number of shares over which an award can be granted to an employee in a single year is limited to shares having 
a market value not exceeding 100% of the employee’s salary. The levels of awards differ between participants. Prior to 2011 
executive directors and members of the Group Executive and Finance Committees received one matching share for each share 
invested whilst other participants received two matching shares. As described in the paragraph headed “Balance between fixed 
and variable pay” on the previous page, executive directors and members of the Group Executive and Finance Committees will now 
receive matching shares based on the pre tax equivalent number of shares invested in the BCIP by participants from their net of tax 
annual bonus proceeds. It is compulsory for members of this group, whose gross bonus could exceed 50% of their annual salary, to 
invest the excess over 50%, net of tax, in shares unless they are within three years of anticipated retirement date.
Components of executive directors’ remuneration
Basic salary
The salaries are paid monthly in cash and are reviewed annually with effect from 1 January. Following the remuneration review 
described previously, and having taken account of another year of outstanding performance by the Company and the executives and 
the results of the HNBS benchmarking exercise, the Committee has increased the annual base salaries of executive directors with 
effect from 1 January 2011. In setting the revised salary of the President of Croda Europe, the Committee recognised his promotion 
to the main Board in July 2010. Current salary levels are set out below:
Executive director Basic salary at  
31 December 2010
Basic salary at  
1 January 2011
% increase
M Humphrey £560,000 £577,000 3.0
M S Christie £309,500 £340,000 9.9
S E Foots £260,000 £300,000 15.4
Remuneration report
Directors’ report | Governance
Remuneration report 32
Remuneration report
Adjusted EPS growth over the three year period Proportion of award vesting
Less than RPI + 12% No vesting
RPI + 12% 30%
RPI + 24% 100%
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points
Rank of the Company’s TSR against the FTSE 250 (excluding Investment Trusts) Vesting % (TSR part)
Below median 0%
Median 30%
Upper quartile 100%
Between median and upper quartile 30% - 100% pro rata
Adjusted EPS growth over the three year period Vesting % (EPS part)
Less than RPI + 12% No vesting
RPI + 12% 30%
RPI + 24% 100%
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points
The awards are subject to a performance condition adopted in 2007 which is structured to require the achievement of a challenging 
sliding scale of adjusted earnings per share growth (“EPS”) targets in excess of retail price inflation (“RPI”):
If the performance target is met the shares will be transferred to the employee. If the employee does not retain their invested 
shares until the release date their award lapses. It is intended that the same performance target will be applied to any BCIP awards 
made in 2011. 
LTIP
Participation in the LTIP is limited to executive directors and senior executives. Annual awards of shares are made based on varying 
percentages of salary with the maximum entitlement being shares having a market value of 100% of the employee’s salary. 
As described in the paragraph headed “Balance between fixed and variable pay” earlier in this report, the Company is seeking 
shareholder approval at its AGM to increase the maximum entitlement to 200% of salary (although, as noted earlier, it is not 
intended that awards will be granted above 100% of salary in 2011). Awards are subject to performance conditions measured over 
a period of not less than three years.
The awards are subject to a performance condition which is split into two separate parts, each with a separate performance 
condition. Half of any LTIP award will vest based on a condition measuring the Company’s relative total shareholder return (TSR) 
against the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). There are a limited number of direct competitors to 
Croda and the Committee was mindful of the dangers inherent in operating a relative TSR-based performance condition with a 
comparator group comprised of only a small number of companies. The FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) was, therefore, 
considered an appropriate comparator group by the Committee. Vesting will take place on the following sliding scale:
The remaining half of the awards vest based on the same EPS growth condition that is set for the BCIP , with vesting thus taking 
place on the following sliding scale:
If the performance target is met, the shares will be transferred to the employee. Awards made in 2011 will remain in line with 
awards made in 2010 for executive directors in terms of the performance targets. As described previously, the quantum of awards 
(expressed as a multiple of salary) for the Group Finance Director and the President of Croda Europe are being increased to 100% 
and 87.5% of salary respectively for the awards to be granted in 2011. The Committee believes that this is necessary in order to 
create competitive remuneration packages which will incentivise these two executives and bring their remuneration more into 
line with comparable market practice. The Chief Executive will continue to receive an award at 100% of salary in 2011 which is 
consistent with the policy operated in prior years.
The gains arising from LTIP and BCIP awards vesting in 2010 are set out on page 39 with the awards vesting in full due to the 
performance targets applying to the awards granted in 2007 being achieved in full.
Senior Executive Share Option Schemes
Following the adoption of the BCIP and the LTIP , the operation of the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes has been discontinued 
except in relation to options already granted. The only options now outstanding were granted in 2002 and 2003. The options were 
granted subject to performance conditions which required basic EPS before exceptional items to grow at RPI plus 7% per annum 
over the performance period for 100% of the options granted to be exercisable. The performance conditions have been satisfied in 
full. Mike Humphrey is the only director who holds these options and details of his options are shown in the table on page 37. 
It is the Company’s current intention to satisfy awards under the BCIP and the LTIP and the exercise of share options primarily from 
shares held in the Employee Share Ownership Trust, treasury shares and shares purchased in the market and not by the issue of 
new shares. Details of shares held for this purpose are given in note 25 on page 81. 
  33
Pension and other benefits 
Croda has a number of different pension plans in the countries in which it operates. Pension entitlements for Croda’s executives are 
tailored to local market practice, the length of service and age of the participants. The principal pension plans in the UK are defined 
benefit schemes which provide a pension based on a proportion of final salary. The Company is flexible in the manner in which 
pension provision is made for executive directors with the aim of balancing the needs of the director against the liability of the 
Company. Hence, it makes contributions either by direct contribution to the Croda defined benefit pension scheme or by way of a 
cash supplement in lieu of pension benefits to enable the funding of personal pension arrangements. 
Other customary benefits such as company cars or car allowances, health benefits, the UK SAYE Scheme and the Croda Share 
Incentive Plan (which are available to all eligible UK employees), are made available to executive directors. Benefits in kind are not 
pensionable. The Committee reviews the individual components and the balance of these components from time to time.
Components of senior executives’ remuneration
The Group Executive Committee and the Group Finance Committee are made up from seven senior executives in addition to the 
three executive directors. The reward structure for these senior executives is broadly similar to that of the executive directors 
although there are some differences in LTIP participation.
Service contracts and external appointments
Policy
The Committee’s policy on executive directors’ service contracts is for them to contain a maximum notice period of one year. In 
respect of termination, the Committee’s policy is to deal with each case on its merits, in accordance with the law and any further 
policy adopted by the Committee at the time. In the event of early termination, other than for cause, the relevant director’s then 
current salary and contractual benefits would be taken into account in calculating any liability of the Company. For clarification, 
the Company’s policy is that no entitlement to unearned bonus will be taken into account when determining payments on early 
termination. 
The principal contractual benefits provided in addition to salary are the provision of a car or car allowance, pension, medical 
insurance and life assurance. Annual bonuses and long-term incentives are non-contractual and are dealt with in accordance with 
the rules of the relevant schemes.
Specific contracts
Mike Humphrey entered into a new service contract on 21 December 2005 which is terminable by the Company on one year’s 
notice and by Mike Humphrey on six months’ notice. The Company may also terminate the contract at any time with immediate 
effect and Mike Humphrey would be entitled to receive compensation equivalent to twelve months’ salary plus the value of his 
pension benefits (valued at 20% of basic salary), bonus entitlement (50% based on the assumption that performance targets are 
deemed to have been achieved) and the value of other benefits, payable in equal monthly instalments for twelve months or, if 
less, the remaining period of any notice period not yet completed. Such payments would discontinue or reduce to the extent that 
he obtained alternative employment (i.e. any such payments would be phased and subject to mitigation to the extent that any 
alternative employment was commenced).
As explained in last year’s report, the Committee has engaged with its major institutional investors (and shareholder protection 
bodies) on the issue of the Chief Executive’s legacy contract but has not felt it appropriate to seek to renegotiate the terms of this 
contract at a time when the Chief Executive has presided over a sustained period of very strong performance, over a matter which 
is a legacy issue. 
Sean Christie and Steve Foots have service contracts dated 15 December 2006 and 16 September 2010 respectively with 
substantially the same terms as those of Mike Humphrey’s contract except that there is no entitlement to bonus on termination by 
the Company with immediate effect.
External appointments
Executive directors are permitted to accept external non-executive appointments with the prior approval of the Board. It is normal 
practice for executive directors to retain fees provided for non-executive appointments. Sean Christie was a non-executive director 
of Cherry Valley Farms Limited until its sale in April 2010. During the year he received total payments of £1,506,250 consisting of 
fees and a bonus connected with completion of the sale. 
Apart from service agreements and share schemes, no director has had any material interest in any contract with the Company or 
its subsidiaries requiring disclosure under the Companies Act 2006.
Policy on non-executive directors’ remuneration
The Board is responsible for determining the policy on, and level of, the remuneration of non-executive directors. The aim is to 
attract non-executive directors who through their experience can further the interests of the Company through their stewardship 
and contribution to strategic development. The Board’s policy is to provide cash fees at a level commensurate with companies of 
Croda’s size, set fees to reflect the anticipated time commitment of fulfilling the relevant non-executive’s duties, not to grant share 
options to non-executive directors, and to encourage non-executive directors to establish a holding of Croda shares.
Remuneration report
Directors’ report | Governance
Remuneration report 34
Remuneration report
Original appointment date Expiry date of current term
M C Flower 16 May 2005 28 September 2011
M C Buzzacott 2 August 2004 1 August 2011
S Musesengwa 7 May 2007 6 May 2013
P N N Turner 1 June 2009 31 May 2012
S G Williams 1 July 2010 30 June 2013
At 31 December 2010 At 1 January 2010
Ordinary 
shares
BCIP† 
Ordinary 
shares
Executive 
options
SAYE 
options
SIP†† 
ordinary 
shares LTIP
Ordinary 
shares
BCIP† 
Ordinary 
shares
Executive 
options
SAYE 
options
SIP†† 
ordinary 
shares LTIP
M Humphrey 298,162 141,046 150,000 1,491 5,050 281,846 262,075 110,620 150,000 2,681 4,776 290,487
M S Christie 39,140 140,510 – 1,702 1,614 115,909 – 120,014 – 1,702 1,340 115,703
S E Foots 
(appointed  
1 July 2010)
37,332 50,918 – 340 5,050 50,880 29,810 39,026 – 1,710 4,776 51,288
M C Flower 22,925 – – – – – 22,925 – – – – –
M C Buzzacott 10,000 – – – – – 10,000 – – – – –
S Musesengwa 15,000 – – – – – 15,000 – – – – –
P N N Turner 15,000 – – – – – 15,000 – – – – –
S G Williams 
(appointed  
1 July 2010)
10,000 – – – – – – – – – – –
Components of non-executive directors’ remuneration
Non-executives’ pay comprises cash fees, paid monthly. All non-executive directors are reimbursed for travel and related business 
expenses reasonably incurred in performing their duties. Non-executive directors’ fees are determined on the basis of current fee 
levels in similar businesses and are reviewed by the Board at least every two years.
The Chairman’s fees are determined by the Remuneration Committee and since 1 January 2009 these have been £153,000. The 
fees of the remaining non-executive directors are determined by the Chairman and the executive directors. Since 1 January 2009 
the basic annual fee for a non-executive director has been £41,000, with an additional £6,000 for chairing a committee and the 
Senior Independent Director receiving an additional £3,000. 
Terms of appointment
The Chairman and non-executive directors have letters of appointment for an initial fixed term of three years subject to earlier 
termination by either party on written notice. In each case this term can be extended by mutual agreement. They have no 
entitlement to contractual termination payments. The dates of their initial appointments and current term expiry dates are set out 
below.
Directors’ interests 
The beneficial interests at 31 December 2010 of the directors of the Company and their connected persons in the shares of the 
Company are shown below. Further information regarding employee share option schemes is given in note 23 to the financial 
statements on pages 77 to 80 of the annual report. 
Mike Humphrey has an interest in 100 7.5% preference shares but no other director had any interest in the 5.9%, 6.6% or 7.5% 
preference shares of the Company.
† The BCIP shares comprise 166,237 shares invested by the directors (2009: 134,830) and 166,237 shares which are the subject of conditional awards 
(2009: 134,830).
†† The SIP shares comprise 5,857 Partnership shares (2009: 5,446) and 5,857 Matching shares (2009: 5,446). 35
Share ownership policy
The Company has adopted share ownership guidelines which apply to all executive directors and members of the Group Executive 
Committee and the Finance Committee. Executives are required to build up a target shareholding of shares with a market value 
equivalent to 100% of salary from time to time through a combination of share purchases and the retention of incentive shares. On 
the exercise of SAYE and executive share options or the vesting of LTIP and/or BCIP awards, executives are required to retain shares 
from the shares awarded representing 50% of the net of tax gain until the target is met or exceeded. The target is expected to be 
reached within five years. All the executive directors have holdings well in excess of the target shareholdings.
Total shareholder return: Croda International vs FTSE 250
The graph below looks at the value by the end of 2010 of £100 invested in Croda on 31 December 2005 compared with £100 
invested in the FTSE 250 Index. 
In the opinion of the directors the FTSE 250 is the most appropriate index against which the total shareholder return of the Company 
should be measured, as it is an index of similar sized companies to Croda International Plc.
Remuneration report
Directors’ report | Governance
Remuneration report
Basic salary 
£
Pension 
supplement
£
Bonus
£
Benefits
£
Fees
£
2010 Total
£
2009 Total
£
M Humphrey† 560,000 112,000 560,000 30,400 – 1,262,400 1,231,203
M S Christie 309,500 – 309,500 16,341 – 635,341 624,033
S E Foots†† 
(appointed 1 July 2010) 235,000 – 235,000 15,640 – 485,640 413,561
M C Flower – – – – 153,504 153,504 153,504
M C Buzzacott – – – – 50,000 50,000 49,000
S Musesengwa – – – – 47,000 47,000 45,000
P N N Turner – – – – 41,000 41,000 23,919
S G Williams  
(appointed 1 July 2010) – – – – 20,500 20,500 -
1,104,500 112,000 1,104,500 62,381 312,004 2,695,385 2,540,220
Section 2: Audited information
Directors’ remuneration
Notes
1 † Highest paid director.
2 †† Although only appointed to the Board on 1 July 2010, Mr Foots was an existing employee and so his remuneration for the whole of 2009 and 2010 is  
 shown.
3 Benefits incorporate all assessable tax benefits arising from employment by the Company and relate in the main to the provision of a Company car or car  
 allowance, fuel allowances and private medical insurance.
4 The bonuses shown relate to the year ended 31 December 2010.
0
50
100
200
150
300
250
350
31/12/2005 31/12/2006
FTSE 250 Croda International
31/12/2007 31/12/2008 31/12/2009 31/12/2010
400
T otal Shareholder Return (Rebased) 36
Remuneration report
Pension rights 
Prior to 6 April 2006, Mike Humphrey accrued pension benefits under the Croda International Supplemental Scheme (“CISS”). The 
CISS was merged with the Croda Group Pension Scheme on 30 September 2010 to form the Croda Pension Scheme (“CPS”). Mike 
Humphrey will be entitled at age 60 to a pension equal to his accrued pension at 5 April 2006 (accrued at a rate of two-thirds of his 
annual pensionable remuneration as at 5 April 2006, pro-rated by the ratio of his actual service accrued prior to 5 April 2006 and 
prospective service to age 60), increased to age 60 at the rate which applies to all preserved pensions in the CISS section of the 
CPS. If Mike Humphrey retires before age 60 a reduced pension is payable unless retiring at the Company’s request. In the event 
of death, a pension equal to two-thirds of his pension would become payable to his surviving spouse. Mike Humphrey’s pension 
in payment is guaranteed to increase in line with the rate of inflation up to a maximum of 10% per annum. During 2010, Mike 
Humphrey was paid £112,000 (2009: £109,200) in addition to his basic salary to enable him to make independent provision for his 
retirement. This is the same level of contribution (expressed as a percentage of salary) in respect of salary in lieu of pension that 
has been provided since 2006.
Sean Christie accrues pension benefits under the CPS with an accrual rate of 1/60th and a normal retirement age of 65. If Sean 
Christie retires before age 65 a reduced pension is payable unless retiring at the Company’s request. In the event of death a pension 
equal to 50% of his pension would become payable to his surviving spouse. His pension in payment is guaranteed to increase in 
line with the rate of inflation up to a maximum of 2.5% per annum.
Steve Foots accrues pension benefits under the CPS with an accrual rate of 1/60th and an entitlement to retire at age 60. If Steve 
Foots retires before age 61, a reduction will be applied to the element of his pension accrued after 5 April 2006, and if he retires 
before age 60 a reduction will also be applied to the element of his pension accrued before 6 April 2006, unless in either instance 
he is retiring at the Company’s request. Steve Foots’ pension in payment is guaranteed to increase in line with the rate of inflation 
up to a maximum of 10% per annum for benefits accrued prior to 6 April 2006, and in line with inflation up to a maximum of 2.5% 
per annum for benefits accrued from 6 April 2006 onwards.
All three executive directors are entitled to death in service benefits from the CPS.
Defined benefit schemes
Notes
1 The figures shown represent: the amount of annual pension benefits based on service to, and pensionable earnings at, 5 April 2006 for Mike Humphrey (with  
 standard preserved increases to 31 December 2010); and the amount of annual pension benefits which would have been preserved for Sean Christie and  
 Steve Foots had they left service on 31 December 2010, based on service to, and pensionable earnings at, that date.
2 The figure represents the difference between the total accrued pension at 31 December 2010 and the corresponding pension at the beginning of the year.
3 The figure represents the difference between the total accrued pension at 31 December 2010 and the corresponding pension at the beginning of the year  
 after an adjustment to exclude inflation is provided as required under paragraph 9.8.8 (12) (a) of the Listing Rules.
4 Transfer values are quoted on the basis recommended by the scheme actuary for valuation of accrued benefits if the member had transferred benefits to  
 another approved scheme on the relevant date. The increase in transfer value between 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2010 takes account of changes  
 in market conditions over the period. 
5 The figure represents the difference between transfer values of the accrued benefits at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, less contributions paid by  
 the director or on his behalf under the Company’s salary sacrifice scheme.
6 The figure represents the transfer value of the increase in accrued benefits over the period, adjusted for inflation, less contributions paid by the director or on  
 his behalf under the Company’s salary sacrifice scheme.
7 Following a recent review of the administration procedures of the CPS, Mike Humphrey’s pension as at 6 April 2006 has been recalculated to be £252,725 per  
 annum (it had previously been stated as £237,597 per annum). The figures in the table above relating to the position as at 31 December 2009 are based  
 on an accrued pension of £237,597 per annum as at 6 April 2006, as was disclosed last year. The figures relating to the position as at 31 December 2010  
 are based on the revised pension figure of £252,725 per annum as at 6 April 2006. Consequently, part of the increase in his accrued pension and transfer  
 value during the year is in relation to this amendment to his accrued pension entitlement at 6 April 2006.
8 Steve Foots became a director on 1 July 2010. The accrued pension disclosed above has been calculated taking into account his entire pensionable service  
 (including the period prior to his becoming a director).
Members of the CPS have the option to pay voluntary contributions. Neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included 
in this table.
Accrued 
pension at 
31.12.10
1
£000
Increase 
in accrued 
pension  
during the 
year
2
 
£000
Increase 
in accrued 
pension  
during 
the year 
(excluding 
inflation)
3
£000
Transfer  
value of 
accrued 
pension at 
31.12.09
4
£000
Transfer  
value of 
accrued 
pension at 
31.12.10
4
 
£000
Increase 
in transfer 
value over 
the year
5
£000
Transfer 
value of the 
increase in 
the accrued 
pension
6
£000
M Humphrey
7
311 30 16 7,443 8,440 997 442
M S Christie 21 5 5 180 253 52 39
S E Foots
8
79 15 12 862 1,082 204 135 37
Share options
Options are granted over ordinary shares of 10p each under the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes and the Savings-Related 
Share Option Scheme.
Senior executive share options 
Mike Humphrey is the only director who holds options under the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes and details of his options 
are set out below:
No price was paid for the award of the options and none of the terms and conditions of the share options was varied during the 
year. All performance conditions attaching to the share options have been satisfied. 
Date of grant Earliest exercise date Exercise price
Number at  
1 January 2010 
(10p shares) Exercised in year
Number at 
31 December 2010 
(10p shares)
M Humphrey
5 March 2003 5 March 2006 230p 150,000 – 150,000
150,000 – 150,000
Remuneration report
Directors’ report | Governance
Remuneration report
Date of grant Earliest exercise date Expiry date
Exercise 
price
Number at  
1 January 2010 
(10p shares)
Exercised  
in year
Granted 
in year
Number at 
31 December 2010  
(10p shares)
M Humphrey
22 September 2005 1 November 2010 30 April 2011 328p 1,410 1,410 – –
16 September 2008 1 November 2011 30 April 2012 509p 590 – – 590
15 September 2009 1 November 2012 30 April 2013 533p 681 – – 681
15 September 2010 1 November 2013 30 April 2014 1144p – – 220 220
2,681 1,410 220 1,491
M S Christie
15 September 2009 1 November 2012 30 April 2013 533p 1,702 – – 1,702
1,702 – – 1,702
S E Foots
22 September 2005 1 November 2010 30 April 2011 328p 1,007 1,007 – –
17 September 2007 1 November 2010 30 April 2011 520p 363 363 – –
15 September 2009 1 November 2012 30 April 2013 533p 340 – – 340
1,710 1,370 – 340
SAYE share options
Employees are customarily invited to participate in a Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme once a year. Prior to 2006, the savings 
contract was traditionally for five years but since that time a three year savings contract has been offered. The option price is the 
value of ordinary shares at date of grant discounted by 20%. Options are normally exercisable for a six month period following 
completion of the savings contract. 38
Remuneration report
Date of award
Award price*
(£) Earliest vesting date
Market price 
at date of 
award
Number at  
1 January 2010 
(10p shares)
Exercised  
in year
Granted 
in year
Number at 
31 December 2010 
(10p shares)
M Humphrey
22 February 2007 5.9273 22 February 2010 663p 78,451 78,451 – –
20 February 2008 5.0285 20 February 2011 604p 103,410 – – 103,410
18 February 2009 5.0264 18 February 2012 509p  108,626 – – 108,626
24 February 2010 8.0217 24 February 2013 900p – – 69,810 69,810
 290,487 78,451 69,810 281,846
M S Christie
22 February 2007 5.9273 22 February 2010 663p 28,731 28,731 – –
20 February 2008 5.0285 20 February 2011 604p 41,761 – – 41,761
18 February 2009 5.0264 18 February 2012 509p  45,211 – – 45,211
24 February 2010 8.0217 24 February 2013 900p – – 28,937 28,937
115,703 28,731 28,937 115,909
S E Foots
22 February 2007 5.9273 22 February 2010 663p 13,497 13,497 – –
20 February 2008 5.0285 20 February 2011 604p 17,897 – – 17,897
18 February 2009 5.0264 18 February 2012 509p  19,894 – – 19,894
24 February 2010 8.0217 24 February 2013 900p – – 13,089 13,089
51,288 13,497 13,089 50,880
LTIP
Details of awards made under the Croda LTIP are set out below:
* Award price is based on the average mid-market price of a Croda ordinary share for the first 30 dealing days of the financial year in which the award is made.
BCIP
Details of the awards made under the Croda BCIP are set out below:
Date of award Earliest vesting date
Market price at 
date of award
Number at  
1 January 2010 
(10p shares)
Granted  
during the  
year
Released  
during the  
year
Number at  
31 December 2010  
(10p shares)
M Humphrey
26 April 2007 26 April 2010 633p 4,857 – 4,857 –
1 May 2008      1 May 2011 696.5p 21,886 – – 21,886
30 April 2009 30 April 2012 544p 28,567 – – 28,567
29 April 2010 29 April 2013 990p – 20,070 – 20,070
55,310 20,070 4,857 70,523
M S Christie
26 April 2007 26 April 2010 633p 7,692 – 7,692 –
1 May 2008      1 May 2011 696.5p 21,550 – – 21,550
30 April 2009 30 April 2012 544p 30,765 – – 30,765
29 April 2010 29 April 2013 990p – 17,940 – 17,940
60,007 17,940 7,692 70,255
S E Foots
26 April 2007 26 April 2010 633p 3,076 – 3,076 –
1 May 2008      1 May 2011 696.5p 6,559 – – 6,559
30 April 2009 30 April 2012 544p 9,878 – – 9,878
29 April 2010 29 April 2013 990p – 9,022 – 9,022
19,513 9,022 3,076 25,459 39
Remuneration Report
Directors’ report | Governance
Remuneration report
Share Incentive Plan
Mike Humphrey, Sean Christie and Steve Foots participate in the plan which, as a HMRC approved arrangement, is offered to all 
employees on the same terms. They each save the maximum of £125 per month permitted under the regulations. Matching shares 
are allocated on a one for one basis for each Partnership share purchased by the employee. Shares are purchased on a monthly 
basis. During the year they each purchased 137 Partnership shares and were allocated 137 Matching shares. The average purchase 
price was 1155.5p.
Since 31 December 2010, Mike Humphrey and Steve Foots have each purchased 16 Partnership shares and Sean Christie has 
purchased 17 Partnership shares and they have been awarded a corresponding number of Matching shares under the SIP at an 
average price of 1495p per share. Otherwise there has been no change in the directors’ interests in shares or options granted by 
the Company between the end of the financial year and 8 March 2011.
Gains made on exercise of share options and LTIPs
The gains are calculated according to the market price of Croda International Plc ordinary shares of 10p each on the date of exercise, 
although the shares may have been retained.
The market price of the Company’s shares at 31 December 2010 was 1616p and the range of market prices during the year was 
between 751p and 1616p. 
On behalf of the Board
S Musesengwa 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
8 March 2011
Exercise date Shares exercised Scheme Exercise price Market price 
Gain  
(before tax) £
M Humphrey 16 March 2010 78,451 LTIP Nil 911p 714,689
16 March 2010 4,857 BCIP Nil 911p 44,247
1 November 2010 1,410 SAYE 328p 1439p 15,665
774,601
M S Christie 9 March 2010 28,731 LTIP Nil 908.5p 261,021
16 March 2010 7,692 BCIP Nil 911p 70,074
331,095
S E Foots 24 February 2010 13,497 LTIP Nil 900p 121,473
16 March 2010 3,076 BCIP Nil 911p 28,022
7 December 2010 1,007 SAYE 328p 1610p 12,910
20 December 2010 363 SAYE 520p 1577p 3,837
166,242 40
Other disclosures
Principal activities and Business review
Croda International Plc is a holding company operating from headquarters at Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, East Yorkshire, and 
providing central direction for a speciality chemicals group with operations across the globe. The Group carries out research and 
development activities in the main markets it serves, further details of which can be found in the Chief Executive’s review on pages 
5 to 8.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the 
financial year ended 31 December 2010 including an analysis of the development and performance of the Group during the year 
and the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the 
Group (known as a “Business review”). 
The information which makes up the Business review can be found in the following sections of the annual report:
l Chairman’s statement on pages 3 and 4
l Chief Executive’s review on pages 5 to 8
l Financial review on pages 9 to 12
l Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 13 to 20
l Principal risks and uncertainties as discussed in the Financial review section on pages 11 and 12.
Further information on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) can be found in our full CSR report on our website at www.croda.com
Pages 1 to 43 inclusive (together with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference) constitute a Directors’ report 
that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with applicable English company law and the liabilities of the directors in 
connection with that report are subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by that law.
Research and development
Research and development activities are undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and 
understanding.
Profit and dividends 
The results for the year are set out on page 45. The directors are recommending a final dividend of 25.25p per share (2009: 
15.0p). If approved by shareholders, total dividends for the year will amount to 35.0p per share (2009: 21.5p per share). Details of 
dividends are shown in note 9 on page 63 and details of the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan can be found on page 97.
Disposals 
During the year the Group sold its former oleochemical site at Bromborough on the Wirral which had been closed at the end of 
2009. It also ceased production at its manufacturing site at Wilton on Teesside and subsequently sold the site. At the end of June 
the sale of its Emmerich oleochemical site and associated business in Germany was completed. Since the year end, Croda’s 60% 
shareholding in its Korean joint venture has been sold to the non-controlling shareholders. Further details appear in note 7 on  
page 61. 
Directors 
The Company’s Articles of Association (“the Articles”) give the directors power to appoint and replace directors. Under the terms 
of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval 
by the board of directors. The Articles also require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first annual general 
meeting (AGM) following appointment and all directors who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not 
retire at either of them, to submit themselves for re-election. Ordinarily this would mean that, at this year’s AGM, Mike Buzzacott 
and Stanley Musesengwa would be standing for re-election and Steve Williams and Steve Foots would be standing for election 
for the first time following their appointments on 1 July 2010. However, the Board has taken note of the new provision in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code requiring directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual election and each director will be 
standing for election at the AGM. The present directors of the Company are shown on pages 21 and 22. Details of the directors’ 
service contracts are given in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 28 to 39. 
Apart from the share option schemes, long term incentive schemes and service contracts, no director had any beneficial interest in 
any contract to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during the year. 
A statement indicating the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company, including 
share options, is shown in the directors’ remuneration report on page 34. 
The directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject 
to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Company’s Memorandum and Articles and any directions given by special resolution. 
Corporate Governance
The directors’ corporate governance statement is set out on pages 23 to 27.
Other disclosures 41
Directors’ report | Governance
Other disclosures
Other disclosures
Directors’ indemnities 
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against 
its directors. The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its directors and the secretary which represent “qualifying third 
party indemnity provisions” (as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006), in relation to certain losses and liabilities 
which the directors (or secretary) may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors (or secretary) or employees of the 
Company or of any associated company. In addition such indemnities have been granted to other officers of the Company who are 
directors of subsidiary companies within the Group. The Company has also granted an indemnity representing “qualifying pension 
scheme indemnity provisions” (as defined by section 235 of the Companies Act 2006) to a paid director of the corporate trustee of 
the Group’s UK pension scheme.
Share capital
At the date of this report, 139,949,969 ordinary shares of 10 pence each have been issued and are fully paid up and quoted on the 
London Stock Exchange. The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares are set out in the Articles, copies of 
which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary. There are no restrictions on the 
voting rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company. No person holds securities 
in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company. The Company is not aware of any agreements 
between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. 
Further information which fulfils the requirements of Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 and which should be treated as 
forming part of this report by reference is included in the following sections of the annual report:
l details of the structure of the Company’s share capital and the rights attached to the Company’s shares are set out on pages 76  
 and 81; and
l details of the employee share schemes are set out on pages 77 to 80.
Power to issue or buy back shares
At the 2010 AGM, authority was given to the directors to allot unissued shares in the Company up to a maximum amount 
equivalent to approximately one third of the issued share capital (excluding shares held in treasury) for general purposes, plus 
up to a further one third of the Company’s issued share capital (excluding shares held in treasury), but only in the case of a rights 
issue. No such shares have been issued. A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the directors to 
allot equity securities in the Company for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the then Companies Act 1985. Both 
these authorities expire on the date of the 2011 AGM to be held on 28 April 2011 and so the directors propose to renew them for a 
further year. 
Last year the members also renewed the Company’s authority to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares. No purchases were 
made during the year. On 22 February 2011, the Company announced that it intends to purchase shares worth around £50m in the 
market in the following year and so the Company will be seeking to renew its authority to purchase its own shares at the 2011 
AGM. Shares will only be purchased if the Board believes that such purchases will improve earnings per share and be in the best 
interests of the shareholders generally. It is the Company’s intention that any shares purchased will be held as treasury shares.
Substantial shareholders 
As at 18 February 2011, the Company had been notified under DTR5 of the Financial Services Authority’s Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares:
Deadlines for exercising voting rights
Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard. Votes 
may be exercised in person, by proxy or, in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives. The Articles provide a 
deadline for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or 
adjourned meeting.
Articles of Association
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the Company’s Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders.
Significant contracts and change of control
The Group has borrowing facilities which may require the immediate repayment of all outstanding loans together with accrued 
interest in the event of a change of control. The rules of the Company’s employee share plans set out the consequences of a 
change in control of the Company on participants’ rights under the plans. Generally such rights will vest and become exercisable on 
a change of control subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions. None of the executive directors’ service contracts contain 
provisions which are affected by a change of control and there are no other agreements to which the Company is a party which 
take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company which are considered to be significant in terms of 
their potential impact on the Group.
The Company does not have any contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group.
Ordinary shares       % of share capital Nature of holding
Legal & General Group Plc 6,889,195 5.01% Direct
Massachusetts Financial Services Company 6,722,481 4.89% Direct
AEGON UK Group of Companies 4,322,054 3.15% Direct 3.14%, Indirect 0.01% 42
Other disclosures
Employees
Diversity
Croda is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives 
less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, ethnic origin, religion, disability, sexuality, or age, or is 
disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justified. Group HR Policies are clearly communicated to 
all 3,200 employees and are available through the Company intranet. 
Recruitment & progression
It is established policy throughout Croda that decisions on recruitment, career development, promotion and other employment 
related issues are made solely on the grounds of individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct. 
Croda gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons. Should an employee become disabled 
during their employment with Croda, they are fully supported by its occupational health provision. Efforts are made to continue 
their employment with reasonable adjustments being made to the workplace and role where feasible. Retraining is provided if 
necessary.
Development & learning
Croda recognises that the key to future success lies in the skills and abilities of its dedicated global workforce. It is only through 
the continuous development of our employees that we will be able to meet the future demands of our customers in relation to 
enhanced creativity, innovation and customer service. During 2010 our employees had an average of 30 hours of training. 
Involvement
Croda is committed to ensuring that employees share in the success of the Group. Owning shares in the Company is an important 
way of strengthening involvement in the development of the business and bringing together employee and shareholder interests. 
In 2010, 40% of our employees joined one of our SAYE schemes.
Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a variety of ways, including Crodaway (the Company magazine), 
quarterly updates, Croda Connect (the Company intranet), team briefings and E-Lists (email messages). These communications help 
achieve a common awareness among employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of Croda and of 
changes happening within the business. Croda is also committed to providing employees with opportunities to share their views 
and provide feedback on issues that are important to them. Employee surveys have been conducted in two of our three regions 
during 2010. 
Corporate Social Responsibility
Croda continue to believe that good corporate responsibility is essential to the long term success of the business. Details of our 
corporate responsibility initiatives and activities are set out in the CSR section of this report and our full CSR report which is available 
online at www.croda.com/csr. Under the supervision of the CSR Steering Committee, responsibility is now completely embedded 
within the regional business units, which are fully accountable for delivering business objectives. 
Croda’s CSR Steering Committee is comprised of representatives from all regional business units and is responsible for collating and 
reporting CSR data globally. It is also responsible for identifying material issues relevant to the whole Group.
Community involvement
Community involvement is an important undertaking that provides value to our employees, our business and to the local 
communities in which we live and operate. Our involvement in the community highlights our commitment to our neighbours and 
also generates significant goodwill. This commitment is most clearly illustrated through the ‘1% Club’, an employee volunteering 
initiative that we started in 2003. During 2010, we completed the implementation of the 1% Club at all of our global manufacturing 
sites, enabling every one of our 3,200 employees around the world to spend time actively involved in their communities.
Supplier payment policy 
Group policy concerning the payment of suppliers is that each operating unit agrees terms of payment at the beginning of business 
or makes the supplier aware of the standard payment terms, and pays in accordance with those terms or other legal obligations. 
At 31 December 2010, the Group had an average of 35.8 days (2009: 38.8 days) purchases outstanding in trade creditors. The 
Company’s trade creditors are not material. 
Market value of properties
The Group’s property, plant and equipment are included in the financial statements at depreciated historic cost where the 
assets were acquired in the normal course of business or depreciated fair value if the assets were acquired as part of a business 
combination. The properties are in continuing use and many of them were acquired when market values were substantially lower 
than at present. The directors consider that a surplus over book value exists, but have not quantified the excess.
Charitable and political donations 
Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted to £13,000 (2009: £38,000). No donations were made for political 
purposes (2009: £Nil). 
Annual General Meeting 
The AGM will be held at Carlton Towers, Carlton, Goole, East Yorkshire DN14 9LZ on Thursday, 28 April 2011 at 12 noon. The 
notice of meeting and explanation of the business to be considered at the AGM are contained in a separate document issued to 
shareholders with this annual report. 43
Other disclosures
Directors’ report | Governance
Other disclosures
Independent auditors 
Our auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee, a resolution regarding their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the AGM.
Directors’ responsibilities 
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors have 
prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union, and the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). Under company law the directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:
l select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
l make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
l state whether IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union, and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to  
 any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively; and
l prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Company will continue  
 in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable 
them to ensure that the Group financial statements and the directors’ remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose details are set out on pages 21 to 22 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
l the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair  
 view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
l the Business review contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the  
 position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Audit information
The directors each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware 
and that each director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
Approved by the Board 
Louise Scott  
Secretary  
8 March 2011 44
Group independent  
auditors’ report
Group independent auditors’ report to the members of Croda International Plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise 
the Group income statement, Group statement of comprehensive income and expense, Group balance sheet, Group statement 
of changes in equity, Group statement of cash flows, Group cash flow notes, the accounting policies and the related notes. The 
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 
on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed, the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors, and the overall presentation of 
the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the Group financial statements: 
l give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit and cash flows for the year  
 then ended; 
l have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and 
l have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
l the information given in the directors’ report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is  
 consistent with the Group financial statements; and
l the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on page 27 with respect to internal control and risk  
 management systems is consistent with the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
l certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
l we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
l a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
l the directors’ statement, set out on page 43, in relation to going concern; 
l the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008  
 Combined Code specified for our review; and
l certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended  
31 December 2010 and on the information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Richard Bunter (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Leeds 
8 March 2011
Group independent auditors’ report 45
Group income statement
Group income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2010
Group statement of comprehensive income and expense
for the year ended 31 December 2010
Note 2010 
£m
2010 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2009 
£m
2009
£m
Before 
exceptional 
items
Exceptional 
items Total
Before 
exceptional 
items
Exceptional 
items Total
Revenue 1 1,001.9 – 1,001.9 827.5 - 827.5 
Cost of sales (684.4) – (684.4) (594.3) (17.2) (611.5)
Gross profit 317.5 – 317.5 233.2 (17.2) 216.0 
Net operating expenses 2 (118.9) – (118.9) (111.7) - (111.7)
Operating profit 1 198.6 – 198.6 121.5 (17.2) 104.3 
Financial expenses 4 (10.7) – (10.7) (15.7) - (15.7)
Financial income 4 4.4 – 4.4 2.2 - 2.2 
Profit before tax 192.3 – 192.3 108.0 (17.2) 90.8 
Tax 5 (62.5) – (62.5) (35.3) 2.1 (33.2)
Profit after tax from continuing 
operations 129.8 – 129.8 72.7 (15.1) 57.6 
Profit after tax from discontinued 
operations 7 (0.9) 2.1 1.2 (4.6) (29.0) (33.6)
Profit for the year 3 128.9 2.1 131.0 68.1 (44.1) 24.0 
Attributable to:
Non-controlling interests 0.2 0.2 
Equity shareholders 130.8 23.8 
131.0 24.0 
Earnings per 10p share Pence per 
share
Pence per 
share
Basic
Total 8 96.1 17.6 
Continuing operations 8 95.4 42.6 
Diluted
Total 8 94.1 17.3 
Continuing operations 8 93.4 41.9 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Profit for the year 131.0 24.0 
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Currency translation differences 9.1 (7.1)
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedges 0.3 2.1 
Actuarial movement on retirement benefit liabilities (note 12) 3.7 (141.8)
Deferred tax on actuarial movement on retirement benefit liabilities (note 5) (1.2) 38.5 
11.9 (108.3)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 142.9 (84.3)
Attributable to:
Non-controlling interests 0.3 - 
Equity shareholders 142.6 (84.3)
142.9 (84.3)
Financial statements 46
Group balance sheet
Group balance sheet
at 31 December 2010
Note 2010 
£m
2009
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 13 203.5 202.0 
Property, plant and equipment 14 319.4 341.8 
Investments 16 14.0 12.5 
Deferred tax assets 6 68.1 73.9 
605.0 630.2 
Current assets
Inventories 17 164.6 148.9 
Trade and other receivables 18 146.2 159.0 
Cash and cash equivalents 64.8 45.0 
Assets classified as held for sale 7 0.6 - 
376.2 352.9 
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 (178.5) (179.0)
Borrowings and other financial liabilities 20 (3.3) (48.8)
Provisions 21 (17.9) (30.6)
Current tax liabilities (16.6) (14.7)
(216.3) (273.1)
Net current assets 159.9 79.8 
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings and other financial liabilities 20 (281.8) (285.0)
Other payables (4.8) (3.6)
Retirement benefit liabilities 12 (147.8) (203.5)
Provisions 21 (13.3) (24.5)
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (43.0) (35.2)
(490.7) (551.8)
Net assets 274.2 158.2 
Shareholders' equity
Preference share capital 24 1.1 1.1 
Ordinary share capital 22 14.0 14.0 
Called up share capital 15.1 15.1 
Share premium account 93.3 93.3 
Reserves 164.7 48.1 
Total shareholders' equity 273.1 156.5 
Non-controlling interests in equity 26 1.1 1.7 
Total equity 274.2 158.2 
Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the accounts on 8 March 2011
Martin Flower Sean Christie 
Chairman Group Finance Director 47
Group statement of changes 
in equity
Group statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2010
Note
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m 
Other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m 
Non-
controlling
interests
£m
Total
£m 
At 1 January 2009 15.1 93.3 34.0 120.9 2.0 265.3 
Profit for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders – – – 23.8 – 23.8 
Other comprehensive expense – – (6.9) (101.2) – (108.1)
Transactions with owners:
Dividends on equity shares 9 – – – (27.1) – (27.1)
Share based payments – – – 3.0 – 3.0 
Consideration received for sale of own shares 
held in trust – – – 1.6 – 1.6 
Total transactions with owners – – – (22.5) – (22.5)
Transactions with non-controlling interests:
Share of profit after tax – – – – 0.2 0.2 
Currency translation differences – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 9 – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Total transactions with non-controlling interests – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Total equity at 31 December 2009 15.1 93.3 27.1 21.0 1.7 158.2 
At 1 January 2010 15.1 93.3 27.1 21.0 1.7 158.2 
Profit for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders – – – 130.8 – 130.8 
Other comprehensive income – – 9.0 2.8 – 11.8 
Transactions with owners:
Dividends on equity shares 9 – – – (33.8) – (33.8)
Share based payments – – – 6.0 – 6.0 
Consideration received for sale of own shares 
held in trust – – – 2.1 – 2.1 
Total transactions with owners – – – (25.7) – (25.7)
Transactions with non-controlling interests:
Share of profit after tax – – – – 0.2 0.2 
Currency translation differences – – – – 0.1 0.1 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 9 – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Purchase of shares from non-controlling 
interests – – – (0.3) (0.7) (1.0)
Total transactions with non-controlling interests – – – (0.3) (0.6) (0.9)
Total equity at 31 December 2010 15.1 93.3 36.1 128.6 1.1 274.2 
Other reserves comprise the Capital Redemption Reserve of £0.9m (2009: £0.9m) and the Translation Reserve of £35.2m  
(2009: £26.2m).
Financial statements 48
Group statement of  
cash flows
Group statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 December 2010
Note 2010 
£m
2009
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated by operations ii 188.4 196.9 
Interest paid (10.7) (20.5)
Tax paid (45.9) (21.5)
Net cash generated by operating activities 131.8 154.9 
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of non-controlling interest 26 (1.0) – 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 14 (40.8) (39.8)
Purchase of computer software 13 (0.5) – 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.7 
Proceeds from sale of businesses (net of costs) 7 14.1 2.7 
Cash paid against non-operating provisions 21 (8.5) (5.1)
Interest received 0.8 0.6 
Net cash absorbed by investing activities (35.4) (40.9)
Cash flows from financing activities
New borrowings 284.0 – 
Repayment of borrowings (324.7) (66.9)
Capital element of finance lease repayments iii (0.5) (0.4)
Net transactions in own shares 22,25 2.1 1.6 
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 9 (33.8) (27.1)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 9 (0.2) (0.3)
Net cash absorbed by financing activities (73.1) (93.1)
 
Net movement in cash and cash equivalents i,iii 23.3 20.9 
Cash and cash equivalents brought forward 37.2 17.3 
Exchange differences 2.0 (1.0)
Cash and cash equivalents carried forward 62.5 37.2 
Cash and cash equivalents carried forward comprise
Cash at bank and in hand 64.8 45.0 
Bank overdrafts (2.3) (7.8)
62.5 37.2  49
Group cash flow notes
Group cash flow notes
for the year ended 31 December 2010
(iii) Analysis of net debt
2010
£m 
Cash flow
£m
Exchange
movements
£m
Other
non-cash
£m
2009
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents 64.8 17.7 2.1 – 45.0 
Bank overdrafts (2.3) 5.6 (0.1) – (7.8)
Movement in cash and cash equivalents 23.3 2.0
Borrowings repayable within one year (0.6) 40.0 – (0.2) (40.4)
Borrowings repayable after more than one year (281.4) 0.7 2.2 0.2 (284.5)
Finance leases (0.8) 0.5 (0.1) (0.4) (0.8)
Movement in borrowings and other financial liabilities 41.2 2.1
Total net debt (220.3) 64.5 4.1 (0.4) (288.5)
(i) Reconciliation to net debt Note 2010 
£m
2009
£m
Movement in cash and cash equivalents iii 23.3 20.9 
Movement in debt and lease financing iii 41.2 67.3 
Change in net debt from cash flows 64.5 88.2 
New finance lease contracts (0.4) (0.3)
Exchange differences 4.1 21.7 
68.2 109.6 
Net debt brought forward (288.5) (398.1)
Net debt carried forward iii (220.3) (288.5)
(ii) Cash generated by operations 2010
£m 
2009
£m 
Continuing operations
Operating profit 198.6 104.3 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation 33.2 32.6 
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.9 (0.2)
Exceptional items – 17.2 
Other provisions charged (note 21) 1.5 0.7 
Share based payments 8.2 4.3 
Cash paid against operating provisions (note 21) (15.2) (10.4)
Pension fund contributions in excess of service cost (16.7) (16.6)
Movement in inventories (26.2) 30.7 
Movement in receivables 15.6 18.8 
Movement in payables (5.5) 9.2 
Cash generated by continuing operations 194.4 190.6 
Discontinued operations (6.0) 6.3 
188.4 196.9 
Financial statements 50
Group accounting policies
Group accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have 
been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation 
of financial instruments, share based payments and pension asset valuations at fair value through profit or loss or through other 
comprehensive income in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), IFRIC interpretations and the 
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The standards used are those published by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and endorsed by the EU at the time of preparing these statements (March 2011). A summary of 
the more important Group accounting policies is set out below.
Accounting estimates and judgements
The Group’s critical accounting policies under IFRS have been set by management with the approval of the Audit Committee. The 
application of these policies requires estimates and assumptions to be made concerning the future and judgements to be made on 
the applicability of policies to particular situations. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical 
experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. 
Under IFRS an estimate or judgement may be considered critical if it involves matters that are highly uncertain or where different 
estimation methods could reasonably have been used, or if changes in the estimate that would have a material impact on the 
Group’s results are likely to occur from period to period. The critical judgements required when preparing the Group’s accounts are 
as follows:
(i) Provisions – as disclosed in note 21, the Group has made significant provisions for potential environmental liabilities and for the  
 costs of the restructuring exercise following the acquisition of Uniqema. The rationale behind these and other provisions is  
 discussed in note 21. The directors believe that these provisions are appropriate based on information currently available.
(ii) Goodwill and fair value of assets acquired (note 13) – the Group’s goodwill carrying value increased significantly in 2006  
 following the acquisition of Uniqema. The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment and the Group’s  
 goodwill value has been supported by detailed value-in-use calculations relating to the recoverable amounts of the underlying  
 cash generating units. These calculations require the use of estimates. However, as recoverable amounts significantly exceed  
 carrying values, including goodwill, there is no impairment within a reasonable range of assumptions.
(iii) Retirement benefit liabilities – as disclosed in note 12, the Group’s principal retirement benefit schemes are of the defined  
 benefit type. Year end recognition of the liabilities under these schemes and the valuation of assets held to fund these  
 liabilities require a number of significant assumptions to be made, relating to levels of scheme membership, key financial  
 market indicators such as inflation and expectations on future salary growth and asset returns. These assumptions are made by  
 the Group in conjunction with the schemes’ actuaries and the directors are of the view that any estimation should be prudent  
 and in line with consensus opinion.
New IFRS standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2010
The IASB and IFRIC have issued additional standards which are effective for this accounting period. The following standards and 
interpretations have been adopted by the Group:
(i) IFRS 3 (revised), ‘Business combinations’, and consequential amendments to IAS 27, ‘Consolidated and separate financial  
 statements’, IAS 28,’Investments in associates’, and IAS 31, ‘Interests in joint ventures’, are effective prospectively to business  
 combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on  
 or after 1 July 2009. The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations but with some  
 significant changes compared to IFRS 3. The standard has been applied in respect of transactions with non-controlling interests  
 in the year.
(ii) IFRS 5 (amendment), ‘Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations’. This amendment clarifies that IFRS 5  
 specifies the disclosures required in respect of non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale or discontinued  
 operations. It also clarifies that the general requirements of IAS 1 still apply, in particular paragraph 15 (to achieve a fair  
 presentation) and paragraph 125 (sources of estimation uncertainty). These financial statements have been prepared  
 under the revised disclosure requirements.
(iii) IAS 36 (amendment), ‘Impairment of assets’, effective 1 January 2010. The amendment clarifies that the largest cash- 
 generating unit (or group of units) to which goodwill should be allocated for the purposes of impairment testing is an operating  
 segment, as defined by paragraph 5 of IFRS 8, ‘Operating segments’ (that is, before the aggregation of segments with similar  
 economic characteristics). The Group has applied the amendment from 1 January 2010, however, it has not had a material  
 impact on the Group’s financial statements.
The Group has also adopted the following standards and interpretations, which have had no material impact on the Group’s financial 
statements:
(i) IFRIC 17, ‘Distribution of non-cash assets to owners’;
(ii) IFRIC 18, ‘Transfers of assets from customers’;
(iii) IFRIC 9, ‘Reassessment of embedded derivatives and IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement’;
(iv) IFRIC 16, ‘Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation’;
(v) IAS 38 (amendment), ‘Intangible assets’;
(vi) IAS 1 (amendment), ‘Presentation of financial statements’; and
(vii) IFRS 2 (amendments), ‘Group cash-settled share based payment transactions’. 51
Group accounting policies
New IFRS standards and interpretations not applied
The IASB and IFRIC have issued additional standards and interpretations which are effective for periods starting after the date of 
these financial statements. The following standards and interpretations have yet to be adopted by the Group but are not expected 
to have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements:
(i) IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, issued in November 2009 and applicable from 1 January 2013 (subject to endorsement by the  
 EU);
(ii) Revised IAS 24 (revised), ‘Related party disclosures’, issued in November 2009 and mandatory for periods beginning on or after  
 1 January 2011 (subject to endorsement by the EU);
(iii) ‘Classification of rights issues’ (amendment to IAS 32), issued in October 2009 and applicable to annual periods beginning on or  
 after 1 February 2010;
(iv) IFRIC 19, ‘Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments’, effective 1 July 2010 (subject to endorsement by the EU);  
 and
(v) ‘Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement’ (amendments to IFRIC 14), effective for annual periods beginning  
 1 January 2011.
Group accounts
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the 
financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights 
that are presently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the 
consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the 
acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the 
Group. Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, in 
a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-
controlling interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as 
goodwill.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised 
losses are also eliminated. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the 
policies adopted by the Group.
Transactions with non-controlling interests
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with the equity owners of the Group. For purchases from 
non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net 
assets of the subsidiary is recorded as equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
Intangible assets
Goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired. Goodwill arises where the fair value of the 
consideration given for a business exceeds such net assets. Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and carried at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the 
carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of this impairment testing. 
Research and development
Research expenditure, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is charged 
to income in the year in which it is incurred. Internal development expenditure, whereby research findings are applied to a plan 
for the production of new or substantially improved products or processes, is charged to income in the year in which it is incurred 
unless it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’. Measurement and other uncertainties generally mean that such 
criteria are not met. Where, however, the recognition criteria are met, intangible assets are capitalised and amortised over their 
useful economic lives from product launch. Intangible assets relating to products in development are subject to impairment testing 
at each balance sheet date or earlier upon indication of impairment. Any impairment losses are written off immediately to income.
Computer software
Acquired computer software licenses covering a period of greater than one year are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to 
acquire and bring to use the specific software. These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives (three to five years).
Group accounting policies
Financial statements 52
Group accounting policies
Revenue recognition
Sales of goods
Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods, excludes inter-company sales and value-added taxes and represents net 
invoice value less estimated rebates, returns and settlement discounts. 
The Group supplies products to customers from its various manufacturing sites and warehouses and in some limited instances from 
consignment inventory held on customer sites, under a variety of standard terms and conditions. In each case revenue is recognised 
when the transfer of legal title, which is defined and generally accepted in the standard terms and conditions, arises between the 
Group and the customer. This will nearly always be on dispatch or delivery, but never before dispatch. Provisions for sales discounts 
and rebates to customers are based upon the terms of sales contracts and are recorded in the same period as the related sales as a 
deduction from revenue. The Group estimates the provision for sales discounts and rebates based on the terms of each agreement 
at the time the revenue is recognised.
Interest and dividend income
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method. 
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Segmental reporting
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products and services that are subject to risks or 
returns that are different from those of other segments. Operating segments presented in the financial statements are consistent 
with the internal reporting provided to the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Makers, which have been identified as the Group 
Finance Committee and the Group Executive Committee.
Employee benefits
Pension obligations
The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under IAS 19 ’Employee Benefits’. In respect of defined benefit plans (pension 
plans that define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more 
factors such as age, years of service and compensation), obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets 
are recorded at fair value. The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the net of the 
plan obligations and assets. No allowance is made in the past service liability in respect of either the future expenses of running 
the schemes or for non-service related death in service benefits which may arise in the future. The operating costs of such plans 
are charged to operating profit and the finance costs are recognised as financial income or expense as appropriate. Service costs are 
spread systematically over the lives of employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise. Actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised immediately directly within equity. Payments to defined contribution schemes (pension plans under 
which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity) are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Other post-retirement benefits
Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees. The entitlement to these benefits is usually 
conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period. The 
expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for 
defined benefit pension plans. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately directly within equity. These obligations are 
valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever 
an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when 
it is demonstrably committed to either (i) terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal 
plan without possibility of withdrawal or (ii) providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary 
redundancy.
Share based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based incentive schemes. These are accounted for in accordance with IFRS2 
‘Share-based Payments’, which requires an expense to be recognised in the income statement over the vesting period of the 
options. The expense is based on the fair value of each instrument which is calculated using the Black-Scholes or binomial model as 
appropriate. Any expense is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting.
Currency translations
Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements are presented in 
Sterling, which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency. 53
Group accounting policies
Group accounting policies
Transactions and balances
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the financial period. Exchange profits or 
losses on trading transactions are included in the Group income statement except when deferred within equity as qualifying cash 
flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges, which, along with other exchange differences arising from non-trading items 
are dealt with through reserves.
Group companies
The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency 
are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
(i) assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
(ii) income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a  
 reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and  
 expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions); and
(iii) all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and 
other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders’ equity. When a foreign operation 
is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and for accounting purposes. Temporary differences arise from the inclusion of 
profits and losses in the accounts in different periods from which they are recognised in tax assessments and primarily arise as a 
result of the difference between tax allowances on tangible fixed assets and the corresponding depreciation charge, and upon the 
pension fund deficit. Full provision is made for the tax effects of these differences. No provision is made for unremitted earnings of 
foreign subsidiaries where there is no commitment to remit such earnings. Similarly, no provision is made for temporary differences 
relating to investments in subsidiaries since realisation of such differences can be controlled and is not probable in the foreseeable 
future. Deferred tax assets are recognised, using the liability method, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will 
be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
All taxation is calculated on the basis of the tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are non-recurring material items which are outside the normal scope of the Group’s ordinary activities, such as 
liabilities and costs arising from a fundamental restructuring of the Group’s operations. Such items are disclosed separately within 
the financial statements.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation, with the exception of assets acquired as part of a 
business combination which are initially recorded at fair value. The Group’s policy is to write off the difference between the cost 
of all property, plant and equipment, except freehold land, and their residual value on a straight line basis over their estimated 
useful lives. Reviews are made annually of the estimated remaining lives and residual values of individual productive assets, 
taking account of commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear, and adjustments are made where 
appropriate. Under this policy it becomes impractical to calculate average asset lives exactly. However, the total lives range from 
approximately 15 to 40 years for buildings and 3 to 15 years for plant and equipment. All individual assets are reviewed for 
impairment when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable. By far the bulk of the Group’s ‘plant and 
equipment’ asset class relates to the value of plant and equipment at the Group’s manufacturing facilities. Consequently, the Group 
does not seek to analyse out of this class other items such as motor vehicles and office equipment.
Impairment of non-financial assets
The Group assesses at each year end whether an asset may be impaired. If any evidence exists of impairment, the estimated 
recoverable amount is compared to the carrying value of the asset and an impairment loss is recognised where appropriate. The 
recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s value in use and fair value less costs to sell. In addition to this, goodwill is tested for 
impairment at least annually.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell 
if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. A discontinued 
operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of 
operations. Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified 
as held for sale.
Leases
Assets acquired under finance leases are included in the balance sheet under property, plant and equipment at an amount 
reflecting the fair value of the asset and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their estimated useful life. The 
capital element of future lease rentals is included in creditors. Finance charges are allocated to the income statement each year in 
proportion to the capital element outstanding. The cost of operating leases is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Financial statements 54
Group accounting policies
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rates and short-term currency rate fluctuations.
Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at cost. Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the 
instrument as either: (i) a hedge of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge); or (ii) a 
hedge of highly probable forecast transactions (cash flow hedge);
(i) Fair value hedge
 Changes in the fair value of derivatives, for example interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts, that are designated  
 and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the  
 hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
(ii) Cash flow hedge
 The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are  
 recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.  
 Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or  
 loss (for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged  
 results in the recognition of a non-financial asset (for example, inventory) or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred  
 in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. When a  
 hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain  
 or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised  
 in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was  
 reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do 
not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Any difference between the proceeds (net of 
transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the 
effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer 
settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable amount on a first in first out basis. Cost comprises all expenditure, 
including related production overheads, incurred in the normal course of business in bringing the inventory to its location and 
condition at the balance sheet date. Net realisable amount is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any 
applicable variable selling costs. Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective inventory where appropriate. Profits 
arising on inter Group sales are eliminated in so far as the product remains in Group inventory at the year end.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective 
interest method, less impairment losses. A provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence that the amount 
will not be collectible. Such amounts are written down to their estimated recoverable amounts, with the charge being made to 
operating expenses.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short term deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and 
form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of 
the cash flow statement.
Environmental, restructuring and other provisions
The Group is exposed to environmental liabilities relating to its operations and liabilities arising from the restructuring of its 
operations following the acquisition of Uniqema. Provisions are made immediately where a constructive or legal obligation is 
identified, can be quantified and it is regarded as more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the 
obligation. The Group does consider the impact of discounting when establishing provisions and provisions are discounted when the 
impact is material and the timing of cash flows can be estimated with reasonable certainty.  55
Group accounting policies
Group accounting policies
Share capital
(a) Investment in own shares
(i) Employee Share Ownership Trusts
 Shares acquired by the trustees, funded by the Company and held for the continuing benefit of the Company are shown as a  
 reduction in equity attributable to owners of the parent. Movements in the year arising from additional purchases by the  
 trustees of shares or the receipt of funds due to the exercise of options by employees are accounted for within reserves and  
 shown as a movement in equity attributable to owners of the parent in the year. Administration expenses of the trusts are  
 charged to the Company’s income statement as incurred.
(ii) Treasury shares
 Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital as treasury shares, the consideration paid,  
 including any directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to the  
 Company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold  
 or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income  
 tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders.
(b) Preference share capital
Preference share capital is classified as equity as the Group has full discretion over the transfer of benefits associated with the 
shares.
(c) Dividends
Dividends on preference shares are recognised as a liability on an accruals basis. Other dividends are recognised as a liability when 
the liability is irrevocable. Accordingly, final dividends are recognised when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are 
recognised when paid.
Investments
Investments in quoted securities are treated as ‘available for sale’ and stated at fair value, being the appropriate quoted market 
value, with movements in the fair value being recognised within equity. Investments in unquoted securities are carried at fair 
value unless such value cannot be reliably measured, in which case the investments are carried at cost. Investments are subject to 
impairment testing at each balance sheet date or earlier upon indication of impairment.
Held to maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: currency risk, interest-rate risk, liquidity risk, and credit risk. The Group’s 
overall risk management strategy is approved by the Board and implemented and reviewed by the Risk Management Committee. 
Detailed financial risk management is then delegated to the Group Finance department which has a specific policy manual that sets 
out guidelines to manage financial risk. Regular reports are received from all operating companies to enable prompt identification of 
financial risks so that appropriate action may be taken.
Currency risk
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to currency risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect 
to the US Dollar and the Euro. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities 
and net investments in foreign operations. Entities in the Group use forward contracts and foreign currency bank balances to 
manage their foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities. The Group’s 
risk management policy is to hedge transactional risk up to three months forward. The Group has certain investments in foreign 
operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. Currency exposure arising from the net assets of 
the Group’s foreign operations is not specifically hedged but is reduced primarily through borrowings denominated in the relevant 
foreign currencies where it is efficient to do so.
For 2010, had the Group’s basket of reporting currencies been 10% weaker/stronger than the actual rates experienced, post-tax 
profit for the year would have been £17m (2009: £8m) lower/higher than reported, primarily as a result of the translation of the 
profits of the Group’s overseas entities, and equity would have been £19m (2009: £11m) lower/higher.
Interest rate risk
The Group has both interest bearing assets and liabilities. The Group has a policy of maintaining at least 50% of its gross borrowings 
at floating interest rates and at 31 December 2010 over 75% of Group borrowings were at floating rates. At the time of the 
Uniqema acquisition, the Group was required to fix a proportion of its debt and had a £100m swap at a fixed interest rate for a 
period of 3 years. This swap expired on 31 January 2010. During 2010, in order to provide a hedge against its floating rate debt, the 
Group issued a ten year fixed rate $100m loan note.
Based on the above, had interest rates moved by 10 basis points in the territories where the Group has substantial borrowings, post 
tax profits would have moved by £0.2m (2009: £0.2m) due to increased interest expense on the Group’s floating rate borrowings.
Financial statements 56
Group accounting policies
Liquidity risk
The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and short-term committed facilities designed to ensure the Group has sufficient 
funds available for operations and planned investments. The Group also has a share buyback programme which is managed to 
ensure the efficiency of the Group’s funding structure.
On a regular basis, management monitors forecasts of the Group’s cash flows against both internal targets and those targets 
imposed by external lenders. As shown in note 20, the Group has substantial committed, unused facilities and the directors are 
confident this situation will remain the case for the foreseeable future.
Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. It has policies in place to ensure that sales of products are made to 
customers with an appropriate credit history. Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high-credit quality 
financial institutions. The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, as well as maintaining an optimal capital structure to reduce overall 
cost of capital.
In order to maintain this optimal structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid, issue new shares, return capital to 
shareholders or dispose of assets to reduce net debt.
Underlying growth coupled to Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) is the key perceived driver of shareholder value within the Group. 
The acquisition of Uniqema reduced the ROIC, but also reduced Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) since the deal was 
predominantly financed through debt. The Group’s target is to maintain the ROIC at a higher level than the WACC, a target achieved 
in 2010. In addition, the Group employs two widely used ratios to measure our ability to service our debt. Both net debt/EBITDA 
and EBITDA interest cover were ahead of target in 2010.
The Group was in compliance with its covenant requirements throughout the year.
Additional information on performance against key performance indicators can be found in the Financial review on page 10. 57
Notes to the Group  
accounts
1. Segmental analysis
At 31 December 2010 the Group continued to be organised on a worldwide basis into two main business segments, relating to the 
manufacture and sale of the Group’s products which are destined for either the Consumer Care market or the market for Industrial 
Specialities. These are the segments for which summary management information is presented to the Group’s Finance and 
Executive Committees, which are deemed to be the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Makers. There is no material trade between 
segments. Segmental results include items directly attributable to a specific segment as well as those that can be allocated on a 
reasonable basis. Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, inventories and trade and other 
receivables.
The Group manages its business segments on a global basis. The operations are based mainly in the following geographical areas; 
Europe, with manufacturing sites in the UK, France, Holland, Italy and Spain; the Americas, with manufacturing sites in the USA and 
Brazil; and Asia, with manufacturing sites in Singapore, Japan, India and Indonesia. The Group is domiciled in the UK.
Of the exceptional items in operating profit in 2009, £11.9m relates to the Consumer Care segment, whilst £5.3m relates to the 
Industrial Specialities segment.
The Group’s revenue from external customers in the UK is £53.3m (2009: £48.8m), in Germany is £106.5m (2009: £95.8m), in the 
US is £221.8m (2009: £182.3m) and the total revenue from external customers in other countries is £620.3m (2009: £500.6m).
The total of non-current assets, other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets, located in the UK is £74.2m  
(2009: £52.6m) and the total of the non-current assets located in other countries is £262.9m (2009: £303.6m). Goodwill has not 
been split by geography as this asset is not attributable to a geographical area.
No single external customer represents more than 5% of the total revenue of the Group.
Notes to the Group accounts
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Income statement
Revenue - continuing operations
Consumer Care 516.4 453.1 
Industrial Specialities 485.5 374.4 
Total Group revenue 1,001.9 827.5 
Operating profit - continuing operations before exceptional items
Consumer Care 136.5 103.6 
Industrial Specialities 62.1 17.9 
Total Group operating profit before exceptional items 198.6 121.5 
Balance sheet
Total assets
Segment total assets:
Consumer Care 517.0 481.7 
Industrial Specialities 316.7 370.0 
Total segment assets 833.7 851.7 
Assets classified as held for sale 0.6 – 
Tax assets 68.1 73.9 
Cash, other financial assets and other investments 78.8 57.5 
Total Group assets 981.2 983.1 
Financial statements 58
Notes to the Group  
accounts
Advisory services relate to a computer system implementation in India. As the Group has a number of similar implementations 
scheduled, it is likely that the amount paid in respect of advisory services will increase in the coming years.
Exceptional items
The prior year continuing operations’ exceptional items related to the closure of the Group’s operations at Wilton on Teesside, United 
Kingdom. The closure was completed in 2010 with no further exceptional cost.
3. Profit for the year
2. Net operating expenses
Additional information on the nature of operating expenses, including depreciation and employee costs, is provided in note 3.
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
The Group profit for the year is stated after charging:
Depreciation and amortisation (note 13 & 14) 34.2 35.6 
Staff costs (note 10) 182.2 172.5 
Redundancy costs
Non-exceptional 0.6 0.2 
Exceptional – 15.2 
Inventories
Cost recognised as expense in cost of sales 659.4 667.5 
Provision release in year (5.6) (4.9)
Loss/(profit) on disposal and write off of fixed assets 0.9 (0.2)
Research and development 21.0 21.1 
Hire of plant and machinery 1.8 1.8 
Other operating lease rentals 4.8 5.1 
Bad debt expense (note 18) 1.6 2.7 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Services provided by the Group's auditors
Audit services
Fees payable to Company auditor for the audit of parent company and consolidated 
accounts 0.1 0.1 
Other audit services
Fees payable to the Company's auditor and its associates for other services:
The audit of the Company's subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.7 
Tax services 0.3 0.2 
Advisory services 0.1 – 
1.2 1.0 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Analysis of net operating expenses by function:
Distribution costs 42.3 40.3 
Administrative expenses 76.6 71.4 
118.9 111.7  59
Notes to the Group  
accounts
5. Tax
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
(a) Analysis of tax charge for the year
Continuing operations
United Kingdom current corporate tax 0.4 0.3 
Overseas current corporate taxes 47.2 27.2 
Current tax 47.6 27.5 
Deferred tax (note 6) 14.9 5.7 
62.5 33.2 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
(b) Tax on items charged to equity
Deferred tax on actuarial movement on retirement benefit liabilities 1.2 (38.5)
Deferred tax on share based payments (3.7) (1.0)
(2.5) (39.5)
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
(c) Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
Profit before tax from continuing operations 192.3 90.8 
Tax at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, 28.0% (2009: 28.0%) 53.8 25.4 
Effect of:
Prior years' over provisions (0.6) (0.5)
Tax cost of remitting overseas income to the UK 0.4 0.5 
Expenses and write offs not deductible for tax purposes 0.1 3.1 
Effect of higher overseas tax rates 8.8 4.7 
62.5 33.2 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Financial expenses
Syndicated acquisition funding 3.4 11.5 
$100m US loan note due 2020 3.5 – 
2010 Club facility due 2015 0.6 – 
Other bank loans and overdrafts 3.2 4.2 
10.7 15.7 
Financial income
Expected return on pension scheme assets less interest on scheme liabilities (note 12) (2.3) (0.7)
H.I.G. Capital LLC loan note (1.2) (1.0)
Bank interest receivable and similar income (0.9) (0.5)
(4.4) (2.2)
Net financial expenses 6.3 13.5 
4. Net financial expenses
Notes to the Group accounts
Financial statements 60
Notes to the Group  
accounts
6. Deferred tax
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
The deferred tax balances included in these accounts are attributable to the following:
Deferred tax assets
Retirement benefit obligations 42.9 53.5 
Restructuring provisions – 2.0 
Other provisions 25.2 18.4 
68.1 73.9 
Deferred tax liabilities
Excess of capital allowances over depreciation 39.7 31.9 
Revaluation gains 1.9 1.9 
Other 1.4 1.4 
43.0 35.2 
The movement on deferred tax balances during the year is summarised as follows:
Deferred tax charged through income statement 
Continuing operations before exceptional items (14.9) (7.8)
Discontinued operations before exceptional items – 1.4 
Exceptional items (1.3) 5.7 
Deferred tax credited directly to equity (note 5b) 2.5 39.5 
Exchange differences 0.1 (0.3)
(13.6) 38.5 
Net balance brought forward 38.7 0.2 
Net balance carried forward 25.1 38.7 
Deferred tax charged through the income statement relates to the following:
Restructuring provisions (2.0) (0.8)
Retirement benefit obligations (7.3) (8.4)
Excess of capital allowances over depreciation (8.3) 5.5 
Exceptional items (1.3) 5.7 
Other 2.7 (2.7)
(16.2) (0.7)
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method at a rate of 27% (2009: 28%) in the United 
Kingdom and at rates appropriate to each overseas subsidiary. 
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in all cases where such assets arise, as it is probable the assets will be recovered.
Deferred tax is only recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries to the extent that remittance is expected in the 
foreseeable future. If all earnings were remitted, an additional £2.1m (2009: £2.6m) of tax would be payable.
All movements on deferred tax balances have been recognised in income with the exception of the charges shown in note 5(b), 
which have been recognised directly within equity. 61
Notes to the Group accounts
Notes to the Group  
accounts
7. Discontinued operations
In May 2010, the Group sold its Emmerich site and associated business in Germany to KLK Emmerich GmbH, a subsidiary of the KLK 
Group (Kuala Lumpur Kepong Berhad), for €55.0m. The Emmerich site produced fatty acids and glycerine, most of which were sold 
into the Industrial Specialities market. The profit before tax on the sale of the site of £0.9m has been disclosed as exceptional. As 
part of the transaction, KLK assumed the IAS 19 retirement benefit obligations relating to the business of €38.4m such that cash 
receivable by the Group was €16.6m. The sale represents a further exit from the commodity oleochemicals sector and largely 
completes the Group’s restructuring programme established following the 2006 acquisition of Uniqema.
In April 2009, in line with the same strategy to reduce exposure to basic commodity sectors, the Group announced the closure of its 
operations at Bromborough in Merseyside, United Kingdom. This represented an exit from the commodity oleochemicals sector in 
the UK. There was an exceptional pre-tax credit of £3.0m in 2010 in relation to this discontinued business.
Since the balance sheet date, in January 2011, the Group has completed the sale of its 60% holding in its Korean joint venture, 
Croda Woobang, to the Korean joint venture partners for a consideration of £2.2m. It is expected that this will generate a profit on 
disposal of £0.5m. The trading results of Croda Woobang have been classified as discontinued and the company’s assets have been 
classified as “held for sale” in the Group balance sheet.
The impact of the operations discontinued in 2010 and 2009 is as follows:
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Revenue 46.6 118.3
Net operating expenses (48.0) (125.0)
Pre tax operating results from discontinued operations (1.4) (6.7)
Tax 0.5 2.1 
Post tax operating results from discontinued operations (0.9) (4.6)
Profit/(loss) on disposal 3.9 (32.8)
Tax (1.8) 3.8 
Net exceptional profit/(loss) on disposal 2.1 (29.0)
Total profit/(loss) after tax from discontinued operations 1.2 (33.6)
Cash flows from discontinued operations
Net cash flows from operating activities (6.0) 6.3 
Financial statements 62
Notes to the Group  
accounts
8. Earnings per share
Total 
2010
£m 
Continuing 
operations 
2010
£m 
Discontinued 
operations 
2010
£m 
Total 
2009
£m 
Continuing 
operations 
2009
£m 
Discontinued 
operations 
2009
£m 
Profit for the year before exceptional items 128.9 129.8 (0.9) 68.1 72.7 (4.6)
Exceptional items 2.1 – 2.1 (44.1) (15.1) (29.0)
Non-controlling interests and preference 
dividend (0.3) (0.1) (0.2) (0.3) (0.1) (0.2)
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 130.7 129.7 1.0 23.7 57.5 (33.8)
Number 
m
Number 
m
Number 
m
Number 
m
Number 
m
Number 
m
Weighted average number of 10p ordinary 
shares in issue for basic calculation 136.0 136.0 136.0 135.0 135.0 135.0 
Deemed issue of potentially dilutive shares 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.3 2.3 2.3 
Average number of 10p ordinary shares for 
diluted calculation 138.9 138.9 138.9 137.3 137.3 137.3 
Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share 96.1 17.6 
Basic earnings per share before exceptional 
items 94.6 50.2 
Basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations 95.4 42.6 
Basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations before exceptional items 95.4 53.8 
Basic earnings per share from discontinued 
operations 0.7 (25.0)
Diluted earnings per share 94.1 17.3 
Diluted earnings per share before exceptional 
items 92.6 49.4 
Diluted earnings per share from continuing 
operations 93.4 41.9 
Diluted earnings per share from continuing 
operations before exceptional items 93.4 52.9 
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued 
operations 0.7 (24.6)
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trusts (note 25) which are treated 
as cancelled as except for a nominal amount, dividends have been waived.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all 
potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
Additional earnings per share measures are included above to give a better indication of the Group’s underlying performance. 63
Notes to the Group accounts
Notes to the Group  
accounts
9. Dividends
2010 2009
Pence per 
share 
 
£m
Pence per 
share
 
£m
Ordinary
Interim
2009 interim, paid October 2009 – – 6.50 8.8 
2010 interim, paid October 2010 9.75 13.3 – – 
Final
2008 final, paid June 2009 – – 13.55 18.2 
2009 final, paid June 2010 15.00 20.4 – – 
24.75 33.7 20.05 27.0 
Preference (paid June and December) 0.1 0.1 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 0.2 0.3 
34.0 27.4 
The directors are proposing a final dividend of 25.25p per share, amounting to a total dividend of £34.4m, in respect of the financial 
year ended 31 December 2010.
It will be paid on 3 June 2011 to shareholders registered on 3 May 2011 and has not been accrued in these financial statements. 
The total dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 is 35.0p per share (£47.7m).
10. Employees
As required by the Companies Act 2006, the figures disclosed above are weighted averages based on the number of employees at 
each month end and include executive directors.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had 3,174 (2009: 3,461) employees in total.
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Group employment costs including directors
Wages and salaries 131.8 133.0 
Share based payment charges (note 23) 15.8 6.9 
Social security costs 20.6 20.4 
Other pension costs (note 12) 14.0 12.2 
Redundancy costs 0.6 15.4 
182.8 187.9 
2010 
Number
2009 
Number
Average employee numbers by function
Production 2,115 2,327 
Selling and distribution 759 769 
Administration 429 447 
3,303 3,543 
Financial statements 64
Notes to the Group  
accounts
11. Directors’ remuneration
Detailed information concerning directors’ remuneration, interests and options is shown in the parts of the directors’ remuneration 
report subject to audit on pages 35 to 39 which form part of the annual report and accounts.
12. Retirement benefit liabilities
The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes throughout the world. The principal schemes are in the UK and cover 
the vast majority of the Group’s UK employees. These schemes are of the defined benefit type with assets held in separate trustee 
administered funds and are funded. In the US, the Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme as well as providing unfunded 
post-retirement medical benefits for employees. In other countries, benefits are determined in accordance with local practice and 
regulations and funding is provided on several bases. 
Defined benefit schemes
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of these schemes are as follows:
10. Employees (continued)
Key management comprises the members of the Board, Group Executive Committee and Group Finance Committee.
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Key management compensation including directors
Wages and salaries 5.8 5.4 
Share based payment charges 1.8 1.2 
Social security costs 0.9 0.8 
Other pension costs 0.5 0.4 
9.0 7.8 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Present value of retirement benefit liabilities
UK - pension schemes (603.4) (569.7)
US - pension and medical schemes (106.4) (99.4)
Rest of world (79.9) (111.4)
(789.7) (780.5)
Fair value of schemes' assets
UK - pension schemes 503.4 453.2 
US - pension and medical schemes 66.6 57.8 
Rest of world 71.9 66.0 
641.9 577.0 
Net liability (147.8) (203.5)
The gross and net liability above includes an amount of £22.6m in respect of unfunded schemes (2009: £54.8m). 65
Notes to the Group accounts
Notes to the Group  
accounts
12. Retirement benefit liabilities (continued)
The actual return on scheme assets in the year was £65.6m (2009: £70.1m).
Total employer contributions to the schemes in 2011 are expected to be £22.8m.
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Movement in present value of retirement benefit liabilities in the year:
Opening balance 780.5 609.3 
Current service cost 10.8 8.5 
Past service cost 0.1 – 
Settlements on restructuring and disposal of businesses (33.2) (0.7)
Interest cost 42.1 37.0 
Actuarial loss 17.5 174.2 
Contributions paid in
Employee 2.2 2.3 
Benefits paid (28.5) (29.6)
Exchange differences on overseas schemes (1.8) (20.5)
789.7 780.5 
Movement in fair value of schemes' assets in the year:
Opening balance 577.0 520.8 
Expected return 44.4 37.7 
Transfer on disposal of business (0.4) – 
Actuarial gain 21.2 32.4 
Contributions paid in
Employee 2.2 2.3 
Employer 27.6 25.1 
Benefits paid out (28.5) (29.6)
Exchange differences on overseas schemes (1.6) (11.7)
641.9 577.0 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in equity:
Opening balance 96.0 (7.3)
Net actuarial (gains)/losses charged in year (2.5) 103.3 
93.5 96.0 
Financial statements 66
Notes to the Group  
accounts
For funded schemes throughout the Group, the expected return on scheme assets has been derived as the weighted average of 
the expected returns from each of the main asset classes. The expected return for each class reflects a combination of historical 
performance analysis, the forward looking views of the financial markets (as suggested by the yields available) and the views of 
investment organisations.
History of UK schemes’ deficits and experience gains  
and losses:
Of the amount charged to operating profit, £8.8m (2009: £6.8m) was included in cost of sales and £2.2m (2009: £1.7m) was 
included in administrative expenses.
In all territories, including the UK, assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice from the Group’s 
actuaries, published statistics and experience in each territory. The following mortality tables have been used in respect of the 
Group’s key schemes: UK: PA92 Calendar year 2005 -3 for current non-pensioners and PA92 Calendar year 2005 -2 for pensioners; 
USA: UP 1994 Projected to 2002 by Scale AA; Netherlands: AG Prognosetafel 2008-2050.
UK pension schemes
The financial assumptions used to assess the UK schemes’ liabilities were:
2010 2009
Valuation method Projected unit Projected unit
Discount rate 5.5% 5.7%
Inflation rate 3.8% 3.8%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.8% 5.0%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.6% 3.8%
Expected return on scheme assets 8.0% 8.0%
2010 
% of fair value
2009 
% of fair value
Equities 42.5 58.3 
Bonds 20.9 16.1 
Property 7.7 8.3 
Other 28.9 17.3 
100.0 100.0 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Analysis of amounts recognised in income statement:
Charged to operating profit
Current service cost 10.8 8.5 
Past service cost 0.1 – 
10.9 8.5 
Credited to net financial expenses
Interest on scheme liabilities 42.1 37.0 
Expected return on assets (44.4) (37.7)
(2.3) (0.7)
Net charge to income statement before tax 8.6 7.8 
2010
£m 
2009 
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
2006
£m 
Present value of retirement benefit liabilities (603.4) (569.7) (397.2) (483.4) (506.7)
Fair value of scheme assets 503.4 453.2 399.0 475.9 421.0 
Net (liability)/asset (100.0) (116.5) 1.8 (7.5) (85.7)
Experience gain/(loss) on assets 36.2 23.6 (109.9) (12.1) 9.4 
Experience (loss)/gain on liabilities (12.1) (165.9) 103.7 (8.9) 0.3 
12. Retirement benefit liabilities (continued)
The assets in the schemes comprised: 67
Notes to the Group accounts
Notes to the Group  
accounts
History of US schemes’ deficits and experience gains  
and losses:
12. Retirement benefit liabilities (continued)
Other defined benefit schemes
The Group has retirement benefit liabilities in a number of other territories, notably Holland, and all schemes have been established 
in line with local custom and practice. The Dutch defined benefit scheme has a net obligation of £0.5m (2009: £6.0m) comprising a 
gross liability of £70.3m and assets of £69.8m.
The financial assumptions used to assess the Dutch scheme liabilities were:
2010 2009
Valuation method Projected unit Projected unit
Discount rate 5.7% 5.3%
Inflation rate 2.3% 2.3%
Rate of increase in salaries 3.0% 3.0%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.3% 2.3%
Expected return on scheme assets 6.2% 6.1%
2010
£m 
2009 
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
2006
£m 
Present value of retirement benefit liabilities (106.4) (99.4) (102.9) (76.5) (71.4)
Fair value of scheme assets 66.6 57.8 59.7 56.2 45.4 
Net liability (39.8) (41.6) (43.2) (20.3) (26.0)
Experience gain/(loss) on assets 3.6 6.0 (14.9) (2.4) 0.2 
Experience (loss)/gain on liabilities (4.0) (5.4) 2.5 (9.5) 1.6 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Contributions paid charged to operating profit 3.1 3.7 
A 1% change in the assumed medical cost inflation rate would alter the charge to the income statement by £0.2m and the 
accumulated liability by £1.7m.
The assets in the schemes comprised:
US pension and post-retirement medical schemes
The financial assumptions used to assess the US schemes’ liabilities were:
2010 2009
Valuation method Projected unit Projected unit
Discount rate 5.4% 5.8%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.0% 4.0%
Expected return on scheme assets 8.3% 8.3%
Medical cost inflation rate 8.0% 8.5%
2010 
% of fair value
2009 
% of fair value
Equities 42.1 38.5 
Government bonds 39.8 41.5 
Other 18.1 20.0 
100.0 100.0 
Defined contribution schemes
Financial statements 68
Notes to the Group  
accounts
Goodwill 
£m
Computer 
software
£m
Total
£m 
Cost
At 1 January 2009 200.4 4.5 204.9 
Exchange differences – (0.5) (0.5)
Disposals and write offs – (2.1) (2.1)
At 31 December 2009 200.4 1.9 202.3 
At 1 January 2010 200.4 1.9 202.3 
Additions – 0.5 0.5 
Reclassified from property, plant and equipment – 4.2 4.2 
Disposals and write offs (0.5) (0.2) (0.7)
At 31 December 2010 199.9 6.4 206.3 
Depreciation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2009 0.1 1.4 1.5 
Exchange differences – (0.1) (0.1)
Charge for the year (note 3) 0.1 0.8 0.9 
Disposals and write offs – (2.0) (2.0)
At 31 December 2009 0.2 0.1 0.3 
At 1 January 2010 0.2 0.1 0.3 
Exchange differences – (0.1) (0.1)
Charge for the year (note 3) – 1.3 1.3 
Reclassified from property, plant and equipment – 1.6 1.6 
Disposals and write offs (0.1) (0.2) (0.3)
At 31 December 2010 0.1 2.7 2.8 
Net carrying amount
At 31 December 2010 199.8 3.7 203.5 
At 31 December 2009 200.2 1.8 202.0 
At 1 January 2009 200.3 3.1 203.4 
13. Intangible assets
Goodwill is tested at each year end for impairment with reference to the relevant cash generating unit’s (CGU) recoverable amount 
compared to the unit’s carrying value including goodwill. The relevant CGU when testing the Uniqema goodwill of £193.4m is the 
Group’s Consumer Care operating segment. The recoverable amount is based on value in use calculations using pre-tax discounted 
cash flow projections based on the Group’s current year results and a future growth rate of 3% (2009: 3%).
The cashflows have been discounted using the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, which for these purposes has been 
calculated to be approximately 7.5% before tax (2009: 6.8%).
The key assumptions underpinning the forecast employed in the value in use calculation reflect a prudent view of past experience 
and are that market share will not change significantly and that gross and operating margins will remain broadly constant. The 
directors believe there are no significant changes in assumptions which would give rise to an impairment charge in the year. 69
Notes to the Group accounts
Notes to the Group  
accounts
14. Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m 
Cost
At 1 January 2009 146.6 502.4 649.0 
Exchange differences (11.8) (43.6) (55.4)
Additions 9.4 30.7 40.1 
Business disposals and closures (15.7) (56.9) (72.6)
Other disposals and write offs (0.7) (8.9) (9.6)
At 31 December 2009 127.8 423.7 551.5 
At 1 January 2010 127.8 423.7 551.5 
Exchange differences 1.0 0.6 1.6 
Additions 6.8 34.4 41.2 
Business disposals and closures (12.1) (44.3) (56.4)
Other disposals and write offs (1.6) (10.4) (12.0)
Reclassified as computer software – (4.2) (4.2)
Reclassified as held for sale (note 7) – (2.9) (2.9)
At 31 December 2010 121.9 396.9 518.8 
Depreciation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2009 45.1 211.5 256.6 
Exchange differences (5.5) (24.7) (30.2)
Charge for the year 4.5 30.2 34.7 
Business disposals and closures (5.0) (37.3) (42.3)
Other disposals and write offs (0.6) (8.5) (9.1)
At 31 December 2009 38.5 171.2 209.7 
At 1 January 2010 38.5 171.2 209.7 
Exchange differences (0.4) (0.2) (0.6)
Charge for the year 4.1 28.8 32.9 
Business disposals and closures (3.5) (24.6) (28.1)
Other disposals and write offs (0.4) (10.2) (10.6)
Reclassified as computer software – (1.6) (1.6)
Reclassified as held for sale (note 7) – (2.3) (2.3)
At 31 December 2010 38.3 161.1 199.4 
Net book amount
At 31 December 2010 83.6 235.8 319.4 
At 31 December 2009 89.3 252.5 341.8 
At 1 January 2009 101.5 290.9 392.4 
The net book value of assets held by the Group under finance leases for plant and equipment at 31 December 2010 was £0.7m 
(2009: £0.7m). The leased equipment secures the lease obligations in note 20. No other fixed assets have been pledged as security 
for liabilities.
Financial statements 70
Notes to the Group  
accounts
15. Future commitments
The Group leases various buildings, vehicles and other plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements. 
The leases have various terms typical of lease agreements for the particular class of asset.
16. Investments
Loan note
The Group received a US $ denominated loan note as part of the consideration for a business disposal in 2008. The note is held 
directly by one of the Group’s US subsidiaries. It is classified as a held to maturity investment and carries a notional coupon of 6.0% 
per annum payable at maturity. On receipt the loan was valued at a discount rate of 9.5% being the estimated market rate at the 
time applicable to the issuer. The US $ balance is translated to Sterling at the prevailing year end exchange rate.
Other investments
Other investments of £0.9m (2009: £0.8m) comprise equity securities classified as available-for-sale and are included at cost, as fair 
value cannot be measured reliably, or, if quoted on an active market, at market value.
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Group capital projects
At 31 December 2010 the directors had authorised the following expenditure on  
capital projects:
Contracted but not provided for
Property, plant and equipment 8.2 10.0 
Intangible assets 0.1 – 
Authorised but not contracted for
Property, plant and equipment 42.7 18.8 
Intangible assets 0.1 – 
51.1 28.8 
Operating leases - minimum lease payments
At 31 December 2010 the Group's future minimum operating lease commitments were 
due as follows:
Within one year
Land and buildings 1.7 3.0
Other 0.4 0.6
From one to five years
Land and buildings 3.4 5.2
Other 1.5 1.6
After five years
Land and buildings 3.4 2.7
10.4 13.1 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
H.I.G. Capital LLC loan note 13.1 11.7 
Other investments 0.9 0.8 
14.0 12.5  71
Notes to the Group accounts
Notes to the Group  
accounts
18. Trade and other receivables
The individually impaired receivables relate to customers in unexpectedly difficult economic circumstances. The overdue receivables 
against which no provision has been made relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default nor any 
other indication that settlement will not be forthcoming.
Amounts charged to the income statement are included within administrative expenses. The other classes of receivables do not 
contain impaired assets.
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade receivables 133.6 131.4 
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (6.7) (5.2)
Trade receivables - net 126.9 126.2 
Other receivables 15.5 23.4 
Prepayments 3.8 9.4 
146.2 159.0 
The ageing of the Group’s year end overdue receivables against which no provision  
has been made is as follows:
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Not impaired
Less than 3 months 12.1 12.1 
3 to 6 months 0.3 1.1 
Over 6 months – 0.4 
12.4 13.6 
Movements on the Group’s provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 
    
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
At 1 January 5.2 3.5 
Exchange differences 0.2 (0.4)
Charged to income statement 1.6 2.7 
Net write off of uncollectible receivables (0.3) (0.6)
At 31 December 6.7 5.2 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s receivables are denominated in the following 
currencies:
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Sterling 13.2 27.3 
US Dollar 39.9 34.9 
Euro 59.7 66.0 
Other 33.4 30.8 
146.2 159.0 
17. Inventories
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Raw materials 29.5 27.7 
Work in progress 27.4 8.9 
Finished goods 107.7 112.3 
164.6 148.9 
The Group consumed £659.4m (2009: £667.5m) of inventories during the period.
Financial statements 72
Notes to the Group  
accounts
19. Trade and other payables
20. Borrowings, other financial liabilities and other financial assets
This note should be read in conjunction with the further liquidity disclosures in our accounting policies note and the Financial review.
The syndicated acquisition funding facility and €136m term facility were repaid in full during the year upon renegotiation of the 
Group’s bank financing. A new Club facility was put in place in November 2010 which falls due for repayment upon expiry of the 
agreement in 2015. Interest is charged at a floating rate based on LIBOR or EURIBOR, depending upon the drawdown currency, plus 
a variable margin. The margin the Group pays on its borrowings over and above standard rates is determined by the Group’s net 
debt to EBITDA ratio.
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Trade payables 61.7 59.1 
Taxation and social security 11.0 7.9 
Other payables 24.4 24.7 
Accruals and deferred income 81.4 87.3 
178.5 179.0 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Current
Assets
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) 142.4 149.6 
Liabilities
Trade and other payables (excluding taxation, social security, accruals and deferred 
income) 86.1 83.8 
Interest rate swaps – 0.3 
Syndicated acquisition funding – 30.0 
Other unsecured bank loans and overdrafts due within one year or on demand 2.9 18.2 
Obligations under finance leases 0.4 0.3 
89.4 132.6 
Non-current
Liabilities
2010 Club facility due 2015 210.6 – 
$100m fixed rate 10 year bond 63.7 – 
Syndicated acquisition funding – 235.5 
€136m term facility – 33.8 
Other unsecured bank loans 7.1 15.2 
Obligations under finance leases 0.4 0.5 
281.8 285.0  73
Notes to the Group accounts
Notes to the Group  
accounts
20. Borrowings, other financial liabilities and other financial assets (continued)
The analysis above includes estimated interest payable to maturity on the underlying loans. For the loans due after more than one 
year £8.0m (2009: £3.8m) of the interest falls due within one year of the balance sheet date, £8.1m (2009: £1.8m) within one to 
two years, £21.5m (2009: £Nil) within two to five years and £11.4m (2009: £Nil) beyond five years.
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
Repayments fall due as follows:
Within one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 2.9 48.2 
Interest rate swap – 0.3 
Obligations under finance leases 0.4 0.3 
3.3 48.8 
After more than one year
Loans repayable
Within one to two years 0.4 284.5 
Within two to five years 217.3 – 
Five years and over 63.7 – 
Obligations under finance leases payable between years two and five 0.4 0.5 
281.8 285.0 
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
Within one year 0.4 0.3 
Within two to five years 0.5 0.6 
0.9 0.9 
Future finance charges on finance leases (0.1) (0.1)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 0.8 0.8 
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Undiscounted maturity analysis of financial liabilities
Within one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 3.0 48.8 
Obligations under finance leases 0.4 0.3 
3.4 49.1 
After more than one year
Loans repayable
Within one to two years 0.4 290.1 
Within two to five years 235.8 – 
Five years and over 94.1 – 
Obligations under finance leases 0.5 0.6 
330.8 290.7 
Financial statements 74
Notes to the Group  
accounts
20. Borrowings, other financial liabilities and other financial assets (continued)
Interest rate and currency profile of Group financial liabilities
Interest rate risk
During 2010, to provide a hedge against the Group’s floating rate debt, the Group issued a ten year fixed rate $100m loan note. The 
loan note is repayable in 2020 and carries a fixed rate of 5.94%. The interest rate swaps held as a cashflow hedge at the 2009 year 
end expired on 31 January 2010.
As at 31 December 2010, aside from the $100m loan note, all Group debt and cash was exposed to repricing within 12 months of 
the balance sheet date.
At 31 December 2010, the Group’s fixed rate debt was at a weighted average rate of 5.94% (2009: 5.19%). The Group’s floating 
rate liabilities are predominantly based on LIBOR and its overseas equivalents.
Fair values
The table below details a comparison of the book and fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities. Where there are no 
readily available market values to determine fair values, cash flows relating to the various instruments have been discounted at 
prevailing interest and exchange rates to give an estimate of fair value.
For financial instruments with a remaining life of greater than one year, fair values are based on cash flows discounted at prevailing 
interest rates. Accordingly, the fair value of cash deposits and short term borrowings approximates to the book value due to the 
short maturity of these instruments. The same applies to trade and other receivables and payables excluded from the above 
analysis.
As noted in the accounting policies note on page 55, the Group’s management of its currency risk includes the use of forward 
foreign currency contracts. The fair value of the contracts in place at 31 December 2010 was £0.2m (2009: £0.4m).
Fixed rate 
Weighted average
Total
£m 
Fixed 
£m
Floating
£m
Interest 
Rate 
(%)
Fixed 
period 
(years)
Sterling 101.6 – 101.6 – – 
US Dollar 76.3 63.7 12.6 5.94 9.1 
Euro 104.3 – 104.3 – – 
Other 2.9 – 2.9 – – 
At 31 December 2010 285.1 63.7 221.4 5.94 9.1 
Sterling 147.4 100.0 47.4 5.19 0.1 
US Dollar 62.4 – 62.4 – – 
Euro 123.5 – 123.5 – – 
Other 0.5 – 0.5 – – 
At 31 December 2009 333.8 100.0 233.8 5.19 0.1 
Book value 
2010 
£m
Fair value 
2010  
£m
Book value 
2009  
£m
Fair value 
2009  
£m
Cash deposits 64.8 64.8 45.0 45.0 
Other investments 14.0 14.0 12.5 12.5 
2010 Club facility due 2015 (210.6) (210.6) – – 
$100m fixed rate 10 year bond (63.7) (65.7) – – 
Syndicated acquisition funding – – (265.5) (265.5)
€136m term facility – – (33.8) (33.8)
Other bank borrowings (10.0) (10.0) (33.4) (33.4)
Obligations under finance leases (0.8) (0.8) (0.8) (0.8)
Interest rate swaps – – (0.3) (0.3) 75
Notes to the Group accounts
Notes to the Group  
accounts
20. Borrowings, other financial liabilities and other financial assets (continued)
Financial instruments
Effective 1 January 2009, the Group adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 for financial instruments that are measured in the balance 
sheet at fair value. This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following hierarchy:
l	 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1);
l Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as  
 prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2); and
l Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).
All of the Group’s financial instruments are classified as level 1. 
Borrowing facilities
As at 31 December 2010, the Group had undrawn committed facilities of £194.1m (2009: £Nil) expiring in more than two years, 
£Nil (2009: £96.1m) expiring between one and two years and £Nil (2009: £31.8m) expiring within one year. In addition the Group 
had other undrawn facilities of £67.8m (2009: £37.2m) available.
21. Provisions
Provisions are made where a constructive or legal obligation can be quantified and where the timing of the transfer of economic 
benefits relating to the provisions cannot be ascertained with any degree of certainty.
The environmental provision relates to soil and potential ground water contamination on a number of sites, both currently in use 
and previously occupied, in Europe and the Americas. Restructuring provisions relate to the remaining costs associated with the 
ongoing plans to finalise the integration of the Uniqema business acquired in 2006 with the existing Croda businesses and the 
remaining costs associated with the closure of our Wilton site.
In relation to the environmental provision, the directors consider that the balance will be utilised within 20 years. With regard to the 
restructuring provision, the directors’ view is that the balance will be largely utilised during 2011. Based on information currently 
available and on the detailed plans established for the restructuring of the Group, this level of provision is considered appropriate by 
the directors. The Group has considered the impact of discounting on its provisions and has concluded that, as a consequence of the 
significant utilisation expected in a relatively short timescale, the impact is immaterial.     
   
Environmental 
£m 
Restructuring  
£m
Discontinued
£m
Other  
£m
Total  
£m
At 1 January 2010 13.4 24.9 7.0 9.8 55.1 
Exchange differences 0.2 – – 0.1 0.3 
Charged to income statement - pre-exceptional – – – 1.5 1.5 
Released to income statement - exceptional – – – (2.0) (2.0)
Cash paid against provisions (1.5) (10.8) (7.0) (4.4) (23.7)
At 31 December 2010 12.1 14.1 - 5.0 31.2 
Analysis of total provisions 2010 
£m
2009  
£m
Current 17.9 30.6 
Non-current 13.3 24.5 
31.2 55.1 
Financial statements 76
Notes to the Group  
accounts
22. Ordinary share capital 
In 2010, options were granted to employees under the Croda Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 1983 to subscribe for 94,501 
ordinary shares at an option price of 1144p per share and under the Croda International Overseas Sharesave Scheme to subscribe 
for 308,455 shares at an option price of 1144p per share. No options were granted in 2010 under the Senior Executive Share Option 
Scheme. No-cost options to subscribe for 212,991 ordinary shares were granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan during the year 
and no-cost options over a further 220,121 shares were granted under the Bonus Co-Investment Plan.
During the year consideration of £2.1m was received on the exercise of options over 549,229 shares. The options were satisfied 
with shares transferred from the Group’s employee share trusts. Since the year end a further 83,750 shares have been transferred 
from the trusts.
There are outstanding options to subscribe for ordinary shares as follows:
Year option 
granted
Number of 
shares Price Options exercisable from
Croda Savings-Related
Share Option Scheme 2005 4,029 328p 1 November 2010 to 30 April 2011
2007 2,724 520p 1 November 2010 to 30 April 2011
2008 127,996 509p 1 November 2011 to 30 April 2012
2009 158,000 533p 1 November 2012 to 30 April 2013
2010 94,219 1144p 1 November 2013 to 30 April 2014
Croda International Overseas
Sharesave Scheme 2008 218,087 509p 1 November 2011 to 30 November 2011
2009 285,808 533p 1 November 2012 to 30 November 2012
2010 304,964 1144p 1 November 2013 to 30 November 2013
Croda International Senior
Executive Share Option Schemes 2002 20,700 261p 13 March 2005 to 12 March 2012
2003 255,730 230p 5 March 2006 to 4 March 2013
Croda International Long-term
Incentive Plan 2008 254,173 Nil 20 February 2011 to 19 February 2012
2009 329,519 Nil 18 February 2012 to 17 February 2013
2010 212,991 Nil 24 February 2013 to 23 February 2014
Croda International Bonus
Co-Investment Plan 2008 192,757 Nil 1 May 2011
2009 337,923 Nil 30 April 2012
2010 220,121 Nil 29 April 2013
Ordinary shares of 10p 2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Authorised at 1 January and 31 December
230,744,890 ordinary shares of 10p each (2009: 230,744,890) 23.1 23.1 
Allotted, called up and fully paid at 1 January and 31 December
139,949,969 ordinary shares of 10p each (2009: 139,949,969) 14.0 14.0  77
Notes to the Group accounts
Notes to the Group  
accounts
23. Share based payments
The impact of share based payment transactions on the Group’s financial position is as follows:
The key elements of each scheme along with the assumptions employed to arrive at the charge in the income statement are set 
out below. Where appropriate the expected volatility has been based on historic volatility considering daily share price movements 
over periods equal to the expected future life of the awards and the risk free rate is based on the Bank of England’s projected 
nominal yield curve with appropriate duration.
Croda Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”)
The SAYE scheme, established in 1983, grants options annually in September to employees of the Group at a fixed exercise price, 
being the market price of the Company’s shares at the grant date discounted by up to 20%. Employees then enter into a savings 
contract over three to five years and, subject to continued employment, purchase options at the end of the period based on the 
amount saved. Options are then exercisable for a six month period following completion of the savings contract. As the option is 
equity settled, under IFRS 2 charges are only made in respect of options granted after 7 November 2002. For options granted in the 
year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:   
     
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Analysis of amounts recognised in income statement:
Charged in respect of equity-settled share based payment transactions 2.9 2.0 
Charged in respect of cash-settled share based payment transactions 12.9 4.9 
15.8 6.9 
Analysis of amounts recognised in balance sheet:
Liability in respect of cash-settled share based payment transactions 10.5 4.6 
Grant date 2010
Share price at grant date 1431p
Exercise price 1144p
Number of employees 370
Shares under option 94,501
Vesting period 3 years
Expected volatility 35%
Option life 6 months
Expected life –
Risk free rate 1.3%
Dividend yield 1.7%
Possibility of forfeiture 7.5% p.a.
Fair value per option at grant date 443p
Option pricing model Black Scholes
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) Number
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 733,806 478 919,477 411 
Granted 94,501 1144 169,368 533 
Forfeited (30,207) 519 (50,988) 511 
Exercised (394,461) 444 (304,051) 302 
Outstanding at 31 December 403,639 664 733,806 478 
Exercisable at 31 December 16,938 16,633 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 1387 747 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 2.2 2.0 
Financial statements 78
Notes to the Group  
accounts
23. Share based payments (continued) 
Croda International Overseas Sharesave Scheme (“International”)
The International scheme, established in 1999, has the same option pricing model, savings contract and vesting period as the SAYE 
scheme. At exercise, employees are paid a cash equivalent for each option purchased, being the difference between the exercise 
price and market price at the exercise date. As the scheme is cash settled, IFRS 2 applies to all options in existence during the year, 
regardless of grant date.
For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as 
follows:
Grant date 2010
Share price at grant date 1431p
Exercise price 1144p
Number of employees 975
Shares under option 308,455
Vesting period 3 years
Expected volatility 35%
Option life 1 month
Expected life -
Risk free rate 1.0%
Dividend yield 1.5%
Possibility of forfeiture 7.5% p.a.
Fair value per option at 31 December 579p
Option pricing model Black Scholes
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) Number
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 1,215,119 257 1,303,664 338 
Granted 308,455 1144 317,222 533 
Forfeited (73,242) 529 (109,463) 474 
Exercised (634,803) 475 (296,304) 312 
Outstanding at 31 December 815,529 756 1,215,119 257 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 1399 756 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 2.0 1.6  79
Notes to the Group accounts
Notes to the Group  
accounts
Croda International Long-Term Investment Plan (“LTIP”)       
The LTIP was established in 2005 and grants no cost options to senior employees which vest after three years dependent upon an 
EPS performance related sliding scale (non-market condition) and the Group’s total shareholder return (market condition). The LTIP is 
discussed in detail in the directors’ remuneration report (page 32). For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted 
and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
23. Share based payments (continued)
Croda International Senior Executive Share Option Schemes (“Executive”)
The Group previously granted options to senior employees each year which are subject to satisfaction of performance conditions 
before they can be exercised. The performance conditions are discussed in detail in the directors’ remuneration report (page 32). As 
with the SAYE scheme, the Executive Scheme is equity settled and as a consequence only the options granted in 2003 fall within 
the scope of IFRS 2. No further options will be granted under this scheme.
Market condition Non-market condition
Grant date 24 February 2010 24 February 2010
Share price at grant date 900p 900p
Number of employees 11 11
Shares under option 106,495 106,496
Vesting period 3 years 3 years
Option life 1 year 1 year
Expected life – –
Dividend yield 2.4% 2.4%
Possibility of forfeiture 3.5% 3.5%
Fair value per option at grant date 521p 838p
Option pricing model Closed form valuation Closed form valuation
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) Number
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 862,611 – 760,657 – 
Granted 212,991 – 329,519 – 
Exercised (229,901) – (227,565) – 
Outstanding at 31 December 845,701 862,611
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 918 527 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 2.0 1.6 
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) Number
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 451,813 238 718,935 245 
Forfeited – – (2,299) 256 
Exercised (154,768) 245 (264,823) 257 
Outstanding at 31 December 297,045 234 451,813 238 
Exercisable at 31 December 297,045 451,813 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 963 678 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 2.0 2.6 
Financial statements 80
Notes to the Group  
accounts
Bonus Co-Investment Plan (“BCIP”)
The BCIP was established in 2005 and grants no cost options to senior employees which vest after three years dependent upon a 
performance related condition. The BCIP is discussed in detail in the directors’ remuneration report (pages 31 to 32). For options 
granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
23. Share based payments (continued) 
Croda International Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”)        
The SIP was established in 2003 and has similar objectives to the SAYE scheme in terms of increasing employee retention and 
share ownership. Under the SIP scheme, employees enter into an agreement to purchase shares in the Company each month. For 
each share purchased by an employee, the Company awards a matching share which passes to the employee after three years’ 
service. The matching shares are allocated each month at market value with this fair value charge being recognised in the income 
statement in full in the year of allocation.
Grant date 29 April 2010
Share price at grant date 990p
Number of employees 62 
Shares under option 220,121 
Vesting period 3 years
Dividend yield 2.2%
Possibility of forfeiture 5.0%
Fair value per option at grant date 941p
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) Number
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 627,609 – 462,012 – 
Granted 220,121 – 347,753 – 
Forfeited (12,676) – (111) – 
Exercised (84,253) – (182,045) – 
Outstanding at 31 December 750,801 – 627,609 – 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 962 544 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 1.4 1.8  81
Notes to the Group accounts
24. Preference share capital 
The preference shares have no redemption rights and carry no voting rights other than in certain circumstances affecting the rights 
of the preference shareholders, details of which are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. The three classes of preference 
shares rank pari passu with each other but ahead of the ordinary shares on winding up. Rights on a winding up are limited to 
repayment of capital and any arrears of dividends.
2010 
£000
2009 
£000
The authorised, issued and fully paid preference share capital comprises:
5.9% preference shares of £1 616 616
6.6% preference shares of £1 499 499
7.5% preference shares of £1 22 22
1,137 1,137
Notes to the Group  
accounts
25. Shareholders’ funds
Investments in own shares represent the Croda International Plc Qualifying Share Ownership Trust (QUEST), the Croda International 
Plc Employee Benefit Trust (CIPEBT) and the Croda International Plc AESOP Trust (AESOP), which each hold shares purchased on 
the open market to satisfy the future issue of shares under the Group’s share option schemes. As at 31 December 2010 the QUEST 
was financed by a repayable on demand loan from the Company of £0.4m (2009: £2.2m) and held 0.1m (2009: 0.2m) shares at 
a cost of £0.4m (2009: £2.2m) with a market value of £1.9m (2009: £1.6m). As at 31 December 2010 the CIPEBT was financed by 
a repayable on demand loan from the Company of £4.6m (2009: £5.0m) and held 0.8m (2009: 0.4m) shares at a cost of £4.6m 
(2009: £5.0m) with a market value of £13.6m (2009: £3.6m). 
As at 31 December 2010 the AESOP had issued all its previously held shares, as financed by the Company, and thus had no residual 
loan balance with the Company. All of the shares held by the QUEST and CIPEBT were under option at 31 December 2010 and, 
except for a nominal amount, the right to receive dividends has been waived. 
26. Non-controlling interests
In November 2010 the Group purchased its joint venture partners’ 40% share in PT Croda Indonesia Ltd for a cash consideration 
of $1.6m. At the date of purchase the valuation of this holding was £0.7m, therefore, a small amount of goodwill of £0.3m was 
generated on the transaction, which has been written off directly to reserves.
27. Related party transactions
The Group has no related party transactions, with the exception of remuneration paid to key management and directors which is 
included in note 10.
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
At 1 January 1.7 2.0 
Exchange differences 0.1 (0.2)
Profit for the year 0.2 0.2 
Transfer to fully owned (0.7) - 
Dividend paid to non-controlling shareholders (0.2) (0.3)
At 31 December 1.1 1.7 
Financial statements 82
Notes to the Group  
accounts
Croda International Plc
Parent company financial statements
Pages 83 to 94 represent the separate financial statements of Croda 
International Plc as required by the Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”).
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
Act and UK accounting standards and are thus presented separately to the 
Group financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with 
International Accounting Standards. 83
Company independent auditors’ report to the members of Croda International Plc.
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which 
comprise the Company balance sheet, the Company accounting policies and the related notes. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent 
company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 
l give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2010;
l have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
l have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
l the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act  
 2006; and 
l the information given in the directors’ report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are  
 prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion: 
l adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been  
 received from branches not visited by us; or 
l the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement  
 with the accounting records and returns; or 
l certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
l we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Richard Bunter (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Leeds 
8 March 2011
Company independent auditors’ report
Company independent  
auditors’ report
Financial statements 84
Company balance sheet
Company balance sheet
at 31 December 2010
Note 2010 
£m
2009
£m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets C 1.5 2.5 
Investments
Subsidiary undertakings D 418.5 481.0 
Other E 0.6 0.6 
420.6 484.1 
Current assets
Debtors F 12.6 15.1 
Cash at bank and in hand 9.6 6.2 
22.2 21.3 
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year G (51.8) (124.3)
Net current liabilities (29.6) (103.0)
Total assets less current liabilities 391.0 381.1 
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year G (242.7) (245.4)
Net assets 148.3 135.7 
Capital and reserves
Preference share capital 24 1.1 1.1 
Ordinary share capital 22 14.0 14.0 
Called up share capital 15.1 15.1 
Share premium account J 93.3 93.3 
Reserves J 39.9 27.3 
Shareholders' funds 148.3 135.7 
Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the accounts on 8 March 2011
Martin Flower Sean Christie 
Chairman Group Finance Director 85
Company accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. They have all been 
applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, unless otherwise stated.
Accounting basis
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the previous revaluation of properties, in 
compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority 
and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards. Whilst the consolidated accounts have been prepared under IFRS, as required 
by European law, the Company’s accounts continue to be prepared under UK GAAP as permitted.
Land and buildings
In the past the Company’s principal properties have been valued periodically by professional valuers on an open market, existing 
use basis. Following the Company’s adoption of FRS 15 in 2001, no further revaluations will be carried out and previous book values 
will be retained. Notwithstanding the requirements of FRS 15, all fixed assets are written down to their recoverable amount in 
the event that any impairment review carried out in accordance with FRS 11 indicates that the recoverable amount is less than 
the carrying value. The profit or loss on the disposal of land and buildings included in the profit and loss account represents the 
difference between the net proceeds of sale and the net book amount.
Depreciation
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation less depreciation, where cost includes the original purchase price of the asset 
and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Depreciation is provided at rates 
calculated to write down the cost of all tangible fixed assets, except freehold land, over their estimated useful lives on a straight 
line basis. The estimated average life for each major asset category is:
l		 Freehold buildings - 15 to 40 years 
l		 Computers and office equipment - 3 to 5 years
l		 Cars - 3 years
l		 Plant and machinery - 10 to 15 years.
Leased assets
The cost of operating leases is charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Pensions
The defined benefit pension obligations of the Company are financed by contributions to separate funds. As the Company is unable 
to reliably and consistently measure its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the funds, the Company accounts as though 
the funds were defined contribution funds and charges contributions paid directly to the profit and loss account.
Currency translations
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the financial period. Exchange profits or 
losses on trading transactions are included in the profit and loss account. Other exchange differences arising from non-trading items 
are dealt with through reserves.
Financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rates and short-term currency rate fluctuations. 
Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at cost. Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the 
instrument as either: (i) a hedge of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge); or (ii) a 
hedge of highly probable forecast transactions (cash flow hedge);
(i) Fair value hedge
Changes in the fair value of derivatives, for example interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts, that are designated and 
qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset 
or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
(ii) Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised 
in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts 
accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss (for 
instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the 
recognition of a non-financial asset (for example, inventory) or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are 
transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. When a hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity 
at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement. 
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately 
transferred to the income statement.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do 
not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Company accounting policies
Financial statements 86
Company accounting policies
Employee share ownership trusts
Shares acquired by the trustees, funded by the Company and held for the continuing benefit of the Company are shown as a 
reduction in shareholders’ funds. Movements in the year arising from additional purchases by the trustees of shares or the receipt 
of funds due to the exercise of options by employees are accounted for within reserves and shown as a movement in shareholders’ 
funds in the year. Administration expenses of the trusts are charged to the Company’s profit and loss account as incurred.
Share based payments
Share based incentive schemes are accounted for in accordance with IFRS2 ‘Share-based Payments’, which requires an expense 
to be recognised in the income statement over the vesting period of the options. The expense is based on the fair value of each 
instrument which is calculated using the Black-Scholes or binomial model as appropriate. Any expense is adjusted to reflect 
expected and actual levels of options vesting, as market-based performance criteria are not used.
Dividends
All dividends, including preference dividends, are recognised as a liability when the liability is irrevocable. Accordingly, final 
dividends are recognised when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Taxation 
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and other accounting purposes. Temporary differences arise from the inclusion 
of profits and losses in the accounts in different periods from which they are recognised in tax assessments and primarily arise as a 
result of the difference between tax allowances on tangible fixed assets and the corresponding depreciation charge. Full provision 
is made for the tax effects of these differences. No provision is made for unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries where there 
is no commitment to remit such earnings. Similarly, no provision is made for temporary differences relating to investments in 
subsidiaries since realisation of such differences can be controlled and is not probable in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets 
are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences 
can be utilised. All taxation is calculated on the basis of the tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date. 
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Any difference between the proceeds (net of 
transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the 
effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer 
settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other debtors
Trade and other debtors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective 
interest method, less impairment losses.
Investments
Shares in subsidiary undertakings
Shares in subsidiary undertakings are initially stated at cost. Provision is made where, in the opinion of the directors, a permanent 
diminution in value has occurred.
Unquoted securities
Investments in unquoted securities are carried at fair value unless such value cannot be reliably measured, in which case the 
investments are carried at cost. 
Financial risk factors
The Group accounting policy for financial risk factors is also relevant to the preparation of the Company financial statements and is 
disclosed on pages 55 and 56. 87
Notes to the Company  
accounts
A. Profit and loss account 
Of the Group’s profit for the year, £38.5m (2009: £28.7m) is dealt with in the profit and loss account of the Company which was 
approved by the Board on 8 March 2011 but which is not presented as permitted by s.408 Companies Act 2006. Included in the 
Company profit and loss account is a charge of £0.1m (2009: £0.1m) in respect of the Company’s audit fee.
B. Retirement benefit obligations
The Company’s employees are members of the UK defined benefit schemes, details of which are disclosed in note 12 to the Group 
accounts. Whilst the Group reports under IFRS, the UK GAAP equivalent figures for the UK schemes would not be significantly 
different. As the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of of the schemes, due mainly 
to changes in the Group’s corporate structure over the years, the Company has accounted as though the schemes were defined 
contribution schemes and has charged the contributions paid each year to the profit and loss account.
C. Tangible fixed assets
Notes to the Company accounts
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2010 2.9 1.3 4.2 
Additions - 0.3 0.3 
Disposals - (0.2) (0.2)
Transfer to other Group company (0.8) - (0.8)
At 31 December 2010 2.1 1.4 3.5
Depreciation
At 1 January 2010 1.1 0.6 1.7 
Charge for year 0.2 0.2 0.4 
Disposals - (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2010 1.3 0.7 2.0
Net book amount
At 31 December 2010 0.8 0.7 1.5
At 31 December 2009 1.8 0.7 2.5
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Net book amount of land and buildings
Freehold 0.8 1.8
Historical cost of land and buildings
Cost 0.3 1.2 
1988 valuations 1.8 1.8 
At 31 December 2.1 3.0 
Revaluation surpluses (1.1) (1.1)
Restated to historical cost 1.0 1.9 
Depreciation (0.8) (0.7)
Historical net book amount
At 31 December 0.2 1.2 
Financial statements 88
Notes to the Company  
accounts
D. Subsidiary undertakings
E. Investments
The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 95.
The directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
Other investments comprise equity securities classified as available-for-sale and are included at cost, as fair value cannot be 
measured reliably, or if quoted on an active market, at market value.
Shares 
 £m
Loans 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost less amounts written off
At 1 January 2010 258.8 222.2 481.0 
Exchange differences - (1.6) (1.6)
Conversion of loan capital to equity investment 10.4 (10.4) - 
Additions 0.8 - 0.8 
Amounts repaid - (61.7) (61.7)
At 31 December 2010 270.0 148.5 418.5 
Other 
investments 
£m
Cost or valuation of net equity
At 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010 0.6
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1.6 4.1 
Corporate taxation 9.6 7.1 
Other debtors 1.0 3.3 
Prepayments 0.4 0.6 
12.6 15.1 
F. Debtors 89
Notes to the Company  
accounts
Notes to the Company accounts
H. Financial instruments and liabilities
The Company’s objectives, policies and strategies in respect of financial instruments are outlined in the accounting policies note on 
page 85 which forms part of the annual report and accounts. Short term debtors and creditors have been excluded from all of the 
following disclosures.
Financial liabilities
The interest rate swaps held by the Company to hedge against the Group’s US$ fixed rate debt and against the floating rate 
acquisition funding expired on 31 January 2010. Details are given in note 20 of the Group accounts. As required under UK GAAP , the 
fair value of the swaps was recognised on the Company balance sheet in 2009.
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2010 Club facility due 2015 210.6 - 
Syndicated acquisition funding - 255.9 
Interest rate swaps - 0.3 
Bank loans and overdrafts repayable on demand 38.3 78.9 
248.9 335.1 
Repayments fall due as follows:
Within one year
Syndicated acquisition funding - 30.0 
Interest rate swaps - 0.3 
Bank loans and overdrafts 38.3 78.9 
38.3 109.2 
After more than one year
Loans repayable
Within one to two years - 225.9 
Within two to five years 210.6 - 
210.6 225.9 
G. Creditors
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings (note H) 38.3 109.2 
Trade creditors 0.3 0.3 
Taxation and social security 0.8 1.2 
Other creditors 5.9 5.9 
Accruals and deferred income 4.3 5.5 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 2.2 2.2 
51.8 124.3 
Amounts falling due after one year
Borrowings (note H) 210.6 225.9 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 32.1 19.5 
242.7 245.4 
Financial statements 90
Notes to the Company  
accounts
I. Share based payments
The total charge for the year in respect of share based remuneration schemes was £3.4m (2009: £2.0m). In addition, as the 
Company has issued options over its own shares to employees of its subsidiary companies, the Company has to increase the cost of 
its investment in the relevant subsidiary by the fair value of the options granted.
The key elements of each scheme along with the assumptions employed to arrive at the charge in the income statement are set 
out below. Where appropriate the expected volatility has been based on historic volatility considering daily share price movements 
over periods equal to the expected future life of the awards and the risk free rate is based on the Bank of England’s projected 
nominal yield curve with appropriate duration.
Croda Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”)
The SAYE scheme, established in 1983, grants options annually in September to employees of the Group at a fixed exercise price, 
being the market price of the Company’s shares at the grant date discounted by up to 20%. Employees then enter into a savings 
contract over three to five years and, subject to continued employment, purchase options at the end of the period based on the 
amount saved. Options are then exercisable for a six month period following completion of the savings contract. As the option is 
equity settled, under IFRS 2 charges are only made in respect of options granted after 7 November 2002. For options granted in the 
year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
Grant date 2010
Share price at grant date 1431p
Exercise price 1144p
Number of employees 370
Shares under option 94,501
Vesting period 3 years
Expected volatility 35%
Option life 6 months
Expected life –
Risk free rate 1.3%
Dividend yield 1.7%
Possibility of forfeiture 7.5% p.a.
Fair value per option at grant date 443p
Option pricing model Black Scholes
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) Number
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 733,806 478 919,477 411 
Granted 94,501 1144 169,368 533 
Forfeited (30,207) 519 (50,988) 511 
Exercised (394,461) 444 (304,051) 302 
Outstanding at 31 December 403,639 664 733,806 478 
Exercisable at 31 December 16,938 16,633 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 1387 747 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 2.2 2.0  91
Notes to the Company accounts
Notes to the Company  
accounts
I. Share based payments (continued)
Croda International Overseas Sharesave Scheme (“International”)
The International scheme, established in 1999, has the same option pricing model, savings contract and vesting period as the SAYE 
scheme. At exercise, employees are paid a cash equivalent for each option purchased, being the difference between the exercise 
price and market price at the exercise date. As the scheme is cash settled, IFRS 2 applies to all options in existence during the year, 
regardless of grant date.
For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as 
follows:
Grant date 2010
Share price at grant date 1431p
Exercise price 1144p
Number of employees 975
Shares under option 308,455
Vesting period 3 years
Expected volatility 35%
Option life 1 month
Expected life -
Risk free rate 1.0%
Dividend yield 1.5%
Possibility of forfeiture 7.5% p.a.
Fair value per option at 31 December 579p
Option pricing model Black Scholes
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) Number
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 1,215,119 257 1,303,664 338 
Granted 308,455 1144 317,222 533 
Forfeited (73,242) 529 (109,463) 474 
Exercised (634,803) 475 (296,304) 312 
Outstanding at 31 December 815,529 756 1,215,119 257 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 1399 756 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 2.0 1.6 
Financial statements 92
Notes to the Company  
accounts
Croda International Long Term Investment Plan (“LTIP”)       
The LTIP was established in 2005 and grants no cost options to senior employees which vest after three years dependent upon an 
EPS performance related sliding scale (non-market condition) and the Group’s total shareholder return (market condition). The LTIP is 
discussed in detail in the directors’ remuneration report (page 32). For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted 
and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
I. Share based payments (continued)
Croda International Senior Executive Share Option Schemes (“Executive”)
The Group previously granted options to senior employees each year which are subject to satisfaction of performance conditions 
before they can be exercised. The performance conditions are discussed in detail in the directors’ remuneration report (page 32). As 
with the SAYE scheme, the Executive Scheme is equity settled and as a consequence only the options granted in 2003 fall within 
the scope of IFRS 2. No further options will be granted under this scheme.
Market condition Non-market condition
Grant date 24 February 2010 24 February 2010
Share price at grant date 900p 900p
Number  of employees 11 11
Shares under option 106,495 106,496
Vesting period 3 years 3 years
Option life 1 year 1 year
Expected life – –
Dividend yield 2.4% 2.4%
Possibility of forfeiture 3.5% 3.5%
Fair value per option at grant date 521p 838p
Option pricing model Closed form valuation Closed form valuation
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) Number
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 862,611 – 760,657 – 
Granted 212,991 – 329,519 – 
Exercised (229,901) – (227,565) – 
Outstanding at 31 December 845,701 862,611
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 918 527 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 2.0 1.6 
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) Number
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 451,813 238 718,935 245 
Forfeited – – (2,299) 256 
Exercised (154,768) 245 (264,823) 257 
Outstanding at 31 December 297,045 234 451,813 238 
Exercisable at 31 December 297,045 451,813 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 963 678 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 2.0 2.6  93
Notes to the Company accounts
Notes to the Company  
accounts
I. Share based payments (continued) 
Bonus Co-Investment Plan (“BCIP”)
The BCIP was established in 2005 and grants no cost options to senior employees which vest after three years dependent upon a 
performance related condition. The BCIP is discussed in detail in the directors’ remuneration report (pages 31 to 32). For options 
granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
Croda International Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”)        
The SIP was established in 2003 and has similar objectives to the SAYE scheme in terms of increasing employee retention and 
share ownership. Under the SIP scheme, employees enter into an agreement to purchase shares in the Company each month. For 
each share purchased by an employee, the Company awards a matching share which passes to the employee after three years’ 
service. The matching shares are allocated each month at market value with this fair value charge being recognised in the income 
statement in full in the year of allocation.
Grant date 29 April 2010
Share price at grant date 990p
Number of employees 62 
Shares under option 220,121 
Vesting period 3 years
Dividend yield 2.2%
Possibility of forfeiture 5.0%
Fair value per option at grant date 941p
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p) Number
2009 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 627,609 – 462,012 – 
Granted 220,121 – 347,753 – 
Forfeited (12,676) – (111) – 
Exercised (84,253) – (182,045) – 
Outstanding at 31 December 750,801 – 627,609 – 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 962 544 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 1.4 1.8 
Financial statements 94
Notes to the Company  
accounts
J. Reserves
K. Contingent liabilities
The Company has guaranteed loan capital and bank overdrafts of subsidiary undertakings amounting to £69.1m (2009: £54.1m).
L. Dividends
Details of dividends are disclosed in note 9 of the Group accounts.
Details of investments in own shares are disclosed in note 25 of the Group accounts.
Share 
premium 
account 
£m 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£m
Revaluation 
reserve
£m
Profit 
and loss 
account  
£m
Total  
£m
At 1 January 2010 93.3 0.9 2.1 24.3 120.6 
Profit for the financial year - - - 38.5 38.5 
Other gains and losses - - - 1.5 1.5 
Dividends - - - (33.7) (33.7)
Share based payments - - - 4.2 4.2 
Consideration received for sale of own shares
(held in trust) - - - 2.1 2.1 
At 31 December 2010 93.3 0.9 2.1 36.9 133.2  95
Principal subsidiary  
companies
Principal subsidiary companies
* Companies owned directly by Croda International Plc. 
Companies incorporated in the UK are registered in England.
All companies are involved in the sale of chemicals. Those companies indicated with 
†
 are also involved in manufacturing activities.
Full details of investments in subsidiary undertakings will be attached to the Company’s annual return made to the Registrar of 
Companies. Those not listed above were either not trading or not material.
Principal operating companies
Incorporated and/or 
principally operating in
Group beneficial  
interest %
Croda Europe Ltd
†
UK 100
John L Seaton & Co Ltd UK 100
Croda Argentina SA Argentina 100
Croda Australia Australia 100
Croda Belgium BVBA Belgium 100
Croda do Brasil Ltda
†
Brazil 100
Croda Canada Ltd Canada 100
Croda Chile Ltda Chile 100
Croda China Trading Company Ltd China 100
Croda Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China 100
Croda Colombia Colombia 100
Croda France SAS France 100
Crodarom SAS France 100
Sederma SAS
†
France 100
Croda Chocques SAS
†
France 100
Croda GmbH Germany 100
Croda Hong Kong Company Ltd Hong Kong 100
Croda Chemicals (India) Pvt Ltd*
†
India 100
PT Croda Indonesia Ltd
†
Indonesia 100
Croda Italiana SpA Italy 100
Croda Cremona SRL
†
Italy 100
Croda Japan KK
†
Japan 100
Croda México SA de CV Mexico 100
Croda Nederland B.V. Netherlands 100
Croda Peruana S.A.C Peru 100
Croda Poland Sp. z o.o.* Poland 100
Croda Russia Russia 100
Croda Singapore Pte Ltd*
†
Singapore 100
Croda (SA) Pty Ltd South Africa 100
Croda Korea South Korea 100
Croda Ibérica SA Spain 100
Croda Nordica AB Sweden 100
Croda (Thailand) Co., Ltd* Thailand 100
Croda Middle East UAE 100
Croda Inc
†
USA 100
Croda Zimbabwe (Pvt) Ltd Zimbabwe 100
Principal holding companies
Croda Chemicals International Ltd* UK 100
Croda Overseas Holdings Ltd* UK 100
Croda Holdings France SAS France 100
Croda Investments Inc USA 100
Other information 96
Shareholder information
Shareholder information
Operating heads
Investor relations
Shareholders can now get up to date information on Stock Exchange announcements, key dates in the corporate calendar, the 
Croda share price and brokers’ estimates by visiting our corporate web site at www.croda.com and clicking on the section called 
“Investor”.
Shareholders can receive shareholder communications electronically by registering on the Registrars’ website,  
www.capitashareportal.com and following the instructions. To register, shareholders will require their investor code (IVC): this is 
an 11 digit number starting with either five or six zeros and can be found on your dividend tax voucher or your share certificate. 
Receiving corporate communications by email has a number of benefits including being more environmentally friendly, reducing 
unnecessary waste, faster notification of information to shareholders and eventually leading to a reduction in company costs. 
Shareholders who register on the above website can also check their shareholding, view their dividend history, elect for the 
dividend reinvestment plan, register changes of address and dividend mandate instructions.
Corporate calendar 
David Barraclough President - Asia Pacific 
Miguel De Bellis President - Latin America
Steve Foots President - Europe
Kevin Gallagher President - North America
Keith Layden President - Actives & Enterprise Technology
Kevin Nutbrown President - Global Operations
2011 Annual General Meeting 28 April 2011
2010 Final ordinary dividend payment 3 June 2011
2011 Half year results announcement 28 July 2011
2011 Interim ordinary dividend payment 7 October 2011
2011 Preference dividend payments 30 June 2011
30 December 2011
2011 Full year results announcement February 2012
Analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 22 February 2011
Number of holders Number of shares
% of  
issued capital
By size of holding
1 – 1,000 1,836 449,290 0.32
1,001 – 5,000 2,104 2,274,199 1.63
5,001 – 10,000 730 2,340,006 1.67
10,001 – 50,000 229 1,615,986 1.15
50,001 – 100,000 241 5,701,209 4.07
100,001 – 500,000 84 6,152,428 4.40
500,001 – upwards 204 121,416,851 86.76
5,428 139,949,969 100.00
By type of holder
Private holders 3,401 7,752,370 5.54
Institutional and corporate holders 2,023 128,607,649 91.90
Treasury shares 1 2,637,530 1.88
Shares held in Croda trusts 3 952,420 0.68
5,428 139,949,969 100.00 97
Shareholder information
Share price information
As well as being available on our website, the latest ordinary share price is available on the London Stock Exchange website at 
www.londonstockexchange.com, the Financial Times Cityline service (0905 817 1690) (calls cost 75 pence per minute from a BT 
landline and the average duration is 1 minute per stock) or via the BBC’s broadcast teletext service.
The middle market values of the listed share capital at 31 December 2010, or last date traded*, were as follows:
Capital gains tax
The market values of the listed share capital at 31 March 1982 were as follows:
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”) 
Ordinary shareholders may wish to know about this plan, which allows you to use your dividends to buy further shares in Croda. 
The DRIP is administered by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd (“CIRGT”). CIRGT will instruct the broker to buy shares on the dividend payment 
date at the then current market price. Any cash left over which is insufficient to purchase a whole share will be carried forward and 
held, without interest, in a client money bank account. The DRIP commission charged to the shareholder is 1% of the purchase price 
of the shares, with a minimum charge of £2.50. This is exclusive of stamp duty reserve tax at 0.5% of the deal value. Should you 
wish to apply you should request an application pack by telephoning 0871 664 0381 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; 
lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday) or, if calling from overseas, +44 20 8639 3402; alternatively you can email 
shares@capitaregistrars.com.
Overseas shareholders 
Capita has an International Payment Service that allows you to receive your dividend payments in your local currency, sent directly 
to your local bank account - potentially saving you time and money. Further details are available from Shareholder Administration, 
Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU; telephone UK: 0871 664 0386 (calls cost 10 pence 
per minute plus network extras; lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday) or +44 20 8639 3405 (from outside the UK) 
or by logging on to www.capitaregistrars.com/international.
Share dealing
Share dealing services are available for shareholders to either sell or buy Croda ordinary shares. For further information on these 
services, please contact:
UK shareholders only - Capita Share Dealing Services 
www.capitadeal.com (on-line dealing) 
0871 664 0446 (telephone dealing) - calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 8.00am to 4.30pm, Monday to 
Friday
UK & overseas shareholders - Stocktrade  
Telephone dealing 0845 601 0995 (non UK +44 131 240 0414) quoting reference Low Co0238  
For further information visit www.stocktrade.co.uk/Croda.
Relating to beneficial owners of shares with ‘information rights’
Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive 
information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered holder 
of their shares rather than to the Company’s registrar, Capita Registrars, or to the Company directly.
Ordinary shares 1616p
5.9% preference shares 80p*
6.6% preference shares 90p*
Ordinary shares 77.5p
Deferred ordinary shares 40.5p
5.9% preference shares 42.5p
6.6% preference shares 47.5p
7.5% preference shares (estimated) 45.0p
Shareholder information
Other information 98
Shareholder information
Warning to shareholders
In recent years many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or 
correspondence concerning investment matters. These are typically from overseas based “brokers” who target UK shareholders 
offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments. These operations are 
commonly known as “boiler rooms”. These “brokers” can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by 
the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around £20,000. It is not just 
the novice investor that has been duped in this way; many of the victims have been investing successfully for several years. 
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports into 
the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
l Make sure that you get the correct name of the person and organisation
l Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved. You can check at www.fsa.gov.uk/register
l The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors  
 and any approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other  
 appropriate action can be considered. If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under  
 the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at  
 www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/law/alerts/overseas.shtml.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.fsa.gov.uk/consumer.
Secretary and registered office 
A L Scott (Company Secretary)
Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, East Yorkshire DN14 9AA  
Tel: +44 (0)1405 860551  
Fax: +44 (0)1405 861767 
Website: www.croda.com 
Registered in England number 206132 
Registrars 
Capita Registrars  
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU 
Tel: 0871 664 0300 (from UK) - calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday 
+ 44 20 8639 3399 (from overseas) 
Fax: 01484 601512(from UK) 
+ 44 1484 601512 (from overseas) 
Website: www.capitaregistrars.com 
E-mail: shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.com
Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Merchant bankers 
UBS Limited
Solicitors 
Eversheds LLP
Stockbrokers 
UBS Limited  
Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc
Pension fund managers 
BlackRock Advisors (UK) Limited 
CB Richard Ellis Collective Investors Limited 
Edinburgh Partners Limited 
Independent Franchise Partners LLP 
Innisfree Limited 
Legal & General Investment Management  
Macquarie Capital Funds (Europe) Limited 
Rockspring Hanover Real Estate Investment Management Limited 
Schroder Investment Management Limited 
SteelRiver Offshore Infrastructure Associates Limited  
UBS Global Asset Management (UK) Limited
Consulting actuaries 
Towers Watson  99
5 year record
5 year record
2010  
£m
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
2007  
£m
2006  
£m
Turnover 1,001.9 827.5 911.1 804.8 480.1 
Operating profit 198.6 121.5 112.6 83.0 59.7 
Profit before tax 192.3 108.0 96.3 60.8 52.5 
Profit after tax 129.8 72.7 64.8 40.2 35.0 
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders * 130.7 23.7 60.9 87.2 7.9 
% % % % % 
Operating profit as a % of turnover ** 19.8 14.7 12.4 10.3 12.4
Return on invested capital (ROIC) ** 19.3 10.5 9.8 8.1 6.9 
Effective tax rate 32.5 32.7 32.0 33.9 33.3 
pence pence pence pence pence 
Earnings per share * 94.6 50.2 51.7 37.1 28.9 
Dividends per share 35.00 21.50 19.75 15.75 14.30 
times times times times times
Net debt/EBITDA ** 1.0 1.9 2.6 2.8 3.3
EBITDA interest cover ** 36.7 11.1 9.4 5.8 4.2
2010  
£m
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
2007  
£m
2006  
£m
Fixed assets 536.9 556.3 608.5 555.8 551.5 
Stock 164.6 148.9 201.9 161.4 133.5 
Debtors 146.2 159.0 185.8 186.4 192.5 
Creditors (183.3) (182.9) (184.5) (178.8) (198.4)
Other 0.6 – 1.1 1.6 2.0 
Capital employed 665.0 681.3 812.8 726.4 681.1 
Dividends, tax, provisions and other (22.7) (31.1) (60.9) (81.4) (64.9)
Pension fund liability (147.8) (203.5) (88.5) (59.3) (159.9)
494.5 446.7 663.4 585.7 456.3 
Shareholders’ funds 273.1 156.5 263.3 218.0 124.5 
Non-controlling interests 1.1 1.7 2.0 1.7 1.9 
274.2 158.2 265.3 219.7 126.4 
Net debt 220.3 288.5 398.1 366.0 329.9 
494.5 446.7 663.4 585.7 456.3 
Gearing (%) 80.3 182.4 150.1 166.6 261.0 
* Total Group figures, all other figures are continuing operations only 
** 2006 pro-forma full year Uniqema
Earnings exclude exceptional items in order to present a clearer year on year comparison.
Summarised balance sheet
Other information This Annual Report is printed on LumiSilk paper, 
selected from mixed sources. Croda International Plc
Cowick Hall Snaith
Goole East Yorkshire
DN14 9AA England
Tel +44 (0)1405 860551
Fax +44 (0)1405 861767
www.croda.com
