 Croda International Plc  Annual Report 2011 
Annual
Report
2011 Our operations
Financial highlights
Revenue £1,068.4m
Bought in materials £627.8m 
and services
Value added £440.6m
To employees £172.4m
To providers of capital £67.9m
To governments £76.3m
Retained in the business £124.0m
Business Sector
Revenue £m 
(% Group total)
Operating profit £m  
(% Group total)
Consumer Care
Focused on health and wellbeing, our Consumer Care segment consists of Personal Care, Health Care and Crop Care. 
We supply innovative ingredients that help consumers look and feel great, promote vitality and a healthy lifestyle  
and ensure the food we eat is safe and plentiful. Consumers want to look and feel good, but also want products that 
combine great performance with excellent sustainability credentials. 
173.4   71.5%
574.3   53.8%
Regional groups Europe Americas
Revenue by destination £m
(% Group total)
Number of employees
(% Group total)
471.1   44.1% 367.8   34.4%
627   19.5% 1,972   61.4%
Europe
Manufacturing site
Sales office
Head office
America
Asia
Rest of the world
Croda locations Industrial Specialities
Industrial Specialities provides speciality ingredients to the Lubricants, Coatings & Polymers, Home Care, Geo Technologies, Polymer Additives and 
Process Additives markets, delivering enhanced performance and efficiencies to industries like automotive and transportation, construction, surface 
cleaning and food packaging. 
69.0   28.5%
494.1   46.2%
Totals
£1,068.4m
3,213
Asia Rest of the world
55.2  5.2%
47  1.5%
174.3   16.3%
567   17.6% Contents
Directors’ report 
Business review
Business highlights 1
Chairman’s statement 2
Chief Executive’s review 4
Financial review 8
Sustainability 12
Governance 
Board of directors 22
Corporate governance 24
Remuneration report 30
Other disclosures 43
Financial statements
Group independent auditors’ report 47
Group income statement 48
Group statement of comprehensive income and expense 48
Group balance sheet 49
Group statement of changes in equity 50
Group statement of cash flows 51
Group cash flow notes 52
Group accounting policies 53
Notes to the Group accounts 58
Company independent auditors’ report 86
Company balance sheet 87
Company accounting policies 88
Notes to the Company accounts 90
Other information
Principal subsidiary companies 98
Shareholder information 99
Five year record 102 Directors’ report | Business review Directors’ report | Governance Financial statements Other information
1
Business highlights
£1,068.4m
123.7p
£242.2m
55.0p
122.5p
Revenue - 
continuing operations
Energy  
consumption
Earnings per share -  
basic
1% Club time*
Profit before tax 
Landfill  
waste
Dividends per share 
% of employees 
receiving training
Earnings per share - 
continuing operations
Lost time  
injury rate
2010: £1,001.9m
2010: 96.1p
2010: £192.3m
2010: 35.0p
2010: 95.4p
 28.7%
 132%
 57.1%
 86%
 6.6%
 4.9%
 25.9%
 42.9%
 28.4%
 35.9%
Financial highlights
Non-financial highlights
*Employer sponsored volunteering programme 2
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Full Year Results 
Croda again set new records for both 
sales and profits in 2011, with turnover 
increasing by 6.6% to £1,068.4m 
(2010: £1,001.9m) and operating 
profit advancing 22.1% to £242.4m 
(2010: £198.6m). We achieved strong 
performances in both Consumer Care 
and Industrial Specialities during the 
year. 
Pre-tax profits grew by 25.9% to 
£242.2m (2010: £192.3m), with the 
increase at the operating profit level 
further boosted by lower borrowing 
costs and higher pension funding 
credits.
Earnings per share for continuing 
operations grew by 28.4% to 122.5p 
(2010: 95.4p), reflecting the rise in pre-
tax profit, a reduced tax rate and the 
£50m share buyback undertaken during 
the year.
All three business areas in Consumer 
Care delivered good sales and profit 
growth in every quarter of 2011. Sales 
increased 11.2% to £574.3m (2010: 
£516.4m) and operating profit rose 
27.0% to £173.4m (2010: £136.5m). 
Health Care and Crop Care saw the 
highest sales and profit growth, 
and Personal Care also performed 
very strongly. Return on sales (ROS) 
increased to 30.2% (2010: 26.4%).
In Industrial Specialities, sales were up 
1.8% to £494.1m (2010: £485.5m) and 
operating profit increased by 11.1% to 
£69.0m (2010: £62.1m). Lubricants, 
Coatings & Polymers and Home Care 
performed extremely well and Geo 
Technologies made good underlying 
progress, excluding the windfall gain in 
2010 from the clean-up following the 
oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Sales and 
profits declined in Polymer Additives 
and Process Additives, but overall sector 
ROS increased to 14.0% (2010: 12.8%), 
as we recovered raw material cost 
inflation and continued to improve our 
portfolio of products.
In both reporting segments we saw 
strong demand for innovative, high 
performance products, partially offset 
by lower growth and volume losses 
in older, less differentiated lines and 
commodity business.
Acquisitions and Disposals
In January 2011, the Group completed 
the sale of its 60% holding in its Korean 
joint venture, Croda Woobang, for 
a consideration of £2.2m. The profit 
on sale of £0.6m has been disclosed 
as exceptional within discontinued 
activities. 
Dividend 
The Board announced its new dividend 
policy when it reported interim results 
on 28 July 2011. In the light of Croda’s 
strong balance sheet position and 
the highly cash generative nature of 
our business, we stated our intention 
to increase the annual dividend to 
between 40% and 50% of sustainable 
earnings. In line with this new policy, 
the interim dividend was increased 
by 153.8% to 24.75p (2010: 9.75p), 
comprising 40% of first half earnings.
Chairman’s statement 
In the longer term, our focus on innovation 
and technology, and our increasing exposure 
to the growing economies of Asia and Latin 
America, give me great confidence in the 
future prospects of the Group
I am delighted 
to report another 
outstanding set of 
results. This continued 
success is testimony 
to the effectiveness 
of our strategic 
focus on market led 
innovation in fast 
growing sectors and 
economies worldwide, 
and an unrivalled 
understanding of our 
customers. 
Martin Flower, Non-executive Chairman 3
Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
The Board proposes to increase the final 
dividend by 19.8% to 30.25p (2010: 
25.25p), making a total dividend for 
the year of 55.0p (2010: 35.0p), an 
increase of 57.1%. This represents a 
payout ratio of 45%, in the middle of 
our target range.
Subject to future trading and the 
maintenance of a prudent approach to 
cash and balance sheet management, 
Croda expects to maintain this dividend 
policy in the years ahead.
Capital Structure 
In 2011, we repaid £50m to 
shareholders by means of a share 
buyback, purchasing 2.8m shares at an 
average price of £17.82.
We are again likely to generate surplus 
cash from trading in 2012. We intend 
to invest this in acquisitions and 
further organic investment if suitable 
opportunities arise. Any future buybacks 
will be reviewed in the light of the 
above.
The Board 
There have been a number of 
significant changes to the Board during 
the year.
Mike Humphrey retired from the Board 
at the end of 2011 after 42 years with 
the Company, including 13 years as 
Group Chief Executive. Mike led the 
transformation of Croda into the unique 
and exceptionally successful business 
that it is today and on behalf of all our 
shareholders and staff, I thank him for 
his outstanding achievements and offer 
him our very best wishes for the future.
Steve Foots succeeded Mike as Group 
Chief Executive on 1 January 2012. 
Steve has worked for Croda since 
1990, beginning his career with us 
as a graduate trainee, and has been 
a member of the Board as President 
of Croda Europe since July 2010. I am 
confident that Steve is ideally qualified 
to build on Mike’s success and lead 
Croda in the next phase of its growth 
and development.
Keith Layden was appointed to the 
Board as an executive director in the 
new role of Chief Technology Officer 
in February 2012. Keith joined Croda 
in 1984 and has extensive experience 
of the chemical industry and related 
technologies. The creation of his new 
role will help us to accelerate the 
development of innovative technologies 
and underlines the critical importance 
of this area to the future development 
of the Group.
Alan Ferguson joined the Board as an 
independent non-executive director in 
July 2011 and was appointed Chairman 
of the Audit Committee in August 2011. 
Alan is a Chartered Accountant who 
has previously served as Chief Financial 
Officer of Lonmin Plc, Group Finance 
Director of The BOC Group and Group 
Finance Director of Inchcape plc. 
Mike Buzzacott retired from the Board 
in August 2011 after seven years 
of service as an independent non-
executive director, including four years 
as Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
We thank him for his contribution to 
Croda and wish him well. Mike has 
been succeeded as Senior Independent 
non-executive director by Nigel Turner, 
a member of the Board since 2009.
Outlook 
Trading in January was encouraging 
and this positive trend has continued, 
despite the obvious economic 
uncertainties in Europe. While it is still 
early in the year and our visibility is 
limited, we expect 2012 to be another 
year of progress for Croda. 
In the longer term, our focus on 
innovation and technology, and our 
increasing exposure to the growing 
economies of Asia and Latin America, 
give me great confidence in the future 
prospects of the Group.
Martin Flower 
Non-executive Chairman
Our Home Care division launched a new additive for hard surface cleaners called 
ModiSurf™ Clarity during 2011. ModiSurf Clarity forms a protective layer on surfaces 
such as glass, which repels limescale and reduces the tendency of surfaces to mist up.
Unlike most alternative products, ModiSurf Clarity has a high content of renewable 
raw materials, over 60%, and is biodegradable. As ModiSurf Clarity remains effective 
for longer than conventional products, the consumer uses less of the cleaning 
product. The result is a reduction in the quantity of chemicals washed down the drain. 
ModiSurf Clarity, therefore, provides both performance and environmental benefits for 
the consumer.
  4
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
 
Our Strategy
We focus on niche markets driven by 
strong, positive megatrends in beauty 
and ageing, health and wellbeing, 
and the increasing importance of 
sustainability and environmental 
protection. These factors, coupled 
with the strong structural drivers 
of population growth, increasing 
disposable incomes and, ultimately, 
growing consumer spending, give me 
great confidence that the core markets 
in which we operate will continue to 
grow.
In today’s world, people not only want 
to look and feel good, but increasingly 
want to use renewable raw materials 
that combine great performance with 
excellent sustainability credentials. The 
trend towards sustainable products in 
our industrial markets is also growing 
rapidly. Our customers want improved 
performance from products which are 
also safe to use and can meet the ever 
increasing regulatory demands imposed 
on specific industries and in different 
countries around the world.
With our continued focus on innovation, 
coupled with approximately 70% 
of our raw materials coming from 
natural sources, Croda is well placed 
to take advantage of these drivers. 
We are continuing to drive top line 
growth through successful new product 
development, moving even closer to 
our customers and increasing our focus 
on faster growing emerging economies, 
particularly in Asia and Latin America. 
Within our industrial businesses, we are 
replicating this approach to significantly 
increase sales of speciality products, 
adopting the same emphasis on niche 
markets, differentiated technologies 
and innovative marketing that we have 
applied so successfully in Consumer 
Care.
We will accelerate the capture of new 
technologies across the Group, with a 
strong focus on sustainability.
We will only invest in businesses, 
current and future, that can be truly 
global, in which we can create 
profitable innovation, that operate in 
end markets which have long term 
growth prospects well above global 
GDP , and in which we can realistically 
sustain high operating margins.
New Reporting Segments and 
Medium Term Targets
From 2012, we will change the way 
we report our sales and profits to better 
reflect the new internal management 
and business structure in place from  
1 January 2012. 
Industrial Specialities will be renamed 
Performance Technologies. Process 
Additives, previously part of Industrial 
Specialities, will in future be reported 
separately and renamed Industrial 
Chemicals. 
Chief Executive’s review 
Croda has delivered 
another year of record 
sales, profits and 
margins, despite a 
challenging economic 
environment in 2011. 
We made significant 
progress in both our 
business segments 
throughout the year and 
2012 has started well. 
This continued strong 
performance underlines 
the resilience of our  
unique and highly 
innovative business  
model which is focused 
on fast-growing niche 
markets and high 
margin businesses 
where we can utilise 
our global reach.
Steve Foots, Group Chief Executive
The business moved forward in all our four 
operating regions 5
Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
This will result in three segments for 
reporting purposes:
Consumer Care (unchanged), 
comprising Personal Care, Health Care 
and Crop Care.
This segment accounts for 31% of 
Group volumes, 54% of turnover and 
72% of operating profit. Sales are 
driven by global population dynamics. 
The majority of product launches are 
patented and competition is fairly 
fragmented. Volumes are relatively 
low but margins are high, driven by 
innovation, quality and the highly 
technical nature of the products.
The segment is targeting sales growth 
of 5-10% per annum and ROS above 
25%.
Performance Technologies, comprising 
Lubricants, Coatings & Polymers, Geo 
Technologies, Polymer Additives and 
Home Care.
This segment generates 42% of Group 
volumes, 36% of turnover and 25% 
of operating profit. Sales are driven by 
product performance and the strength 
of our “green” credentials. Many, but 
not all, new product launches are 
patented. Margins are good, though not 
as high as in Consumer Care.
The segment is targeting sales growth 
of 4-8% per annum and ROS of 20%.
Industrial Chemicals produces basic 
fatty acids, glycerine and other by-
products together with our textile 
business and other industrial products. 
There are also some speciality products 
in the portfolio.
This segment accounts for 27% of 
Group volumes, 10% of turnover and 
3% of operating profit. Much of the 
volume in this business is driven by our 
activity levels elsewhere, but we have 
little pricing power and margins are 
lower than the other two sectors and 
can be erratic. Volumes are high but 
their value is relatively low.
The segment will seek to maximise 
profitability.
These segments have different 
dynamics in terms of drivers, growth 
and margins and we believe that 
managing and reporting them 
separately will permit us to maximise 
our focus and drive profitability 
improvements in all parts 
of the Group.
Business Performance and 
Prospects
Consumer Care
The sector continued to break all 
records, with sales growing by 11.2% 
to £574.3m (2010: £516.4m) and 
operating profit increasing by 27.0% 
to £173.4m (2010: £136.5m). Our ROS 
rose by 3.8 percentage points to 30.2% 
(2010: 26.4%), the first time in Croda’s 
history that ROS has exceeded 30%. It 
was particularly pleasing to see strong 
sales and profit increases in all three 
business areas throughout the year. 
Our best performance was in Health 
Care, driven primarily by very strong 
growth of our excipient business selling 
into the pharmaceutical, dermatology 
and animal health markets. During 
the year our production facility in 
Leek, Staffordshire, was successfully 
inspected by the US Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA). This is a really 
exciting development, which we have 
worked for 10 years to achieve, that 
gives us the ability to supply Omega-3 
into the pharmaceutical arena. 
We continue to seek new opportunities 
to expand the market for Omega-3 in 
dietary supplements and will shortly 
launch a new Incromega™ 3mulsion, 
responding to market demand for 
a tastier Omega 3 in the form of a 
concentrated, flavoured emulsion that is 
particularly well suited for consumption 
by children.
Crop Care also performed extremely 
well, particularly in Europe, the USA 
and Latin America, and especially in 
excipient and adjuvant products. We 
have successfully developed new 
polymeric surfactants for electrolyte 
tolerant systems that offer significant 
performance advantages in Crop Care 
formulations.
In recent years Croda’s operations in 
China and Taiwan have been scaled 
up with sales offices in six major cities 
employing 50 people and serving 
over 1,200 customers. The area also 
has laboratories in Guangzhou with 
facilities to perform efficacy testing and 
formulation development.
Guangzhou Shenzhen Hong Kong
Beijing Shanghai Taipei 6
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Personal Care, which is the largest 
business area within Consumer Care, 
achieved impressive turnover and 
profit growth, driven by sales to our 
major multinational customers in all 
parts of the world. Throughout the 
year, consumers showed no inclination 
to trade down even in those areas 
under most economic pressure. Our 
product pipeline in this area has never 
been stronger and we launched a 
number of successful new products 
during the year. Highlights included 
the Crodasone™ Cystine hair therapy 
smoothing system and Resistem™ for 
skincare, making revolutionary new use 
of plant stem cell technology to deliver 
anti-ageing protection and improved 
skin transparency. 
Industrial Specialities
Sales increased by 1.8% to £494.1m 
(2010: £485.5m) and operating profit 
grew by 11.1% to £69.0m (2010: 
£62.1m), representing a ROS of 14.0% 
(2010: 12.8%). Breaking this down into 
the new reporting sectors we will use 
from 2012:
Performance Technologies sales 
increased by 2.6% to £389.2m (2010: 
£379.4m) and operating profit rose by 
17.4% to £60.1m (2010: £51.2m), a 
ROS of 15.4% (2010: 13.5%). 
Lubricants, Home Care and Coatings 
& Polymers all contributed to the 
strong profit growth in this sector. 
Geo Technologies also made good 
underlying progress, though the 
windfall sales and profits resulting from 
the Gulf of Mexico clean-up in 2010 
were obviously not repeated in 2011. 
In Polymer Additives, weak sales in 
Europe outweighed strong growth in 
other parts of the world. 
Our strategic aim in this sector is to 
replicate the success we have achieved 
in Consumer Care by launching many 
new products into profitable niche 
market applications, and good progress 
was made in this during the year. In 
Lubricants, we introduced the Perfad™ 
3000 series of organic friction modifiers, 
which offer outstanding friction 
reduction and improved fuel economy 
in oil based systems. In Home Care, we 
launched Modisurf™ Clarity, a stay-
clean additive for hard surface cleaners, 
acting as an effective lime scale 
repellent that is also environmentally 
friendly and mild to the skin. 
In Coatings & Polymers, our new 
Maxemul™ polymerics capitalise on the 
trend to water-based coatings driven by 
ever tighter environmental regulations 
restricting the use of Volatile Organic 
Compounds (VOCs). Maxemul™ permits 
the total elimination of VOC solvents 
without any compromise on product 
performance. In Polymer Additives, we 
have focused our efforts on developing 
products for wood-plastic composites to 
improve output, decrease water uptake 
and provide internal lubrication.
In Geo Technologies, we have launched 
a range of green demulsifiers to help 
with the challenge of improving 
environmental performance in the oil 
industry. Our launches have included 
several new products that are designed 
to help oilfield service companies 
meet the very specific needs of each 
oil production well with improved 
environmental ratings.
Right across the sector, our successful 
innovation has meant the replacement 
of higher volume, low margin products 
by new lines that add real value for 
our customers and offer higher levels 
of profitability. This was the key driver 
of the significant improvement in the 
sector’s return on sales during the year. 
Chief Executive’s review 
We are continuing 
to drive top line 
growth through 
successful 
new product 
development, 
moving even closer 
to our customers 
and increasing our 
focus on faster 
growing emerging 
economies, 
particularly in Asia 
and Latin America
The Cystine Hair Smoothing system is a unique set of demonstration formulations
put together by Croda’s application scientists to show how Croda ingredients can be
combined to create products for effective semi-permanent hair smoothing. The hair
smoothing category has seen an explosion of global market interest in the last few
years yet safe and effective technical solutions have been hard to find. Cystine Hair 
Smoothing is the ideal solution for this significant market need. 7
Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Industrial Chemicals sales were down 
1.1% at £104.9m (2010: £106.1m) 
and operating profit was 18.3% lower 
at £8.9m (2010: £10.9m), a ROS of 
8.5% (2010: 10.3%). This reflected high 
raw material prices and competitive 
commodity and textile markets, though 
we did see an improving trend in the 
final quarter.
Geography
The business moved forward in all 
our four operating regions, with the 
strongest progress being achieved in 
Latin America, where sales grew by 
11%, and in Europe, with sales growth 
of 9%. Sales in North America grew by 
a more modest 4% as we exited from 
a major distributor, which reduced sales 
in the second and third quarters. In 
Asia, our deliberate de-marketing from 
the tail of our Industrial Specialities 
business held sales back to an overall 
increase of 3%.
Sustainability
Croda’s “green” credentials are one of 
our greatest strengths, with our focus 
on the production of natural ingredients 
and some 70% of our raw materials 
already derived from renewable 
resources. As a leader in sustainable 
technologies, we are proud that so 
many of our products enhance the 
quality of life through their beneficial 
impact on human health and wellbeing, 
and on the wider environment.
We continue to place a strong emphasis 
on responsible sourcing and on 
minimising the environmental impact 
of our operations through a series of 
initiatives to reduce our consumption 
of energy and water, and to cut the 
quantities of waste we send to landfill. 
We also remain strongly committed 
to being a first class employer and a 
good neighbour to the communities in 
which we operate. Full details of our 
policies and actions can be found in 
the Sustainability review on pages 12 
to 21 and in our separately published 
Sustainability (formerly Corporate Social 
Responsibility) Report.
Our People
Croda employs more than 3,200 people 
in 33 countries around the world. Many 
are highly qualified chemists; all share 
an overriding commitment to putting 
our customers first, through their focus 
on identifying and meeting customers’ 
current and future needs.
Our continuing business success 
depends on our ability to attract and 
retain individuals who are passionate 
about personal and business 
development and who want to make 
a significant contribution to the future 
of Croda. We recognise that our 
employees want to make a difference 
and through open and honest dialogue 
we are able to design reward strategies 
and development opportunities that 
meet the individual needs of our global 
workforce. We have a terrific talent pool 
in Croda and we look forward to seeing 
our people grow in the organisation.
I am grateful to all my colleagues for 
their contributions as individuals and as 
teams to another year of outstanding 
progress for the Group.
Summary
We have a clear strategy, a strong 
business model, robust finances, 
talented people, great products and a 
strong development pipeline. Taken 
together these provide us with the 
soundest of platforms for continuing to 
deliver customer satisfaction, meeting 
our ambitious performance targets 
and delivering shareholder value. 
I look forward with confidence to 
leading Croda’s continued growth and 
development in the years ahead.
Steve Foots 
Group Chief Executive
We will accelerate 
the capture of new 
technologies across 
the Group, with 
a strong focus on 
sustainability
Perfad™ 3000 and Perfad 3050 are unique organic friction modifiers, both in terms 
of their chemistry and their performance. Based on polymer chemistry, they deliver 
outstandingly low friction properties, which is the key to increasing fuel efficiency, 
reducing CO
2
 emissions and engine wear, as well as extending the durability of engine 
equipment. A small improvement in individual vehicle fuel efficiency has a dramatic 
impact on total fuel consumption and exhaust emissions. 8
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
 
Pre-tax Profit
Our strong operating profit performance 
was further enhanced by slightly lower 
net interest costs of £8.2m (2010: 
£8.6m) and a significantly increased 
IAS 19 pension funding credit of £8.0m 
(2010: £2.3m). This meant that pre-tax 
profit increased 25.9% to £242.2m 
(2010: £192.3m).
Exceptional Items
There was an exceptional credit of 
£1.6m in 2011, comprising the profit 
on the disposals of the Group’s Korean 
joint venture and our Bromborough 
site, compared with pre-tax exceptional 
credits totalling £3.9m in 2010. All 
exceptional items relate to discontinued 
operations.
Earnings per Share
The share buyback was the main reason 
for the fall in the average number of 
shares outstanding from 136.0m in 
2010 to 135.3m in 2011. Our tax rate 
fell one percentage point to 31.5% as 
underlying corporate tax rates were 
reduced in the UK and elsewhere in the 
world. As a result, earnings per share 
from continuing operations increased 
faster than pre-tax profit, growing by 
28.4% to 122.5p (2010: 95.4p).
Dividend
The increased final dividend of 30.25p 
per share (2010: 25.25p) will be paid 
on 1 June 2012 to shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on 
4 May 2012, subject to shareholder 
approval.
Debt and Liquidity
As a result of the continuing strength 
of the Group’s cash flow, net debt at 
the year-end stood at £231.1m (2010: 
£220.3m), an increase of less than 
£11m despite the return of £118m to 
shareholders through dividends and 
share buybacks during the year. This 
compares with our committed facilities 
of £472.0m (2010: £473.8m). 
All our debt ratios continued to 
improve, with our main banking ratio 
of net debt to EBITDA falling to 0.8x 
(2010: 1.0x) and EBITDA interest cover 
improving to 33.5x (2010: 26.9x).
Capital Expenditure
We have worked hard to increase the 
rate of internal investment in Croda, 
spending £58.6m (2010: £41.7m) on 
capital expenditure, 82% higher than 
our depreciation figure of £32.2m.
The most significant project during 
the year was a £12m investment in 
a new acrylic polymers plant at our 
Rawcliffe Bridge site in East Yorkshire, 
enabling us to meet growing demand 
from customers in the Personal Care, 
Crop Care and Home Care sectors. 
In addition, the Group undertook 
numerous expansion projects to 
increase capacity at its facilities around 
the world, although none of these were 
individually material. 
We are targeting a capital spend for 
2012 of £65m.
Financial review 
Croda has continued to 
deliver strong growth 
in profits and earnings, 
and to improve 
performance against our 
main financial KPIs. Our 
strong cash generation 
has enabled us to return 
£118m to shareholders 
through dividends and 
share buybacks, while 
significantly increasing 
investment in the 
business and further 
improving our debt 
ratios.
Sean Christie, Group Finance Director 9
Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Retirement Benefits
The gross IAS 19 deficit on our 
pension scheme increased by £51.1m 
to £198.9m (2010: £147.8m) and 
the post-tax deficit rose by £36.7m 
to £141.6m (2010: £104.9m). This 
reflected an increase in the net present 
value of our pension payment liabilities 
as a result of the continuing decline in 
corporate bond interest rates. 
The market value of our pension fund 
assets increased to £647.5m (2010: 
£641.9m). We feel comfortable with 
the current level of the deficit as it will 
require only a small movement in the 
discount rate to achieve a significant 
reduction in our liability.
Financial KPIs
Performance against our five main KPIs 
(before exceptional items) is shown in 
the following table:
During 2011 construction began on 
a new Acrylic Polymers plant at our 
Rawcliffe Bridge manufacturing site 
in the UK, a £12m investment for the 
Group. The plant will enable us to 
produce products which improve the 
rheology, dispersion and suspension 
profile of formulations. The initial focus 
of the plant will be on Personal Care, 
Crop Care and Home Care products, 
however, Acrylic Polymers have 
performance benefits across all market 
sectors, with an overall target market of 
£500m. Croda has a dedicated business 
team in place and has several patented 
products planned for launch in the 
second half of 2012.
Target 2011 2010
Return on sales >15% 22.7% 19.8%
EPS growth +5-10% +28.4% +77.3%
Post tax ROIC >WACC*
†
23.7% 19.3%
Debt/EBITDA <3x 0.8x 1.0x
EBITDA interest cover* >4x 33.5x 26.9x
*excluding IAS 19 credit 
†
WACC: Weighted average cost of capital, 2011 average 7.8% (2010: 7.5%)
We have worked 
hard to increase 
the rate of internal 
investment in 
Croda 10
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Risk Management
Effective management of risks and 
opportunities is essential to the 
delivery of the Group’s financial and 
non-financial objectives, thereby 
ensuring the Group delivers value 
to the shareholders, protects its 
reputation and meets the requirements 
of good corporate governance. 
Croda is committed to the effective 
management of all key risks identified. 
The Group coordinates its global 
approach through the Risk Management 
Committee which meets quarterly 
and reports directly to the Board. This 
Committee is chaired by the Group 
Finance Director and comprises the 
regional Presidents, the Group Financial 
Controller and the Company Secretary 
with the Group Risk and Control 
Manager in attendance.
A structured risk management system is 
implemented across the Group which is 
defined in the Group’s risk management 
framework. 
The framework comprises a standard 
set of risk categories and definitions, 
together with the process and risk 
register format to be used in analysing 
and managing risk. Risks are ranked by 
combining the economic, operational 
or environmental impact (rated by 
value) and the likelihood of occurrence, 
both before and after identification of 
mitigating controls, and any actions 
required to address weaknesses.  
The responsibility for risk identification, 
analysis, evaluation and mitigation rests 
with management at regional and site 
level. All regions and key functional 
groups are required to undertake a full 
review of risks and their mitigating 
strategies at least half yearly, with sites 
required to undertake the same review 
at least annually. Each risk is allocated 
an owner who has the responsibility for 
monitoring and managing it.
The output from the risk reviews 
are consolidated and reported to 
the Risk Management Committee 
to identify Group wide impacts 
and trends including external and 
emerging risks. In addition, a top 
down review is performed to identify 
Group level risks that will not have 
been identified at regional or site 
level. The most significant risks are 
collated into the Group risk register 
using the same risk management 
framework, which is reviewed at each 
meeting. The Committee evaluates 
the controls and procedures which are 
in place to mitigate these risks, and a 
nominated member of the Committee 
is responsible for ensuring that best 
practice is followed in tackling each 
area and that continuous progress is 
made in managing the risks.
The key risks identified by the Group 
are summarised below.
Financial review 
Risk Description and impact Mitigation
Strategic
Product and 
technology 
innovation
Croda operates in competitive markets in which 
product and technology innovation are key to 
success. Innovation failing to deliver could result in a 
lack of competitive products and erosion of margins 
and/or loss of market share.
We have 18 R&D laboratories around the world. 
We have unrivalled customer contact, ensuring 
that our innovation is market led and relevant 
to their needs. We have just appointed our Chief 
Technology Officer to the Board.
Merger and 
acquisition strategy
The Group has experienced growth through 
acquisitions and continues to pursue acquisitions 
to meet its strategic objectives. Whether the 
Group realises the anticipated benefits from these 
acquisitions depends on the integration of the 
acquired businesses and their performance in 
relation to the Group’s acquisition expectations.
The Group has established policies and processes in 
place to manage the acquisition process, integrate 
acquired businesses and monitor performance.
External environment
Product liability Croda sells into a number of highly regulated 
markets. Non-compliance with quality regulations 
could expose the Group to liability and reputational 
damage.
Quality management procedures are in place 
for each site, and all manufacturing sites hold 
ISO9001 standards. Major sites have also been 
audited against GMP (Good Manufacturing Practice) 
standards.
Regulatory 
compliance
As a global chemical producer and supplier, Croda 
operates in a highly regulated environment. 
Violation of these regulations could limit the 
markets into which we can sell, or subject the 
Group to fines or penalties.
The most significant chemical legislation currently 
facing the Group is the implementation of REACh 
(Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and 
restriction of Chemicals) in Europe. We have 
introduced a range of procedures in order to 
maintain compliance with this regulation and have 
successfully completed the necessary registrations 
to date. 11
Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Risk Description and impact Mitigation
People and process
Major site event 
involving the loss of 
a site
Significant operational problems could have an 
adverse effect on Croda’s financial position. We 
are reliant on the continued operation of our 
manufacturing sites.
We maintain strictly audited internal safety and 
maintenance programmes and have business 
continuity plans in place.
Major 
environmental 
incident
Violations of safety, health and environmental 
regulations could limit operations and expose the 
Group to liability, cost and reputational impact.
In addition to maintaining compliance with 
national and international safety standards, we 
maintain strictly audited internal safety, health and 
environmental programmes.
Interruption of raw 
material supply
Interruption in the supply of key raw materials 
would significantly impact operations and our 
financial position. Interruption of supply could arise 
from the implementation of new, more rigorous 
legislation or from market shortage.
Wherever possible, we try to multi source our key 
raw materials and/or we purchase them under 
medium to long term contracts. We manage 
our raw material stock levels taking these 
considerations into account.
Loss of key 
personnel
We rely on employees such as divisional board 
members and technical experts whose vision and 
knowledge is critical to maintaining the Group’s 
success.
We have global procedures in place to identify and 
retain key employees and to develop succession 
plans for key positions.
Business systems
IT systems and 
security failure
Croda relies heavily on IT systems to operate 
effectively and efficiently and to facilitate 
communication globally. Failure of these systems for 
a prolonged period of time would have an impact 
on operations and ultimately our financial position.
We have a global IT group who are very 
experienced. During 2011 we moved to a high 
availability mirrored system to further strengthen 
the IT infrastructure.
Financial
Management of 
pension fund assets
Croda has legal commitments relating to the 
provision of pensions and the operation of our 
pension schemes. In current market conditions, 
increased future funding requirements may have an 
adverse effect on Croda’s financial position.
The Group’s pension schemes are overseen by 
the Trustees of the funds who take professional 
actuarial and investment advice as necessary. 
Trustees have the required skills as a result of 
experience and training, and where appropriate 
the Group will appoint professional trustees to its 
schemes.
Working capital 
management
Cash flow generation from the effective 
management of working capital is required to 
support the cash outflows arising from capital 
investment programmes, servicing of debt, taxation, 
and pension fund requirements.
The Group operates a well embedded working 
capital programme which is managed on an 
individual business basis with central monitoring.
Currency exchange 
rate movements
The global nature of the Group’s business exposes 
it to volatility in currency exchange rates which 
could have an adverse impact on Croda’s financial 
position.
We maintain a strategic spread of manufacturing 
and selling locations globally which itself limits 
currency exposures. The Group hedges its currency 
exposure on trade debtors and creditors where 
appropiate.
Sean Christie 
Group Finance Director 12
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
It is no longer enough to strive to 
be successful in traditional financial 
terms: businesses today have to realise 
their responsibilities are broader. 
Corporate social responsibility (CSR) 
recognises the positive contribution 
business makes to society and also the 
detrimental impact a business can have 
if it does not operate responsibly.
As a chemicals manufacturer, the 
potential impact of not operating 
responsibly is obvious. As an employer 
and neighbour, the consequences of 
irresponsible behaviour would be far 
reaching. As a sustainable, successful 
business, we have to recognise this 
responsibility and look for continuous 
improvement not only in economic 
terms, but also in our social and 
environmental performance.
We have found it a real challenge as 
a business to define in detail what we 
mean by “sustainability”. One definition 
that struck a particular chord came from 
the Brundtland Report, commissioned 
by the United Nations: “Sustainable 
development is development that 
meets the needs of the present without 
compromising the ability of future 
generations to meet their own needs”.
1
 
We feel that through our emphasis on 
emerging markets and technologies, we 
are making our own small contribution, 
going beyond “not compromising” and 
actually “enhancing” the capabilities of 
future generations.
Equally challenging is a way of ensuring 
that all of our aspirations, worthy as 
they are, are underpinned by real 
tangible targets. These targets that can 
help ensure our day to day behaviour 
is supportive of longer term goals, and 
can illustrate and help to communicate 
what sustainability really means to us 
at Croda.
Hence the need to identify the real 
sustainability issues facing our business 
today. We have worked hard in 2011 to 
identify the key issues we must address 
if we want to be a truly sustainable 
business. This hard work has been led 
by our Group Executive Committee with 
our CSR Steering Committee, reflecting 
the top level commitment within our 
organisation. The results of this work 
are best illustrated by our materiality 
matrix on page 13. The matrix was one 
of the outputs of our first Sustainability 
Strategy Day, held in July 2011, and is 
a simple graphical representation of 
what we see as the most significant 
sustainability issues we are facing 
today.
In the pages that follow, and in more 
detail in our separate Sustainability 
Report, we want to shed some light 
light on these issues and how we are 
working hard to address them; by 
acting now and by setting meaningful 
targets for future action. I am 
particularly pleased that we are able 
to report a reduction in the Group’s lost 
time injury rate in 2011, as well as 
further reductions in energy use and 
waste to landfill. Equally pleasing is 
the continued success of our employee 
volunteering programme, the 1% Club. 
In 2011, more than twice as many 
employees were involved in some form 
of local voluntary project compared to 
2010, investing a total of over 4,600 
hours of work time.
We also recognise that to continue 
being successful in our sustainability 
journey, we have to establish a 
pragmatic way of getting things done. 
We have made great strides this year 
with the creation of a dedicated in-
house Corporate Social Responsibilty 
department, responsible for informing 
and guiding our sustainability strategy, 
whilst at the same time ensuring we 
have sensible and effective structures 
in place to enable communication 
and information sharing with all 
stakeholders, inside and outside the 
Group.
We believe that our business model 
puts us at the very forefront of 
sustainable business; that said, the 
last thing we will be is complacent. 
As our business continues to develop 
new technologies and forge new 
partnerships in emerging markets, 
sustainability will continue to be central 
to our thinking.
Steve Foots 
Group Chief Executive
1
United Nations, 1987, Report of the World Commission on 
Environment and Development, General Assembly Resolution 
42/187, 11 December 1987
Sustainability
What is Sustainability?
For Croda it’s simple – doing 
business sustainably means 
doing business the right 
way.
The right way by our 
people, the environment, 
the communities we work  
within and those      
organisations we work with.
Chief Executive’s 
statement 13
Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Material Issues
Our underlying approach to 
sustainability has focused on 
establishing clear commitments and 
performance targets aligned to our 
material issues.
By material issues we mean topics 
or issues with the potential to affect 
the long term success of our business 
and the sustainability of the economy, 
environment and communities in which 
we operate. This must embrace the 
areas that are of most significance to 
our business and those that are of most 
importance to our stakeholders.
To identify our most material issues, 
the CSR Chair, CSR Manager and Pillar 
Owners met with the Group Executive 
Committee in July 2011 for an in depth 
Sustainability Strategy Day to discuss 
the major issues to our business 
and key stakeholders. A materiality 
matrix was mapped to illustrate the 
relative materiality of the issues 
identified, plotting business impact 
against stakeholder perception. Since 
this meeting, all of these issues have 
been embedded into our sustainability 
strategy and activities. 
Section Material issue
Environment Air quality & climate 
change
Water quality & supply
Landfill waste
Health & 
safety
Process safety 
management
Occupational health & 
safety
Responsible 
sourcing
Renewable raw  
materials
Responsible Palm Oil 
sourcing
Product data  
gathering
Section Material issue
Employees Recruitment & retention
Compensation & benefits
HR policies & systems
Talent management & 
employee development
Performance 
management
Corporate 
stakeholders
Corporate stakeholder 
engagement
Ethical supply chain
Community Community 
communication
Community involvement
Community education
1
2
3
1
2
1
2
3
1
2
3
4
5
1
2
2
3
1
Croda’s Materiality Matrix
Diagram
1
2
1
2
3
1
2
3
4
5
1
2
2
3
High
High Low
Importance to stakeholders
Impact & risk to Croda
1
1
2
3 14
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Environment
Air quality & climate change  
The link between emissions of combustion products such as CO
2
 and climate change is now well established. It is therefore essential that 
as a socially responsible company we reduce the impact of our emissions to a sustainable level. The expectation of all our stakeholders is 
that we continue to make progress in reducing discharges of climate change gases.
Water quality & supply  
Fresh water is becoming increasingly scarce as population and industrial activity increases. Furthermore, the onset of climate change may 
influence rainfall patterns such that water resources in some parts of the world become increasingly stressed. Left unmanaged, supplies 
would eventually run out. Whilst our operations are not in regions where water resources are under immediate threat, many of our 
manufacturing sites and offices operate in communities that are dependent on a shared natural fresh water resource. We therefore have a 
public responsibility and a business need to have a strategy for water management to ensure the sustainability of our operation.
Landfill waste   
Like other resources, land is becoming increasingly stressed. Productive land has been consumed by development and subsequently 
contaminated, so less space is available to grow food. One of the most environmentally unfriendly activities is landfill, which modifies the 
land permanently and incidentally introduces contamination to air as well as to water. Whilst our activities do not have a direct impact on 
the land we occupy, we have a responsibility to minimise our landfill waste and ultimately look to eliminate this activity from our business.
Health & safety
Process safety management  
Process safety encompasses the most significant hazards associated with our operations. The consequences of poor process safety are 
well documented on a multitude of historical industrial disasters, for example Union Carbide in Bhopal and BP in Texas City, which not 
only led to many fatalities, but also significant harm to the environment and lasting material damage to the companies involved and 
their reputations. The moral obligation alone that every company has in this area is indisputable and one that we have always committed 
significant time and resource to managing.
Occupational health & safety  
No one should expect to be injured when they work at any of our manufacturing sites or offices. In addition to this moral obligation, the 
cost to the business of an unsafe workplace can be enormous in terms of fines, compensation for injury, loss of production and loss of 
reputation. High workplace injury rates are often symptomatic of poor general management practices and they do not signal a sustainable 
business.
1
2
1
2
3
Employees
Recruitment & retention  
Like all successful businesses, we recognise that our future depends on our ability to attract and retain individuals who are passionate 
about personal and business growth and want to make a significant contribution to the future of our business. Recruiting individuals that 
fit this description and the culture of the business is always hard, but within the chemical industry it is increasingly a problem with a high 
level of competition for a decreasing number of graduates. As our business is focused on innovation and growth in emerging markets and 
developing countries, this challenge increases further. 
1
Responsible sourcing
Renewable raw materials  
The developing world is increasing its reliance on oil and other non-renewable material sources; it is clear that these resources are being 
depleted and the environment cannot support current production levels in the future. To ensure that we can continue to make the products 
that our customers require, we are committed to developing and manufacturing high performance products from renewable raw materials 
wherever reasonably practicable.
Responsible Palm Oil sourcing 
As the demand for Palm Oil (PO) and Palm Kernel Oil (PKO) continues to grow, primarily for inclusion in food, it becomes ever more 
important that it is sourced sustainably. Whilst we use extremely small volumes of the actual PO, a number of our products do include 
derivatives that are a result of processing the oil for food markets. The supply chain of derivatives is very complex due to the number of 
different producers involved. However, through our involvement with the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) we are determined 
to do what we can to bring about change to secure a sustainable supply of derivatives.
Product data gathering   
In order to ensure that we can continue to manufacture our products and to look for opportunities to enhance their environmental profile, 
it is very important to the Company and its stakeholders that we have an extensive amount of data to hand on the products we make. This 
data goes beyond what is required for regulatory purposes, to build a detailed picture of the sourcing of each raw material used to make 
our products and the impact those products have on the environment from origin to final use.
1
2
3
To enable the Group to take meaningful action against each of the material issues identified, it is important that we are able 
to define each issue and explain why it is material in terms that are clear to our stakeholders, both internal and external. In 
the following tables, we seek to do just that.
Sustainability 15
Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Community
Community communication  
Operating ethically means being aware of the impact a business has and acting responsibly within the communities in which it is located 
and where its employees live. This can only be achieved through open dialogue with the community. The relationship we have with our 
local communities is extremely important to us. We take pride in ensuring that we keep our neighbours informed of activities that are 
planned to take place at our manufacturing sites and other key locations where health and safety is of paramount importance. As our 
business grows, it is vital that we develop and maintain a supportive external environment, as well as a strong brand and reputation. This 
will continue to reinforce our Company culture, which has community awareness and activity at its heart.
Community involvement   
Putting talk into action is the true way of demonstrating a company’s commitment to their communities. Our Company culture is such that 
we have the capability to be both proactive and reactive to community needs and we have the motivation to make a positive impact in 
the communities in which we operate.
The morale of our employees is enhanced by the goodwill that is created through community involvement. 
It is also very important to our business that we use this activity as an opportunity for personal and team development.
Community education   
For any business operating in very specialist markets it is essential to raise awareness of the opportunities it offers and the skills it needs 
by educating future generations. Our rich scientific heritage and our strategic reliance on delivering market led innovation mean we must 
ensure that we play our part in developing scientists, technologists and engineers. By developing a strong external educational platform to 
engage with potential employees in these areas, we will also enhance our image and reputation, thus helping us to recruit appropriately 
educated people who will support our future technical activities.
Corporate stakeholders
Corporate stakeholder engagement 
For any company to be successful it cannot work in isolation; it must consider and take necessary action to meet the needs and 
expectations of its stakeholders. Our key corporate stakeholders are our customers, investors, suppliers and Non-Governmental 
Organisations (NGOs). We have always been committed to working with these stakeholder groups and have long standing relationships 
with them as we understand their importance to our success. We now want to deepen our understanding of these groups, particularly in 
relation to their key sustainability issues, as what will affect them will also have an impact on us.
Ethical supply chain  
It is the responsibility of all companies to act ethically, but standards can differ from one business to the next. At Croda, we apply the 
same high ethical and sustainability standards across all operations. Our suppliers are a critical part of our business and we believe that 
they should operate to the same standards as we do. With increasing consumer awareness and customer demands in this area, we have 
to work even more closely with all suppliers.
Employees
Compensation & benefits  
In a competitive recruitment marketplace we are conscious that we should not lose critical staff because of issues relating to pay or 
additional benefits. We realise that the remuneration package we offer plays a key part in attracting and retaining employees.
HR policies & systems  
Information and knowledge sharing are at the heart of making better business decisions. Streamlined systems and policies not only 
provide the data and trends on which to base decisions, but will in turn drive employee engagement.We believe that well defined policies 
and procedures allow our employees to operate without constant management intervention. It is this autonomy and freedom to act that 
has made our business what it is today. 
Talent management & employee development 
The key to the future success of any business lies in the skills and abilities of its workforce. It is only through the continual development 
of our workforce that we will be able to meet the future demands of our customers in relation to enhanced creativity, innovation and 
customer service. 
Being a business dependent upon a large number of specialists including engineers and scientists as well as finance, IT, HR, marketing, 
purchasing, sales, regulatory and legal professionals we have to place great focus on continuous development.
Performance management  
A strong, efficient performance management culture is not only important to employees’ professional development, but also to meet 
the Company’s objectives and so ultimately contributing to its bottom line. In addition, a clear, robust process will lead to enhanced 
communications and an opportunity to address performance problems effectively, thus delivering improvements in employee morale. 
2
3
4
5
1
2
2
3
1
We continue to evaluate these issues carefully to ensure they remain the Group’s most material sustainability issues. As 
outlined in the Chief Executive’s statement on page 12, identifying and succinctly defining the issues is only the first step. 
Performance targets supported by a robust management approach then need to be established for each material issue, 
followed up with ongoing monitoring and regular reporting of performance.
In the sections that follow, we discuss some of the material issues from each of the key areas in a little more detail to 
illustrate the work we have been doing on establishing targets, monitoring and reporting performance and thereby making a 
tangible difference, both inside and outside the business. 16
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Air Quality & Climate Change
Strategy 
At Croda, we have now carefully 
measured emissions of gases 
implicated in climate change for more 
than 15 years and have consistently 
set targets for reduction. Increasingly 
demanding targets have been set for 
2015 by our Group Executive Committee 
under the guidance of the SHE Steering 
Committee. To ensure actions can be 
taken to bring about change, all major 
SHE targets are set over a five year time 
period. A strategy for further significant 
change beyond 2015 is already in place. 
It is the responsibility of all 
manufacturing site directors to 
implement improvements in both 
plant and operational practices, 
which contribute to a reduction in the 
amount of CO
2
 and other greenhouse 
gases produced. Our Group Executive 
Committee will continue to support 
this through the approval of relevant 
capital expenditure, which will also 
include activities at our offices where 
appropriate. 
2011 Performance 
In 2011, compared to our 2010 
baseline year, energy consumption 
was reduced by 4.9%. This was due to 
the implementation of a large number 
of energy saving projects across the 
Group. An additional contributing factor 
was a reduction in production volume 
during the year, so the challenge will 
be to maintain the reduction in energy 
consumption sustainably as production 
volumes increase, to ensure that we 
reach our 2015 target.
Some progress was made towards our 
target of 25% energy from non-fossil 
sources, up from 13.3% to 14.5% by 
the end of 2011. However, projects are 
in hand to make significant progress 
towards this target in the next two 
years.  
VOC emissions fell by 8.8% from the 
2010 baseline to 280 tonnes. Improved 
process control and a slight reduction 
in production volumes both contributed 
to this improvement. The sustainability 
of the improvement will be checked in 
2012.
The Future
A pilot Site Energy Audit is planned 
for 2012, paving the way for 
further detailed energy audits at all 
manufacturing sites in line with our 
strategic approach.
Major projects on energy sourcing are 
expected to start delivering an increase 
in non-fossil sourced energy in 2012 
and further process optimisation is 
expected to deliver more reductions in 
VOC emissions in the period up to 2015.
 
2011 Targets
l	 Based on 2010, reduce total  
 Group energy consumption by 
 5% by 2015.
l	 To have 25% of the Group’s  
 total energy requirements 
  generated from non-fossil fuel  
 sources by 2015.
l	 Based on 2010, reduce total  
 Group VOC emissions by 10%  
 by 2015.
Our North American operations have 
completed a number of projects in 2011 
to reduce energy consumption. Our Edison 
office launched their 305 kilowatt solar 
energy system in July 2011. The first of 
its type at any of our operations, the 
system is expected to provide more than 
50% of the power required to run the 
facility, which is approximately equivalent 
to powering 42 average sized homes, 
removing 47 cars from the road or saving 
over 100,000 litres of petrol each year. Our 
Atlas Point manufacturing site installed LED 
lighting fixtures that use 50% less energy, 
whilst improving the quality of light for 
operators and reducing maintenance costs 
due to the LED’S 10 year lifespan.
The installation of in line drying 
vessels at our Rawcliffe Bridge 
manufacturing site in the UK is 
part of ongoing capital investment, 
improved management and 
equipment optimisation that will 
significantly reduce VOC emissions. 
Over the past 10 years, the site has 
reduced emissions by 36%. The 
latest investments will see a further 
20% reduction with additional novel 
technology expected to deliver 
further improvements in the  
coming years. 
Sustainability
2007
Total energy usage for continuing operations by year
Energy/TJ
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
2008 2009 2010 2011 17
Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Renewable Raw Materials
Strategy 
At Croda, we have a history of using 
renewable raw materials in our 
products wherever possible, with 
sustainability being embedded in our 
product innovations since we launched 
our very first product, lanolin. 
Our research scientists work with our 
marketing teams to determine the 
market opportunities early in the new 
product screening and development 
phase; this includes consideration to 
the origin of the raw material used 
in terms of safety and environmental 
impact. Underpinning this process is 
our adoption of the 12 Principles of 
Green Chemistry, where our scientists 
ensure our products meet as many of 
these principles as practically possible, 
therefore ensuring that our products 
have the most minimal impact on 
health and the environment. The 
challenge is meeting the demands 
for green and safe products, whilst 
maintaining competitive product 
performance and functionality.
2011 Performance 
In 2011, 65% of the raw materials 
used within all of the products we 
manufactured across the Group were 
from renewable resources. Although 
this figure has decreased by 3% 
compared to 2010, largely due to 
changes in product mix, it is still a high 
percentage for the chemicals industry 
and it sets us apart from our peers. 
In 2011, we monitored the percentage 
of all new products launched based 
solely on renewable raw materials and 
found this figure to be 32%, whilst 
the average percentage of renewable 
raw material content in all of the 
products we launched in 2011 was 
higher at 58%. It is also encouraging 
to see that in Personal Care and 
Coatings & Polymers this figure is 
significantly higher. An example of a 
100% renewable product launch in 
2011 is NatraGem™ S150 NP , a natural 
solubiliser for active ingredients. 
The Future
We shall remain committed to 
developing new products based on 
as high a proportion of renewable 
raw materials as possible and assess 
each new product according to the 12 
Principles of Green Chemistry.
2011 Targets
l	 In 2011, to use the ERP based  
 system to record a baseline  
 measurement of the number  
 of new products developed 
  based solely on renewable  
 raw materials.
l	 In 2011, to use the ERP based  
 system to record a baseline  
 measurement of the total  
 volume (tonnes) of products 
 sold based solely on   
 renewable raw materials.
Our French research and development 
and manufacturing operation, Sederma, 
took on the challenge of developing 
natural molecules for the cosmetic 
industry without causing any damage 
to the environment using Plant Cell 
Biotechnology. This technology uses 
plant cells to produce a range of natural 
molecules with unique performance 
characteristics. Culturing these cells 
has a number of benefits, but the most 
significant is the preservation of the 
environment as the process can start 
from a very small fragment of plant leaf 
or root. The culturing of plant cells does 
not require fertilisers, pesticides or land 
use and can be done any time of the 
year. In 2011, Sederma launched the 
first product using this new technology. 
Resistem™ is an active cosmetic 
ingredient that helps the skin to protect 
and regenerate itself to build its own 
anti-ageing defence system.
The speciality chemical industry 
is fast moving away from using 
depleting resources and energy 
intensive, environmentally 
compromising processes. The focus 
is on sustainable raw materials 
and greener, cleaner and safer 
manufacturing methods. With 
our heritage in naturally derived 
products, we are at the forefront of 
this evolution. 
It was biotechnology that stood 
out to us amongst the array of 
approaches to achieving sustainable 
product design. It is a path offering 
many promising opportunities 
in the future, which is why we 
have dramatically expanded our 
investment in the research and 
development and manufacture 
of these products at our Ditton 
manufacturing site in the UK. 
In 2011, we published a Whitepaper 
called “Biotechnology and its role 
in Sustainable Design”, which was 
a technical article describing this 
field of science and our desire to 
incorporate its capabilities into our 
core technologies. 
  18
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Sustainability
2011 Targets
l	 All regions to complete an  
 employee engagement survey  
 by the end of 2011. 
l	 On a global basis, to maintain  
 average voluntary turnover at  
 less than 10% in 2011. 
l	 Every Croda manufacturing  
 site to hold a minimum two 
 employee communications  
 sessions in 2011.
Our European graduate recruitment programme has gone from strength to 
strength over the past three years and now sees an average of 15 graduates per 
annum recruited into one of our four schemes that enable us to focus their future 
development on areas of the business where we need the skills, namely engineering, 
technical, operations and commercial.
Recruitment & Retention
Strategy 
It is only through robust, effective and 
stringent recruitment processes that we 
can ensure we have the best possible 
starting point from which to develop 
the right leaders and specialists for the 
future of our business. 
Our internally developed and delivered 
leadership and succession processes 
can only be effective if the raw talent is 
there to start with across all functions. 
Through our global competency 
framework we can ensure recruitment 
practices across the Group identify the 
people with the right skills, knowledge 
and aptitude, but more importantly 
the behaviours and attitudes that will 
make them, and in turn our business, a 
success. 
It is then, by listening to our employees 
through surveys, appraisals, consultation 
committees and communication 
sessions the world over that we can 
ensure the investment we make in 
recruitment pays off. Understanding 
our employees’ needs, aspirations and 
opinions will ensure we continually 
develop a retention strategy that works 
for our business.
To support our developing regions 
of Latin America and Asia we are 
now taking the expertise we have in 
graduate recruitment, selection and 
development in our mature markets of 
North America and Europe and utilising 
it in these developing markets. This 
will ensure we maintain the quality 
and supply of future leaders across our 
business.
During 2011 our Latin American 
division introduced health 
assessments for all employees 
regardless of service or position 
within this business. In a region 
where health care is not easily 
accessed by everyone due to its 
high cost this is a significant benefit. 
99% of employees in the regions 
took up the offer, which included 
examinations for hearing, vision, 
cardiovascular risk and nutritional 
advice. 19
Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
2011 Performance 
Our 2011 graduate recruitment 
programme saw 24 new employees 
join in the UK, France, Spain, North 
America, China, India and Singapore. 
These individuals were all carefully 
selected using our robust recruitment 
processes and join a growing body of 
Croda graduates dating back over 20 
years. 
For the past three years graduates from 
India, Singapore and more recently 
China have taken part in training and 
development activities in the UK with 
the European graduates. The success 
of these residential programmes in 
developing key skills and retaining 
these key individuals for the Asian 
business has led us to develop an Asian 
graduate programme during 2011. 
Regarding retention performance, all 
1,900 of our European employees were 
invited to take part in the region’s first 
ever engagement survey. The focus of 
the questions was based on the Croda 
Vision and had two main goals. Firstly 
to give us a measure of the level of 
employee engagement across Europe, 
and secondly to show us where we are 
doing well and also where we need to 
improve. We achieved a 62% response 
rate across our European operations and 
the results showed us that engagement 
levels in Europe are exceptionally high.
The Future
The global HR strategy has provided the 
business with a clear framework of the 
areas on which we need to focus. 
In relation to recruitment and retention, 
we will ensure that by the end of 2013 
emerging markets have a programme 
of regional graduate and trainee 
recruitment to support future business 
needs. Building on our experiences in 
Asia, we will utilise this knowledge 
and expertise to develop a programme 
suitable to the Latin American market.  
Building on the success of our European 
employee satisfaction survey, and those 
that have taken place in the other 
regions in which we operate in previous 
years, we will complete one global 
employee engagement survey in 2014. 
This survey will then be conducted at 
least every three years.  
Testimonial: Martin Lim, Graduate 
Trainee, Croda Singapore 
The 2010 Graduate Programme 
was a first for Croda Singapore and 
thankfully I had the opportunity to 
be part of the pioneer batch. 
The two year programme was 
structured to give us exposure 
to different functions by rotating 
through three or four roles, 
which ensured we gained 
varied experience and a good 
understanding of day to day 
operations. We also took part in 
residential training events and had 
individual mentoring sessions with 
a senior manager to support our 
development. 
I am now on my last placement in 
sales and already I can look back 
on my previous sales and customer 
care roles and see that the Graduate 
Programme has many benefits in 
several areas. Job rotation has given 
me a broad understanding of the 
business and first-hand experience 
of different roles. Mentoring 
accelerated my development as I 
gained different perspectives and 
had timely advice along the way. 
The overseas training opportunities 
and a wide variety of special work 
assignments expanded my horizons 
and allowed me to build important 
relationships across the Group, all 
of which I hope will allow me to 
contribute to the future success of 
Croda. 
During July 2011, all employees in 
Europe were invited to take part in an 
employee engagement survey.
Key results of the survey were:
l	 62% overall response rate; 
l	 96% of respondents stated that they  
 get personal satisfaction from doing  
 their job well;  
l	 87% of respondents agree that  
 Croda is an ethical and responsible  
 company; 
l	 83% of respondents would refer  
 Croda to a friend as a good place to  
 work; 
l	 81% of respondents are committed  
 to a long term career with Croda; and 
l	 The three key areas of action are 
  career management, reward and  
 recognition and communication. 20
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Corporate Stakeholder 
Engagement
Strategy 
We aim to maintain ongoing and 
regular engagement with all our 
corporate stakeholders in face to face 
meetings and via specially designed 
surveys. We will engage with our major 
customers, investors and suppliers on 
all aspects of sustainability, particularly 
concentrating on the issues that most 
affect them. Our goal is to gain an 
understanding of the key sustainability 
issues that are of concern to our key 
corporate stakeholders, so that we 
can constantly aspire to meet their 
sustainability expectations. 
2011 Performance 
To obtain feedback on the material 
sustainability issues from our top 
50 customers we conducted an 
online survey. The survey was future 
focused and aimed to go beyond any 
current formal requirements within 
our customers’ supplier code. The 
customers contacted came from many 
different industries and questions 
included: factors that influence the 
choice of raw material, environmental 
concerns, employees, labour standards, 
neighbours and business ethics and 
standards.
Preliminary analysis of the survey is 
providing confirmation of the areas 
that are material to our customers and 
giving a deeper insight into what may 
be more material in the future. 
During 2011, we also started to 
engage face to face with investors on 
sustainability issues and we saw an 
increasing level of enquiries from this 
stakeholder group.
The Future
In 2012, we will further engage with 
many of the customers who responded 
to our 2011 customer survey to discuss 
the key sustainability issues facing 
their organisations and understand 
how we might be able to work more 
closely together. A wider survey of 
our customers will also be conducted 
to include the key customers in each 
region across all market sectors. 
In response to the growing number of 
enquiries from investors, as they seek 
confirmation that they are investing in 
sustainable companies, we will formally 
engage with our investor community 
to gain feedback on our sustainability 
performance.
Sustainability
2011 Targets
l	 In 2011, we will conduct a  
 formal survey of our top 50 
  customers across all market  
 sectors.
Our Atlas Point manufacturing site in 
North America completed two projects 
to reduce electricity consumption in 
2011, with the combined annual saving 
expected to be approximately £120,000. 
The first was the installation of LED 
lighting fixtures that use 50% less energy, 
whilst improving the quality of light for 
operators and reducing maintenance 
costs due to their 10 year lifespan. 
The second investment was a system 
that automatically adjusts temperature 
and lighting when the buildings are 
unoccupied. 
In 2010, we launched Solaveil™ SpeXtra, a 
novel titanium dioxide dispersion offering 
protection against both UVA and UVB 
radiation, for which we were presented 
with the “Best New Technology” Award by 
Cosmetics & Toiletries in 2011. 
Following the long awaited F.D.A Final Rule 
on sunscreen labelling and effectiveness 
testing in 2011, we have been able to 
provide consumers all over the world with 
clear guidance on broad spectrum UV 
protection, which Solaveil SpeXtra provides. 
To support this activity, we launched a 
Solaveil Physical Shield campaign, which 
is a marketing initiative to support our 
customers’ products by communicating the 
superior quality, performance and reliability 
of Solaveil UV actives, as well as the proven 
safety and mildness of inorganic sunscreens. 
An integral part of this promotion is the 
educational website, www.solaveil.com, 
which provides information for the 
general public about the importance of UV 
protection, an SPF guidance tool, details 
on the science behind our UV actives and 
advice on where they can find personal care 
products containing Solaveil.  21
Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Community Involvement
Strategy 
Our involvement in the local community 
aims to deliver against a broad array 
of objectives. Firstly, it satisfies our 
corporate desire “to do the right 
thing”, ensuring that we invest in 
our communities and play our part 
in ensuring they are appropriately 
supported. Secondly, it is a great way 
to motivate employees, helping them 
to feel that they are part of a business 
that values the communities in which it 
operates.
We believe that the 1% Club will 
continue to play a significant role 
in meeting many of our employee 
development targets, and will 
continue to be a means by which 
we can illustrate our commitment to 
community involvement.
2011 Performance
All manufacturing sites and offices 
completed a stakeholder audit and 
developed at least one project as a 
result of community engagement.
In 2011, our employees have spent 
4,679 hours in their local community, 
significantly exceeding the 2,021 
hours invested in 2010. The number of 
employees using four or more hours 
of 1% Club time was 488 (15.2% of 
Group). 
Even more satisfying is that a total of 
684 (21.3% of Group) employees took 
part in 1% Club activities during 2011, 
compared to 9.3% in 2010.
The Future
The 1% Club has proven to be 
extremely successful in allowing 
our employees to contribute to the 
community, and to express their 
passion for the good causes affecting 
the lives of those in the areas in 
which we live and work. In every 
measurement of performance, including 
breadth and quantity of involvement 
by our employees, the level of impact 
delivered by our personnel is fantastic. 
It is our belief that developing both 
the quality and quantity of this activity 
will continue to deliver benefits for our 
business in terms of staff motivation 
and personnel development, whilst 
developing quality links with our 
neighbours. 
As such we will continue to challenge 
our level of activity in terms of 
community engagement and will 
look to further increase activity levels 
against those delivered in 2011.
2011 Targets
l	 All operations of >30   
employees to undertake an 
audit of key local stakeholder 
needs and develop at least 
one project in line with   
both business and stakeholder 
requirements.
l	 In 2011, to continue   
monitoring 1% Club activity, 
aiming to increase the total 
time (hours) spent in the   
community by 20% based 
on 2010 figures.
l	 To increase the number of 
individuals in the Group using 
at least one half day of 1% 
Club time over 12 months to 
15% of the global workforce.
At a number of our global conferences in 2011, delegates focused their team building 
activities on taking part in 1% Club activity near where the conferences were held. 
At the sales conference in Latin America, 81 employees spent half a day conducting 
extensive repairs and redecoration at a local school, Escuela Veron in Punta Cana, 
Dominican Republic. The internal and external improvements to the school were very 
much appreciated by the students and teachers.
The employees that took part also found the experience very fulfilling. Andres Rey 
from Croda Miami said; “This was a first for Punta Cana and certainly impressed  
the local community. The whole team got involved and we have left a legacy that we 
are all proud of”.
2009  2.8%
6,000 2,000
4,000
0 hours
2010  9.3%
2011  21.3%
Total 1% Club hours worked in the community and 
percentage of employees accessing the scheme
Total 1% Club hours worked in the community and 
percentage of employees accessing the scheme
Total 1% Club hours worked in the community and 
0 hours
More detail on the Group’s approach 
to Sustainability, including additional 
information with regard to each 
of our material issues, can be 
found in the accompanying 2011 
Sustainability Report or online at 
www.croda.com/csr. Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
22
Martin Flower  
Non-executive Chairman  
Martin Flower was appointed 
to the Croda Board in May 
2005 and became Chairman 
at the end of September 
2005. He is chairman of the 
Nomination Committee and a 
member of the Remuneration 
Committee. He formerly 
held various senior executive 
positions over 36 years with 
Coats plc, culminating in a 
period as Chairman before 
his retirement in 2004, and 
he was Deputy Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director 
of Severn Trent Plc until June 
2006. In 2010 he retired as 
Chairman of Autogrill Holdings 
UK Plc (formerly Alpha Group 
Plc). He is currently a non-
executive director of The 
Morgan Crucible Company plc 
and is Chairman of Low &  
Bonar PLC. 
Steve Foots 
Group Chief Executive 
Steve Foots was appointed to 
the Croda Board in July 2010 
and became Group Chief 
Executive at the beginning of 
2012. Steve joined Croda as a 
graduate trainee in 1990 and 
has held a number of senior 
management positions in the 
Group, becoming President 
of Croda Europe in July 2010. 
Steve has been a member 
of Croda’s Group Executive 
Committee since January 
2007. He is a member of the 
Nomination Committee.
Sean Christie  
Group Finance Director  
Sean Christie was appointed 
to the Croda Board as Group 
Finance Director in April 2006. 
He previously held a number 
of senior finance positions in 
Northern Foods Plc and was 
Group Finance Director from 
1996 to 2004. He was a non-
executive director of KCOM 
Group plc for eight years until 
2007 and a non-executive 
director of Cherry Valley 
Farms Ltd from 2006 until the 
company was sold in 2010.
Keith Layden  
Chief Technology Officer 
Keith Layden was appointed 
to the Croda Board in the 
new role of Chief Technology 
Officer on 6 February 2012. He 
joined Croda in 1984 and since 
2004 has been President of 
Croda’s Enterprise Technology 
and Actives businesses. Prior 
to this he held a number of 
Managing Director roles across 
Croda’s European business. 
He currently represents Croda 
as a member of the advisory 
board for chemistry at the 
Universities of Newcastle, 
Nottingham and York and is 
a member of the Innovation 
Strategy Board for Chemistry 
Innovation and the Industrial 
Biotechnology Leadership 
Forum.
Board of directors 23
Directors’ report | Governance Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Business review
Stanley Musesengwa* 
Independent non-executive 
director 
Stanley Musesengwa joined 
the Tate & Lyle Group in 1979 
as a refinery manager and 
subsequently performed a 
number of different roles 
in Africa, before becoming 
Regional Director, Tate & Lyle 
Africa in 1995. In December 
1999 he was appointed Chief 
Executive Officer of Tate & Lyle 
Europe. He was appointed to 
the Tate & Lyle Board in April 
2003 and took up the position 
of Chief Operating Officer on  
1 May 2003 until his 
retirement in 2008. He joined 
the Croda Board in May 
2007 and was appointed 
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee in 2009. 
Nigel Turner* 
Senior Independent  
non-executive director
Nigel Turner joined the Croda 
Board in June 2009 and was 
appointed Senior Independent 
Director in August 2011. He 
has over 35 years experience 
in corporate finance and 
was the Chairman of Numis 
Securities Ltd and Deputy 
Chairman of Numis Corporation 
plc from December 2005 until 
his retirement in November 
2007. From 2000 until 2005 he 
was with ABN AMRO following 
fifteen years with Lazard 
Brothers in London where he 
was Managing Director and 
a member of the Supervisory 
Board of the Lazard Group. 
Nigel has been the Senior 
Independent Director of Genus 
plc since 2008.
Steve Williams* 
Independent non-executive 
director
Steve Williams joined the 
Croda Board in July 2010 as a 
non-executive director. Steve 
was General Counsel and Chief 
Legal Officer of Unilever plc 
and Unilever NV from 1986 
until 2010. Prior to this he 
spent 11 years at Imperial 
Chemical Industries PLC as 
a commercial lawyer and 
Assistant Secretary. From 1995 
until 2004 he was a non-
executive director of Bunzl plc. 
From 2004 until 2010 he was 
Senior Independent Director of 
Arriva plc. Since 2008 he has 
been a non-executive director 
of Whitbread PLC, where he is 
also the Senior Independent 
Director. In addition, Steve is 
a director of Eversheds LLP , 
an international law firm, and 
a senior advisor to Spencer 
Stuart LLP . He is Chairman of 
the De La Warr Pavilion Trust 
and a member of the Board of 
the Leverhulme Trust. 
Alan Ferguson*  
Independent non-executive 
director
Alan Ferguson joined the 
Croda Board in July 2011 as 
a non-executive director and 
was appointed Chairman 
of the Audit Committee in 
August 2011. Alan was Chief 
Financial Officer and a director 
of Lonmin Plc until December 
2010. Prior to that he was 
Group Finance Director of 
The BOC Group until it was 
acquired by the Linde Group 
in 2006. Before then he spent 
22 years in a variety of roles 
at Inchcape plc, including 
six years as Group Finance 
Director from 1999. Alan is a 
Chartered Accountant and has 
been a non-executive director 
of Johnson Matthey PLC since 
January 2011. In December 
2011 Alan was appointed as a 
non-executive director of The 
Weir Group PLC.
* Member of Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination committees 24
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Corporate governance
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and to complying with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the “Code”) where practicable. This report, together with the directors’ remuneration report, set out on pages 30 to 42, describes how 
the relevant principles of governance set out in the Code have been applied by the Company. 
Compliance
The information contained in this report demonstrates that, throughout 2011, the Company has complied fully with all relevant provisions 
set out in the Code. 
On pages 4 to 7 of the Chief Executive’s review we provide an explanation of the Group’s business model and the basis on which the Group 
generates value over the long term and the strategy for meeting our corporate objectives.
The Board
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the overall leadership of the Company and in this role it assists in the development of a clear 
strategy for the Group, monitors operational and financial performance against agreed goals and objectives and ensures that appropriate 
controls and systems are in place to manage risk. It has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it and this is posted on the 
Company’s website (www.croda.com). At the date of this report the Board comprises the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group 
Finance Director, the Chief Technology Officer and four independent non-executive directors who have a range of business, financial and 
international skills and experience. This provides an appropriate balance within the Board. Biographical notes appear on pages 22 and 23. 
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive have written accountabilities that have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman and non-executive directors meet together without the executive directors present on an ad hoc basis and the non-executive 
directors meet at least annually in the absence of the Chairman in order to appraise his performance. In addition to formal Board meetings, 
the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive meet on a regular basis. 
All members of the Board have full access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary. Where necessary the directors may take 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense. Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities 
incurred as a result of their positions to the extent permitted by law. In addition the Company maintained directors’ and officers’ liability 
insurance cover throughout the year.
Training and briefings are available to all directors on appointment and subsequently, as appropriate, taking into account their existing 
experience, qualifications and skills. In order to build and increase the non-executive directors’ familiarity with, and understanding of, the 
Group’s people and businesses and the markets in which it operates. Presentations from senior managers are made at Board meetings 
on a regular basis. The Board also usually holds at least one Board meeting a year at a Croda operating site. In September the Board held 
its meeting in Brazil during a visit to our manufacturing site at Campinas. Earlier in the year the Board also visited the Rawcliffe Bridge 
manufacturing site in the UK. These visits allow the non-executives to tour the sites and observe the operations at first hand as well as 
providing the opportunity to meet the local management and employees and gain their insight into the business. Non-executive directors 
also undertake site visits on an individual basis. 
Attendance at meetings
Details of the attendance by directors at meetings of the Board and the Board committees on which they are eligible to sit are set out 
below:
† Attended by invitation
In addition to the formal Board meetings, all the directors attended a half day meeting to review the Group’s strategy and attended the 
Annual General Meeting. They also met with the Company’s financial and public relations advisers to discuss the feedback from investors 
and analysts on the Group’s 2010 annual results.
Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee
Eligible  
to attend Attended
Eligible  
to attend Attended
Eligible  
to attend Attended
Eligible  
to attend Attended
M C Flower 10 10 3 3 5 5 – 3†
M C Buzzacott  
(retired 1 August 2011) 7 7 2 2 3 3 2 2
A M Ferguson  
(appointed 1 July 2011) 4 4 1 1 3 3 2 2
S Musesengwa 10 10 3 3 5 5 3 3
P N N Turner 10 10 3 3 5 5 3 3
S G Williams 10 9 3 3 5 4 3 2
M Humphrey 10 10 3 3 – 5† – 3†
M S Christie 10 10 – – – – – 3†
S E Foots 10 10 – – – – – 3† 25
Directors’ report | Governance Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Business review
Re-election of directors
The Company’s Articles of Association require the directors to offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years and for 
newly appointed directors to offer themselves for election at the first annual general meeting (“AGM”) after the date of their appointment. 
However, the Board is observing the recommendation set out in the Code requiring directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual 
election and so all the directors will be standing for election. Following individual performance assessments, the Board is satisfied that each 
director continues to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to the role. Further details about the directors are given in the notice 
of the AGM which is in a separate document issued to shareholders with the annual report. 
Conflicts of interest
The Board has an established process for declaring and monitoring actual and potential conflicts. The Articles of Association of the Company 
allow the non-conflicted members of the Board to authorise a conflict or potential conflict situation. No conflicts were identified or 
authorised during the year.
Non-executive directors 
Croda complies with the Code in having experienced non-executive directors who represent a source of strong independent advice and 
judgement. At present there are five such directors, including the Chairman and the Senior Independent director, Nigel Turner, each of 
whom has significant commercial experience. Their understanding of the Group’s operations is enhanced by regular business presentations 
and by site visits.
The independence of the non-executive directors is kept under review. The non-executive Chairman was independent on his appointment 
in 2005 but, as Chairman, is not classified as independent. From January 2011, until his retirement in August 2011, Mike Buzzacott served 
alongside Nigel Turner as a non-executive director of Genus Plc, a company which has no other connection with Croda’s business. Steve 
Williams has a consultancy role with Eversheds LLP , which provides some legal services to the Group. The Board does not consider that these 
roles would affect the directors’ judgement in relation to Croda and its business and, therefore, it is the Board’s opinion that all the non-
executive directors who have served during the year are independent in character and judgement with no relationships or circumstances 
which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
During 2011 no non-executive director or the Chairman had served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first 
election.
Details of the professional commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are included in their biographies on pages 22 and 
23. The Board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the performance of their respective duties to the Company.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors can be inspected during normal business hours at the Company’s 
registered office by contacting the Company Secretary and are available at the AGM.
Board committees
The Board has three main committees which are established by Board resolution and each has written terms of reference which can be 
found on the Company’s website.
Report of the Audit Committee 
Alan Ferguson (appointed 1 July 2011, Chairman from 1 August 2011) 
Mike Buzzacott (Chairman - retired 1 August 2011) 
Stanley Musesengwa 
Nigel Turner 
Steve Williams
The Audit Committee, which consists of all the non-executive directors other than the Chairman, meets at least three times a year to 
coincide with key dates in the Company’s financial reporting cycle. The Board is satisfied that each of the Committee members has the 
relevant experience to enable them to contribute to the Committee’s work. The Chairman, the executive directors, the Group Financial 
Controller, the Group Risk and Control Manager and representatives from the external and internal auditors attend meetings by invitation. 
The chairman of the Audit Committee holds independent meetings with the Group Risk and Control Manager and also with the external 
auditors, without the executives being present. 
The Committee’s remit is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibility for ensuring that the Group’s financial systems provide accurate and 
up to date information on its financial position and that the Group’s published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this 
position. As part of its normal responsibilities the Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Group. This includes 
reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the statements and the consistency of, and any changes to, 
accounting policies. In addition it is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and risk management 
systems including that of the Group’s internal audit function. It reviews and approves the annual internal audit plan and the key points from 
all internal audit reports across the Group, agrees the annual audit plan with the external auditors and reviews the findings of the audit and 
the interim review with the external auditors. 26
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Corporate governance
During the year the Committee Members also:
l reviewed the Group policy and strategy in relation to taxation;
l received reports and presentations concerning key specific risks identified by the Risk Management Committee;
l monitored compliance with the Group risk management programme;
l considered initial work on a review of risk strategy and processes including determination of a risk maturity profile; and
l supervised a process whereby the external auditors presented to the Board which resulted in their continued appointment. 
Audit independence
The Committee and the Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the Group’s external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”), 
in their reporting to shareholders. The PwC audit partner is present at all Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters 
relating to the audit.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and 
feedback is provided to senior members of PwC unrelated to the audit. This activity also forms part of PwC’s own system of quality control.
The scope of the forthcoming year’s audit is discussed in advance by the Audit Committee. Audit fees are reviewed by the Committee and 
then referred to the Board for approval. The rotation of audit partners’ responsibilities within PwC is required by their profession’s ethical 
standards, is actively encouraged and has taken place.
Assignments awarded to PwC are subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Audit Committee in order to ensure 
that audit independence is not compromised. The chairman of the Audit Committee is required to give prior approval of work carried out 
by PwC and its associates in excess of predetermined thresholds; part of this review is to determine that other potential providers of the 
services have been properly considered. 
As reported last year, PwC is providing advisory services in relation to the implementation of computer systems which has increased 
significantly their non-audit activities for 2011. Given the nature of these services the full Audit Committee considered and approved PwC’s 
appointment. This work, undertaken in a number of the Group’s smaller locations, will continue through 2012 into 2013 as the Group 
completes the roll out of its ERP system to the global sales network. All responsibility for the design and implementation of the ERP system 
resides with management. This includes managing the system’s operation, monitoring its internal controls and ensuring data integrity. PwC’s 
role is restricted to assessing the system’s implementation against the design criteria developed by management.
These controls provide the Committee with adequate confidence in the independence of PwC in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
Report of the Nomination Committee 
During 2011 the committee comprised:
Martin Flower (Chairman) 
Mike Buzzacott (retired 1 August 2011) 
Alan Ferguson (appointed 1 July 2011) 
Mike Humphrey (retired 31 December 2011) 
Stanley Musesengwa 
Nigel Turner 
Steve Williams
The Nomination Committee consists of the non-executive directors and the Group Chief Executive. It meets on an ad hoc basis and is 
responsible for nominating, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board and succession planning. 
During the year the Committee led the process to find a suitable successor for Mike Humphrey as Group Chief Executive. Spencer Stuart, 
an external search consultancy which Croda has employed on other Board appointment assignments, was retained to assess potential 
internal candidates and identify possible external candidates against a candidate specification developed by the Committee. After taking 
full consideration of Spencer Stuart’s findings and the perceived requirements of the Company, the Committee endorsed the nomination of 
Steve Foots. At the same time the Committee was instrumental in reaching agreement with Mike Humphrey on the terms of an orderly 
transition on his retirement.
Early in the year the Committee started the process to find a new Chairman for the Audit Committee to replace Mike Buzzacott on his 
retirement in August 2011. Spencer Stuart was retained to draw up a list of candidates. Following interviews with each Board member, the 
Committee recommended Alan Ferguson’s appointment to the Board. His experience in senior finance positions in international businesses 
was thought to be of significant benefit to the Company.
The Committee maintained its focus on succession planning and development programmes for senior employees by reviewing the progress 
of the three new Group wide leadership development programmes introduced during 2011 and the development of a new assessment 
process designed to help identify those individuals who required further development or more radical action to enable them to improve. 
The Committee carried out its customary corporate governance review and was satisfied that the size, structure and composition of the 
Board and the required time commitment from non-executive directors remained appropriate and that all the non-executive directors 
continued to fulfil the criteria of independence and were able to commit the required time for the proper performance of their duties. 27
Directors’ report | Governance Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Business review
The Board supports the principles set out in the Code regarding Board appointments and agrees that having a diverse mix of skills, 
experience and backgrounds, including gender diversity, on the Board is very important. It has considered the recommendations of the 
Davies report on “Women on Boards” and will ensure that any long list of candidates for future Board appointments includes a good 
proportion of women. However, the Board is uncomfortable with the idea of setting out the percentage of women it aims to have on the 
Croda Board, as it believes that all Board appointments should be based on merit and not on a policy of positive discrimination. Ultimately 
the best way to get women onto the Board is to increase the number of women rising to senior positions within the Company and this will 
receive increased focus as part of the Company’s own succession planning and development programmes. The Board will also keep the 
criteria for Board candidates under review to ensure that they do not inadvertently exclude particular categories of candidate.
Remuneration Committee 
Stanley Musesengwa (Chairman) 
Mike Buzzacott (retired 1 August 2011) 
Alan Ferguson (appointed 1 July 2011) 
Martin Flower  
Nigel Turner 
Steve Williams
The Remuneration Committee, which consists of the non-executive directors, is responsible for advising on remuneration policy for senior 
executives and for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors and the Chairman. The Group Chief Executive is 
normally invited to attend all its meetings.
Further details of the Committee’s activities during the year can be found in the directors’ remuneration report set out on pages 30 to 42 . A 
resolution will be proposed at the AGM to approve the report.
Board and Committee evaluation
The Board usually carries out an annual self-evaluation exercise towards the end of the financial year. In view of the changes to the 
composition of the Board as a result of the appointment of a new non-executive director in July and the impending change of Group Chief 
Executive at the year end, the Board took the decision to defer such an exercise until 2012. It was felt that greater value would be obtained 
from carrying out a more formal review during 2012 once the new Board had been in place for several months. Accordingly, an externally 
facilitated evaluation will take place later in the year. 
Other Committees
The management of the business is delegated by the Board to the Group Chief Executive. He utilises a series of committees to assist him in 
this task.
Group Executive Committee 
During 2011 the Committee comprised:
Mike Humphrey (Chairman) - Group Chief Executive  
Steve Foots - President – Europe  
Sean Christie - Group Finance Director 
David Barraclough - President – Asia Pacific 
Miguel De Bellis - President – Latin America 
Kevin Gallagher - President – North America 
Keith Layden - President – Actives & Enterprise Technology 
Kevin Nutbrown - President – Global Operations 
Louise Scott - Company Secretary & Legal Counsel
Steve Foots became Chairman of the Committee following Mike Humphrey’s retirement on 31 December 2011. On 6 February 2012 
he relinquished his role as President, Europe and the European business was divided into two areas under the leadership of Sandra 
Breene, President – Consumer Care Europe and Maarten Heybroek, President – Performance Technologies & Industrial Chemicals Europe. 
Consequently, both have joined the Group Executive Committee. The Committee meets quarterly and its remit is responsibility for the 
development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets, the monitoring of operating and financial 
performance, the assessment and control of risk and the prioritisation and allocation of resources. 
Finance Committee
The Finance Committee meets monthly to review operating results, identify operational and risk issues and examine capital expenditure 
proposals. During 2011 the members were:
Mike Humphrey (Chairman) - Group Chief Executive 
Sean Christie - Group Finance Director 
Graham Myers - Group Financial Controller/Treasurer  
Kevin Nutbrown - President – Global Operations
Since the year end Steve Foots has assumed the chairmanship of the Committee. The other members of the Group Executive Committee are 
invited to attend all meetings of the Finance Committee.  28
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Corporate governance
Risk Management Committee
During 2011 the Committee comprised:
Sean Christie (Chairman) – Group Finance Director 
David Barraclough - President – Asia Pacific 
Miguel De Bellis - President – Latin America 
Steve Foots - President – Europe 
Kevin Gallagher - President – North America 
Keith Layden - President – Actives & Enterprise Technology 
Graham Myers - Group Financial Controller/Treasurer  
Kevin Nutbrown - President – Global Operations 
Louise Scott - Company Secretary & Legal Counsel
Steve Foots is no longer a member of the Committee since becoming Group Chief Executive on 1 January 2012. The Committee’s role is to 
evaluate, propose policies and monitor processes to control the business, operational and compliance risks faced by the Group. It normally 
meets four times a year. 
Group SHE Steering Committee
The Group also operates a Safety, Health and Environment (“SHE”) Steering Committee which is chaired by Kevin Nutbrown, President – 
Global Operations and comprises the heads of regional businesses, operational functions and the VP Group SHE. It meets quarterly and 
monitors progress against the Group SHE objectives and targets, reviews safety performance and determines the requirement for new or 
revised SHE policies, procedures and objectives.
Routine Business Committee 
The Routine Business Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director with the Company Secretary and 
Group Financial Controller acting as alternates. The Committee may make decisions with one executive director and the alternate for the 
other executive director being present. It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of 
which have been agreed previously by the Board or the Group Executive Committee. 
Investor relations
The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders. The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director 
maintain regular contact with major shareholders and they ensure that their views are communicated to the Board as a whole through 
the reporting of feedback from shareholder meetings and the provision of brokers’ reports. The Board invites the Company’s brokers and 
financial public relations advisers to attend at least one meeting each year at which the economic and investment environment, Croda’s 
performance, both generally and in comparison with its sector peers, and investor reaction are discussed. The Senior Independent director 
and other non-executive directors are available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested, however no such meetings were 
requested during the year.
The AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders to raise questions with the members of the Board. The directors are also available 
to answer questions after the meeting in a more informal setting. The annual report, including notice of AGM, is sent to shareholders at 
least twenty working days before the meeting. There is a separate investor relations section on the Company’s website (www.croda.com) 
which includes, amongst other items, presentations made to analysts.
Internal control 
The Code provision C.2.1 on internal control requires the directors to conduct, at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls, and report to the shareholders that 
they have done so. In accordance with the Turnbull guidance (2005) and in order to discharge this responsibility, the directors have utilised 
an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility, and delegated authority. 
In particular there are clear procedures and defined authorities to act for: 
l capital investment, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review; 
l financial reporting, with specific internal controls and risk management systems governing the financial reporting process and preparation  
 of the annual financial statements. These systems include clear policies and procedures for ensuring that the Group’s financial reporting  
 processes and the preparation of its consolidated financial statements comply with all regulatory reporting requirements. This framework  
 is enshrined in the Group’s policy documents which set out the core business processes and accounting principles to be employed at all  
 Group companies. Compliance with the policies is ensured by regular internal reviews supplemented by focused audit work; and
l comprehensive monitoring and quantification of business risks, under the direction of the Risk Management Committee. The Group  
 co-ordinates its approach to risk management globally through its Risk Management Committee. The Committee is chaired by the Group  
 Finance Director and comprises the heads of each business unit, the Group Financial Controller and the Company Secretary. The Group Risk  
 & Control Manager attends all the meetings. Each operating site and function within the Group compiles its own risk register, highlighting  
 the key risks it faces along with the mitigating controls in place to offset the risk. These registers are reviewed and consolidated to ensure  
 there is a comprehensive view of the material risks facing the Group along with the controls in place to mitigate these risks. The Group’s  
 approach to risk management is discussed in more detail in the Financial review on pages 10 and 11 and in the Group’s separate  
 Sustainability report. 29
Directors’ report | Governance Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Business review
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and has reviewed its 
operational effectiveness throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the annual report using a process which involved:
l written confirmations from relevant senior executives and divisional directors concerning the operation of those elements of the system  
 for which they are responsible; 
l internal audit work carried out by KPMG LLP who report through the Group Risk & Control Manager to the Audit Committee; and
l reports from the external auditors. 
Such a system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable but 
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Board also, where appropriate, ensures that necessary actions have been, 
or are being, taken to remedy significant failings or weaknesses identified from the review of effectiveness of internal controls.
Going concern 
The Group’s activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief 
Executive’s review and the financial position of the Company, its cashflows and liquidity are described in the Financial review.
The financial statements, which appear on pages 48 to 97, have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate 
enquiries, including a review of forecasts, budgets and banking facilities, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and 
the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  30
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Remuneration report
Dear Shareholder
As described in the Business Review, 2011 was another outstanding year of growth for Croda, particularly in light of the record results 
delivered in 2010 and the wider context of continuing tough global economic conditions.
The results demonstrate the ability of our business to continue to deliver growth in difficult market conditions and, in particular, the strength 
of the Group’s strategy and effective leadership of our dynamic and experienced management team.
The Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) consider the remuneration paid to our management team to fairly reflect their 
performance during the year. The annual bonus paid out in full (arising from the 2011 income, as calculated for the purpose of the bonus 
scheme, exceeding the maximum targeted income) and the 2009 LTIP and BCIP awards’ performance targets were also met in full, 
which reflected a growth in earnings per share of 137% over the three year period ended 31 December 2011, and a total shareholder 
return created of over 290% (which resulted in Croda being amongst the top fifteen performing FTSE 250 companies over the three year 
performance period). 
As described in the Chairman’s statement, 2012 marks the start of a new era at Croda, with a new Group Chief Executive in post. The new 
Group Chief Executive has been with Croda for over 20 years and is supported by a highly experienced and dedicated senior team. The 
Board consider the leadership team to be ideally placed to continue to deliver the Company’s consistent track record of delivering profitable 
growth.
The Committee considers our current remuneration policy of paying competitively against comparable international businesses, with an 
incentive structure weighted towards long-term performance, to continue to serve the business well. The Committee has a clear track 
record of aligning pay with performance and shareholder value creation. As a result, our broad policy framework is to be retained for 
2012. However, in light of the changes to the Board that take effect for 2012, and in response to developments in corporate governance 
expectations, the following amendments to our current policy are being introduced for 2012:
l the new Group Chief Executive’s remuneration has been adjusted to reflect his promotion; and
l clawback provisions are to be introduced into both the annual and long-term incentive plans operated by the Company from 2012.
The Committee believes that the policy in place for 2012 will provide it with sufficient flexibility to meet its objective of retaining and 
motivating the Company’s management team to continue to deliver the Board’s strategic objectives. In addition, given that a substantial 
proportion of the total package is weighted towards long-term performance, the deferral requirement that forms part of the annual bonus 
arrangements and the introduction of clawback provisions for 2012, the Committee is comfortable that the current arrangements do not 
inadvertently encourage undue risk taking.
As a result, the Committee looks forward to your support of our remuneration policy at the 2012 AGM.
S Musesengwa
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 31
Directors’ report | Governance Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Business review
The directors present their remuneration report which covers the remuneration of both executive and non-executive directors and certain 
senior executives. This report sets out the policy for the financial year just ended, for the forthcoming year and, subject to ongoing 
review, for subsequent years. The report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. The first section of the report contains unaudited information and the second section audited information. The report will be 
subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM in April 2012.
Section 1: Unaudited information
The role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee reviews and approves the annual salaries, bonus arrangements, service agreements and other employment conditions 
of the executive directors and certain members of the senior executive management team designated by the Board. In so doing it takes 
due account of pay and conditions in the Group as a whole and receives information on pay proposals for other employees throughout the 
Group. It also approves the design of, and determines targets for, any performance related/bonus pay schemes operated by the Group, 
approves the total annual payments made under such schemes, reviews the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board 
and shareholders and approves the award of long-term incentives. The Committee has delegated responsibility for setting the remuneration 
of the Chairman. The full terms of reference of the Committee are published on the Company’s website (www.croda.com).
Membership and operation
The Committee comprises all non-executive directors including the Chairman and is chaired by Stanley Musesengwa. The Group Chief 
Executive is usually invited to attend all meetings but neither he nor the Chairman attends when their individual remuneration is being 
discussed. The Committee met five times during the year. Other directors and employees of the Company who attended some, or all, of 
the meetings during the year and provided advice and services to the Committee were Samantha Brook (VP Human Resources), Graham 
Myers (Group Financial Controller/Treasurer) and Louise Scott (Company Secretary). All have the appropriate qualifications and experience to 
advise the Committee on aspects of the Group’s policies and practices.
New Bridge Street (NBS) have been appointed by the Committee to provide independent advice on remuneration policy and practice. NBS 
has no connection with the Company other than in the provision of advice in relation to executive remuneration. Another subsidiary of Aon 
Corporation, the ultimate parent company of NBS, provides insurance broking services to the Group. The Committee is comfortable that no 
conflicts arise out of these relationships.
The key activities of the Committee undertaken during the year (which were supported, as appropriate, by NBS) are set out below. Further 
details of these activities appear later in this report:
l reviewing executive directors’ and senior executives’ salary levels (including setting an appropriate salary level for the new Group Chief  
 Executive);
l determining annual bonus awards in respect of 2010 performance;
l setting the annual bonus plan terms for 2011;
l testing of performance targets for the Company’s 2008 long-term incentive awards;
l determining 2011 award levels and the associated performance targets under the Company’s long-term incentive plans; 
l reviewing the level of the Chairman’s fee;
l determining the treatment of Mike Humphrey’s long term incentives on his retirement; and 
l implementation of clawback provisions in the Company’s annual bonus and long-term incentive plans. 
Policy on directors’ and senior executives’ remuneration
The key objectives of Croda’s executive remuneration policy are:
l to ensure that individual rewards and incentives are comparable with those provided by similar companies having regard to the Group’s  
 turnover, business sector and market worth and the need for skills to manage international businesses;
l to enable the Group to attract and retain high calibre people;
l to give full consideration to the relevant principles on directors’ remuneration set out in the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code; and 
l to ensure a balance between fixed and performance related remuneration, the latter being related to objective measurement of the  
 financial performance of the Company.
The Committee believes that the interests of shareholders and directors are more closely aligned by the operation of short-term incentives 
which encourage the achievement of stretching profit targets and under which rewards may be delivered in the form of cash and shares, 
combined with share-based long-term incentives that reward performance against three year earnings per share and relative total 
shareholder return targets. 
In designing an appropriate incentive structure for the executive directors and senior executive management team, the Committee 
endeavours to set challenging performance criteria that are aligned with the Group’s strategy for the business and the enhancement of 
shareholder value. In line with the Association of British Insurers’ Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee ensures 
that the incentive structure for executive directors and senior executive management will not raise environmental, social or governance 
(ESG) risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour. More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, there is 
no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from taking into account corporate governance on ESG matters and it takes due account of 
issues of general operational risk when structuring incentives. 
The Committee takes due account of remuneration structures elsewhere in the Group when setting pay for the executive directors (for 
example, consideration is given to the overall salary increase budget and the incentive structures that operate across the Group). 32
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Remuneration report
Summary of components of remuneration
Set out below is a summary of the key components of executive directors’ remuneration:
*income is defined as Group EBITDA for continuing operations before exceptional items and any charges or credits under IFRS 2 “Share based payments” less a notional 
interest charge on working capital employed during the year.
Element Objective Performance 
period
Policy
Basic salary To position at a competitive level 
for similar roles within comparable 
companies.
Annually Individual pay levels are set having regard to 
the performance, skills and experience of each 
individual.
Performance related 
bonus
To incentivise delivery of 
performance objectives.
1 year Bonus payments are based on the achievement of a 
challenging range of income* growth targets.
The net element of bonus above 50% of salary is 
compulsorily invested in the Company’s shares for 
three years.
Clawback provisions apply from 2012.
Pension & benefits To provide competitive benefits and 
to act as a retention mechanism 
and reward service.
Ongoing The policy is to provide market competitive 
retirement benefits tailored to local market practice. 
Executive directors typically participate in the 
Company’s defined benefit pension plans or receive 
a cash alternative in lieu of pension with which the 
executive may make his own arrangements. Only 
basic salary is pensionable.
Other market standard benefits are provided.
Long-Term Incentive 
Plan (“LTIP”)
To drive performance, aid retention 
and align the interests of executive 
directors with shareholders.
3 years Half of any award is subject to EPS growth. 
The remaining half is subject to the relative total 
shareholder return (“TSR”) of the Company compared 
against an appropriate peer group.
Clawback provisions apply from 2012.
Bonus Co-investment 
Plan (“BCIP”)
To encourage investment in the 
Company’s shares.
3 years Net of tax bonus may be voluntarily invested in the 
Company’s shares with the net of tax bonus earned 
above 50% of salary compulsorily invested in shares. 
Invested shares are the subject of a matching award 
(based on their pre-tax value) at a ratio of 1:1.
Matching shares vest based on the same EPS targets 
as for the LTIP above.
Clawback provisions apply from 2012.
Share ownership 
guidelines
To align executive directors with 
shareholders.
N/A A shareholding of 100% of salary is expected to be 
achieved within five years. The retention of 50% of 
the net of tax number of vested shares under the 
LTIP and BCIP is expected. 33
Directors’ report | Governance Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Business review
Balance between fixed and variable pay
As described previously, a substantial proportion of the executive directors’ pay is performance related. The charts below illustrate the 
balance between fixed and performance related pay at target and maximum performance levels based on the remuneration policy that is to 
operate in the current financial year (the full policy is described in detail below).
As can be seen from the charts, a substantial proportion of the total package is weighted towards long-term performance through the LTIP 
and BCIP long-term incentive arrangements. In addition, there is a deferral requirement that forms part of the annual bonus arrangements 
(which requires bonus awards in excess of 50% of salary to be deferred into Croda shares for a period of three years), share ownership 
guidelines and, from 2012, clawback provisions operating across the incentive arrangements for executive directors and senior executives. 
After taking due account of these factors, allied to the rigorous process that is undertaken in setting incentive plan targets and determining 
payouts (including regular liaison between the Audit and Remuneration Committees as appropriate), the Committee is comfortable that 
the current arrangements do not inadvertently encourage undue risk taking. In testing the LTIP and BCIP performance targets, independent 
third party advisors provide information in respect of the extent to which targets are met, with audited results used to determine vesting in 
respect of EPS targets. 
Components of executive directors’ remuneration
Basic salary
The Committee reviews the base salary levels annually with effect from 1 January. Account is taken of the performance of the individual 
concerned, together with any change in responsibilities that may have occurred, and the rates of pay in international manufacturing and 
pan-sector companies of a comparable size (market capitalisation and turnover) and complexity. Data is sourced from the Committee’s 
independent advisers, NBS. 
The salary levels of the executive directors who were in their posts on 1 January 2012 are as follows:
The revised salary set for Steve Foots reflected his additional responsibilities on being promoted to Group Chief Executive but also took 
due account of the fact that this is his first role as a PLC Chief Executive. Accordingly, his salary was set at around the lower quartile of the 
relevant benchmarks with the Committee’s intention being to increase his salary, based on performance and experience in the position, over 
the next few years to ensure his remuneration is consistent with the Company’s stated remuneration policy. 
The salary increase awarded to Sean Christie, at 3%, was consistent with the salary increase budget operated across the Group and reflects 
the individual’s continued strong performance. 
Keith Layden was appointed a director on 6 February 2012 and his current salary is £280,000.
Target
Maximum
0% 20% 40%
Base salary Annual bonus LTIP & BCIP
60% 80% 100%
Assumptions:
Target: annual bonus award of 50% of 
salary plus threshold vesting under the 
LTIP and BCIP (the BCIP assumes 50% of 
target bonus invested in the plan).
Maximum: maximum bonus award plus 
full vesting under LTIP and BCIP (the 
BCIP assumes a maximum bonus award 
which is invested in the BCIP in full).
Benefits: (including pension) have been 
excluded from the analysis for simplicity.
Fixed and variable pay: Average executive director at target and maximum performance levels
Executive director Basic salary at  
1 January 2012
Basic salary at  
31 December 2011
% increase
S E Foots £500,000 £300,000 66
M S Christie £350,200 £340,000 3 34
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Remuneration report
Performance-related annual bonus 
The Company operates bonus schemes for its directors and senior executives. Bonus payments are not pensionable. The 2011 bonuses for 
executive directors were calculated by reference to the amount by which the income for the year, which is defined as the Group EBITDA 
for continuing operations before exceptional items and any charges or credits under IFRS 2 “Share based payments” less a notional interest 
charge on working capital employed during the year (the “2011 income”), exceeded the income for 2010 calculated on the same basis 
(the “base income”). Bonuses for 2011 are payable against a graduated scale once the 2011 income exceeds the base income by inflation 
(defined as the consumer prices index (CPI)), with maximum bonuses due at CPI plus 10%. Income is measured after providing for the 
cost of any bonuses. Once the level of bonus has been determined against the targets set at the start of the year, the Committee has the 
discretion to take health, safety and environmental performance into consideration when determining the actual overall level of individual 
bonus payments and it may reduce the bonus awards if it considers it appropriate to do so (e.g. if health, safety and environmental 
performance is not considered satisfactory during the period over which the bonus was earned). 
The maximum amount of bonus payable to the executive directors is 100% of salary with the net element of any bonus in excess of 50% of 
salary being compulsorily invested in the BCIP .
With regard to the actual performance delivered during 2011, 2011 income exceeded base income by 11.2% above CPI. Following an 
assessment of the health, safety and environmental performance of the Group in 2011, which was considered satisfactory, the bonuses 
payable to each of the executive directors were at 100% of salary reflecting the fact that the maximum target was exceeded. Actual bonus 
payments are included in the table on page 39. Given the record performance delivered in 2011 the Committee were comfortable paying 
maximum bonuses for what was considered an exceptional achievement.
With regard to 2012 bonuses, the maximum bonus opportunity will remain unchanged at 100% of salary. The performance targets will 
continue to operate on a similar basis, requiring out-performance of the 2011 income before bonuses become eligible for payment. The 
target range set for 2012 will require 2011 income to be exceeded by 10% above CPI with the Committee considering this target to be 
equally as challenging as the range of targets set for the 2011 annual bonus given that 2011 was another record year and the fact that 
current economic circumstances remain challenging. The Committee remains comfortable that the structure of the annual bonus does not 
encourage the pursuit of strategies that may involve inappropriate risk-taking and that the mandatory reinvestment of net bonuses in excess 
of 50% of salary into shares in any year is considered to provide clear alignment with shareholders and foster a longer-term link between 
annual performance and reward.
In addition, the 2012 annual bonus will also be subject to clawback provisions which will enable the Committee to recover the value 
overpaid to an executive director in respect of 2012 performance in the event of a misstatement of the Company’s financial results, an error 
being made in assessing the extent to which performance targets were ultimately achieved or in the event of serious misconduct. The 
clawback provisions will operate for a three year period following the date on which the bonus is paid.
Long-term incentives
Long-term incentives are provided to executive directors through two long-term incentive plans, the BCIP and the LTIP . It is the Committee’s 
policy, subject to unforeseen circumstances, that these will comprise the sole long-term elements of the total remuneration package of 
executive directors for the foreseeable future. It is also the Committee’s policy to continue exercising its right to decide the number of LTIP 
awards to be granted to each executive director subject to plan limits. 
BCIP
The BCIP operates in conjunction with the annual bonus schemes and allows participants to invest a proportion of their net annual 
cash bonus in Company shares. Participants have to agree to hold the invested shares for three years in return for which they receive 
a conditional award entitling them to additional shares subject to the achievement of the BCIP’s performance condition. The maximum 
number of shares over which an award can be granted to an employee in a single year is limited to shares having a market value not 
exceeding 100% of the employee’s salary. The levels of awards differ between participants. As detailed in last year’s remuneration report, 
following consultation with the Company’s major shareholders and shareholder protection bodies, since 2011, executive directors and 
members of the Group Executive and Finance Committees receive matching shares based on the pre-tax equivalent number of shares 
invested in the BCIP by participants from their net of tax annual bonus proceeds. Prior to 2011, matching shares were awarded based on the 
post-tax number of invested shares. It is compulsory for members of this group, whose gross bonus could exceed 50% of their annual salary, 
to invest the excess over 50%, net of tax, in shares unless they are within three years of anticipated retirement date.
The awards to date have been subject to a performance condition initially adopted in 2007 which is structured to require the achievement 
of a challenging sliding scale of adjusted earnings per share growth (“EPS”) targets in excess of retail price inflation (“RPI”):
Adjusted EPS growth over the three year period Proportion of award vesting
Less than RPI + 12% No vesting
RPI + 12% 30%
RPI + 24% 100%
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points 35
Directors’ report | Governance Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Business review
If the performance target is met, awards vest and shares become eligible to be transferred to the employee. If the employee does not 
retain their invested shares until the release date their award lapses. It is intended that the same performance target will be applied to any 
BCIP awards made in 2012. EPS continues to be a key internal measure used to assess the performance of the business and is aligned with 
the Company’s objectives of continuing to deliver profitable growth and operating a progressive dividend policy. With regard to the range of 
targets set, they are considered to remain appropriate, providing a stretching but realistic target from a record result in 2011.
LTIP
Participation in the LTIP is limited to executive directors and senior executives. Annual awards of shares are made based on varying 
percentages of salary. Shareholder approval was sought and received at the 2011 AGM to increase the annual award limit under the LTIP 
from 100% of salary to 200% of salary. However, awards were limited to 100% of salary in 2011 and it is intended that awards will remain 
at, or below, 100% of salary in 2012. Awards are subject to performance conditions measured over a period of not less than three years.
The awards are subject to a performance condition which is split into two separate parts, each with a separate performance condition. 
Half of any LTIP awards vest based on a condition measuring the Company’s relative total shareholder return (TSR). For awards to date, 
relative TSR performance has been measured against the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). There are a 
limited number of direct competitors to Croda and the Committee was mindful of the dangers inherent in operating a relative TSR-based 
performance condition with a comparator group comprised of only a small number of companies. The FTSE 250 (excluding investment 
trusts) has, therefore, been considered to date as an appropriate comparator group by the Committee since it has been the index within 
which Croda resides. Vesting takes place on the following sliding scale:
The remaining half of the awards vest based on the same EPS growth condition that is set for the BCIP , with vesting thus taking place on the 
following slide scale:
Use of relative TSR in tandem with EPS growth targets is considered appropriate since it provides clear alignment between executives and 
shareholders in focusing management to deliver above market total returns at the same time as incentivising executives to deliver growth 
in EPS which, as described above, is a key internal measure of performance. 
If the performance target is met, awards will become eligible for exercise by the employee.
With regard to awards to be granted in 2012, it is intended that awards will be granted at 100% of salary to the Group Chief Executive and 
Group Finance Director with the newly appointed Chief Technology Officer being granted awards at 70% of salary. In terms of performance 
targets, it is also anticipated that the same approach will operate. 
LTIP and BCIP awards granted in 2012 to executive directors will also be subject to clawback provisions which will enable the Committee 
to clawback the value overpaid to an executive director in respect of performance during the three years ending 31 December 2014 in the 
event of a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results or misconduct. The clawback provisions will operate for a three year 
period following the date on which the awards vest.
The gains arising from LTIP and BCIP awards vesting in 2011 are set out on page 42 with the awards vesting in full due to the performance 
targets applying to the awards granted in 2009 being achieved in full.
Rank of the Company’s TSR against the FTSE 250 (excluding Investment Trusts) Vesting % (TSR part)
Below median 0%
Median 30%
Upper quartile 100%
Between median and upper quartile 30% - 100% pro rata
Adjusted EPS growth over the three year period Vesting % (EPS part)
Less than RPI + 12% No vesting
RPI + 12% 30%
RPI + 24% 100%
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points 36
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Remuneration report
Senior Executive Share Option Schemes
Following the adoption of the BCIP and the LTIP , the operation of the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes was discontinued except 
in relation to options already granted. The only options now outstanding were granted in 2003. The options were granted subject to 
performance conditions which required basic EPS before exceptional items to grow at RPI plus 7% per annum over the performance period 
for 100% of the options granted to be exercisable. The performance conditions have been satisfied in full. Mike Humphrey was the only 
director who held these options and details of his options are shown in the table on page 38. 
It is the Company’s current intention to satisfy awards under the BCIP and the LTIP and the exercise of share options primarily from shares 
held in the Employee Share Ownership Trust, treasury shares and shares purchased in the market and not by the issue of new shares. 
Details of shares held for this purpose are given in note 25 on page 84. 
Pension and other benefits 
Croda has a number of different pension plans in the countries in which it operates. Pension entitlements for Croda’s executives are tailored 
to local market practice, the length of service and age of the participants. The principal pension plan in the UK is a defined benefit scheme 
which provides a pension based on a proportion of final salary with a salary cap imposed from 6 April 2011 onwards. A salary supplement 
in lieu of pension provision above the salary cap now applies. The Company is flexible in the manner in which pension provision is made for 
executive directors with the aim of balancing the needs of the director against the liability of the Company. Hence, it makes contributions by 
direct contribution to the Croda defined benefit pension scheme and/or by way of a cash supplement in lieu of pension benefits to enable 
the funding of personal pension arrangements. 
Other customary benefits such as company cars or car allowances, health benefits, the UK SAYE Scheme and the Croda Share Incentive Plan 
(SIP) (which are available to all eligible UK employees), are made available to executive directors. Benefits in kind are not pensionable. The 
Committee reviews the individual components and the balance of these components from time to time.
Components of senior executives’ remuneration
The Group Executive Committee and the Finance Committee are made up from eight senior executives in addition to the three executive 
directors. The reward structure for these senior executives is broadly similar to that of the executive directors although there are some 
differences in LTIP participation.
Service contracts and external appointments
Policy
The Committee’s policy on executive directors’ service contracts is for them to contain a maximum notice period of one year. In respect of 
termination, the Committee’s policy is to deal with each case on its merits, in accordance with the law and any further policy adopted by 
the Committee at the time. In the event of early termination, other than for cause, the relevant director’s then current salary and contractual 
benefits would be taken into account in calculating any liability of the Company. For clarification, the Company’s policy is that no entitlement 
to unearned bonus will be taken into account when determining payments on early termination. 
The principal contractual benefits provided in addition to salary are the provision of a car or car allowance, pension, medical insurance and 
life assurance. Annual bonuses and long-term incentives are non-contractual and are dealt with in accordance with the rules of the relevant 
schemes.
Specific contracts
Sean Christie and Steve Foots have service contracts dated 15 December 2006 and 16 September 2010 respectively which are terminable 
by the Company on one year’s notice and by them on six months’ notice. The Company may also terminate the contracts at any time with 
immediate effect and they would be entitled to receive compensation equivalent to twelve months’ salary plus the value of their pension 
benefits (valued at 20% of basic salary) and the value of other benefits, payable in equal monthly instalments for twelve months or, if less, 
the remaining period of any notice period not yet completed. Such payments would discontinue or reduce to the extent that they obtained 
alternative employment (i.e. any such payments would be phased and subject to mitigation to the extent that any alternative employment 
was commenced).
Mike Humphrey’s service contract (dated 21 December 2005) ended on 31 December 2011 on his retirement as Group Chief Executive. 
No payments other than salary accrued due at the date of his retirement were made. In accordance with the rules of the executive bonus 
scheme, Mike Humphrey, as a retiree, is entitled to receive his full 2011 bonus as shown in the table of directors’ remuneration on page 
39. Under the terms of the BCIP and LTIP , as a retiree, he is a “good” leaver and, accordingly, is entitled to potential vesting under his 
outstanding share awards. With regard to the shares represented by the award made to him under the BCIP and LTIP in 2009, since the 
performance targets have been met in full, he is entitled to exercise the awards in full. With regard to his unvested BCIP and LTIP awards 
granted in 2010, he can exercise the awards in full, subject to the application of performance targets, at the awards’ normal vesting dates. 
In relation to the awards granted in 2011, following the application of a pro-rata reduction to the original number of shares awarded of one 
third, he will be able to exercise a maximum of two-thirds of the original awards, subject to the application of performance targets at the 
awards’ normal vesting date at the end of 2013. In accordance with the rules of the SAYE scheme and the SIP Mike Humphrey is entitled to 
exercise his outstanding SAYE options and to withdraw the shares invested and awarded to him under the SIP . 37
Directors’ report | Governance Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Business review
Under the terms of his historic service contract, Mike Humphrey had a service contract that was terminable by the Company on one year’s 
notice and by Mike Humphrey on six months’ notice. The Company could also have terminated the contract at any time with immediate 
effect and Mike Humphrey would be entitled to receive compensation equivalent to twelve months’ salary plus the value of his pension 
benefits (valued at 20% of basic salary), bonus entitlement (50% based on the assumption that performance targets are deemed to have 
been achieved) and the value of other benefits, payable in equal monthly instalments for twelve months or, if less, the remaining period 
of any notice period not yet completed. Such payments would have discontinued or reduced to the extent that he obtained alternative 
employment (i.e. any such payments would have been phased and subject to mitigation to the extent that any alternative employment 
was commenced). Mike Humphrey’s contract was a legacy contract and it is not the Company’s current policy to include an element of 
bonus in payments following termination for other directors. 
As announced in July 2011, Mike Humphrey has been appointed Senior Advisor to the Board following his retirement on 31 December 2011. 
He will receive a fee of £150,000 for providing strategic advice for a term of 12 months. He is not eligible to participate in either the annual 
bonus plan or to receive future long-term incentive awards.
External appointments
Executive directors are permitted to accept external non-executive appointments with the prior approval of the Board. It is normal practice 
for executive directors to retain fees provided for non-executive appointments. Mike Humphrey became a non-executive director of IP Group 
plc in October 2011 and during the year he received total fee payments of £8,512. Neither of the other two executive directors held non-
executive positions during the year.
Apart from service agreements and share schemes, no director has had any material interest in any contract with the Company or its 
subsidiaries requiring disclosure under the Companies Act 2006.
Policy on non-executive directors’ remuneration
The Board is responsible for determining the policy on, and level of, the remuneration of non-executive directors. The aim is to attract non-
executive directors who through their experience can further the interests of the Company through their stewardship and contribution to 
strategic development. The Board’s policy is to provide cash fees at a level commensurate with companies of Croda’s size, set fees to reflect 
the anticipated time commitment of fulfilling the relevant non-executive’s duties, not to grant share options to non-executive directors and 
to encourage non-executive directors to establish a holding of Croda shares.
Components of non-executive directors’ remuneration
Non-executives’ pay comprises cash fees, paid monthly. All non-executive directors are reimbursed for travel and related business expenses 
reasonably incurred in performing their duties. The Chairman’s fees are determined by the Remuneration Committee and the fees of the 
remaining non-executive directors are determined by the Chairman and the executive directors. These fees were last reviewed in 2008 
resulting in increases with effect from 1 January 2009. During the year NBS was commissioned to provide benchmark fee and typical time 
commitment data for comparably sized international companies and, consequently, after consideration, fees were increased with effect 
from 1 April 2011. The Chairman’s fee is now £170,000, the basic annual fee for a non-executive director is now £46,000 with an additional 
£8,000 for chairing a committee and the Senior Independent director receives an additional £5,000.
Terms of appointment
The Chairman and non-executive directors have letters of appointment for an initial fixed term of three years subject to earlier termination 
by either party on written notice. In each case, this term can be extended by mutual agreement. In the case of the Chairman, his term of 
office was due to expire in September 2011 after six years, but in order to provide continuity during the transition from Mike Humphrey to 
Steve Foots as Group Chief Executive the Board agreed that the Chairman’s period of office should be extended for a further two years. The 
discussions were led by the Senior Independent director who consulted with the other members of the Board. Mike Buzzacott retired from 
the Board at the end of his term of office in August 2011.
The non-executive directors have no entitlement to contractual termination payments. The dates of their initial appointments are set out 
below.
Original appointment date Expiry date of current term
M C Flower 16 May 2005 28 September 2013
A M Ferguson 1 July 2011 30 June 2014
S Musesengwa 7 May 2007 6 May 2013
P N N Turner 1 June 2009 31 May 2012
S G Williams 1 July 2010 30 June 2013
M C Buzzacott 
(retired 1 August 2011)
2 August 2004 1 August 2011 38
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Remuneration report
Directors’ interests 
The beneficial interests at 31 December 2011 of the directors of the Company and their connected persons in the shares of the Company 
are shown below. Further information regarding employee share option schemes is given in note 23 to the financial statements on pages 
80 to 83. 
Mike Humphrey has an interest in 100 7.5% preference shares but no other director had any interest in the 5.9%, 6.6% or 7.5% preference 
shares of the Company.
† The BCIP shares comprise 137,924 shares invested by the directors (2010: 166,237) and 160,472 shares which are the subject of conditional awards (2010: 166,237). 
†† The SIP shares comprise 6,115 Partnership shares (2010: 5,857) and 6,115 Matching shares (2010: 5,857).
Share ownership policy
The Company has adopted share ownership guidelines which apply to all executive directors and members of the Group Executive 
Committee and the Finance Committee. Executives are required to build up a target shareholding of shares with a market value equivalent 
to 100% of salary from time to time through a combination of share purchases and the retention of incentive shares. On the exercise 
of SAYE and executive share options or the vesting of LTIP and/or BCIP awards, executives are required to retain shares from the shares 
awarded representing 50% of the net of tax gain until the target is met or exceeded. The target is expected to be reached within five years. 
All the executive directors have holdings well in excess of the target shareholdings.
Total shareholder return: Croda International vs FTSE 250
The graph below shows the value, by 31 December 2011, of £100 invested in Croda International Plc on 31 December 2006 compared with 
the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
In the opinion of the directors the FTSE 250 is the most appropriate index against which the total shareholder return of the Company should 
be measured because it is an index of similar sized companies to Croda International Plc.
At 31 December 2011 At 1 January 2011
Ordinary 
shares
BCIP† 
Ordinary 
shares
Executive 
options
SAYE 
options
SIP†† 
ordinary 
shares LTIP
Ordinary 
shares
BCIP† 
Ordinary 
shares
Executive 
options
SAYE 
options
SIP†† 
ordinary 
shares LTIP
M Humphrey 364,998 119,833 50,000 1,491 5,222 216,028 298,162 141,046 150,000 1,491 5,050 281,846
M S Christie 91,630 122,347 – 1,702 1,786 96,299 39,140 140,510 – 1,702 1,614 115,909
S E Foots 51,788 56,216 – 592 5,222 50,085 37,332 50,918 – 340  5,050 50,880
M C Flower 25,925 – – – – – 22,925 – – – – –
M C Buzzacott 
(retired 1 August 
2011)
10,000 – – – – – 10,000 – – – – –
A M Ferguson 
(appointed 1 July 
2011)
2,500 – – – – – – – – – – –
S Musesengwa 15,000 – – – – – 15,000 – – – – –
P N N Turner 15,000 – – – – – 15,000 – – – – –
S G Williams 10,000 – – – – – 10,000 – – – – –
0
50
100
200
150
300
250
350
400
31/12/2006 31/12/2007
FTSE 250 Croda International
31/12/2008 31/12/2009 31/12/2010 31/12/2011
450
T otal Shareholder Return (Rebased) 39
Directors’ report | Governance Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Business review
Section 2: Audited information
Directors’ remuneration
Notes
1 † Highest paid director.
2 †† Although only appointed to the Board on 1 July 2010 Mr Foots was an existing employee and so his remuneration for the whole of 2010 is shown.
3 Benefits incorporate all assessable tax benefits arising from employment by the Company and relate in the main to the provision of a Company car or car allowance,  
 fuel allowances and private medical insurance.
4 The bonuses shown relate to the year ended 31 December 2011.
Pension rights 
Prior to 6 April 2006, Mike Humphrey accrued pension benefits under the Croda International Supplemental Scheme (“CISS”). The CISS was 
merged with the Croda Group Pension Scheme on 30 September 2010 to form the Croda Pension Scheme (“CPS”). Mike Humphrey was 
entitled on retirement at age 60 to a pension equal to his accrued pension at 5 April 2006 (accrued at a rate of two-thirds of his annual 
pensionable remuneration as at 5 April 2006, pro-rated by the ratio of his actual service accrued prior to 5 April 2006 and prospective 
service to age 60), increased to age 60 at the rate which applies to all preserved pensions in the CISS section of the CPS. Mike Humphrey 
started to draw his pension from the Scheme on 21 March 2011, at age 60. In the event of death a pension equal to two-thirds of the 
director’s pension would become payable to the surviving spouse. Mike Humphrey’s pension in payment is guaranteed to increase in line 
with the rate of inflation up to a maximum of 10% per annum. During 2011, Mike Humphrey was paid £115,399 (2010: £112,000) in 
addition to his basic salary to enable him to make independent provision for his retirement. This is the same level of contribution (expressed 
as a percentage of salary) in respect of salary in lieu of pension that has been provided to him since 2006.
Sean Christie accrues pension benefits under the CPS with an accrual rate of 1/60th and an entitlement to retire at age 65. From 6 April 
2011 onwards, pension benefits accruing are based on a capped salary of £187,500. If Sean Christie retires before age 65 a reduced 
pension is payable unless retiring at the Company’s request. In the event of death a pension equal to 50% of the director’s pension would 
become payable to the surviving spouse. Sean Christie’s pension in payment is guaranteed to increase in line with the rate of inflation up 
to a maximum of 2.5% per annum. During 2011, Sean Christie was paid £22,876 (2010: Nil) in addition to his basic salary to enable him to 
make independent provision for his retirement. This contribution reflects the introduction of a cap to the maximum salary on which benefits 
at retirement will be based under the CPS. Accordingly, benefits above this cap are now provided by a salary supplement in lieu of pension 
benefits above the cap of £187,500. This change in benefit structure is expected to be cost neutral for the Company.
Steve Foots accrues pension benefits under the CPS with an accrual rate of 1/60th and an entitlement to retire at age 60. From 6 April 
2011 onwards, pension benefits accruing are based on a capped salary of £187,500. If Steve Foots retires before age 61, a reduction will 
be applied to the element of his pension accrued after 5 April 2006, and if he retires before age 60 a reduction will also be applied to the 
element of his pension accrued before 6 April 2006, unless in either instance he is retiring at the Company’s request. In the event of death 
a pension equal to two-thirds of the director’s pension would become payable to the surviving spouse. Steve Foots’ pension in payment is 
guaranteed to increase in line with the rate of inflation up to a maximum of 10% per annum for benefits accrued prior to 6 April 2006, and 
in line with inflation up to a maximum of 2.5% per annum for benefits accrued from 6 April 2006 onwards. During 2011, Steve Foots was 
paid £16,875 (2010: Nil) in addition to his basic salary to enable him to make independent provision for his retirement. As above for Sean 
Christie, this contribution reflects the introduction of a cap to the maximum salary on which benefits at retirement will be based under the 
CPS. Accordingly, benefits above this cap are now provided by a salary supplement in lieu of pension benefits above the cap of £187,500. 
This change in benefit structure is expected to be cost neutral for the Company.
Sean Christie and Steve Foots are both also entitled to death in service benefits from the CPS.
Basic salary 
£
Pension 
supplement
£
Bonus
£
Benefits
£
Fees
£
2011 Total
£
2010 Total
£
M Humphrey† 577,000 115,399 577,000 33,696 – 1,303,095 1,262,400
M S Christie 340,000 22,876 340,000 19,771 – 722,647 635,341
S E Foots†† 300,000 16,875 300,000 21,376 – 638,251 485,640
M C Flower – – – – 166,254 166,254 153,504
M C Buzzacott  
(retired 1 August 2011)
– – – – 32,167 32,167 50,000
A M Ferguson  
(appointed 1 July 2011)
– – – – 26,334 26,334 –
S Musesengwa – – – – 52,250 52,250 47,000
P N N Turner – – – – 46,834 46,834 41,000
S G Williams – – – – 44,751 44,751 20,500
1,217,000 155,150 1,217,000 74,843 368,590 3,032,583 2,695,385 40
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Remuneration report
Defined benefit schemes
Notes
1 The figures shown represent: the amount of immediate annual pension payable at retirement on 21 March 2011, before commutation for a tax-free cash lump sum, for  
 Mike Humphrey; and the amount of annual pension benefits which would have been preserved for Sean Christie and Steve Foots, had they left service on 31  
 December 2011, based on service to, and pensionable earnings at, that date.
2 The figure represents the difference between the total accrued pension at 31 December 2011 and the corresponding pension at the beginning of the year.
3 The figure represents the difference between the total accrued pension at 31 December 2011 and the corresponding pension at the beginning of the year after an  
 adjustment to exclude inflation as required under paragraph 9.8.8 (12) (a) of the Listing Rules.
4 Transfer values are quoted on the basis recommended by the Scheme Actuary for valuation of accrued benefits if the member had transferred benefits to another  
 approved scheme on the relevant date. The increase/decrease in transfer value between 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2011 takes account of changes in  
 market conditions over the period. For Mike Humphrey, the transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2011 is based on market conditions at 31 December  
 2011, but calculated at the date he retired. 
5 The figure represents the difference between transfer values of the accrued benefits at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, less contributions paid by the  
 director or on his behalf under the Company’s salary sacrifice scheme.
6 The figure represents the transfer value of the increase in accrued benefits over the period, adjusted for inflation, less contributions paid by the director or on his behalf  
 under the Company’s salary sacrifice scheme.
7 Following receipt of legal advice regarding the application to the CPS of the UK Government’s introduction of CPI-based indexation, the Trustee of the CPS amended the  
 transfer value basis with effect from March 2011. 
Members of the CPS have the option to pay voluntary contributions. Neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in this 
table.
Share options
Options are granted over ordinary shares of 10p each under the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes and the Savings-Related Share 
Option Scheme.
Senior executive share options
Mike Humphrey is the only director who holds options under the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes and details of his options are set 
out below:
No price was paid for the award of the options and none of the terms and conditions of the share options were varied during the year. All 
performance conditions attaching to the share options have been satisfied.
Accrued 
pension at 
31.12.11
1
£000
Increase 
in accrued 
pension  
during the 
year
2
 
£000
Increase 
in accrued 
pension  
during  
the year 
(excluding 
inflation)
3
£000
Transfer  
value of 
accrued 
pension at 
31.12.10
4
£000
Transfer  
value of 
accrued 
pension at 
31.12.11
4,7
 
£000
Increase/
(decrease)  
in transfer 
value over  
the year
5,7
£000
Transfer  
value of the 
increase in 
the accrued 
pension
6,7
£000
M Humphrey 314 3 3 8,440 8,240 (200) N/A
M S Christie 26 5 3 253 284 13 17
S E Foots 92 13 9 1,082 1,233 134 102
Date of grant Earliest exercise date Expiry date Exercise price
Number at  
1 January 2011  
(10p shares) Exercised in year
Number at 
31 December 2011 
(10p shares)
M Humphrey
5 March 2003 5 March 2006 30 June 2012 230p 150,000 100,000 50,000
150,000 100,000 50,000 41
Directors’ report | Governance Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Business review
SAYE share options 
Each year employees are customarily invited to participate in a Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme under which they enter into three 
year savings contracts and, in return, are granted options. The option price is the value of ordinary shares at the date of grant discounted 
by 20%. At the end of the savings contract the amount saved can be used to exercise the options which are normally exercisable for a six 
month period. 
LTIP
Details of awards made under the Croda LTIP are set out below (performance targets applying to each award are as described on page 35):
* Award price is based on the average mid-market price of a Croda ordinary share for the first 30 dealing days of the financial year in which the award is made.
Date of grant Earliest exercise date Expiry date
Exercise 
price
Number at  
1 January 2011 
(10p shares)
Exercised  
in year
Granted in 
year
Number at 
31 December 2011  
(10p shares)
M Humphrey
16 September 2008 1 November 2011 30 April 2012 509p 590 – – 590
15 September 2009 1 January 2012 30 June 2012 533p 681 – – 681
15 September 2010 1 January 2012 30 June 2012 1144p 220 – – 220
1,491 – – 1,491
M S Christie
15 September 2009 1 November 2012 30 April 2013 533p 1,702 – – 1,702
1,702 – – 1,702
S E Foots
15 September 2009 1 November 2012 30 April 2013 533p 340 – – 340
20 September 2011 1 November 2014 30 April 2015 1432p – – 252 252
340 – 252 592
Date of award
Award price*
(£) Earliest vesting date
Market price at 
date of award
Number at  
1 January 2011 
(10p shares)
Exercised  
in year
Granted 
in year
Number at 
31 December 2011 
(10p shares)
M Humphrey
20 February 2008 5.0285 20 February 2011 604p 103,410 103,410 – –
18 February 2009 5.0264 18 February 2012 509p  108,626 – – 108,626
24 February 2010 8.0217 24 February 2013 900p 69,810 – – 69,810
23 February 2011 15.3487 23 February 2014 1588p – – 37,592 37,592
281,846 103,410 37,592 216,028
M S Christie
20 February 2008 5.0285 20 February 2011 604p 41,761 41,761 – –
18 February 2009 5.0264 18 February 2012 509p  45,211 – – 45,211
24 February 2010 8.0217 24 February 2013 900p 28,937 – – 28,937
23 February 2011 15.3487 23 February 2014 1588p – – 22,151 22,151
115,909 41,761 22,151 96,299
S E Foots
20 February 2008 5.0285 20 February 2011 604p 17,897 17,897 – –
18 February 2009 5.0264 18 February 2012 509p 19,894 – – 19,894
24 February 2010 8.0217 24 February 2013 900p 13,089 – – 13,089
23 February 2011 15.3487 23 February 2014 1588p – – 17,102 17,102
50,880 17,897 17,102 50,085 42
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Remuneration report
BCIP
Details of the awards made under the Croda BCIP are set out below (performance targets applying to each award are as described on pages 
34 and 35):
On behalf of the Board
S Musesengwa
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
29 February 2012
The gains are calculated according to the market price of Croda International Plc ordinary shares of 10p each on the date of exercise, 
although the shares may have been retained.
The market price of the Company’s shares at 31 December 2011 was 1804p and the range of market prices during the year was between 
1456p and 2081p.
Share Incentive Plan
Steve Foots and Sean Christie participate and Mike Humphrey formerly participated in the plan which, as a HMRC approved arrangement, is 
offered to all employees on the same terms. They each save or saved the maximum of £125 per month permitted under the regulations. 
Matching shares are allocated on a one for one basis for each Partnership share purchased by the employee. Shares are purchased on a 
monthly basis. During the year they each purchased 86 Partnership shares and were allocated 86 Matching shares. The average purchase 
price was 1753p.
Since 31 December 2011 Steve Foots has purchased 12 Partnership shares and Sean Christie has purchased 13 Partnership shares and have 
been awarded a corresponding number of Matching shares under the SIP at an average price of 1963.75p per share. Otherwise there has 
been no change in the directors’ interests in shares or options granted by the Company between the end of the financial year and  
29 February 2012.
Date of award Earliest vesting date
Market price at 
date of award
Number at  
1 January 2011 
(10p shares)
Granted  
in year
Released  
in year
Number at  
31 December 2011  
(10p shares)
M Humphrey
1 May 2008   1 May 2011 696.5p 21,886 – 21,886 –
30 April 2009 30 April 2012 544p 28,567 – – 28,567
29 April 2010 29 April 2013 990p 20,070 – – 20,070
3 May 2011 3 May 2014 1881p – 15,138 – 15,138
70,523 15,138 21,886 63,775
M S Christie
1 May 2008  1 May 2011 696.5p 21,550 – 21,550 –
30 April 2009 30 April 2012 544p 30,765 – – 30,765
29 April 2010 29 April 2013 990p 17,940 – – 17,940
3 May 2011 3 May 2014 1881p – 16,734 – 16,734
70,255 16,734 21,550 65,439
S E Foots
1 May 2008 1 May 2011 696.5p 6,559 – 6,559 –
30 April 2009 30 April 2012 544p 9,878 – – 9,878
29 April 2010 29 April 2013 990p 9,022 – – 9,022
3 May 2011 3 May 2014 1881p – 12,358 – 12,358
25,459 12,358 6,559 31,258
Gains made on exercise of share options and LTIPs
Exercise date
Shares 
exercised Scheme Exercise price Market price 
Gain  
(before tax) £
M Humphrey 3 May 2011 103,410 LTIP Nil 1881p 1,945,142
3 May 2011 21,886 BCIP Nil 1881p 411,676
16 December 2011 100,000 Senior Executive 230p 1736p 1,506,000
 3,862,818
M S Christie 3 May 2011 41,761 LTIP Nil 1881p 785,524
3 May 2011 21,550 BCIP Nil 1881p 405,356
 1,190,880
S E Foots 3 May 2011 6,559 BCIP Nil 1881p 123,375
13 May 2011 17,897 LTIP Nil 1872p 335,032
 458,407 43
Directors’ report | Governance Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Business review
Other disclosures
Principal activities and Business review
Croda International Plc is a marketing and technology company that produces and sells speciality chemicals. It is the parent company of a 
Group with operations across the globe and its headquarters at Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, East Yorkshire. The Group carries out research and 
development activities in the main markets it serves, further details of which can be found in the Chief Executive’s review on pages 4 to 7.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year 
ended 31 December 2011 including an analysis of the development and performance of the Group during the year and the position of the 
Group at the end of the financial year, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group (known as a “Business 
review”). 
The information which makes up the Business Review can be found in the following sections of the annual report:
l Chairman’s statement on pages 2 and 3
l Chief Executive’s review on pages 4 to 7
l Financial review on pages 8 to 11
l Sustainability review on pages 12 to 21
l Principal risks and uncertainties as discussed in the Financial review section on pages 10 and 11.
Further information on Sustainability can be found in our full Sustainability report on our website at www.croda.com.
Pages 1 to 46 inclusive (together with the sections of the annual report incorporated by reference) constitute a directors’ report that has 
been drawn up and presented in accordance with applicable English company law and the liabilities of the directors in connection with that 
report are subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by that law.
Research and development
Research and development activities are undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding.
Profit and dividends 
The results for the year are set out on page 48. The directors are recommending a final dividend of 30.25p per share (2010: 25.25p). If 
approved by shareholders, total dividends for the year will amount to 55.0p per share (2010: 35.0p per share). Details of dividends are 
shown in note 9 on page 65 and details of the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan can be found on page 100.
Disposals 
During the year Croda’s 60% shareholding in its Korean joint venture was sold to the non-controlling shareholders. Further details appear in 
note 7 on page 63. 
Directors 
The Company’s Articles of Association (“the Articles”) give the directors power to appoint and replace directors. Under the terms of reference 
of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board of 
directors. The present directors of the Company are shown on pages 22 and 23. In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code each 
director will be standing for election at the AGM. Details of the directors’ service contracts are given in the directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 30 to 42. 
Apart from the share option schemes, long term incentive schemes and service contracts, no director had any beneficial interest in any 
contract to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during the year. 
A statement indicating the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company, including share 
options, is shown in the directors’ remuneration report on page 38. 
The directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the 
provisions of relevant statutes, the Company’s Memorandum and Articles and any directions given by special resolution. 
Corporate governance
The directors’ corporate governance statement is set out on pages 24 to 29.
Directors’ indemnities 
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its 
directors. The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its directors and the secretary which represent “qualifying third party 
indemnity provisions” (as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006), in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the directors 
(or secretary) may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors (or secretary) or employees of the Company or of any associated 
company. In addition such indemnities have been granted to other officers of the Company who are directors of subsidiary companies within 
the Group. The Company has also granted an indemnity representing “qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions” (as defined by 
section 235 of the Companies Act 2006) to a paid director of the corporate trustee of the Group’s UK pension scheme. 44
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Other disclosures
Share capital
At the date of this report, 139,949,969 ordinary shares of 10 pence each have been issued and are fully paid up and quoted on the London 
Stock Exchange. The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares are set out in the Articles, copies of which can be 
obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary. There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching 
to the Company’s ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company. No person holds securities in the Company carrying special 
rights with regard to control of the Company. The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. 
Further information which fulfils the requirements of Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 and which should be treated as forming part of 
this report by reference are included in the following sections of the annual report:
l details of the structure of the Company’s share capital and the rights attached to the Company’s shares are set out on pages 79 and 84
l details of employee share schemes are set out on pages 80 to 83.
Power to issue or buy back shares
At the 2011 AGM, authority was given to the directors to allot unissued shares in the Company up to a maximum amount equivalent to 
approximately one third of the issued share capital (excluding shares held in treasury) for general purposes, plus up to a further one third 
of the Company’s issued share capital (excluding shares held in treasury), but only in the case of a rights issue. No such shares have been 
issued. A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the directors to allot equity securities in the Company for 
cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the then Companies Act 1985. Both these authorities expire on the date of the 2012 
AGM to be held on 26 April 2012 and so the directors propose to renew them for a further year. 
In February 2011 the Company announced that it intended to launch a share buyback programme later that year. At last year’s AGM the 
members renewed the Company’s authority to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares. Subsequently, during the year the Company 
purchased an aggregate of 2,805,225 ordinary shares of 10p each having a nominal value of £280,522.50 (representing 2.07% of the 
Company’s issued share capital as at 1 January 2011) for an aggregate consideration of £50.1m at an average cost of 1782p per share. As 
a result of these purchases the number of shares in respect of which the Company is now authorised to make market purchases has been 
reduced to 8,853,802 ordinary shares of 10p each (representing approximately 6.54% of the present issued share capital of the Company).
The Company will be seeking to renew its authority to purchase its own shares at the 2012 AGM. Shares will only be purchased if the Board 
believes that such purchases will improve earnings per share and be in the best interests of the shareholders generally. It is the Company’s 
intention that any shares purchased will be held as treasury shares.
Substantial shareholders 
As at 17 February 2012, the Company had been notified under DTR5 of the Financial Services Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares:
Deadlines for exercising voting rights
Votes are exercisable at a General Meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard. Votes may 
be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives. The Articles provide a deadline for 
submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Articles of Association
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the Company’s Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Company’s 
shareholders.
Significant contracts and change of control
The Group has borrowing facilities which may require the immediate repayment of all outstanding loans together with accrued interest in 
the event of a change of control. The rules of the Company’s employee share plans set out the consequences of a change in control of the 
Company on participants’ rights under the plans. Generally such rights will vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to 
the satisfaction of performance conditions. None of the executive directors’ service contracts contain provisions which are affected by a 
change of control and there are no other agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of 
a change of control of the Company which are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the Group.
The Company does not have any contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group.
Ordinary shares % of share capital Nature of holding
AEGON Asset Management UK 4,074,691 2.99% Direct 2.9%, Indirect 0.09%
Legal & General Group Plc 6,745,315 4.98% Direct 45
Directors’ report | Governance Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Business review
Employees
Diversity
Croda is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives less 
favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, ethnic origin, religion, disability, sexuality, or age, or is disadvantaged 
by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justified. Group HR Policies are clearly communicated to all employees and are 
available through the Company intranet. 
Recruitment & progression
It is established policy throughout Croda that decisions on recruitment, career development, promotion and other employment related 
issues are made solely on the grounds of individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct. 
Croda gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons. Should an employee become disabled during 
their employment with Croda, they are fully supported by its occupational health provision. Efforts are made to continue their employment 
with reasonable adjustments being made to the workplace and role where feasible. Retraining is provided if necessary.
Development & learning
Croda recognises that the key to future success lies in the skills and abilities of its dedicated global workforce. It is only through the 
continuous development of our employees that we will be able to meet the future demands of our customers in relation to enhanced 
creativity, innovation and customer service. During 2011 our employees each had an average of 24 hours of training. 
Involvement
Croda is committed to ensuring that employees share in the success of the Group. Owning shares in the Company is an important way of 
strengthening involvement in the development of the business and bringing together employee and shareholder interests. In 2011 45% of 
our employees applied for options under one of our SAYE schemes.
Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a variety of ways, including the Crodaway (the Company magazine), 
quarterly updates, Croda Connect (the Company intranet), team briefings, webinars and E-Lists (email messages). These communications 
help achieve a common awareness among employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of Croda and of 
changes happening within the business. Croda is also committed to providing employees with opportunities to share their views and 
provide feedback on issues that are important to them. All regions have undertaken an employee survey since 2010. The largest of these 
targeting our European employees was completed during 2011. 
Corporate Social Responsibility
Croda continues to believe that good corporate responsibility is essential to the long term success of the business. Details of our corporate 
responsibility initiatives and activities are set out on pages 12 to 21 of this report. Our separate Sustainability Report, available in print and 
online at www.croda.com/csr, expands on the core themes of Sustainability within Croda as well as providing more quantitative information 
on our performance against our CSR targets.
Under the supervision of the CSR Steering Committee, responsibility is now completely embedded within the regional business units, which 
are fully accountable for delivering business objectives. Croda’s CSR Steering Committee is comprised of representatives from all regional 
business units and is responsible for the strategic management of CSR within the Group, as well as ensuring all reporting obligations can be 
satisfied through the effective collation of robust data.
Community engagement
Community engagement is of great value within Croda and enables us to meet our business aims as well as satisfying our moral obligations 
to our employees and the local communities in which we live and operate. Community engagement extends across the three key areas 
of communication, involvement and education. The effects of our activities in these three areas combine to create beneficial outputs such 
as increased morale, better skills development/training, easier employee recruitment, enhanced public relations and a positive reputation 
with our stakeholders. In 2011 we embarked on an ambitious programme of improving our educational offering in the area of science by 
developing a programme aligned to the needs of pupils following the UK National Curriculum. This will be further developed in 2012 and 
we have an aim to see this extended into other geographies in the coming years.
Supplier payment policy 
Group policy concerning the payment of suppliers is that each operating unit agrees terms of payment at the beginning of business or 
makes the supplier aware of the standard payment terms, and pays in accordance with those terms or other legal obligations. At  
31 December 2011, the Group had an average of 31.2 days (2010: 35.8 days) purchases outstanding in trade creditors. The Company’s trade 
creditors are not material. 
Market value of properties
The Group’s property, plant and equipment are included in the financial statements at depreciated historic cost where the assets were 
acquired in the normal course of business or depreciated fair value if the assets were acquired as part of a business combination. The 
properties are in continuing use and many of them were acquired when market values were substantially lower than at present. The 
directors consider that a surplus over book value exists, but have not quantified the excess.
Charitable and political donations 
Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted to £11,000 (2010: £13,000). No donations were made for political purposes 
(2010: £Nil). 46
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Other disclosures
Annual General Meeting 
The AGM will be held at Carlton Towers, Carlton, Goole, East Yorkshire, DN14 9LZ on Thursday, 26 April 2012 at 12 noon. The notice of 
meeting and explanation of the business to be considered at the AGM are contained in a separate document issued to shareholders with 
this annual report. 
Independent auditors 
Our auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee, a resolution regarding their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the AGM.
Directors’ responsibilities 
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors have prepared the 
Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, and 
the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice). Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:
l select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
l make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
l state whether IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union, and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any  
 material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively; and
l prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Company will continue in  
 business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the 
Group financial statements and the directors’ remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose details are set out on pages 22 and 23 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
l the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the  
 assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
l the Business review contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position  
 of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Audit information
The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each 
director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
Approved by the Board 
Louise Scott 
Secretary  
29 February 2012 47
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Group independent auditors’ report 
Group independent auditors’ report to the members of Croda International Plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Group 
income statement, Group statement of comprehensive income and expense, Group balance sheet, Group statement of changes in equity, 
Group statement of cash flows, Group cash flow notes, the accounting policies and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, set out on page 46, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In 
addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the directors’ report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our 
report.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the Group financial statements: 
l give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then  
 ended; 
l have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and 
l have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
l the information given in the directors’ report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent  
 with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
l certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
l we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
l a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
l the directors’ statement, set out on page 29, in relation to going concern; 
l the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate  
 Governance Code specified for our review; and
l certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 
and on the information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
Richard Bunter (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Leeds 
29 February 2012 48
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Group income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2011
for the year ended 31 December 2011
Note 2011 
£m
2010
£m
Revenue 1 1,068.4 1,001.9 
Cost of sales (721.1) (684.4)
Gross profit 347.3 317.5 
Net operating expenses 2 (104.9) (118.9)
Operating profit 1 242.4 198.6 
Financial expenses 4 (10.2) (10.7)
Financial income 4 10.0 4.4 
Profit before tax 242.2 192.3 
Tax 5 (76.3) (62.5)
Profit after tax from continuing operations 165.9 129.8 
Profit after tax from discontinued operations 7 1.6 1.2 
Profit for the year 3 167.5 131.0 
Attributable to:
Non–controlling interests – 0.2 
Equity shareholders 167.5 130.8 
167.5 131.0 
Earnings per 10p share Pence per 
share
Pence per 
share
Basic
Total 8 123.7 96.1 
Continuing operations 8 122.5 95.4 
Diluted
Total 8 121.6 94.1 
Continuing operations 8 120.4 93.4 
Group statement of comprehensive income and expense
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Profit for the year 167.5 131.0 
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Exchange differences (8.5) 9.1 
Movement in fair value of cash flow hedges – 0.3 
Actuarial movement on retirement benefit liabilities (note 12) (75.8) 3.7 
Deferred tax on actuarial movement on retirement benefit liabilities (note 5) 21.6 (1.2)
(62.7) 11.9 
Total comprehensive income for the year 104.8 142.9 
Attributable to:
Non–controlling interests 0.1 0.3 
Equity shareholders 104.7 142.6 
104.8 142.9  49
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Group balance sheet
at 31 December 2011
Note 2011 
£m
2010
£m
Assets
Non–current assets
Intangible assets 13 205.0 203.5 
Property, plant and equipment 14 340.2 319.4 
Investments 16 15.4 14.0 
Deferred tax assets 6 82.3 68.1 
642.9 605.0 
Current assets
Inventories 17 164.6 164.6 
Trade and other receivables 18 145.7 146.2 
Cash and cash equivalents 44.3 64.8 
Assets classified as held for sale 7 – 0.6 
354.6 376.2 
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 (159.4) (178.5)
Borrowings and other financial liabilities 20 (7.5) (3.3)
Provisions 21 (8.8) (17.9)
Current tax liabilities (23.9) (16.6)
(199.6) (216.3)
Net current assets 155.0 159.9 
Non–current liabilities
Borrowings and other financial liabilities 20 (267.9) (281.8)
Other payables (4.9) (4.8)
Retirement benefit liabilities 12 (198.9) (147.8)
Provisions 21 (14.9) (13.3)
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (45.1) (43.0)
(531.7) (490.7)
Net assets 266.2 274.2 
Shareholders' equity
Preference share capital 24 1.1 1.1 
Ordinary share capital 22 14.0 14.0 
Called up share capital 15.1 15.1 
Share premium account 93.3 93.3 
Reserves 157.7 164.7 
Total shareholders' equity 266.1 273.1 
Non–controlling interests in equity 26 0.1 1.1 
Total equity 266.2 274.2 
Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the financial statements on 29 February 2012.
Martin Flower
Non-executive Chairman
Sean Christie
Group Finance Director 50
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Note
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m 
Other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m 
Non–
controlling
interests
£m
Total
£m 
At 1 January 2010 15.1 93.3 27.1 21.0 1.7 158.2 
Profit for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders – – – 130.8 – 130.8 
Other comprehensive expense – – 9.0 2.8 – 11.8 
Transactions with owners:
Dividends on equity shares 9 – – – (33.8) – (33.8)
Share based payments – – – 6.0 – 6.0 
Consideration received for sale of own shares 
held in trust – – – 2.1 – 2.1 
Total transactions with owners – – – (25.7) – (25.7)
Transactions with non–controlling interests:
Share of profit after tax – – – – 0.2 0.2 
Other comprehensive income – – – – 0.1 0.1 
Dividends paid to non–controlling interests 9 – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Purchase of shares from non–controlling 
interests – – – (0.3) (0.7) (1.0)
Total transactions with non–controlling interests – – – (0.3) (0.6) (0.9)
Total equity at 31 December 2010 15.1 93.3 36.1 128.6 1.1 274.2 
At 1 January 2011 15.1 93.3 36.1 128.6 1.1 274.2 
Profit for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders – – – 167.5 – 167.5 
Other comprehensive expense – – (8.6) (54.2) – (62.8)
Transactions with owners:
Dividends on equity shares 9 – – – (67.7) – (67.7)
Share based payments – – – 4.3 – 4.3 
Consideration received for sale of own shares 
held in trust – – – 1.0 – 1.0 
Purchase of treasury shares – – – (50.4) – (50.4)
Total transactions with owners – – – (112.8) – (112.8)
Transactions with non–controlling interests:
Other comprehensive income – – – – 0.1 0.1 
Transfer of non–controlling interest on disposal – – – 1.1 (1.1) – 
Total transactions with non–controlling interests – – – 1.1 (1.0) 0.1 
Total equity at 31 December 2011 15.1 93.3 27.5 130.2 0.1 266.2 
Other reserves include the Capital Redemption Reserve of £0.9m (2010: £0.9m) and the Translation Reserve of £26.6m (2010: £35.2m).
Group statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2011 51
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Note 2011 
£m
2010
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated by operations ii 232.7 188.4 
Interest paid (11.0) (10.7)
Tax paid (57.7) (45.9)
Net cash generated by operating activities 164.0 131.8 
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of non–controlling interest – (1.0)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 14 (55.9) (40.8)
Purchase of other intangible assets 13 (2.4) (0.5)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.5 
Proceeds from sale of businesses (net of costs and cash in businesses) 7 1.0 14.1 
Cash paid against non–operating provisions 21 (2.2) (8.5)
Interest received 0.9 0.8 
Net cash absorbed by investing activities (58.5) (35.4)
Cash flows from financing activities
New borrowings 15.6 284.0 
Repayment of borrowings (26.4) (324.7)
Capital element of finance lease repayments iii (0.4) (0.5)
Net transactions in own shares 22,25 (49.4) 2.1 
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 9 (67.7) (33.8)
Dividends paid to non–controlling interests 9 – (0.2)
Net cash absorbed by financing activities (128.3) (73.1)
 
Net movement in cash and cash equivalents i,iii (22.8) 23.3 
Cash and cash equivalents brought forward 62.5 37.2 
Exchange differences iii (2.2) 2.0 
Cash and cash equivalents carried forward 37.5 62.5 
Cash and cash equivalents carried forward comprise
Cash at bank and in hand 44.3 64.8 
Bank overdrafts (6.8) (2.3)
37.5 62.5 
Group statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 December 2011 52
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
(i) Reconciliation to net debt Note 2011 
£m
2010
£m
Movement in cash and cash equivalents iii (22.8) 23.3 
Movement in debt and lease financing iii 11.2 41.2 
Change in net debt from cash flows (11.6) 64.5 
Loans in disposed businesses 2.2 – 
New finance lease contracts (0.3) (0.4)
Exchange differences (1.1) 4.1 
(10.8) 68.2 
Net debt brought forward (220.3) (288.5)
Net debt carried forward iii (231.1) (220.3)
(ii) Cash generated by operations 2011 
£m
2010
£m
Continuing operations
Operating profit 242.4 198.6 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation 32.2 33.2 
Loss on disposal of property, plant & equipment 0.5 0.9 
Other provisions charged (note 21) 1.4 1.5 
Share based payments 4.0 8.2 
Cash paid against operating provisions (note 21) (6.7) (15.2)
Pension fund contributions in excess of service cost (17.4) (16.7)
Movement in inventories (2.9) (26.2)
Movement in receivables (5.1) 15.6 
Movement in payables (15.7) (5.5)
Cash generated by continuing operations 232.7 194.4 
Discontinued operations – (6.0)
232.7 188.4 
(iii) Analysis of net debt
2011 
£m
Cash flow
£m
Exchange 
movements 
£m
Other  
non–cash
£m
2010
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 44.3 (18.4) (2.1) 64.8 
Bank overdrafts (6.8) (4.4) (0.1) (2.3)
Movement in cash and cash equivalents (22.8) (2.2)
Borrowings repayable within one year (0.4) 0.2 – (0.6)
Borrowings repayable after more than one year (267.6) 10.6 1.0 2.2 (281.4)
Finance leases (0.6) 0.4 0.1 (0.3) (0.8)
Movement in borrowings and other financial liabilities 11.2 
Total net debt (231.1) (11.6) (1.1) 1.9 (220.3)
Group cash flow notes
for the year ended 31 December 2011 53
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Group accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been 
consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial 
instruments, share based payments and pension asset valuations at fair value through profit or loss or through other comprehensive 
income, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable 
to companies reporting under IFRS. The standards used are those published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and 
endorsed by the EU at the time of preparing these statements (February 2012). A summary of the more important Group accounting 
policies is set out below.
Accounting estimates and judgements
The Group’s critical accounting policies under IFRS have been set by management with the approval of the Audit Committee. The application 
of these policies requires estimates and assumptions to be made concerning the future and judgements to be made on the applicability 
of policies to particular situations. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other 
factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Under IFRS an estimate 
or judgement may be considered critical if it involves matters that are highly uncertain or where different estimation methods could 
reasonably have been used, or if changes in the estimate that would have a material impact on the Group’s results are likely to occur from 
period to period. The critical judgements required when preparing the Group’s accounts are as follows:
(i) Provisions - as disclosed in note 21, the Group has made significant provision for potential environmental liabilities. The rationale  
 behind this and other provisions is discussed in note 21. The directors believe that these provisions are appropriate based on  
 information currently available.
(ii) Goodwill and fair value of assets acquired (note 13) – the Group’s goodwill carrying value increased significantly in 2006 following the  
 acquisition of Uniqema. The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment and the Group’s goodwill value has  
 been supported by detailed value-in-use calculations relating to the recoverable amounts of the underlying cash generating units.  
 These calculations require the use of estimates. However, as recoverable amounts significantly exceed carrying values, including  
 goodwill, there is no impairment within a reasonable range of assumptions.
(iii) Retirement benefit liabilities – as disclosed in note 12, the Group’s principal retirement benefit schemes are of the defined benefit type.  
 Year end recognition of the liabilities under these schemes and the valuation of assets held to fund these liabilities require a number of  
 significant assumptions to be made, relating to levels of scheme membership, key financial market indicators such as inflation and  
 expectations on future salary growth and asset returns. These assumptions are made by the Group in conjunction with the schemes’  
 actuaries and the directors are of the view that any estimation should be prudent and in line with consensus opinion. For each 0.1%  
 change in the discount rate net of inflation, the carrying amount of pension obligations would change by an estimated £11m.
New IFRS standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2011
(a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2011 that would be 
expected to have a material impact on the Group.
(b) New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2011 and not early 
adopted
(i) IAS 19, “Employee benefits” was amended in June 2011. The impact on the Group will be as follows: to recognise all actuarial gains  
 and losses in other comprehensive income as they occur; to immediately recognise all past service costs; and to replace interest cost  
 and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined  
 benefit liability. The Group is yet to assess the full impact of the amendments.
(ii) IFRS 9, “Financial instruments”, addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.  
 IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and is applicable from 1 January 2015. IFRS 9 is not expected to have a material impact on the  
 financial statements.
(iii) IFRS 10, “Consolidated financial statements”, builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor  
 in whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements of the parent company. IFRS 10 is not expected to  
 have a material impact on the financial statements.
(iv) IFRS 12, “Disclosures of interests in other entities”, includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities,  
 including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles. IFRS 12 is not expected to have  
 a material impact on the financial statements.
(v) IFRS 13, “Fair value measurement”, aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value  
 and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs. The requirements, which are largely  
 aligned between IFRSs and US GAAP , do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied  
 where its use is already required or permitted by other standards within IFRSs or US GAAP . The Group is yet to assess IFRS 13’s full  
 impact and intends to adopt IFRS 13 no later than the accounting period beginning 1 January 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
(vi) IFRS 11, “Joint arrangements”. IFRS 11 is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group. 54
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Group accounting policies
Group accounts
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently 
exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition 
of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group. Acquisition 
costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, in a business combination are 
measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest. The excess of the cost 
of acquisition over the Group’s share of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are 
also eliminated. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by 
the Group.
Transactions with non-controlling interests
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with the equity owners of the Group. For purchases from non-
controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of 
the subsidiary is recorded as equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
Associates
Associated undertakings are those companies in which the Group has a beneficial interest of between 20% and 50% in the equity capital 
and where the Group exercises significant influence over commercial and financial policy decisions. The consolidated income statement 
includes the Group’s share of post-acquisition profits after tax, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense includes the 
Group’s share of other recognised gains and losses, and the consolidated balance sheet includes the Group’s share of the underlying net 
tangible assets of associated undertakings.
Intangible assets
Goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired. Goodwill arises where the fair value of the 
consideration given for a business exceeds such net assets. Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and carried at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of this impairment testing. 
Research and development
Research expenditure, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is charged to the 
income statement in the year in which it is incurred. Internal development expenditure, whereby research findings are applied to a plan 
for the production of new or substantially improved products or processes, is charged to the income statement in the year in which it is 
incurred unless it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’. Measurement and other uncertainties generally mean that such 
criteria are not met. Where, however, the recognition criteria are met, research and development costs are capitalised and amortised over 
their useful economic lives from product launch. Intangible assets relating to products in development are subject to impairment testing at 
each balance sheet date or earlier upon indication of impairment. Any impairment losses are written off immediately to income.
Computer software
Acquired computer software licenses covering a period of greater than one year are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire 
and bring to use the specific software. These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives (three to five years).
Revenue recognition
Sale of goods
Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods, excludes inter-company sales and value-added taxes and represents net invoice 
value less estimated rebates, returns and settlement discounts. 
The Group supplies products to customers from its various manufacturing sites and warehouses and in some limited instances from 
consignment inventory held on customer sites, under standard terms and conditions. In each case revenue is recognised when the transfer 
of legal title, which is defined and generally accepted in the standard terms and conditions, arises between the Group and the customer. 
This will nearly always be on dispatch or delivery, but never before dispatch. Provisions for sales discounts and rebates to customers are 
based upon the terms of sales contracts and are recorded in the same period as the related sales as a deduction from revenue. The Group 
estimates the provision for sales discounts and rebates based on the terms of each agreement at the time the revenue is recognised.
Interest and dividend income
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method. 
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. 55
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Segmental reporting
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products and services that are subject to risks or returns that 
are different from those of other segments. Operating segments presented in the financial statements are consistent with the internal 
reporting provided to the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker, which has been identified as the Finance Committee and the Group 
Executive Committee.
Employee benefits
Pension obligations
The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”. In respect of defined benefit plans (pension plans 
that define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as 
age, years of service and compensation), obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value. 
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the net of the plan obligations and assets. No 
allowance is made in the past service liability in respect of either the future expenses of running the schemes or for non-service related 
death in service benefits which may arise in the future. The operating costs of such plans are charged to operating profit and the finance 
costs are recognised as financial income or expense as appropriate. Service costs are spread systematically over the lives of employees 
and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately directly to 
equity. Payments to defined contribution schemes (pension plans under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity) are 
charged as an expense as they fall due.
Other post-retirement benefits
Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees. The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional 
on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period. The expected costs of these 
benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recorded in the income statement. These obligations are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an 
employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably 
committed to either (i) terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of 
withdrawal or (ii) providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Share based payments
The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled share-based incentive schemes. These are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 
“Share based payments”, which requires an expense to be recognised in the income statement over the vesting period of the options. The 
expense is based on the fair value of each instrument which is calculated using the Black-Scholes or binomial model as appropriate. Any 
expense is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting, as the Group does not use market-based performance criteria.
Currency translations
Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which 
is the Company’s functional and presentation currency.
Transactions and balances
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the financial period. Exchange profits or losses 
on trading transactions are included in the Group income statement except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and 
qualifying net investment hedges.
Group companies
The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are 
translated into the presentation currency as follows:
(i) assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
(ii) income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable  
 approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are  
 translated at the dates of the transactions); and
(iii) all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other 
currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders’ equity. When a foreign operation is sold, such 
exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale. 56
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Group accounting policies
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and for accounting purposes. Temporary differences arise on differences between the 
carrying value of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their tax base and primarily relate to the difference between tax 
allowances on tangible fixed assets and the corresponding depreciation charge, and upon the pension fund deficit. Full provision is made for 
the tax effects of these differences. No provision is made for unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries where there is no commitment to 
remit such earnings. Similarly, no provision is made for temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries since realisation of such 
differences can be controlled and is not probable in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognised, using the liability method, to 
the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
All taxation is calculated on the basis of the tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are non-recurring material items which are outside the normal scope of the Group’s ordinary activities such as liabilities 
and costs arising from a fundamental restructuring of the Group’s operations. Such items are disclosed separately within the financial 
statements.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation, with the exception of assets acquired as part of a business 
combination which are initially recorded at fair value. The Group’s policy is to write off the difference between the cost of all property, 
plant and equipment, except freehold land, and their residual value on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. Reviews are 
made annually of the estimated remaining lives and residual values of individual productive assets, taking account of commercial and 
technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear, and adjustments are made where appropriate. Under this policy it becomes 
impractical to calculate average asset lives exactly. However, the total lives range from approximately 15 to 40 years for buildings, and 3 
to 15 years for plant and equipment. All individual assets are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that the carrying value 
may not be recoverable. By far the bulk of the Group’s “plant and equipment” asset class relates to the value of plant and equipment at the 
Group’s manufacturing facilities. Consequently, the Group does not seek to analyse out of this class other items such as motor vehicles and 
office equipment.
Impairment of non-financial assets
The Group assesses at each year end whether an asset may be impaired. If any evidence exists of impairment, the estimated recoverable 
amount is compared to the carrying value of the asset and an impairment loss is recognised where appropriate. The recoverable amount is 
the higher of an asset’s value in use and fair value less costs to sell. In addition to this, goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their 
carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. A discontinued operation is a 
component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations. Classification as a 
discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Leases
Assets acquired under finance leases are included in the balance sheet under property, plant and equipment at an amount reflecting the 
lower of the present value of future rentals and the fair value of the asset and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their 
estimated useful lives. The capital element of future lease rentals is included in borrowings. Finance charges are allocated to the income 
statement each year in proportion to the capital element outstanding. The cost of operating leases is charged to the income statement as 
incurred.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rates and short-term currency rate fluctuations.
Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at cost. Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument as 
either: (i) a hedge of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge); or (ii) a hedge of highly 
probable forecast transactions (cash flow hedge);
(i) Fair value hedge
 Changes in the fair value of derivatives, for example interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts, that are designated and qualify  
 as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability  
 that are attributable to the hedged risk.
(ii) Cash flow hedge
 The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised  
 in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated  
 in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss (for instance when the  
 forecast sale that is hedged takes place). However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non- 
 financial asset (for example, inventory) or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity  
 and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a  
 hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity  
 and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no  
 longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
 Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not  
 qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement. 57
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction 
costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest 
method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at 
least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs
General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets 
that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such 
time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable amount on a first in first out basis. Cost comprises all expenditure, including 
related production overheads, incurred in the normal course of business in bringing the inventory to its location and condition at the balance 
sheet date. Net realisable amount is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any applicable variable selling costs. 
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective inventory where appropriate. Profits arising on intra Group sales are eliminated in 
so far as the product remains in Group inventory at the year end.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest 
method, less impairment losses. A provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence that the amount will not be 
collectible. Such amounts are written down to their estimated recoverable amounts, with the charge being made to operating expenses.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short term deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an 
integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow 
statement.
Environmental, restructuring and other provisions
The Group is exposed to environmental liabilities relating to its operations and liabilities arising from the restructuring of its operations 
following the acquisition of Uniqema. Provisions are made immediately where a constructive or legal obligation is identified, can be 
quantified and it is regarded as more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. The Group does 
consider the impact of discounting when establishing provisions and provisions are discounted when the impact is material and the timing 
of cash flows can be estimated with reasonable certainty. 
Share capital
(a) Investment in own shares
Employee Share Ownership Trusts
Shares acquired by the Trustees, funded by the Company and held for the continuing benefit of the Company are shown as a reduction in 
equity attributable to owners of the parent. Movements in the year arising from additional purchases by the Trustees of shares or the receipt 
of funds due to the exercise of options by employees are accounted for within reserves and shown as a movement in equity attributable to 
owners of the parent in the year. Administration expenses of the trusts are charged to the Company’s income statement as incurred.
Treasury shares
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital as treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly 
attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares 
are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly 
attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity 
holders.
(b) Preference share capital
Preference share capital is classified as equity as the Group has full discretion over the transfer of benefits associated with the shares.
(c) Dividends
Dividends on preference shares are recognised as a liability on an accruals basis. Other dividends are recognised as a liability when the 
liability is irrevocable. Accordingly, final dividends are recognised when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are recognised 
when paid.
Investments
Investments in quoted securities are treated as “available for sale” and stated at fair value, being the appropriate quoted market value, with 
movements in the fair value being recognised in equity. Investments in unquoted securities are carried at fair value unless such value cannot 
be reliably measured, in which case the investments are carried at cost. Investments are subject to impairment testing at each balance 
sheet date or earlier upon indication of impairment. Held to maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method. 58
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Group accounts
1. Segmental analysis
At 31 December 2011 the Group continued to be organised on a worldwide basis into two main business segments, relating to the 
manufacture and sale of the Group’s products which are destined for either the Consumer Care market or the market for Industrial 
Specialities. These are the segments for which summary management information is presented to the Group’s Finance and Executive 
Committees, which are deemed to be the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Makers.
With effect from 1 January 2012, the Group’s reportable segments have been redefined to reflect a change in the Group’s organisational 
structure. From this date, the Group’s Process Additives business, previously one of the business areas aggregated into the Industrial 
Specialities segment, is to be reported as a separate segment and will be renamed Industrial Chemicals. The remainder of the segment 
previously reported as Industrial Specialities will be renamed Performance Technologies going forward.   
The resulting three segments, Consumer Care, Performance Technologies and Industrial Chemicals will form the basis of the Group’s internal 
reporting from 1 January 2012 onwards. In the table below, financial information in respect of the new segment is shown as part of the 
existing segments.
There is no material trade between segments. Segmental results include items directly attributable to a specific segment as well as those 
that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, inventories and 
trade and other receivables.
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Income statement
Revenue – continuing operations
Consumer Care 574.3 516.4 
Industrial Specialities
Performance Technologies 389.2 379.4 
Industrial Chemicals 104.9 106.1 
Total 494.1 485.5 
Total Group revenue 1,068.4 1,001.9 
Operating profit – continuing operations
Consumer Care 173.4 136.5 
Industrial Specialities
Performance Technologies 60.1 51.2 
Industrial Chemicals 8.9 10.9 
Total 69.0 62.1 
Total Group operating profit 242.4 198.6 
Balance sheet
Total assets
Segment total assets:
Consumer Care 564.7 535.9 
Industrial Specialities
Performance Technologies 224.8 242.3 
Industrial Chemicals 66.0 55.5 
Total 290.8 297.8 
Total segment assets 855.5 833.7 
Assets classified as held for sale – 0.6 
Tax assets 82.3 68.1 
Cash and investments 59.7 78.8 
Total Group assets 997.5 981.2  59
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Analysis of net operating expenses by function:
Distribution costs 38.4 42.3 
Administrative expenses 66.5 76.6 
104.9 118.9 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
The Group profit for the year is stated after charging:
Depreciation and amortisation (note 13 & 14) 32.2 34.2 
Employee costs (note 10) 171.2 182.2 
Redundancy costs
Non-exceptional 1.2 0.6 
Inventories
Cost recognised as expense in cost of sales 665.2 659.4 
Provision (release)/charge in year (3.1) 5.6 
Loss on disposal and write off of property, plant & equipment 0.5 0.9 
Research and development 23.9 21.0 
Hire of plant and machinery 1.7 1.8 
Other operating lease rentals 3.8 4.8 
Net foreign exchange 1.8 1.0 
Bad debt (release)/expense (note 18) (1.4) 1.6 
The Group manages its business segments on a global basis. The operations are based mainly in the following geographical areas; Europe, 
with manufacturing sites in the UK, France, Holland, Italy and Spain; the Americas, with manufacturing sites in the USA and Brazil; and Asia, 
with manufacturing sites in Singapore, Japan, India and Indonesia. The Group is domiciled in the UK.
The Group’s revenue from external customers in the UK is £51.2m (2010: £53.3m), in Germany is £123.5m (2010: £106.5m), in the US is 
£233.3m (2010: £221.8m) and the total revenue from external customers from other countries is £660.4m (2010: £620.2m).
The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets located in the UK is £85.9m (2010: £74.2m), and 
the total of the non-current assets located in other countries is £274.8m (2010: £262.9m). Goodwill has not been split by geography as this 
asset is not attributable to a geographical area.
No single external customer represents more than 5% of the total revenue of the Group.
2. Net operating expenses
Additional information on the nature of operating expenses, including depreciation and employee costs, is provided in note 3.
3. Profit for the year 60
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Group accounts
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Services provided by the Group's auditors
Audit services
Fees payable to the Company auditor for the audit of parent company and consolidated 
financial statements 0.1 0.1 
Fees payable to the Company auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company's 
subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.7 
Other audit services
Fees payable to the Company auditor and its associates for other services:
Tax services 0.4 0.3 
Advisory services 0.1 0.1 
1.2 1.2 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Financial expenses
Syndicated acquisition funding – 3.4 
$100m US loan note due 2020 3.7 3.5 
2010 Club facility due 2015 5.7 0.6 
Other bank loans and overdrafts 0.8 3.2 
10.2 10.7 
Financial income
Expected return on pension scheme assets less interest on scheme liabilities (note 12) (8.0) (2.3)
H.I.G. Capital LLC loan note (1.2) (1.2)
Bank interest receivable and similar income (0.8) (0.9)
(10.0) (4.4)
Net financial expenses 0.2 6.3 
3. Profit for the year (continued)
4. Net financial expenses
Advisory services predominantly relate to amounts charged to the income statement in respect of a computer system implementation in 
India. In addition to the amounts above, included within other intangibles are £0.7m of capitalised costs from the Group’s auditors relating 
to computer system implementations in various other smaller locations across the Group. These capitalised costs include £0.1m in respect of 
out-of-pocket expenses, primarily air fares. Further detail can be found in the Corporate Governance Report. 61
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
(a) Analysis of tax charge for the year
Continuing operations
United Kingdom current corporate tax 12.9 0.4 
Overseas current corporate taxes 51.9 47.2 
Current tax 64.8 47.6 
Deferred tax (note 6) 11.5 14.9 
76.3 62.5 
(b) Tax on items charged to equity
Deferred tax on actuarial movement on retirement benefit liabilities (21.6) 1.2 
Deferred tax on share based payments (1.6) (3.7)
(23.2) (2.5)
(c) Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
Profit before tax from continuing operations 242.2 192.3 
Tax at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, 26.5% (2010: 28.0%) 64.2 53.8 
Effect of:
Prior years' over provisions (0.3) (0.6)
Tax cost of remitting overseas income to the UK 0.4 0.4 
Expenses and write offs not deductible for tax purposes 0.1 0.1 
Effect of higher overseas tax rates 11.9 8.8 
76.3 62.5 
5. Tax 62
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Group accounts
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
The deferred tax balances included in these accounts are attributable to the following:
Deferred tax assets
Retirement benefit obligations 57.3 42.9 
Provisions 25.0 25.2 
82.3 68.1 
Deferred tax liabilities
Excess of capital allowances over depreciation 41.9 39.7 
Revaluation gains 1.9 1.9 
Other 1.3 1.4 
45.1 43.0 
The movement on deferred tax balances during the year is summarised as follows:
Deferred tax charged through income statement 
Continuing operations before exceptional items (11.5) (14.9)
Exceptional items – (1.3)
Deferred tax credited directly to equity (note 5b) 23.2 2.5 
Exchange differences 0.4 0.1 
12.1 (13.6)
Net balance brought forward 25.1 38.7 
Net balance carried forward 37.2 25.1 
Deferred tax charged through the income statement relates to the following:
Restructuring provisions – (2.0)
Retirement benefit obligations (7.4) (7.3)
Excess of capital allowances over depreciation (2.3) (8.3)
Exceptional items – (1.3)
Other (1.8) 2.7 
(11.5) (16.2)
6. Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method at a rate of 25% (2010: 27%) in the United Kingdom 
and at rates appropriate to each overseas subsidiary.
During the year, as a result of the change in the UK corporation tax rate from 26% to 25% that was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011 
and that will be effective from 1 April 2012, the relevant deferred tax balances have been re-measured. Deferred tax expected to reverse in 
the year to 31 December 2012 and beyond has been measured using the 25% rate.
Further reductions to the UK tax rate have been announced. The changes, which are expected to be enacted separately each year, propose 
to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014. The changes had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date 
and, therefore, are not recognised in these financial statements. 
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in all cases where such assets arise, as it is probable the assets will be recovered.
Deferred tax is only recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries to the extent that remittance is expected in the 
foreseeable future. If all earnings were remitted, an additional £1.8m (2010: £2.1m) of tax would be payable.
All movements on deferred tax balances have been recognised in income with the exception of the charges shown in note 5(b), which 
have been recognised directly in equity. 63
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Revenue – 46.6 
Net operating expenses – (48.0)
Pre tax operating results from discontinued operations – (1.4)
Tax – 0.5 
Post tax operating results from discontinued operations – (0.9)
Profit on disposal 1.6 3.9 
Tax – (1.8)
Net exceptional profit on disposal 1.6 2.1 
Total profit after tax from discontinued operations 1.6 1.2 
Cash flows from discontinued operations
Net cash flows from operating activities – (6.0)
Net cash flows from investing activities 1.0 14.1 
1.0 8.1 
7. Discontinued operations
In January 2011, the Group completed the sale of its 60% holding in its Korean joint venture, Croda Woobang, to the Korean joint venture 
partners for a consideration of £2.2m, generating a profit on disposal of £0.6m.     
The Group closed its Bromborough site in 2009. During 2011 deferred consideration of £1.0m was received in relation to the disposal of the 
site. There was an exceptional pre-tax credit of £3.0m in 2010 in relation to this discontinued business.    
In May 2010, the Group sold its Emmerich site and associated business in Germany to KLK Emmerich GmbH. The profit before tax on the 
sale of the site of £0.9m was disclosed as exceptional.
The impact of the operations discontinued in 2011 and 2010, which resided entirely within the Industrial Specialities segment, is as follows: 
        64
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Group accounts
Total  
2011 
£m
Continuing 
operations 
2011 
£m
Discontinued 
operations 
2011 
£m
Total  
2010 
£m
Continuing 
operations 
2010 
£m
Discontinued 
operations 
2010  
£m
Profit for the year before exceptional items 165.9 165.9 – 128.9 129.8 (0.9)
Exceptional items 1.6 – 1.6 2.1 – 2.1 
Non–controlling interests and preference 
dividend (0.1) (0.1) – (0.3) (0.1) (0.2)
167.4 165.8 1.6 130.7 129.7 1.0 
Number 
m
Number 
m
Number 
m
Number 
m
Number 
m
Number 
m
Weighted average number of 10p ordinary 
shares in issue for basic calculation 135.3 135.3 135.3 136.0 136.0 136.0 
Deemed issue of potentially dilutive shares 2.4 2.4 2.4 2.9 2.9 2.9 
Average number of 10p ordinary shares for 
diluted calculation 137.7 137.7 137.7 138.9 138.9 138.9 
Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share 123.7 96.1 
Basic earnings per share before exceptional 
items 122.5 94.6 
Basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations 122.5 95.4 
Basic earnings per share from discontinued 
operations 1.2 0.7 
Diluted earnings per share 121.6 94.1 
Diluted earnings per share before exceptional 
items 120.4 92.6 
Diluted earnings per share from continuing 
operations 120.4 93.4 
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued 
operations 1.2 0.7 
8. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trusts (note 25) which are treated as cancelled as, 
except for a nominal amount, dividends have been waived.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially 
dilutive ordinary shares.
Additional earnings per share measures are included above to give a better indication of the Group’s underlying performance. 65
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
2011 2010
Pence per 
share £m
Pence per 
share £m
Ordinary
Interim
2010 interim, paid October 2010 – – 9.75 13.3 
2011 interim, paid October 2011 24.75 33.1 – – 
Final
2009 final, paid June 2010 – – 15.00 20.4 
2010 final, paid June 2011 25.25 34.5 – – 
50.00 67.6 24.75 33.7 
Preference (paid June and December) 0.1 0.1 
Dividends paid to non–controlling interests – 0.2 
67.7 34.0 
9. Dividends
10. Employees
The directors are proposing a final dividend of 30.25p per share, amounting to a total dividend of £40.6m, in respect of the financial year 
ended 31 December 2011.
Subject to shareholder approval, the dividend will be paid on 1 June 2012 to shareholders registered on 4 May 2012 and has not been 
accrued in these financial statements. The total dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 is 55.0p per share (£73.7m).
As required by the Companies Act 2006, the figures disclosed above are weighted averages based on the number of employees at each 
month end and include executive directors.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had 3,213 (2010: 3,174) employees in total.
2011 
 £m
2010 
£m
Group employment costs including directors
Wages and salaries 127.5 131.8 
Share based payment charges (note 23) 10.5 15.8 
Social security costs 21.4 20.6 
Other pension costs (note 12) 11.8 14.0 
Redundancy costs 1.2 0.6 
172.4 182.8 
Number Number
Average employee numbers by function
Production 2,006 2,115 
Selling and distribution 761 759 
Administration 423 429 
3,190 3,303  66
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Group accounts
10. Employees (continued)
Key management comprises the members of the main Board, Group Executive Committee and Finance Committee.
11. Directors’ remuneration
Detailed information concerning directors’ remuneration, interests and options is shown in the parts of the directors’ remuneration report 
subject to audit on pages 30 to 42 which form part of the annual report. 
12. Retirement benefit liabilities
The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes throughout the world. The principal schemes are in the UK and cover the vast 
majority of the Group’s UK employees. These schemes are of the defined benefit type with assets held in separate trustee administered 
funds and are funded. In the US, the Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme as well as providing unfunded post-retirement 
medical benefits for employees. In other countries, benefits are determined in accordance with local practice and regulations and funding is 
provided on several bases.
Defined benefit schemes
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of these schemes are as follows:
The gross and net liability above includes an amount of £22.8m in respect of unfunded schemes (2010: £22.6m).
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Key management compensation including directors
Wages and salaries 5.9 5.8 
Share based payment charges 1.8 1.8 
Social security costs 1.0 0.9 
Other pension costs 0.5 0.5 
9.2 9.0 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Present value of retirement benefit liabilities
UK - pension schemes (641.6) (603.4)
US - pension and medical schemes (123.3) (106.4)
Rest of world (81.5) (79.9)
(846.4) (789.7)
Fair value of schemes' assets
UK pension schemes 498.6 503.4 
US pension and medical schemes 72.6 66.6 
Rest of world 76.3 71.9 
647.5 641.9 
Net liability (198.9) (147.8) 67
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Movement in present value of retirement benefit liabilities in the year:
Opening balance 789.7 780.5 
Current service cost 9.7 10.8 
Past service cost – 0.1 
Settlements on restructuring and disposal of businesses (0.2) (33.2)
Interest cost 42.4 42.1 
Actuarial loss 32.7 17.5 
Contributions paid in
Employee 2.5 2.2 
Benefits paid (30.3) (28.5)
Exchange differences on overseas schemes (0.1) (1.8)
846.4 789.7 
Movement in fair value of schemes' assets in the year:
Opening balance 641.9 577.0 
Expected return 50.4 44.4 
Transfer on disposal of business – (0.4)
Actuarial (loss)/gain (43.1) 21.2 
Contributions paid in
Employee 2.5 2.2 
Employer 27.1 27.6 
Benefits paid out (30.3) (28.5)
Exchange differences on overseas schemes (1.0) (1.6)
647.5 641.9 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in equity:
Opening balance 93.5 96.0 
Net actuarial losses/(gains) charged in year 54.2 (2.5)
147.7 93.5 
The actual return on scheme assets in the year was £7.3m (2010: £65.6m).
Total employer contributions to the schemes in 2012 are expected to be £23.1m. 68
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Group accounts
12. Retirement benefit liabilities (continued)
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Analysis of amounts recognised in income statement:
Charged to operating profit
Current service cost 9.7 10.8 
Past service cost – 0.1 
9.7 10.9 
Credited to net financial expenses
Interest on scheme liabilities 42.4 42.1 
Expected return on assets (50.4) (44.4)
(8.0) (2.3)
Net charge to income statement before tax 1.7 8.6 
2011 2010
Valuation method Projected unit Projected unit
Discount rate 4.8% 5.5%
Inflation rate - RPI 3.3% 3.8%
Inflation rate - CPI 2.2% 2.7%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.3% 4.8%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.1% 3.6%
Expected return on scheme assets 7.3% 8.0%
The assets in the schemes comprised: 2011 
% of fair value
2010 
% of fair value
Equities 49.9 42.5 
Bonds 19.5 20.9 
Property 8.2 7.7 
Other 22.4 28.9 
100.0 100.0 
Of the amount charged to operating profit, £7.8m (2010: £8.7m) was included in cost of sales and £1.9m (2010: £2.2m) was included in 
administrative expenses.
In all territories, including the UK, assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice from the Group’s actuaries, 
published statistics and experience in each territory. The following mortality tables have been used in respect of the Group’s key schemes: 
UK: 2000 series tables projected to 2008 plus an additional allowance for future projected mortality improvements; USA: RP 2000 projected 
to 2012 by Scale AA; Netherlands: AG Prognosetafel 2010-2060.
UK pension schemes
The financial assumptions used to assess the UK schemes’ liabilities were:
For funded schemes throughout the Group, the expected return on scheme assets has been derived as the weighted average of the 
expected returns from each of the main asset classes. The expected return for each class reflects a combination of historical performance 
analysis, the forward looking views of the financial markets (as suggested by the yields available) and the views of investment 
organisations.
History of UK schemes’ deficits and experience gains  
and losses:
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
2007 
 £m
Present value of retirement benefit liabilities (641.6) (603.4) (569.7) (397.2) (483.4)
Fair value of scheme assets 498.6 503.4 453.2 399.0 475.9 
Net (liability)/asset (143.0) (100.0) (116.5) 1.8 (7.5)
Experience (loss)/gain on assets (40.4) 13.6 23.6 (109.9) (12.1)
Experience (loss)/gain on liabilities (20.3) (12.1) (165.9) 103.7 (8.9) 69
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
US pension and post-retirement medical schemes
The financial assumptions used to assess the US schemes’ liabilities were:
Other defined benefit schemes
The Group has retirement benefit liabilities in a number of other territories, notably Holland, and all schemes have been established in line 
with local custom and practice. The Dutch defined benefit scheme has a net surplus of £2.0m (2010: £0.5m liability) comprising a gross 
liability of £71.6m and assets of £73.6m.
The financial assumptions used to assess the Dutch scheme liabilities were:       
 
Defined contribution schemes
A 1% change in the assumed medical cost inflation rate would alter the charge to the income statement by £0.2m and the accumulated 
liability by £1.7m.
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Contributions paid charged to operating profit 2.1 3.1 
The assets in the schemes comprised: 2011 
% of fair value
2010 
% of fair value
Equities 45.0 42.1 
Government bonds 45.0 39.8 
Other 10.0 18.1 
100.0 100.0 
2011 2010
Valuation method Projected unit Projected unit
Discount rate 4.4% 5.4%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.0% 4.0%
Expected return on scheme assets 7.8% 8.3%
Medical cost inflation rate 8.0% 8.0%
2011 2010
Valuation method Projected unit Projected unit
Discount rate 5.7% 5.7%
Inflation rate 2.3% 2.3%
Rate of increase in salaries 2.8% 3.0%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.3% 2.3%
Expected return on scheme assets 5.7% 6.2%
History of US schemes’ deficits and experience gains  
and losses:
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
2007 
 £m
Present value of retirement benefit liabilities (123.3) (106.4) (99.4) (102.9) (76.5)
Fair value of scheme assets 72.6 66.6 57.8 59.7 56.2 
Net liability (50.7) (39.8) (41.6) (43.2) (20.3)
Experience (loss)/gain on assets (3.2) 3.6 6.0 (14.9) (2.4)
Experience (loss)/gain on liabilities (13.9) (4.0) (5.4) 2.5 (9.5) 70
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Group accounts
Goodwill  
£m
Other 
intangibles  
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2010 199.9 2.4 202.3 
Additions – 0.5 0.5 
Reclassified from property, plant & equipment – 4.2 4.2 
Disposals and write offs – (0.7) (0.7)
At 31 December 2010 199.9 6.4 206.3 
At 1 January 2011 199.9 6.4 206.3 
Exchange differences – (0.2) (0.2)
Additions – 2.4 2.4 
At 31 December 2011 199.9 8.6 208.5 
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2010 – 0.3 0.3 
Exchange differences – (0.1) (0.1)
Charge for the year (note 3) – 1.3 1.3 
Reclassified from property, plant & equipment – 1.6 1.6 
Disposals and write offs – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 December 2010 – 2.8 2.8 
At 1 January 2011 – 2.8 2.8 
Exchange differences – (0.2) (0.2)
Charge for the year (note 3) – 0.9 0.9 
At 31 December 2011 – 3.5 3.5 
Net carrying amount
At 31 December 2011 199.9 5.1 205.0 
At 31 December 2010 199.9 3.6 203.5 
At 1 January 2010 199.9 2.1 202.0 
13. Intangible assets
Goodwill is tested at each year end for impairment with reference to the relevant cash generating unit’s (CGU) recoverable amount 
compared to the unit’s carrying value including goodwill. The relevant CGU when testing the Uniqema goodwill of £193.4m is the Group’s 
Consumer Care reporting segment. The recoverable amount is based on value in use calculations using pre-tax discounted cash flow 
projections based on the Group’s current year results and a future growth rate of 3% (2010: 3%).
The cashflows have been discounted using the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, which for these purposes has been calculated to be 
approximately 7.8% before tax (2010: 7.5%).
The key assumptions underpinning the forecast employed in the value in use calculation reflect a prudent view of past experience and are 
that market share will not change significantly and that gross and operating margins will remain broadly constant. The directors believe 
there are no reasonably probable significant changes in assumptions which would give rise to an impairment charge in the year.  
       71
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
14. Property, plant and equipment
The net book value of assets held by the Group under finance leases for plant and equipment at 31 December 2011 was £0.7m  
(2010: £0.7m). The leased equipment secures the lease obligations in note 20. No other fixed assets have been pledged as security for 
liabilities.
Land and 
buildings  
£m
Plant and 
equipment  
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2010 127.8 423.7 551.5 
Exchange differences 1.0 0.6 1.6 
Additions 6.8 34.4 41.2 
Business disposals and closures (12.1) (44.3) (56.4)
Other disposals and write offs (1.6) (10.4) (12.0)
Reclassified as computer software – (4.2) (4.2)
Reclassified as held for sale – (2.9) (2.9)
At 31 December 2010 121.9 396.9 518.8 
At 1 January 2011 121.9 396.9 518.8 
Exchange differences (1.9) (6.5) (8.4)
Additions 4.9 51.3 56.2 
Other disposals and write offs (1.4) (2.0) (3.4)
At 31 December 2011 123.5 439.7 563.2 
Depreciation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2010 38.5 171.2 209.7 
Exchange differences (0.4) (0.2) (0.6)
Charge for the year 4.1 28.8 32.9 
Business disposals and closures (3.5) (24.6) (28.1)
Other disposals and write offs (0.4) (10.2) (10.6)
Reclassified as computer software – (1.6) (1.6)
Reclassified as held for sale – (2.3) (2.3)
At 31 December 2010 38.3 161.1 199.4 
At 1 January 2011 38.3 161.1 199.4 
Exchange differences (0.9) (4.1) (5.0)
Charge for the year 3.9 27.4 31.3 
Other disposals and write offs (0.7) (2.0) (2.7)
At 31 December 2011 40.6 182.4 223.0 
Net book amount
At 31 December 2011 82.9 257.3 340.2 
At 31 December 2010 83.6 235.8 319.4 
At 1 January 2010 89.3 252.5 341.8 72
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Group accounts
15. Future commitments
16. Investments
17. Inventories
The Group leases various buildings, vehicles and other plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements. The 
leases have various terms typical of lease agreements for the particular class of asset.
Loan note
The Group received a US dollar denominated loan note as part of the consideration for a business disposal in 2008. The note is held directly 
by one of the Group’s US subsidiaries. It is classified as a held to maturity investment and carries a notional coupon of 6.0% per annum 
payable at maturity. On receipt the loan was valued at a discount rate of 9.5% being the estimated market rate at the time applicable to the 
issuer. The US dollar balance is translated to Sterling at the prevailing year end exchange rate. The loan was repaid in January 2012 following 
the onward sale of the ex-Croda business by the issuer and the repayment will lead to a small financing gain in 2012.
Other investments
Other investments of £0.9m (2010: £0.9m) comprise equity securities classified as available-for-sale and are included at cost, as fair value 
cannot be measured reliably, or, if quoted on an active market, at market value.
The Group consumed £665.2m (2010: £659.4m) of inventories during the period.
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Group capital projects
At 31 December the directors had authorised the following expenditure on capital projects:
Contracted but not provided for
Property, plant and equipment 12.1 8.2 
Intangible assets 0.1 0.1 
Authorised but not contracted for
Property, plant and equipment 34.1 42.7 
Intangible assets 0.9 0.1 
47.2 51.1 
Operating leases - minimum lease payments
At 31 December the Group's future minimum lease commitments were due as follows:
Within one year 2.2 2.1 
From one to five years 4.5 4.9 
After five years 3.4 3.4 
10.1 10.4 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
H.I.G. Capital LLC loan note 14.5 13.1 
Other investments 0.9 0.9 
15.4 14.0 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Raw materials 28.0 29.5 
Work in progress 27.7 27.4 
Finished goods 108.9 107.7 
164.6 164.6  73
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
18. Trade and other receivables
The individually impaired receivables relate to customers in unexpectedly difficult economic circumstances. The overdue receivables against 
which no provision has been made relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default nor any other indication 
that settlement will not be forthcoming.
Amounts charged to the income statement are included within administrative expenses. The other classes of receivables do not contain 
impaired assets.
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade receivables 129.4 133.6 
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (4.6) (6.7)
Trade receivables - net 124.8 126.9 
Other receivables 17.5 15.5 
Prepayments 3.4 3.8 
145.7 146.2 
The ageing of the Group’s year end overdue receivables against which no provision  
has been made is as follows:
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Not impaired
Less than 3 months 19.4 12.1 
3 to 6 months 0.3 0.3 
Over 6 months 0.1 –
19.8 12.4 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Sterling 10.7 13.2 
US Dollar 44.0 39.9 
Euro 55.7 59.7 
Other 35.3 33.4 
145.7 146.2 
Movements on the Group’s provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:  
   
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
At 1 January 6.7 5.2 
Exchange differences (0.1) 0.2 
(Released)/charged to income statement (1.4) 1.6 
Net write off of uncollectible receivables (0.6) (0.3)
At 31 December 4.6 6.7  74
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Group accounts
19. Trade and other payables
20. Borrowings, other financial liabilities and other financial assets
This note should be read in conjunction with the further liquidity disclosures in the Financial review.
The Club facility was put in place in November 2010 and falls due for repayment upon expiry of the agreement in May 2015. Interest is 
charged at a floating rate based on LIBOR or EURIBOR, depending upon the drawdown currency, plus a variable margin. The margin the 
Group pays on its borrowings over and above standard rates is determined by the Group’s net debt to EBITDA ratio.
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Trade payables 58.1 61.7 
Taxation and social security 12.3 11.0 
Other payables 22.0 24.4 
Accruals and deferred income 67.0 81.4 
159.4 178.5 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Current
Assets
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) 142.3 142.4 
Liabilities
Trade and other payables (excluding taxation, social security, accruals and deferred income) 80.1 86.1 
Other unsecured bank loans and overdrafts due within one year or on demand 7.2 2.9 
Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.4 
87.6 89.4 
Non-current
Liabilities
2010 Club facility due 2015 182.4 210.6 
$100m fixed rate 10 year bond 64.5 63.7 
Other unsecured bank loans 20.7 7.1 
Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.4 
267.9 281.8  75
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
The analysis above includes estimated interest payable to maturity on the underlying loans. For the loans due after more than one year 
£7.8m (2010: £8.0m) of the interest falls due within one year of the balance sheet date, £7.9m (2010: £8.1m) within one to two years, 
£17.0m (2010: £21.5m) within two to five years and £11.4m (2010: £11.4m) beyond five years.
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
Repayments fall due as follows:
Within one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 7.2 2.9 
Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.4 
7.5 3.3 
After more than one year
Loans repayable
Within one to two years – 0.4 
Within two to five years 203.1 217.3 
Five years and over 64.5 63.7 
Obligations under finance leases payable between years two and five 0.3 0.4 
267.9 281.8 
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
Within one year 0.3 0.4 
Within two to five years 0.4 0.5 
0.7 0.9 
Future finance charges on finance leases (0.1) (0.1)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 0.6 0.8 
Undiscounted maturity analysis of financial liabilities
Within one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 7.4 3.0 
Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.4 
7.7 3.4 
After more than one year
Loans repayable
Within one to two years – 0.4 
Within two to five years 216.7 235.8 
Five years and over 94.9 94.1 
Obligations under finance leases 0.4 0.5 
312.0 330.8  76
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Group accounts
20. Borrowings, other financial liabilities and other financial assets (continued)
Interest rate and currency profile of Group financial liabilities
Fair values
The table below details a comparison of the book and fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities. Where there are no readily 
available market values to determine fair values, cash flows relating to the various instruments have been discounted at prevailing interest 
and exchange rates to give an estimate of fair value.
For financial instruments with a remaining life of greater than one year, fair values are based on cash flows discounted at prevailing interest 
rates. Accordingly, the fair value of cash deposits and short term borrowings approximates to the book value due to the short maturity of 
these instruments. The same applies to trade and other receivables and payables excluded from the above analysis.
As noted in the accounting policies note on page 77, the Group’s management of its currency risk includes the use of forward foreign 
currency contracts. The fair value of the contracts in place at 31 December 2011 was £(0.3)m (2010: £0.2m).
Financial instruments        
Effective 1 January 2009, the Group adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 for financial instruments that are measured in the balance sheet at 
fair value. This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following hierarchy:
l Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1)
l Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or  
 indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2)
l Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).
With the exception of the HIG Capital Loan note (note 16) which is categorised as Level 1, all financial assets and liabilities are Level 2.
Borrowing facilities        
As at 31 December 2011, the Group had undrawn committed facilities of £201.5m (2010: £194.1m), all expiring in more than two years. In 
addition the Group had other undrawn facilities of £65.5m (2010: £67.8m) available.
Financial risk factors 
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: currency risk, interest-rate risk, liquidity risk, and credit risk. The Group’s overall 
risk management strategy is approved by the Board and implemented and reviewed by the Risk Management Committee. Detailed financial 
risk management is then delegated to the Group Finance department which has a specific policy manual that sets out guidelines to manage 
financial risk. Regular reports are received from all operating companies to enable prompt identification of financial risks so that appropriate 
action may be taken.
Fixed rate 
Weighted average
Total 
£m
Fixed 
£m
Floating 
£m
Interest rate 
(%)
Fixed period 
(years)
Sterling 88.3 – 88.3 – – 
US Dollar 92.9 64.5 28.4 5.94 8.1 
Euro 92.3 – 92.3 – – 
Other 1.9 – 1.9 – – 
At 31 December 2011 275.4 64.5 210.9 5.94 8.1 
Sterling 101.6 – 101.6 – – 
US Dollar 76.3 63.7 12.6 5.94 9.1 
Euro 104.3 – 104.3 – – 
Other 2.9 – 2.9 – – 
At 31 December 2010 285.1 63.7 221.4 5.94 9.1 
Book value 
2011 
£m
Fair value 
2011 
£m
Book value 
2010 
£m
Fair value 
2010 
£m
Cash deposits 44.3 44.3 64.8 64.8 
Other investments 15.4 15.4 14.0 14.0 
2010 Club facility due 2015 (182.4) (182.4) (210.6) (210.6)
$100m fixed rate 10 year bond (64.5) (74.1) (63.7) (65.7)
Other bank borrowings (27.9) (27.9) (10.0) (10.0)
Obligations under finance leases (0.6) (0.6) (0.8) (0.8) 77
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Currency risk
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to currency risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US 
Dollar and the Euro. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments 
in foreign operations. Entities in the Group use forward contracts and foreign currency bank balances to manage their foreign exchange risk 
arising from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities. The Group’s risk management policy is to hedge transactional 
risk up to three months forward. The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency 
translation risk. Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations is not specifically hedged but is reduced 
primarily through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies where it is efficient to do so.
For 2011, had the Group’s basket of reporting currencies been 10% weaker/stronger than the actual rates experienced, post-tax profit for 
the year would have been £11m (2010: £10m) lower/higher than reported, primarily as a result of the translation of the profits of the 
Group’s overseas entities, and equity would have been £20m (2010: £19m) lower/higher.
Interest rate risk
The Group has both interest bearing assets and liabilities. The Group has a policy of maintaining at least 50% of its gross borrowings at 
floating interest rates and at 31 December 2011 over 75% of Group borrowings were at floating rates. During 2010, to manage the Group’s 
interest rate exposure, the Group issued a ten year fixed rate $100m loan note. The loan note is repayable in 2020 and carries a fixed rate of 
5.94%. 
As at 31 December 2011, aside from the $100m loan note, all Group debt and cash was exposed to repricing within 12 months of the 
balance sheet date.
At 31 December 2011, the Group’s fixed rate debt was at a weighted average rate of 5.94% (2010: 5.94%). The Group’s floating rate 
liabilities are predominantly based on LIBOR and its overseas equivalents. 
Based on the above, had interest rates moved by 10 basis points in the territories where the Group has substantial borrowings, post tax 
profits would have moved by £0.2m (2010: £0.2m) due to increased interest expense on the Group’s floating rate borrowings. 
Liquidity risk
The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and short-term committed facilities designed to ensure the Group has sufficient 
funds available for operations and planned investments. The Group also has a share buyback programme which is managed to ensure the 
efficiency of the Group’s funding structure.
On a regular basis, management monitors forecasts of the Group’s cash flows against both internal targets and those targets imposed by 
external lenders. The Group has substantial committed, unused facilities and the directors are confident this situation will remain the case 
for the foreseeable future.
Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. It has policies in place to ensure that sales of products are made to customers 
with an appropriate credit history. Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high-credit quality financial institutions. The 
Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns 
for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, as well as maintaining an optimal capital structure to reduce overall cost of capital.
In order to maintain this optimal structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid, issue new shares, return capital to 
shareholders or dispose of assets to reduce net debt.
Given the Group’s strong balance sheet and sustained trading growth, the Group announced a new dividend policy in July 2011 of increasing 
the annual dividend to between 40% and 50% of sustainable earnings. Further details of the dividend policy can be found in the Chairman’s 
statement on pages 2 and 3.
During 2011, given the levels of surplus cash generated from strong trading, the Group repaid a further £50m to shareholders by means of 
a share buyback. Should further organic investment be required or acquisition opportunities arise, less cash would be available for future 
buybacks.
Underlying growth coupled to Return on Invested Capital (ROIC*) is the key perceived driver of shareholder value within the Group. 
The acquisition of Uniqema in 2006 reduced the ROIC, but also reduced Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC
†
) since the deal was 
predominantly financed through debt. The Group’s ROIC has grown steadily since the acquisition and now stands at 23.7% against a WACC of 
7.8%, thus hitting the Group’s target of maintaining ROIC at a higher level than the WACC.
In addition, the Group employs two widely used ratios to measure our ability to service our debt. Both net debt/EBITDA and EBITDA interest 
cover were well ahead of target in 2011.
The Group was in compliance with its covenant requirements throughout the year.
Additional information on performance against key performance indicators can be found in the Financial review on page 9.
*ROIC = Group profit after tax (before exceptional items)/average invested capital**. 
†WACC = weighted average cost of servicing the Group’s net debt and its equity share capital. 
** Average invested capital = average net assets of the Group (as at the start and end of the year) adjusted to add back net debt, retirement benefit liabilities, tax 
balances and provisions. 78
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Group accounts
21. Provisions
Provisions are made where a constructive or legal obligation has arisen from a past event, can be quantified and where the timing of the 
transfer of economic benefits relating to the provisions cannot be ascertained with any degree of certainty.
The environmental provision relates to soil and potential ground water contamination at a number of sites, both currently in use and 
previously occupied, in Europe and the Americas. Restructuring provisions relate to the remaining employee and property costs associated 
with the final elements of the Uniqema integration plan.
In relation to the environmental provision, the directors consider that the balance will be utilised within 20 years. With regard to the 
restructuring provision, the directors’ view is that the balance will be fully utilised by 2014. Based on information currently available and on 
the detailed plans established for the restructuring of the Group, this level of provision is considered appropriate by the directors. The Group 
has considered the impact of discounting on its provisions and has concluded that, as a consequence of the significant utilisation expected in 
a relatively short timescale, the impact is immaterial.
Environmental  
£m
Restructuring  
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2011 12.1 14.1 5.0 31.2 
Charged/(released) to income statement 3.1 (2.9) 1.2 1.4 
Cash paid against provisions (1.2) (6.7) (1.0) (8.9)
At 31 December 2011 14.0 4.5 5.2 23.7 
Analysis of total provisions 2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Current 8.8 17.9 
Non-current 14.9 13.3 
23.7 31.2  79
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
22. Ordinary share capital
During the year, the Company purchased a further 2,805,225 shares on the open market. The total amount paid to acquire the shares was 
£50.4m. The shares are held as “treasury shares”. The Company has the right to re-issue these shares at a later date.
In 2011 options were granted to employees under the Croda Savings-Related Share Option Scheme to subscribe for 88,371 ordinary shares 
at an option price of 1432p per share and under the Croda International Overseas Sharesave Scheme to subscribe for a notional 224,897 
shares at an option price of 1432p per share. No options were granted in 2011 under the Senior Executive Share Option Scheme. No-cost 
options to subscribe for 144,487 ordinary shares were granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan during the year and no-cost options over 
a further 203,978 shares were granted under the Bonus Co-Investment Plan.
During the year consideration of £1.0m was received on the exercise of options over 227,803 shares. The options were satisfied with shares 
transferred from the Group’s employee share trusts. Since the year end a further 10,390 shares have been transferred from the schemes.
There are outstanding options to subscribe for ordinary shares as follows:        
Ordinary shares of 10p 2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Authorised at 1 January and 31 December
230,744,890 ordinary shares of 10p each (2010: 230,744,890) 23.1 23.1 
Allotted, called up and fully paid at 1 January and 31 December
139,949,969 ordinary shares of 10p each (2010: 139,949,969) 14.0 14.0 
Year option 
granted
Number of 
shares
Price Options exercisable from
Croda Savings-Related 2008 4,722 509p 1 November 2011 to 30 April 2012
Share Option Scheme 2009 148,780 533p 1 November 2012 to 30 April 2013
2010 89,364 1144p 1 November 2013 to 30 April 2014
2011 86,733 1432p 1 November 2014 to 30 April 2015
Croda International Overseas 2009 282,113 533p 1 November 2012 to 30 November 2012
Sharesave Scheme 2010 295,084 1144p 1 November 2013 to 30 November 2013
2011 223,041 1432p 1 November 2014 to 30 November 2014
Croda International Senior 2003 90,840 230p 5 March 2006 to 4 March 2013
Executive Share Option Scheme
Croda International Long-term 2009 287,243 Nil 18 February 2012 to 17 February 2013
Incentive Plan 2010 212,991 Nil 24 February 2013 to 23 February 2014
2011 144,487 Nil 23 February 2014 to 22 February 2015
Croda International Bonus 2009 337,923 Nil 30 April 2012
Co-Investment Plan 2010 220,121 Nil 29 April 2013
2011 201,422 Nil 3 May 2014
2011 2,556 Nil 27 May 2014 80
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Group accounts
23. Share based payments
The impact of share based payment transactions on the Group’s financial position is as follows:
The key elements of each scheme along with the assumptions employed to arrive at the charge in the income statement are set out 
below. Where appropriate the expected volatility has been based on historic volatility considering daily share price movements over periods 
equal to the expected future life of the awards and the risk free rate is based on the Bank of England’s projected nominal yield curve with 
appropriate duration.
Croda Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”)
The SAYE scheme, established in 1983, grants options annually in September to employees of the Group at a fixed exercise price, being 
the market price of the Company’s shares at the grant date discounted by up to 20%. Employees then enter into a savings contract over 
three years and, subject to continued employment, purchase options at the end of the period based on the amount saved. Options are then 
exercisable for a six month period following completion of the savings contract. As the option is equity settled, under IFRS 2 charges are 
only made in respect of options granted after 7 November 2002. For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Analysis of amounts recognised in income statement:
Charged in respect of equity-settled share based payment transactions 3.3 2.9 
Charged in respect of cash-settled share based payment transactions 7.2 12.9 
10.5 15.8 
Analysis of amounts recognised in balance sheet:
Liability in respect of cash-settled share based payment transactions 11.9 10.5 
Grant date 2011 2010
Share price at grant date 1789p 1431p
Exercise price 1432p 1144p
Number of employees 436 370
Shares under option 88,371 94,501
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 
Expected volatility 35% 35%
Option life 6 months 6 months
Expected life – –
Risk free rate 0.8% 1.3%
Dividend yield 2.8% 1.7%
Possibility of forfeiture 7.5% p.a. 7.5% p.a.
Fair value per option at grant date 520p 443p
Option pricing model Black Scholes Black Scholes
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2011 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 403,639 664 733,806 478 
Granted 88,371 1432 94,501 1144
Forfeited (15,421) 732 (30,207) 519 
Exercised (144,168) 504 (394,461) 444 
Outstanding at 31 December 332,421 934 403,639 664 
Exercisable at 31 December 4,722 16,938 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 1703 1387
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 2.1 2.2  81
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Croda International Overseas Sharesave Scheme (“International”)
The International scheme, established in 1999, has the same option pricing model, savings contract and vesting period as the SAYE scheme.
At exercise, employees are paid a cash equivalent for each option purchased, being the difference between the exercise price and market 
price at the exercise date. As the scheme is cash settled, IFRS 2 applies to all options in existence during the year, regardless of grant date.
For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
Grant date 2011 2010
Share price at grant date 1789p 1431p
Exercise price 1432p 1144p
Number of employees 1,021 975
Shares under option 224,897 308,455
Vesting period 3 years 3 years
Expected volatility 30% 35%
Option life 1 month 1 month
Expected life – –
Risk free rate 0.4% 1.0%
Dividend yield 2.8% 1.5%
Possibility of forfeiture 7.5% p.a. 7.5% p.a.
Fair value per option at 31 December 453p 579p
Option pricing model Black Scholes Black Scholes
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2011 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 815,529 756 1,215,119 257 
Granted 224,897 1432 308,455 1144
Forfeited (39,361) 681 (73,242) 529 
Exercised (198,293) 512 (634,803) 475 
Outstanding at 31 December 802,772 1009 815,529 756 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 1705 1399
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 1.8 2.0  82
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Group accounts
23. Share based payments (continued)
Croda International Senior Executive Share Option Schemes (“Executive”)
The Group previously granted options to senior employees each year which are subject to satisfaction of performance conditions before 
they can be exercised. The performance conditions are discussed in detail in the directors’ remuneration report (page 36). As with the SAYE 
scheme, the Executive Scheme is equity settled and as a consequence only the options granted in 2003 fall within the scope of IFRS 2. No 
further options will be granted under this scheme.
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Croda International Long-Term Investment Plan (“LTIP”)       
The LTIP was established in 2005 and grants no cost options to senior employees which vest after three years dependent upon an EPS 
performance related sliding scale (non-market condition) and the Group’s total shareholder return (market condition). The LTIP is discussed in 
detail in the directors’ remuneration report (page 35). For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions 
used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
2011 2010
Market condition Non-market condition Market condition Non-market condition
Grant date 23 February 2011 23 February 2011 24 February 2010 24 February 2010
Share price at grant date 1588p 1588p 900p 900p
Number of employees 20 20 11 11
Shares under option 72,243 72,244 106,495 106,496
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Option life 1 year 1 year 1 year 1 year
Expected life – – – –
Dividend yield 2.2% 2.2% 2.4% 2.4%
Possibility of forfeiture 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5%
Fair value per option at grant date 924p 1488p 521p 838p
Option pricing model Closed form 
valuation
Closed form  
valuation
Closed form 
valuation
Closed form  
valuation
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2011 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 845,701 – 862,611 – 
Granted 144,487 – 212,991 – 
Exercised (303,191) – (229,901) – 
Outstanding at 31 December 686,997 – 845,701 – 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 1805 918 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 1.9 2.0 
Number
2011 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 297,045 234 451,813 238 
Exercised (133,635) 235 (154,768) 245 
Outstanding at 31 December 163,410 233 297,045 234 
Exercisable at 31 December 163,410 297,045 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 1704 963 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 1.1 2.0  83
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Bonus Co-Investment Plan (“BCIP”)       
The BCIP was established in 2005 and grants no cost options to senior employees which vest after three years dependent upon a 
performance related condition. The BCIP is discussed in detail in the directors’ remuneration report (pages 34 and 35). For options granted in 
the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
Croda International Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”)       
The SIP was established in 2003 and has similar objectives to the SAYE scheme in terms of increasing employee retention and share 
ownership. Under the SIP scheme, employees enter into an agreement to purchase shares in the Company each month. For each share 
purchased by an employee, the Company awards a matching share which passes to the employee after three years’ service. The matching 
shares are allocated each month at market value with this fair value charge being recognised in the income statement in full in the year of 
allocation.
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2011 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 750,801 – 627,609 – 
Granted 203,978 – 220,121 – 
Forfeited (7,177) – (12,676) – 
Exercised (185,580) – (84,253) – 
Outstanding at 31 December 762,022 – 750,801 – 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 1881 962 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 1.2 1.4 
Grant date 3 May 2011 29 April 2010
Share price at grant date 1881p 990p
Number of employees 67 62 
Shares under option 203,978 220,121 
Vesting period 3 years 3 years
Dividend yield 1.9% 2.2%
Possibility of forfeiture 5.0% 5.0%
Fair value per option at grant date 1787p 941p 84
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Group accounts
24. Preference share capital
The preference shares have no redemption rights and carry no voting rights other than in certain circumstances affecting the rights of the 
preference shareholders, details of which are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. The three classes of preference shares rank 
pari passu with each other but ahead of the ordinary shares on winding up. Rights on a winding up are limited to repayment of capital and 
any arrears of dividends.
25. Shareholders’ equity
Investments in own shares represent the Croda International Plc Qualifying Share Ownership Trust (QUEST), the Croda International Plc 
Employee Benefit Trust (CIPEBT) and the Croda International Plc AESOP Trust (AESOP), which each hold shares purchased on the open market 
or transferred from treasury shares to satisfy the future issue of shares under the Group’s share option schemes. As at 31 December 2011 
the QUEST had a net amount due from the Company of £0.3m (2010: £0.4m due to the Company) and held 0.2m (2010: 0.1m) shares 
transferred at nil cost (2010: cost £0.4m) with a market value of £4.3m (2010: £1.9m). As at 31 December 2011 the CIPEBT was financed  
by a repayable on demand loan from the Company of £4.3m (2010: £4.6m) and held 0.9m (2010: 0.8m) shares at a cost of £4.3m  
(2010: £4.6m) with a market value of £15.4m (2010: £13.6m).
As at 31 December 2011 the AESOP had issued all its previously held shares, as financed by the Company, and thus had no residual loan 
balance with the Company. All of the shares held by the QUEST and CIPEBT were under option at 31 December 2011 and, except for a 
nominal amount, the right to receive dividends has been waived.
26. Non-controlling interests
In January 2011, the Group completed the sale of Croda Woobang, its 60% owned Korean joint venture, to the non-controlling shareholders.
In November 2010, the Group purchased the joint venture partners’ 40% share in PT Croda Indonesia Ltd for a cash consideration of 
US$1.6m.
27. Related party transactions
The Group has no related party transactions, with the exception of remuneration paid to key management and directors which is included in 
note 10.        
2011 
£000
2010 
£000
The authorised, issued and fully paid preference share capital comprises:
615,562 5.9% preference shares of £1 616 616 
499,174 6.6% preference shares of £1 499 499 
21,900 7.5% preference shares of £1 22 22 
1,137 1,137 
2011 
£000
2010 
£000
At 1 January 1.1 1.7 
Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 
Profit for the year – 0.2 
Disposals (1.1) –
Transfer to fully owned – (0.7)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – (0.2)
At 31 December 0.1 1.1  85
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Croda International Plc
Parent company financial statements
Pages 86 to 97 represent the separate financial statements of Croda 
International Plc as required by the Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”).
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
Act and UK accounting standards and are thus presented separately to the 
Group financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with 
International Accounting Standards. 86
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Company independent auditors’ report
Company independent auditors’ report to the members of Croda International Plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise 
the Company balance sheet, the Company accounting policies and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice).
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 46, the directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the directors’ report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 
l give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2011;
l have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
l have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
l the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
l the information given in the directors’ report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is  
 consistent with the parent company financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: 
l adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from  
 branches not visited by us; or 
l the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the  
 accounting records and returns; or 
l certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
l we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Croda International Plc. 
Richard Bunter (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
Leeds 
29 February 2012 87
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Note 2011 
£m
2010
£m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets C 1.7 1.5 
Investments
Subsidiary undertakings D 573.1 418.5 
Other E 0.6 0.6 
575.4 420.6 
Current assets
Debtors F 10.1 12.6 
Cash at bank and in hand 3.7 9.6 
13.8 22.2 
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year G (40.5) (51.8)
Net current liabilities (26.7) (29.6)
Total assets less current liabilities 548.7 391.0 
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year G (260.2) (242.7)
Net assets 288.5 148.3 
Capital and reserves
Preference share capital 24 1.1 1.1 
Ordinary share capital 22 14.0 14.0 
Called up share capital 15.1 15.1 
Share premium account J 93.3 93.3 
Reserves J 180.1 39.9 
Shareholders' funds 288.5 148.3 
Company balance sheet
at 31 December 2011
Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the accounts on 29 February 2012
Martin Flower
Non-executive Chairman
Sean Christie
Group Finance Director 88
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Company accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. They have all been applied 
consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, unless otherwise stated.
Accounting basis
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the previous revaluation of properties, in 
compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and 
applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards. Whilst the consolidated accounts have been prepared under IFRS, as required by European 
law, the Company’s accounts continue to be prepared under UK GAAP as permitted.
Land and buildings
In the past the Company’s principal properties have been valued periodically by professional valuers on an open market, existing use basis. 
Following the Company’s adoption of FRS 15 in 2001, no further revaluations will be carried out and previous book values will be retained. 
Notwithstanding the requirements of FRS 15 all fixed assets are written down to their recoverable amount in the event that any impairment 
review carried out in accordance with FRS 11 indicates that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value. The profit or loss on the 
disposal of land and buildings included in the profit and loss account represents the difference between the net proceeds of sale and the net 
book amount.
Depreciation
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation less depreciation, where cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the 
costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write 
down the cost of all tangible fixed assets, except freehold land, over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis. The estimated 
average life for each major asset category is:
l Freehold buildings – 15 to 40 years 
l Computers and office equipment – 3 to 5 years
l Cars – 3 years
l Plant and machinery – 10 to 15 years
Leased assets
The cost of operating leases is charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Pensions
The defined benefit pension obligations of the Company are financed by contributions to separate funds. As the Company is unable to 
reliably and consistently measure its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the funds, the Company accounts as though the funds 
were defined contribution funds and charges contributions paid directly to the profit and loss account.
Currency translations
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the financial period. Exchange profits or losses on 
trading transactions are included in the profit and loss account. Other exchange differences arising from non-trading items are dealt with 
through reserves.
Financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rates and short-term currency rate fluctuations. 
Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at cost. Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument as 
either: (i) a hedge of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (fair value hedge); or (ii) a hedge of highly 
probable forecast transactions (cash flow hedge);
(i) Fair value hedge
Changes in the fair value of derivatives, for example interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts, that are designated and qualify as 
fair value hedges are recorded in the profit and loss account, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that 
are attributable to the hedged risk.
(ii) Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity. 
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. Amounts accumulated in equity 
are recycled in the profit and loss account in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss (for instance when the forecast 
sale that is hedged takes place). However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset 
(for example, inventory) or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the 
initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets 
the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the 
forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the profit and loss account. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the 
cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the profit and loss account.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not 
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. 89
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Employee Share Ownership Trusts
Shares acquired by the Trustees, funded by the Company and held for the continuing benefit of the Company are shown as a reduction 
in shareholders’ funds. Movements in the year arising from additional purchases by the Trustees of shares or the receipt of funds due to 
the exercise of options by employees are accounted for within reserves and shown as a movement in shareholders’ funds in the year. 
Administration expenses of the trusts are charged to the Company’s profit and loss account as incurred.
Share based payments
Share based incentive schemes are accounted for in accordance with FRS 20 “Share based payments”, which requires an expense to be 
recognised in the profit and loss account over the vesting period of the options. The expense is based on the fair value of each instrument 
which is calculated using the Black-Scholes or binomial model as appropriate. Any expense is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels 
of options vesting, as market-based performance criteria are not used.
Dividends
All dividends, including preference dividends, are recognised as a liability when the liability is irrevocable. Accordingly, final dividends are 
recognised when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Taxation 
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and other accounting purposes. Temporary differences arise from the inclusion of 
profits and losses in the accounts in different periods from which they are recognised in tax assessments and primarily arise as a result 
of the difference between tax allowances on tangible fixed assets and the corresponding depreciation charge. Full provision is made for 
the tax effects of these differences. No provision is made for unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries where there is no commitment 
to remit such earnings. Similarly, no provision is made for temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries since realisation of 
such differences can be controlled and is not probable in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. All taxation is calculated on the 
basis of the tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction 
costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest 
method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for 
at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other debtors
Trade and other debtors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest 
method, less impairment losses.
Investments
Shares in subsidiary undertakings
Shares in subsidiary undertakings are initially stated at cost. Provision is made where, in the opinion of the directors, a permanent 
diminution in value has occurred.
Unquoted securities
Investments in unquoted securities are carried at fair value unless such value cannot be reliably measured, in which case the investments 
are carried at cost. 
Financial risk factors
The Group accounting policy for financial risk factors is also relevant to the preparation of the Company financial statements and is disclosed 
on pages 76 and 77. 90
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Company accounts
A. Profit and loss account
Of the Group’s profit for the year, £256.9m (2010: £38.5m) is dealt with in the profit and loss account of the Company which was approved 
by the Board on 29 February 2012 but which is not presented as permitted by s.408 Companies Act 2006. Included in the Company profit 
and loss account is a charge of £0.1m (2010: £0.1m) in respect of the Company’s audit fee.
B. Retirement benefit obligations
The Company’s employees are members of the UK defined benefit scheme, details of which are disclosed in note 12 to the Group accounts. 
Whilst the Group reports under IFRS, the UK GAAP equivalent figures for the UK scheme would not be significantly different. As the Company 
is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of of the scheme, due mainly to changes in the Group’s corporate 
structure over the years, the Company has accounted as though the scheme was a defined contribution schemes and has charged the 
contributions paid each year to the profit and loss account.
C. Tangible fixed assets
Land and 
buildings 
£m
Plant and 
equipment 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2011 2.1 1.4 3.5 
Additions – 0.4 0.4 
Disposals – (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 December 2011 2.1 1.6 3.7 
Depreciation
At 1 January 2011 1.3 0.7 2.0 
Charge for year – 0.2 0.2 
Disposals – (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 December 2011 1.3 0.7 2.0 
Net book amount
At 31 December 2011 0.8 0.9 1.7 
At 31 December 2010 0.8 0.7 1.5 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Net book amount of land and buildings
Freehold 0.8 0.8 
Historical cost of land and buildings
Cost 0.3 0.3 
1988 valuations 1.8 1.8 
At 31 December 2.1 2.1 
Revaluation surpluses (1.1) (1.1)
Restated to historical cost 1.0 1.0 
Depreciation (0.8) (0.8)
Historical net book amount
At 31 December 0.2 0.2  91
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 98.
During 2011 the investment in Croda Japan KK was transferred from another Group company to Croda International Plc. This movement is 
shown as an addition in shares.
The directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
E. Investments
Other investments comprise unlisted investments included at directors’ valuation based on appropriate attributable net assets.
F. Debtors
G. Creditors
D. Subsidiary undertakings
Shares 
£m
Loans 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost less amounts written off
At 1 January 2011 270.0 148.5 418.5 
Exchange differences – (5.5) (5.5)
Additions 75.3 88.4 163.7 
Amounts repaid – (3.6) (3.6)
At 31 December 2011 345.3 227.8 573.1 
Other 
investments 
£m
Cost or valuation of net equity
At 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011 0.6 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1.0 1.6 
Corporate taxation 8.3 9.6 
Other debtors 0.4 1.0 
Prepayments 0.4 0.4 
10.1 12.6 
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings (note H) 27.4 38.3 
Trade creditors 0.3 0.3 
Taxation and social security 2.1 0.8 
Other creditors 4.8 5.9 
Accruals and deferred income 3.7 4.3 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 2.2 2.2 
40.5 51.8 
Amounts falling due after one year
Borrowings (note H) 182.4 210.6 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 77.8 32.1 
260.2 242.7  92
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Company accounts
H. Financial instruments and liabilities
The Company’s objectives, policies and strategies in respect of financial instruments are outlined in the accounting policies note on page 88 
which forms part of the annual report. Short term debtors and creditors have been excluded from all of the following disclosures.
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
2010 Club facility due 2015 182.4 210.6 
Bank loans and overdrafts repayable on demand 27.4 38.3 
209.8 248.9 
Repayments fall due as follows
Within one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 27.4 38.3 
27.4 38.3 
After more than one year
Loans repayable
Within two to five years 182.4 210.6 
182.4 210.6  93
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
I. Share based payments
The total charge for the year in respect of share based remuneration schemes was £3.5m (2010: £3.4m). In addition, as the Company has 
issued options over its own shares to employees of its subsidiary companies, the Company has to increase the cost of its investment in the 
relevant subsidiary by the fair value of the options granted.
The key elements of each scheme along with the assumptions employed to arrive at the charge in the profit and loss account are set out 
below. Where appropriate the expected volatility has been based on historic volatility considering daily share price movements over periods 
equal to the expected future life of the awards and the risk free rate is based on the Bank of England’s projected nominal yield curve with 
appropriate duration. 
Croda Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”)
The SAYE scheme, established in 1983, grants options annually in September to employees of the Group at a fixed exercise price, being 
the market price of the Company’s shares at the grant date discounted by up to 20%. Employees then enter into a savings contract over 
three years and, subject to continued employment, purchase options at the end of the period based on the amount saved. Options are then 
exercisable for a six month period following completion of the savings contract. As the option is equity settled, under FRS 20 charges are 
only made in respect of options granted after 7 November 2002. For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:       
Grant date 2011 2010
Share price at grant date 1789p 1431p
Exercise price 1432p 1144p
Number of employees 436 370
Shares under option 88,371 94,501
Vesting period 3 years 3 years
Expected volatility 35% 35%
Option life 6 months 6 months
Expected life – –
Risk free rate 0.8% 1.3%
Dividend yield 2.8% 1.7%
Possibility of forfeiture 7.5% p.a. 7.5% p.a.
Fair value per option at grant date 520p 443p
Option pricing model Black Scholes Black Scholes
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2011 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 403,639 664 733,806 478 
Granted 88,371 1432 94,501 1144
Forfeited (15,421) 732 (30,207) 519
Exercised (144,168) 504 (394,461) 444
Outstanding at 31 December 332,421 934 403,639 664 
Exercisable at 31 December 4,722 16,938 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 1703 1387
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 2.1 2.2  94
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Company accounts
I. Share based payments (continued)
Croda International Overseas Sharesave Scheme (“International”)
The International scheme, established in 1999, has the same option pricing model, savings contract and vesting period as the SAYE scheme 
At exercise, employees are paid a cash equivalent for each option purchased, being the difference between the exercise price and market 
price at the exercise date. As the scheme is cash settled, IFRS 2 applies to all options in existence during the year, regardless of grant date. 
For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows: 
Grant date 2011 2010
Share price at grant date 1789p 1431p
Exercise price 1432p 1144p
Number of employees 1,021 975
Shares under option 224,897 308,455
Vesting period 3 years 3 years
Expected volatility 30% 35%
Option life 1 month 1 month
Expected life – –
Risk free rate 0.4% 1.0%
Dividend yield 2.8% 1.5%
Possibility of forfeiture 7.5% p.a. 7.5% p.a.
Fair value per option at 31 December 453p 579p
Option pricing model Black Scholes Black Scholes
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2011 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 815,529 756 1,215,119 257
Granted 224,897 1432 308,455 1144
Forfeited (39,361) 681 (73,242) 529
Exercised (198,293) 512 (634,803) 475
Outstanding at 31 December 802,772 1009 815,529 756
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 1705 1399
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 1.8 2.0  95
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Croda International Senior Executive Share Option Schemes (“Executive”)
The Group previously granted options to senior employees each year which are subject to satisfaction of performance conditions before 
they can be exercised. The performance conditions are discussed in detail in the directors’ remuneration report (page 36). As with the SAYE 
scheme, the Executive Scheme is equity settled and as a consequence only the options granted in 2003 fall within the scope of IFRS 2. No 
further options will be granted under this scheme.
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Croda International Long-Term Investment Plan (“LTIP”)       
The LTIP was established in 2005 and grants no cost options to senior employees which vest after three years dependent upon an EPS 
performance related sliding scale (non-market condition) and the Group’s total shareholder return (market condition). The LTIP is discussed in 
detail in the directors’ remuneration report (page 35). For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions 
used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
2011 2010
Market condition Non-market condition Market condition Non-market condition
Grant date 23 February 2011 23 February 2011 24 February 2010 24 February 2010
Share price at grant date 1588p 1588p 900p 900p
Number of employees 20 20 11 11
Shares under option 72,243 72,244 106,495 106,495
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Option life 1 year 1 year 1 year 1 year
Expected life – – – –
Dividend yield 2.2% 2.2% 2.4% 2.4%
Possibility of forfeiture 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5%
Fair value per option at grant date 924p 1488p 521p 838p
Option pricing model Closed form 
valuation
Closed form  
valuation
Closed form 
valuation
Closed form  
valuation
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2011 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 845,701 – 862,611 – 
Granted 144,487 – 212,991 – 
Exercised (303,191) – (229,901) – 
Outstanding at 31 December 686,997 – 845,701 – 
Exercisable at 31 December – –
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 1805 918 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 1.9 2.0 
Number
2011 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 297,045 234 451,813 238 
Exercised (133,635) 235 (154,768) 245 
Outstanding at 31 December 163,410 233 297,045 234 
Exercisable at 31 December 163,410 297,045 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 1704 963 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 1.1 2.0  96
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Notes to the Company accounts
I. Share based payments (continued)
Bonus Co-Investment Plan (“BCIP”)       
The BCIP was established in 2005 and grants no cost options to senior employees which vest after three years dependent upon a 
performance related condition. The BCIP is discussed in detail in the directors’ remuneration report (pages 34 and 35). For options granted in 
the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
Croda International Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”)       
The SIP was established in 2003 and has similar objectives to the SAYE scheme in terms of increasing employee retention and share 
ownership. Under the SIP scheme, employees enter into an agreement to purchase shares in the Company each month. For each share 
purchased by an employee, the Company awards a matching share which passes to the employee after three years’ service. The matching 
shares are allocated each month at market value with this fair value charge being recognised in the income statement in full in the year of 
allocation.
A reconciliation of option movements over the period is as follows:
Number
2011 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Number
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 750,801 – 627,609 – 
Granted 203,978 – 220,121 – 
Forfeited (7,177) – (12,676) – 
Exercised (185,580) – (84,253) – 
Outstanding at 31 December 762,022 – 750,801 – 
For options exercised in year, weighted average share price  
at date of exercise 1881 962 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 1.2 1.4 
Grant date 3 May 2011 29 April 2010
Share price at grant date 1881p 990p
Number of employees 67 62 
Shares under option 203,978 220,121 
Vesting period 3 years 3 years
Dividend yield 1.9% 2.2%
Possibility of forfeiture 5.0% 5.0%
Fair value per option at grant date 1787p 941p 97
Financial statements Other information Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
J. Reserves
Details of investments in own shares are disclosed in note 25 of the Group accounts.
During the year the Company purchased a further 2,805,225 shares on the open market. The total amount paid to acquire the shares was 
£50.4m. The shares are held as “treasury shares”. The Company has the right to re-issue these shares at a later date.
K. Contingent liabilities
The Company has guaranteed loan capital and bank overdrafts of subsidiary undertakings amounting to £85.2m (2010: £69.1m).
L. Dividends
Details of dividends are disclosed in note 9 of the Group accounts.       
Share 
premium 
account 
£m
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£m
Revaluation 
reserve 
£m
Profit and 
loss account 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2011 93.3 0.9 2.1 36.9 133.2 
Profit for the financial year – – – 256.9 256.9 
Other gains and losses – – – (3.4) (3.4)
Dividends – – – (67.7) (67.7)
Share based payments – – – 3.8 3.8 
Purchase of treasury shares – – – (50.4) (50.4)
Consideration received for sale of own shares  
(held in trust) – – – 1.0 1.0 
At 31 December 2011 93.3 0.9 2.1 177.1 273.4  98
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Principal operating companies
Incorporated and/or 
principally operating in
Group beneficial 
interest %
Croda Europe Ltd*
†
UK 100
John L Seaton & Co Ltd UK 100
Croda Argentina SA Argentina 100
Croda Australia Australia 100
Croda Belgium BVBA Belgium 100
Croda do Brasil Ltda
†
Brazil 100
Croda Canada Ltd Canada 100
Croda Chile Ltda Chile 100
Croda China Trading Company Ltd China 100
Croda Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China 100
Croda Colombia Colombia 100
Croda France SAS France 100
Crodarom SAS
†
France 100
Sederma SAS
†
France 100
Croda Chocques SAS
†
France 100
Croda GmbH Germany 100
Croda Hong Kong Company Ltd Hong Kong 100
Croda Chemicals (India) Pvt Ltd*
†
India 100
PT Croda Indonesia Ltd
†
Indonesia 100
Croda Italiana SpA Italy 100
Croda Cremona SRL
†
Italy 100
Croda Japan KK*
†
Japan 100
Croda México SA de CV Mexico 100
Croda Nederland B.V.
†
Netherlands 100
Croda Peruana S.A.C Peru 100
Croda Poland Sp. z o.o.* Poland 100
Croda Russia Russia 100
Croda Singapore Pte Ltd*
†
Singapore 100
Croda (SA) Pty Ltd South Africa 100
Croda Korea South Korea 100
Croda Ibérica SA
†
Spain 100
Croda Nordica AB Sweden 100
Croda (Thailand) Co., Ltd* Thailand 100
Croda Kimya Ticaret Sirketi Turkey 100
Croda Middle East UAE 100
Croda Inc
†
USA 100
Principal holding companies
Croda Overseas Holdings Ltd* UK 100
Croda Holdings France SAS France 100
Croda Investments Inc USA 100
Principal subsidiary companies
* Companies owned directly by Croda International Plc. 
Companies incorporated in the UK are registered in England.
All companies are involved in the sale of chemicals. Those companies indicated with 
†
 are also involved in manufacturing activities. Full 
details of investments in subsidiary undertakings will be attached to the Company’s annual return made to the Registrar of Companies. 
Those not listed above were either not trading or not material.
¸ 99
Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Shareholder information
Operating heads
Investor relations
Shareholders can now get up to date information on Stock Exchange announcements, key dates in the corporate calendar, the Croda share 
price and brokers’ estimates by visiting our corporate web site at www.croda.com and clicking on the section called “Investor”.
Shareholders can receive shareholder communications electronically by registering on the Registrars’ website,  
www.capitashareportal.com, and following the instructions. To register, shareholders will require their investor code (IVC): this is an 11 digit 
number starting with either five or six zeros and can be found on your dividend tax voucher or your share certificate. Receiving corporate 
communications by email has a number of benefits including being more environmentally friendly, reducing unnecessary waste, faster 
notification of information to shareholders and eventually leading to a reduction in company costs. 
Shareholders who register on the above website can also check their shareholding, view their dividend history, elect for the dividend 
reinvestment plan, register changes of address and dividend mandate instructions.
Corporate calendar 
David Barraclough President - Asia Pacific 
Miguel De Bellis President - Latin America
Sandra Breene President - Consumer Care Europe
Kevin Gallagher President - North America
Maarten Heybroek President – Performance Technologies & Industrial Chemicals Europe
Kevin Nutbrown President - Global Operations
2012 Annual General Meeting 26 April 2012
2011 Final ordinary dividend payment 1 June 2012
2012 Half year results announcement 24 July 2012
2012 Interim ordinary dividend payment 4 October 2012
2012 Preference dividend payments 30 June 2012
31 December 2012
2012 Full year results announcement February 2013
Analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 21 February 2012
Number of holders Number of shares
% of  
issued capital
By size of holding
1 – 1,000 2,141 521,737 0.37
1,001 – 5,000 2,091 2,226,913 1.59
5,001 – 10,000 675 2,138,676 1.53
10,001 – 50,000 211 1,471,444 1.05
50,001 – 100,000 245 5,567,990 3.98
100,001 – 500,000 97 7,167,653 5.12
500,001 – upwards 201 120,855,556 86.36
5,661 139,949,969 100.00
By type of holder
Private holders  3,363 7,853,553 5.61
Institutional and corporate holders 2,294 125,733,223 89.84
Treasury shares 1 4,646,198 3.32
Shares held in Croda trusts 3 1,716,995 1.23
5,661 139,949,969 100.00 100
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Shareholder information
Share price information
As well as being available on our website, the latest ordinary share price is available on the Financial Times Cityline service  
(0905 817 1690) (calls cost 75 pence per minute from a BT landline and the average duration is 1 minute per stock) or via the BBC’s 
broadcast teletext service.
The middle market values of the listed share capital at 30 December 2011, or last date traded*, were as follows
Capital gains tax
The market values of the listed share capital at 31 March 1982 were as follows:
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”) 
Ordinary shareholders may wish to know about this plan, which allows you to use your dividends to buy further shares in Croda. The DRIP 
is administered by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd (“CIRGT”). CIRGT will instruct the broker to buy shares on the dividend payment date at the then 
current market price. Any cash left over which is insufficient to purchase a whole share will be carried forward and held, without interest, in 
a client money bank account. The DRIP commission charged to the shareholder is 1% of the purchase price of the shares, with a minimum 
charge of £2.50. This is exclusive of stamp duty reserve tax at 0.5% of the deal value. Should you wish to apply you should request an 
application pack by telephoning 0871 664 0381 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday 
to Friday) or, if calling from overseas, +44 20 8639 3402; alternatively you can email shares@capitaregistrars.com. 
Overseas shareholders 
Capita has an International Payment Service that allows you to receive your dividend payments in your local currency, sent directly to 
your local bank account - potentially saving you time and money. Further details are available from Shareholder Administration, Capita 
Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU; telephone UK: 0871 664 0385 (calls cost 10 pence per minute plus 
network extras; lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday) or +44 20 8639 3405 (from outside the UK) or by logging on to www.
capitaregistrars.com/international.
Share dealing
Share dealing services are available for shareholders to either sell or buy Croda ordinary shares. For further information on these services, 
please contact:
UK shareholders only - Capita Share Dealing Services 
www.capitadeal.com (on-line dealing) 
0871 664 0446 (telephone dealing) - calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 8.00am to 4.30pm, Monday to Friday
UK & overseas shareholders - Stocktrade  
Telephone dealing 0845 601 0995 (non UK +44 131 240 0414) quoting reference Low Co0238  
For further information visit www.stocktrade.co.uk/Croda
Relating to beneficial owners of shares with “information rights”
Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information 
rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares rather 
than to the Company’s registrar, Capita Registrars, or to the Company directly.
Ordinary shares 1804p
5.9% preference shares 75p*
6.6% preference shares 90p*
Ordinary shares 77.5p
Deferred ordinary shares 40.5p
5.9% preference shares 42.5p
6.6% preference shares 47.5p
7.5% preference shares (estimated) 45.0p 101
Other information Financial statements Directors’ report | Governance Directors’ report | Business review
Warning to shareholders
In recent years many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence 
concerning investment matters. These are typically from overseas based “brokers” who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what 
often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments. These operations are commonly known as “boiler rooms”. These 
“brokers” can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) has reported that 
the average amount lost by investors is around £20,000. It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way; many of the 
victims have been investing successfully for several years. Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy 
shares at a discount or offers of free reports into the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
l Make sure that you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
l Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved. You can check at www.fsa.gov.uk/register.
l The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any  
 approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action  
 can be considered. If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services  
 Compensation Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/law/alerts/ 
 overseas.shtml. 
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.fsa.gov.uk/consumer.
Secretary and registered office 
A L Scott (Company Secretary) 
Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, East Yorkshire DN14 9AA  
Tel: +44 (0)1405 860551  
Fax: +44 (0)1405 861767 
Website: www.croda.com 
Registered in England number 206132 
Registrars 
Capita Registrars  
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU 
Tel: 0871 664 0300 (from UK) - calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday 
+ 44 20 8639 3399 (from overseas) 
Fax: 01484 601512(from UK) 
+ 44 1484 601512 (from overseas) 
Website: www.capitaregistrars.com 
E-mail: shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.com
Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Merchant bankers 
UBS Limited
Stockbrokers 
UBS Limited  
Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc
Solicitors 
Eversheds LLP
Consulting actuaries 
Towers Watson 
Financial PR advisors
Pendomer Communications LLP 102
Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011
Five year record
Earnings 2011 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
Turnover 1,068.4 1,001.9 827.5 911.1 804.8 
Operating profit 242.4 198.6 121.5 112.6 83.0 
Profit before tax 242.2 192.3 108.0 96.3 60.8 
Profit after tax 165.9 129.8 72.7 64.8 40.2 
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders * 167.4 130.7 23.7 60.9 87.2 
% % % % % 
Operating profit as a % of turnover 22.7 19.8 14.7 12.4 10.3 
Return on invested capital (ROIC) 23.7 19.3 10.5 9.8 8.1 
Effective tax rate 31.5 32.5 32.7 32.0 33.9 
pence pence pence pence pence 
Earnings per share * 122.5 94.6 50.2 51.7 37.1 
Dividends per share 55.00 35.00 21.50 19.75 15.75
times times times times times
Net debt/EBITDA 0.8 1.0 1.9 2.6 2.8
EBITDA interest cover ** 33.5 26.9 9.9 6.4 4.0
Summarised balance sheet 2011 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
Intangible assets, property plant & equipment and investments 560.6 536.9 556.3 608.5 555.8 
Inventories 164.6 164.6 148.9 201.9 161.4 
Trade and other receivables 145.7 146.2 159.0 185.8 186.4 
Trade and other payables (164.3) (183.3) (182.9) (184.5) (178.8)
Other – 0.6 – 1.1 1.6 
Capital employed 706.6 665.0 681.3 812.8 726.4 
Tax, provisions and other (10.4) (22.7) (31.1) (60.9) (81.4)
Retirement benefit liabilities (198.9) (147.8) (203.5) (88.5) (59.3)
497.3 494.5 446.7 663.4 585.7 
Shareholders funds 266.1 273.1 156.5 263.3 218.0 
Non-controlling interests 0.1 1.1 1.7 2.0 1.7 
266.2 274.2 158.2 265.3 219.7 
Net debt 231.1 220.3 288.5 398.1 366.0 
497.3 494.5 446.7 663.4 585.7 
Gearing (%) 86.8 80.3 182.4 150.1 166.6 
* Total Group figures, all other figures are continuing operations only. 
** excluding pension scheme net financial income
Earnings exclude exceptional items in order to present a clearer year on year comparison. This Annual Report is printed on Club silk paper, 
selected from mixed sources. Croda International Plc
Cowick Hall  Snaith
Goole  East Yorkshire
DN14 9AA  England
Tel +44 (0)1405 860551
Fax +44 (0)1405 861767
www.croda.com
Croda International Plc  Annual Report 2011 
Designed and produced by Dawson Design, Manchester
