 1
Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Innovating for a 
Sustainable Future 2
Introduction
Business Overview
At Croda, we strive to create value for our 
shareholders by driving profitable sales growth 
through successful new product development, 
moving ever closer to our customers and increasing 
our focus on fast growing markets. We are a 
business committed to financial growth, high returns, 
environmental protection and social progress.
Contents
Directors’ Report
Business Review
Our Highlights 01
Chairman’s Statement 02
Chief Executive’s Review 04
Business Strategy 06
Consumer Care 08
Performance Technologies 10
Industrial Chemicals 12
Financial Review 14
Risk Management 16
Sustainability 20
Corporate Governance
Board Proﬁles 28
Corporate Governance 30
Remuneration Report 42
Other Disclosures 57
Financial Statements
Group Accounts
Group Independent Auditors’ Report 61
Group Income Statement 62
Group Balance Sheet 63
Group Statement of Changes in Equity 64
Group Statement of Cash Flows 65
Group Cash Flow Notes 66
Group Accounting Policies 67
Notes to the Group Accounts 72
Company Accounts
Company Independent Auditors’ Report 100
Company Balance Sheet 101
Company Accounting Policies 102
Notes to the Company Accounts 104
Other Information
Principal Subsidiary Companies 108
Shareholder Information 109
Five Year Record 112 3 01
Our Highlights
£1 ,051.9m £255.4m
Revenue*
2011: £1,028.0m 2.3%
59.5p
Dividends per share
2011: 55.0p 8.2%
Operating proﬁt* 
2011: £237.7m 7.4%
130.0p
Earnings per share* 
2011: 120.1p 8.2%
Reduction in waste to 
landﬁll since 2010*
Materials used from 
renewable sources
66.3
Training hours covering 
85% of employees
92,668
Employee volunteering 
hours through our 1% Club
4,541
Employee Save As You Earn 
Scheme membership in the UK 
and 48% of non-UK employees
15.2
75
50
*Continuing operations
Energy from non-fossil 
fuel sources*
Ranked 25
th
 in the Global Top 100 
Most Sustainable Corporations 
and number one in the UK
From March 2012
Return on Sales 2008-2012 (%)
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
25
20
15
10
5
0 Our Operations
We are a global organisation with 3,288 
employees across 34 countries. By being 
close to our customers around the world, 
we have a collaborative approach to 
business, which allows us to respond 
quickly and efficiently to unmet needs. 
£383.4m
680
Americas
Employees
20.7% of Group Total
Total Revenue 
36.4% of Group Total
3 Manufacturing Sites 8 Sales Ofﬁces
Products & Markets
Revenue & Value Added
Locations
We are a supplier of speciality chemicals so, whilst our name is not seen on the high 
street, millions of people throughout the world benefit on a daily basis from the many 
thousands of consumer and commercial goods that incorporate our products.
Revenue
£586.4m
55.7% of Group Total
Operating Proﬁt
£185.4m
72.6% of Group Total
Revenue
£382.8m
36.4% of Group Total
Operating Proﬁt
£59.7m
23.4% of Group Total
Revenue
£82.7m
7.9% of Group Total
Operating Proﬁt
£10.3m
4.0% of Group Total
Consumer Care Performance T echnologies Industrial Chemicals
Head Ofﬁce 
Manufacturing Sites  
Sales Ofﬁces
To Employees
To Governments
To Providers of Capital
Retained in the Business
Value Added
£443.4m
Bought in Materials and Services
£608.5m
£175.0m
£78.1m
£79.0m
£111.3m
Revenue
£1,051.9m 619
Asia Paciﬁc
£235. 1 m
4 Manufacturing Sites 11 Sales Ofﬁces
Total Revenue 
22.4% of Group Total
Employees
18.8% of Group Total
1 ,989
Europe
Employees
60.5% of Group Total
£433.4m
10 Manufacturing Sites 14 Sales Ofﬁces
Total Revenue 
41.2% of Group Total
Employee Overview
68%
32%
Male 
Female
Gender Split
33.7%
66.3%
Renewable
Non-renewable
Raw Materials by Source
Age Proﬁle
6.7%
26.7%
25.8%
11. 1%
0.3%
17-25 years
26-35 years
36-45 years
46-55 years
56-65 years
66 years+
29 .4% 02
Chairman’s Statement
Pre-tax proﬁt from continuing operations rose by 6.6% to
£253.2m
(2011: £237.5m)
T urnover from continuing operations increased by 2.3% to
£1 ,051 .9m
(2011: £1,028.0m)
I am pleased to report another year of strong ﬁnancial and strategic performance for 
Croda. This achievement in tough economic conditions demonstrates the resilience of our 
Consumer Care and Performance Technologies businesses, with both sectors reporting 
higher proﬁts and a further improvement in margins. Our progress reﬂects our strategic 
focus on sustainable growth through continued product innovation in niche markets and 
increasing investment in new technologies and emerging markets, particularly in Asia and 
Latin America. In 2012, small acquisitions have added exciting new technologies which will 
enhance our existing capabilities in key areas.
Full Year Results 
Croda again achieved record sales, margins and profits in 2012. 
T urnover from continuing operations increased by 2.3% to £1,051.9m 
(2011: £1,028.0m) and operating profit grew by 7.4% to £255.4m 
(2011: £237.7m), a return on sales of 24.3% (2011: 23.1%). This was driven 
by strong underlying progress in the two principal business sectors of 
Consumer Care and Performance T echnologies. 
Pre-tax profit from continuing operations rose by 6.6% to £253.2m 
(2011: £237.5m), and earnings per share on the same basis increased 
by 8.2% to 130.0p (2011: 120.1p). 
Sector Performance 
Consumer Care sales increased by 2.6% over the year to £586.4m 
(2011: £571.4m), despite some weakness in the third quarter, while 
operating profit rose by 8.3% to £185.4m (2011: £171.2m). The return on 
sales of 31.6% (2011: 30.0%) was a new record for the Group, driven by 
exciting new product launches. We achieved profit growth in all three 
business areas, with Crop Care making the strongest progress. Personal 
Care and Health Care made modest progress despite the tough market 
conditions for consumer products in Europe.
In our new Performance T echnologies reporting segment, sales rose 
by 2.5% to £382.8m (2011: £373.6m) and operating profit increased 
by 8.0% to £59.7m (2011: £55.3m). Return on sales improved to 15.6% 
(2011: 14.8%), representing good progress towards our medium term 
target of 20%. All business areas achieved underlying sales growth and 
Polymer Additives, Geo T echnologies and Home Care also made strong 
profit progress, partially offset by slight declines in Lubricants and Coatings 
& Polymers due to the weakness of their European markets, particularly 
in the automotive sector.
Industrial Chemicals sales were 0.4% lower at £82.7m (2011: £83.0m) 
and operating profit declined by 8.0% to £10.3m (2011: £11.2m), a return 
on sales of 12.5% (2011: 13.5%). This reflected high raw material prices 
and competitive commodity and textile markets, though we did see an 
improving trend in the second half of the year.
Acquisitions
While the main driver of Croda’s future growth is expected to be innovation 
generated from within the Group, an important part of our strategy is to 
enhance our progress through the acquisition of complementary new 
technologies. 
In July 2012, we acquired Istituto di Ricerche Biotecnologiche (IRB) in Italy, 
the global leader in plant stem cell technology, for a total consideration of 
€7.7m. The acquisition has been successfully integrated within our Sederma 
skin care actives business and we have received a very encouraging 
response to its unique capabilities from our existing customers, with one 
major multinational client already incorporating an IRB product into a new 
global product formulation.
In December 2012, we acquired the trade and assets of Innovachem 
LLC in the US for a total consideration of US$2.8m. This acquisition is an 
excellent strategic fit for our Personal Care business, adding a number 
of exciting new patented product lines and technologies to our existing 
portfolio and enhancing its ability to service customers around the world.
Disposals  
In November 2012, we sold our Cremona business in Italy, completing 
the disposal of the last remaining fatty acid and glycerine plant that we 
acquired with Uniqema in 2006. These undifferentiated technologies are 
not Croda’s core competence, but our employees had worked tirelessly to 
deliver value from the site and we were delighted to conclude its sale to 
an Italian business.
Dividend
Croda is a highly cash generative business, allowing us to maintain a 
strong dividend policy while also funding significant capital investment in 
the business and making appropriate bolt-on acquisitions, and at the 
same time reducing net debt.  03
Economic uncertainty continues, 
particularly in Europe, but we have 
made an encouraging start to the 
year and the Board is conﬁdent that 
Croda will make further progress 
in 2013. 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
In 2011, we announced our intention to increase our dividend payout to 
between 40% and 50% of sustainable earnings, resulting in a 57.1% 
increase in our total dividend for 2011. Building on this new base, the 
Board is now recommending an increased final dividend of 32.75p 
(2011: 30.25p). T ogether with the interim dividend of 26.75p (2011: 24.75p) 
paid in October 2012, this makes a total dividend of 59.5p (2011: 55.0p), 
an increase of 8.2% for the year. This maintains the payout ratio around 
the middle of our target range at 46%.
Subject to future trading and the maintenance of a prudent approach 
to cash and balance sheet management, Croda expects to maintain 
its progressive dividend policy in the years ahead.
Outlook
Economic uncertainty continues, particularly in Europe, but we have made 
an encouraging start to the year and the Board is confident that Croda 
will make further progress in 2013. 
Martin Flower, Chairman 04
Chief Executive’s Review
Croda employs
3,288
people in 34 countries around the world
of our UK employees participate in our 
SAYE scheme or Share Incentive Plan
75
Croda’s record results underline the resilience of our unique and highly innovative 
business model, focused on fast growing niche markets and high value products 
where we can utilise our global reach.
Business Performance
It has been a busy and very enjoyable ﬁrst year at the helm as Chief 
Executive, and I am pleased to report that Croda has again delivered 
a strong set of results. This was achieved despite a weak macro global 
environment, driven largely by the European debt crisis, ﬁscal cliff 
concerns in the USA and a noticeable economic slowdown in China. 
The continuing strong demand for our products bears witness to the 
effectiveness of our strategy, focusing on differentiation, innovation 
and investment for a sustainable future. 
Strategy
We have made signiﬁcant progress in a number of areas this year. 
Separating Performance T echnologies and Industrial Chemicals has 
allowed greater management focus in both segments, which is key to a 
continued improvement in their performance. The disposal of Cremona 
was an important step forward in making Industrial Chemicals more 
differentiated and market focused, with a growing emphasis on speciality 
products. We have created a fully resourced Enterprise T echnology group 
charged with identifying the next generation of technologies and 
accelerating their capture, and this has already achieved two important 
successes with the acquisitions of IRB (plant stem cells) and Innovachem 
(specialised emollients), both with rich patent portfolios which we will 
consolidate and develop in our Consumer Care sector. T o drive even 
faster growth in the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America, we 
have bolstered our commercial teams by signiﬁcantly increasing resource 
in sales and marketing. We have also started to expand our R&D and 
manufacturing presence in both regions and this will continue in 2013 
and beyond.
Geography
Geographically, underlying sales from continuing operations moved 
forward in all of our four main regions with the strongest progress being 
achieved in the USA where sales grew 6% and in Latin America where 
sales grew by 4%. Sales in Asia were 3% ahead, held back by the 
slowdown in China and our continued withdrawal from undifferentiated 
products in both our Performance T echnologies and Industrial Chemicals 
portfolios. Europe held up relatively well given the lower overall market 
growth and the exchange rate headwinds, particularly acute in the 
second half of the year, ending the year only 0.5% behind 2011.
Sustainability
During the year, whilst the business has continued to grow, we have 
made excellent progress in respect of a number of our sustainability 
targets, notably in our reduced use of energy and water along with 
a signiﬁcant reduction in the amount of waste we have sent to landﬁll. 
Our separate Sustainability Report provides detailed information on this 
progress and our continued commitment to sustainability.
We were delighted to receive recognition of our achievements in the 
latest report from Canadian company Corporate Knights, where we 
were ranked 25th in the Global T op 100 Most Sustainable Corporations 
in the World. We were the highest ranking UK based company in this 
survey, providing independent testimony to the effectiveness of fully 
integrating sustainability into our approach at all of our operations, 
both manufacturing and non-manufacturing. 05
People
Our people play a vital role in the success of our business. Croda employs 
around 3,300 people in 34 countries across the world. They all share an 
overriding commitment to working hard and delivering great results by 
putting our customers ﬁrst. We have a terriﬁc talent pool and I look forward 
to seeing our people grow and develop in the organisation.
Croda’s continuing business success depends on our ability to attract and 
retain outstanding individuals who are passionate about personal and 
business development, and who want to make a signiﬁcant contribution 
to the future of Croda. I am pleased to report that our staff retention rates 
around the world are at record levels. The fact that we have a highly 
motivated workforce who want to buy into the Croda story is reﬂected in 
the fact that more than 75% of our UK employees participate in our SAYE 
scheme or Share Incentive Plan, a performance that saw Croda honoured 
for best overall performance in fostering employee share ownership at 
the 2012 IFS Proshare awards. 
I am grateful to all my colleagues for their contribution both individually 
and as team players.
Steve Foots, Group Chief Executive
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
The continuing strong demand for 
our products bears witness to the 
effectiveness of our strategy, focusing 
on differentiation, innovation and 
investment for a sustainable future. Our Strategic Principles
T o consolidate our global leadership as the 
number one supplier of speciality ingredients 
from natural and sustainable sources to our 
chosen markets
T o target niche markets that are growing 
rapidly and where customers value our 
innovation
T o supply customers both large and small  
and to continue to expand our direct selling 
model globally
T o work as one global team to deliver 
outstanding results
Our Values
We will remain an independent company and 
operate as one global team
We will remain a “fun”, lively, stimulating and 
exciting place to work, where all employees 
have the courage to question and all functions 
and individuals are valued
There will be a place for many styles of 
leadership, but all leaders will have as their 
primary objective the building of other leaders
We will achieve our goals through excellent 
communication, consistent creativity and by 
setting clear objectives at every level
We will continue to improve
We will continue to be an ethical and 
responsible company
Our Philosophy
Mega Trends
We are a marketing and technology company
We create valuable intellectual property
We work closely in partnership with our 
customers, utilising our intimate knowledge of 
their needs, to help them create multi-million 
and billion pound brands 
We make high quality speciality ingredients in 
world class, ﬂexible manufacturing facilities that 
allow us to deliver outstanding customer service
Our purpose is to be a leading speciality chemical company 
providing innovative technologies that will give our customers 
what they want and need to win in their markets.
Business Strategy
We have identiﬁed three mega trends which 
will provide the catalyst for our future growth. 
Sustainability, Beauty & Ageing and Health & 
Well-being will impact right across our key 
business areas, and continued innovation 
coupled with our ongoing focus on naturally 
sourced raw materials will leave us well placed 
to take advantage of them.
Innovation 
Unmet Customer Needs 
Differentiated T echnologies
Sustainability
Beauty & Ageing
Health & Well-being
Personal Care    Health Care      
      Geo T echnologies    Home Care
Polymer Additives  Coatings & Polymers    Crop Care      Lubricants      
06 07
Business Segments
Key Growth Themes
Innovation
Investment
High margin 
growth in 
Consumer Care
Specialisation in 
Performance 
T echnologies
Acceleration of 
new technology 
capture
Faster growth 
in emerging 
markets
Focus on people 
development
We have identiﬁed ﬁve key strategic growth themes that will enable the delivery of our ambitious 
goals. In each of these, our emphasis will be on relentless innovation and constant investment in 
our business to drive our continued growth.
We have set the following medium term targets and strategic priorities for our business segments:
Consumer Care
Sales to grow 5-10% pa
Maintain current ROS
Performance T echnologies
Sales to grow 4-8% pa
ROS 20%
Industrial Chemicals
Maximise proﬁtability
New technology capture
New product and performance
claims innovation 
Emerging market development
Niche market focus
Emerging market development
Specialisation of resource
Extract value
Cost control
Our targets
Strategic priorities
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 08
Croda’s Consumer Care sector consists of the 
global businesses in the following markets: 
Personal Care, Health Care and Crop Care.
Consumer Care
Financial Highlights
“The ﬁrst time in Croda’s history that we 
have achieved a ROS in excess of 31%.”
Revenue
Operating Proﬁt
Return on Sales
£586.4m
£1 85.4m
31 .6
2.6% (2011: £571.4m)
8.3% (2011: £171.2m)
1.6% points (2011: 30%) 09
Markets
Consumer Care addresses fast growing niche markets which demand 
high quality, differentiated and patented technologies and exceptional 
customer relationships. This is a low volume, high value business. In all 
markets we are a leading speciality ingredient supplier offering unique 
performance claims to our customers, often with very small inclusion 
levels. Our Personal Care business addresses a wide range of sub-
markets including hair care, skin care, sun care and colour cosmetics. 
In Health Care the markets we supply include human pharmaceuticals 
and dermatology, nutrition, animal health and active pharmaceutical 
ingredients (APIs). In Crop Care our ingredients bring value-added 
beneﬁts to herbicides, fungicides and insecticides. 
Products
We have extensive product ranges within each of our core sectors. 
Our business model is set up to supply thousands of products to 
thousands of customers, offering multiple different solutions for our 
customers’ current and future needs. In many cases our products deliver 
unique performance beneﬁts in our customers’ formulations. In Personal 
Care our product range includes pentapeptides for skin actives, surfactants 
for hair care and novel delivery systems and metal oxides for UV ﬁlters. 
Our Health Care range extends from taurates/sarcosinates for oral care 
to Omega 3 for nutritional and pharmaceutical use, and super reﬁning 
products for drug delivery. In Crop Care our polymeric dispersants, as 
well as other inerts and adjuvants, assist the performance of formulations 
in increasing yields.
2012 Performance
The sector continued to break all records, with sales growing by 2.6% 
to £586.4m (2011: £571.4m) and operating proﬁt increasing by 8.3% 
to £185.4m (2011: £171.2m). Our return on sales (ROS) rose by 1.6 
percentage points to 31.6%, the ﬁrst time in Croda’s history that we 
have achieved a ROS in excess of 31%. 
It was particularly pleasing to see proﬁt increases in each of the three 
business areas. Crop Care led the way, driven primarily by the very strong 
growth of our excipient and adjuvant business in Europe, the USA and 
Latin America. Health Care saw impressive growth in Latin America and 
Asia, led by the success of our Super Reﬁning technology, partially offset 
by a quiet Europe and USA. Personal Care also moved forward with the 
help of new emerging market sales, led by Asia.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
Looking Ahead
All our markets will continue to grow, driven by the rise in global 
population and consumer spending, and by the positive long term 
mega trends in beauty and ageing, health and well-being, and the 
increasing importance of sustainability and environmental protection. 
We are well placed to capitalise on these trends with a strong pipeline 
of new products in all areas of the business. Our continuing organic 
growth in Personal Care will be enhanced by the new Sederma skin 
actives developed using the cutting edge plant cell culture biotechnology 
of our IRB acquisition. We have an exciting range of opthalmic excipients 
in Health Care, while Crop Care will continue to beneﬁt from a strong 
demand for our polymeric dispersants and adjuvants to help increase 
crop yields. 
We were delighted to announce the 
acquisition of Italian based Istituto di 
Ricerche Biotecnologiche SpA (IRB) in July 
2012, the world leader in developing 
actives for Personal Care and Health Care 
applications from plant stem cells. This 
innovative, sustainable and renewable 
raw material source complements the 
product developments of our research 
team at Sederma, who launched our ﬁrst product in this arena, 
Resistem™, in 2011. 
IRB has an exclusive, versatile method to use biotechnology for 
sourcing plant stem cell ingredients from small amounts of leaf, 
ﬂower and seed tissue. This process allows a truly sustainable path 
to plant based active ingredients and ensures a total absence of 
environmental contaminants. Comparative data against conventional 
agriculture shows a 99.9% decrease in water consumption, 
guaranteed purity with negligible soil occupation and the total 
absence of pesticides or other contaminants.
Sustainable, Efﬁcacious Innovation…  10
Revenue
£382.8m
2.5% (2011: £373.6m)
Operating Proﬁt
£59.7m
8.0% (2011: £55.3m)
Croda’s Performance Technologies 
sector consists of Lubricants, Polymer 
Additives, Coatings & Polymers, 
Geo Technologies and Home Care.
Performance T echnologies
Increasing environmental regulations in Oil & Gas acid 
fracturing have provided a niche opportunity for our expertise 
in demulsiﬁcation. Kemelix™ D510 has outstanding performance in 
the emulsion prevention that customers require while also 
increasing efﬁcacy and reducing environmental impact, meeting 
stringent US environmental regulations.
Sustainable Innovation in Niche Markets 11
Return on Sales
15.6
0.8% points (2011: 14.8%)
Markets
The markets for our Performance T echnologies 
businesses possess similar characteristics to 
those addressed by Consumer Care. In both 
cases, our customers want differentiated 
and patented technologies and we focus on 
numerous, proﬁtable niche market applications. 
Margins are high, though not as high as in 
Consumer Care, while volumes are more in 
the middle of the scale compared with the low 
levels typical of Consumer Care. In all sub-
markets we have leading edge “world class” 
technologies. Our Coatings & Polymers 
business supplies additives for industrial and 
protective coatings; we supply ingredients in 
polyoleﬁns in Polymer Additives and in 
Lubricants our products deliver superior 
performance in several automotive and 
industrial lubricant niches. Oil and gas is the fast 
growth segment of Geo T echnologies, while in 
Home Care we supply innovative ingredients to 
the household, industrial and institutional (HI&I) 
cleaning industry around the world.
Products
We offer an extensive range of products that is 
rapidly expanding through our continued 
innovation. We are the global leaders in 
polymeric fatty acids for dispersancy, 
toughening and resin emulsiﬁcation in Coatings 
& Polymers. Our Polymer Additives modify the 
surface of plastics to increase slip and improve 
clarity and antistatic properties, and include 
such globally recognised brands as 
Crodamide™ and Atmer™. In Lubricants, our 
speciality lubricity esters help to deliver 
improved fuel economy, energy efﬁciency and 
reduced emissions, as well as extending the 
working life of both equipment and lubricants. 
Our Geo T echnologies business delivers 
innovative demulsiﬁers, dispersants and 
surfactants, while we supply a wide range of 
speciality surfactants in Home Care.
2012 Performance
The newly created Performance T echnologies 
sector exceeded our expectations in its ﬁrst year. 
Sales increased by 2.5% to £382.8m (2011: 
£373.6m) and operating proﬁt grew by 8.0% 
to £59.7m (2011: £55.3m). Our return on sales 
(ROS) rose by 0.8 percentage points to 15.6% 
(2011: 14.8%). Our strategic aim in this sector 
is to replicate the success we have achieved 
in Consumer Care by launching many new 
products into proﬁtable niche market 
applications, and these results reﬂected the 
good progress that was made during the year. 
Geo T echnologies, Polymer Additives and 
Home Care all contributed to the strong proﬁt 
growth of the sector, reﬂecting our continued 
product innovation and strong demand from 
the emerging markets of Asia, Latin America 
and the Middle East. In Lubricants, weaker 
sales in Europe outweighed the strong growth 
achieved in other parts of the world. Coatings 
& Polymers remained ﬂat.
Looking Ahead
An exciting pipeline of product launches for 
the year ahead includes new patented 
technologies in toughening additives for epoxy 
resins, lubricity improvers for metalworking 
ﬂuids and new demulsiﬁers for oil recovery 
applications. We will also be launching further 
products in our NatSurf and NatraSense ranges 
of bio based surfactants in Home Care, along 
with extensions of our Cirrasol ﬁnishes for 
hygiene products and new developments to 
promote easier and more effective cleaning. 
The pace of innovation, and increased activity 
in the emerging markets of Asia and Latin 
America, will be the key drivers of our 
continued growth.
The pace of 
innovation, and 
increased activity 
in the emerging 
markets of Asia 
and Latin America, 
will be the key 
drivers of our 
continued growth.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 12
Operating Proﬁt
Return on Sales
£10.3m
1 2.5
8.0% (2011: £11.2m)
1.0% points (2011: 13.5%)
Revenue
£82. 7 m
0.4% (2011: £83.0m)
Industrial Chemicals
Croda’s Industrial Chemicals business serves 
a variety of important industrial markets with 
ingredients, additives and processing aids.
During 2012, a unique carbon neutral masonry brick was 
developed by Encos using a product from our BioStack range. 
Offering the ability to produce a high performing binder based on 
renewable biopolymer chemistry, this range provides an innovative 
route to sustainable new products for the construction industry. 
Combined with Encos’ patented method of manufacture, the 
production of these new bricks consumes no water, eliminates 
waste and uses 80% less energy compared to the construction 
of traditional clay bricks and brick slips.
Sustainable Construction 13
Markets
Our Industrial Chemicals business, reporting 
separately for the ﬁrst time this year, addresses 
a wide range of markets and applications in 
mostly industrial sectors that are not covered 
by our more focused Personal Care and 
Performance T echnologies operations. Margins 
are lower and volumes higher than in our 
other reporting sectors, and tend to be more 
volatile as a result of our limited pricing power. 
The market applications for Industrial 
Chemicals’ additives and intermediates include 
speciality and performance ﬁbres, chemical 
manufacturing, advanced materials, 
performance emulsions, construction, textiles, 
leather, pet care, rubber and food emulsiﬁers.
Products
The divestment of Cremona during the year 
permits Industrial Chemicals to apply more 
focus on the sale of key Croda speciality 
ingredients including esters, amides, 
alkoxylates, polymeric dispersants and 
sarcosinates. It is also a major seller of 
polymerised fatty acids, building on the 
high quality of our products and our long-term 
relationships with the chemical manufacturers 
who utilise these building blocks. In Europe, 
Industrial Chemicals retains the lead role 
in driving Croda’s oleo chemical sales and 
in maximising our returns on sales of 
co-products and residues.
2012 Performance
Sales from continuing operations showed 
a marginal reduction of 0.4% to £82.7m 
(2011: £83.0m) while operating proﬁt declined 
by 8.0% to £10.3m (2011: £11.2m), a return on 
sales of 12.5% (2011: 13.5%). Both sales and 
proﬁts recovered strongly in the second half after 
a weak performance in the ﬁrst half as a result of 
high raw material prices and intense competition 
in the commodity and textile markets.
Looking Ahead
The disposal of Cremona and our targeted 
business development have already made 
Industrial Chemicals a more market focused 
business, and this will continue as we increase 
the proportion of its revenues derived from 
higher margin specialities that offer real growth 
potential. We will focus on understanding 
our customers’ unmet needs and delivering 
speciality ingredients to meet them. Examples 
in the pipeline for 2013 include new 
environmentally friendly and carbon neutral 
products for the building and construction 
market. Our expertise in emulsiﬁcation, 
dispersion, lubrication and wetting is also being 
applied to the development of new business 
in hi-tech markets, including the use of 
micro-particle technology for advanced 
materials. Coupling increased sales of speciality 
products with a reduction of our oleo chemical 
and co-product footprint will enable us to 
make further progress towards our strategic 
goal of maximising proﬁtability in this sector.
Both sales and proﬁts recovered strongly in 
the second half after a weak performance 
in the ﬁrst half as a result of high raw 
material prices and intense competition 
in the commodity and textile markets.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION In a difﬁcult marketplace we have again increased sales, margins and proﬁts despite adverse 
currency translation. We have strengthened the balance sheet, reducing both net debt and 
the pension deﬁcit and all our key performance indicators have improved.
14
Sales
Underlying sales increased by 4.4% in 2012 with a steadily improving 
trend from the second quarter onwards. Adverse currency translation 
reduced the headline growth to 2.3% with turnover increasing to £1,051.9m 
(2011: £1,028.0m). The major element of the currency translation was a 
fall of 7% in the value of the Euro compared to Sterling.
Pre-tax Proﬁt
Pre-tax proﬁt increased by 6.6% to £253.2m (2011: £237.5m). This was 
a very good result in the face of tough trading conditions and two 
signiﬁcant ‘technical’ negatives: the adverse currency translation and 
a £2.1m reduction in the (non-cash) pension funding credit.
We saw sales and proﬁt growth in both Consumer Care and Performance 
T echnologies, achieving our highest ever return on sales ﬁgures in each 
sector. 
Operating proﬁt in Consumer Care increased 8.3% to £185.4m (2011: £171.2m). 
Return on sales increased to 31.6% (2011: 30.0%). All business areas 
increased operating proﬁt with the strongest growth again coming from 
Crop Care. 
In Performance T echnologies operating proﬁt increased 8.0% to £59.7m 
(2011: £55.3m). Return on sales increased to 15.6% (2011: 14.8%), marking 
good progress towards our medium term target of 20%. At the business 
area level, the performance was mixed with strong proﬁt growth in 
Polymer Additives, Geo T echnologies and Home Care but slight proﬁt 
declines in Lubricants and Coatings & Polymers due in part to their relative 
exposure to the European motor industry.
Despite a 22.0% year on year proﬁt increase in the second half, Industrial 
Chemicals saw an 8.0% decline in proﬁt to £10.3m (2011: £11.2m) for the 
year as a whole. At 12.5% (2011: 13.5%), we exceeded our return on sales 
target of 5-10%.
Overall, we saw good growth throughout the year apart from the month 
of September when some customers appeared to use an extended 
summer break to reduce inventories.
Continuing operating proﬁt for the Group increased 7.4% to £255.4m 
(2011: £237.7m). The reduced pension funding credit reduced the increase 
in pre-tax proﬁt to 6.6%.
Earnings per Share
The overall Group tax rate of 30.8% was slightly down from the 2011 level 
of 31.5% as UK rates reduce. The 2011 buyback reduced the average 
shares outstanding in 2012 to 134.6m (2011: 135.3m). As a result of these 
reductions, plus the Group’s improved proﬁtability, earnings per share 
from continuing operations increased by 8.2% to 130.0p (2011: 120.1p).
Discontinued Operations and Exceptional Items
In November 2012, the Group sold its Italian manufacturing assets based 
at Cremona, along with the associated business, to GreenOleo SpA for 
a consideration of £3.9m, generating a loss on disposal of £11.5m. 
In January 2012, the loan note of £16.1m arising from the sale of the 
Group’s Chicago site was repaid early by HIG Capital, the purchasers of 
the site. This early settlement gave rise to an exceptional proﬁt of £1.6m.
The environmental provision relating to sites previously occupied by 
discontinued businesses has been increased by £2.6m in recognition of 
further information received in 2012 relating to potential future liabilities.
The Group closed its Bromborough site in 2009. During 2012 the ﬁnal 
deferred consideration of £0.8m (2011: £1.0m) was received in relation to 
the disposal of the site. Other exceptional income of £0.3m was received 
in respect of other dormant sites.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a dividend of 59.5p for 2012, up 8.2% on 
the 55.0p 2011 dividend. This represents 46% of post-tax earnings, within 
the 40% to 50% range outlined in our dividend policy statement. Subject to 
shareholder approval, the ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 31 May 2013 to 
all shareholders on the register on 3 May 2013.
Debt and Liquidity
Net debt reduced by £23.4m to £207.7m (2011: £231.1m) despite making 
£25.2m deﬁcit reduction contributions to the pension fund and paying 
£76.8m to shareholders in dividends. 
We have around £204m headroom against our committed facilities. 
We have improved our performance versus our two key bank covenanted 
ratios. Net debt/EBITDA has reduced to 0.7 times (2011: 0.8 times) against 
a covenant of <3 times. EBITDA interest cover increased to 36.8 times 
(2011: 33.5 times) against a covenant of >4 times. Our core bank syndicated 
facility expires in May 2015.
Capital Expenditure
We spent £52.3m on capital expenditure in 2012 (2011: £58.3m). 
At 1.6 times depreciation this was below our plan for the year. Part of 
this difference is the phasing of project spend. For 2013 we aim to spend 
around £70m. Major projects in the year included the acrylic polymer plant 
in Rawcliffe Bridge, signiﬁcant capacity expansion in the US and Singapore 
and a new warehouse and ofﬁces in Germany.
Retirement Beneﬁts
The pension deﬁcit reduced by £33.1m to £165.8m (2011: £198.9m). The 
main reason was the £25.2m Company contribution to the funds (including 
£20.4m in the UK as part of the deﬁcit reduction schedule agreed following 
the triennial valuation). The value of the investments also increased due to 
an improvement in equity markets. We made some changes to the IAS19 
assumptions to bring them in line with market norms. The net ﬁnancial 
impact of changes in actuarial assumptions on the Group’s pension deﬁcit, 
including a slight reduction in discount rates, was relatively small. We have 
agreed to pay £38.4m into the UK fund in 2013, falling to around £20m per 
annum thereafter.
Financial Review Pre-tax proﬁt increased 6.6% to
£253.2m
(2011: £237.5m)
Return on sales up to
(2011: 23.1%)
24.3
15
T arget 2012 2011
As reported
Return on sales
Δ
24.3% 23.1%
EPS growth +5-10% +8.2% +28.4%
Post tax ROIC >WACC*
†
23.8% 23.7%
Debt/EBITDA <3x 0.7x 0.8x
EBITDA interest cover* >4x 36.8x 33.5x
Δ
Separate targets for Consumer Care (maintain at current levels) Performance 
T echnologies (achieve 20% in medium term) and Industrial Chemicals 
(maximise proﬁtability).
†
WACC: Weighted average cost of capital. 2012 average 6.8% (2011: 7.8%) 
*excluding IAS 19 credit
Financial KPIs
Performance against our ﬁve main KPIs (before exceptional items) is 
shown in the following table:
We made further signiﬁcant progress this year towards our medium term 
target for Performance T echnologies of 20% return on sales. All other 
targets were again achieved in 2012.
Sean Christie, Group Finance Director
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 16
The Group co-ordinates its global approach 
through the Risk Management Committee 
which meets quarterly and reports directly to 
the Board via the Audit Committee. The Risk 
Management Committee is chaired by the 
Group Finance Director and comprises the 
Regional Presidents, the President of Global 
Operations, the Chief T echnology Ofﬁcer, 
the Group Financial Controller and the Group 
General Counsel and Company Secretary, 
with the Group Risk and Control Manager 
in attendance.
The responsibility for risk identiﬁcation, 
analysis, evaluation and mitigation rests 
with management at:

(review at least annually)

(review at least half yearly)

These registers are reviewed and consolidated
to ensure there is a comprehensive view of the 
material risks facing the Group, along with the 
controls in place to mitigate these risks.
Risk Management
Risk Management and Internal Control
Effective management of risks and opportunities is essential to the delivery of the Group’s 
strategic, sustainability and financial objectives, ensuring that the Group delivers value 
to the shareholders, protects its reputation and meets the requirements of good corporate 
governance. Croda is committed to the effective management of key business risks 
throughout the organisation.
Our Risk Management Approach
Market/regional Risk 
identiﬁcation, 
assessment, mitigation
Manufacturing site 
Risk identiﬁcation
Functional Risk 
identiﬁcation, 
assessment, mitigation
Sales ofﬁce Risk 
identiﬁcation
Governance and 
Assurance processes
Board Oversight of Risk and Controls (Audit Committee)
Risk Management Framework
Executive oversight of Risk and Controls (Risk Management Committee/Executive register) 17
The risk register format, risk scoring and risk categories (which cover strategic, external environment, 
business systems, people and process and ﬁnancial) are deﬁned centrally in the Risk Management 
Framework. Each risk at every level must have an owner who is responsible for monitoring and 
managing the risk.
The Audit Committee received a report from the Risk Management 
Committee at each meeting. The Group’s highest risks were discussed 
and the adequacy and assurance over mitigating controls were reviewed. 
The Audit Committee received a summary of the ﬁndings from internal 
audit at each meeting, and of the key issues arising. More information on 
the activities undertaken by the Audit Committee is contained in the 
Corporate Governance section on page 36.
The Risk Management Committee undertook a full review of the bottom 
up risks from all risk registers against the identiﬁed key risks, as it does at 
least annually. Emerging risks were considered at each meeting, and a 
nominated member of the Committee is responsible for ensuring that best 
practice is followed in monitoring and addressing each of the key risks. 
Risk presentations were received by the Committee relating to IT security, 
innovation, implementation of new IT systems and the management of 
risks in the Acrylic Polymer plant project. In 2012 two risks have risen up 
the Executive Risk Register as a result of these reviews and are now 
included in the summary of key risks below. 
Internal audit have visited sites based on an audit plan agreed with the 
Audit Committee to provide assurance over key controls in operation. 
Each site performs an annual self-assessment of their control environment 
against Group deﬁned key controls. Our own in house Group SHE audit 
team have undertaken safety health and environmental related audits 
throughout the year.
An integrated assurance mapping exercise is currently in development 
which clearly links the three levels of assurance and the origin of that 
assurance against controls over the key business risks, as well as 
identifying in one document the work of all the assurance providers 
operating throughout the Group. This will be used to ensure that 
assurance is neither duplicated nor are there gaps in assurance provision.
Activities During the Year and Priorities for 2013
Our Risk Framework
Management
Identify and assess 
Governance (Board, Risk Framework, Audit Committee, Risk Committee)
Assess net risks
Review and challenge
Strategic/Business objectives
Identify risk owners
Assess gross risks
Identify current controls in place
Identify risks, causes and consequences
Identify actions, action owners and 
timescales for further mitigating risks 
Assurance monitoring and reporting
Link to business 
continuity planning
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 18
Key Risks Identiﬁed by the Group
Compliance with global chemical regulatory 
requirements
As a global chemical producer, Croda operates 
in a highly regulated environment. Violation or 
incomplete knowledge of the appropriate 
regulations could limit the markets into which 
we can sell, or subject the Group to ﬁnes or 
penalties.
Our Group regulatory team continue with the 
next phase of REACh product registration which 
remains the most signiﬁcant chemical legislation 
change facing the Group.
Product and technology innovation Croda operates in competitive markets in which 
product innovation is key to our success. Failing 
to deliver innovation could result in a lack of 
competitive products and erosions of margins 
and/or loss of market share.
We operate an open innovation model where 
we look to complement internal innovation with 
customer and market driven external innovation. 
This is achieved through a global network of 
relationships with academic and industrial 
centres of excellence.
Merger and acquisition strategy The Group has experienced growth through 
acquisitions and continues to pursue 
acquisitions to meet its strategic objectives. 
Whether the Group realises the anticipated 
beneﬁts from these acquisitions depends on the 
integration of the acquired businesses and their 
performance in relation to the Group’s 
acquisition expectations.
The Group has established policies and 
processes in place to manage the acquisition 
process, integrate acquired businesses and 
monitor performance.
Loss of market share to competitors Croda’s core markets are subject to increasing 
competition. Loss of business to competitors 
resulting from failure to consider changes in 
established markets could have an adverse 
effect on Croda’s ﬁnancial position.
The Group has specialised commercial sales 
teams globally and a commitment to protect 
existing business with competitive and 
considered pricing policies.
Failure to grow position in emerging markets One of our key strategic aims is for rapid growth 
in emerging markets. Failure to deliver on this 
objective may have an adverse effect on Croda’s 
growth.
Resource levels in sales, marketing and research 
are being increased in the fastest growing 
regions. We are also committed to moving 
manufacturing closer to our target customers 
in these regions.
Product liability Croda sells into a number of highly regulated 
markets. Non-compliance with quality 
regulations could expose the Group to liability 
and reputational damage.
Quality management procedures are in place 
for each site, and all manufacturing sites hold 
ISO9001 standards. Major sites have also been 
audited against GMP (Good Manufacturing 
Practice) standards.
Risk Description and Impact Mitigation
External Environment
Strategic
The nature of the industry in which we operate and our chosen strategy, expose the Group 
to a number of risks. The Board has considered the nature and extent of the key risks and 
these are summarised in the table below. 
Risk Management 19
Currency exchange rate movements The global nature of the Group’s business 
exposes it to volatility in currency exchange rates 
which could have an adverse impact on Croda’s 
ﬁnancial position.
We maintain a strategic spread of 
manufacturing assets and geographic markets 
which itself limits currency exposures. The Group 
hedges its currency exposure on accounts 
receivable and payable where appropriate. 
Speculative hedging is prohibited.
Major site event involving the loss of a site Signiﬁcant operational problems could have an 
adverse effect on Croda’s ﬁnancial position. We 
are reliant on the continued operation of our 
manufacturing sites.
Strict internal safety and maintenance 
programmes are operated which are audited 
by our Group SHE internal audit team. 
Business continuity plans are in place.
Major environmental incident Violations of safety, health and environmental 
regulations could limit operations and expose 
the Group to liability, cost and reputational 
impact.
In addition to maintaining compliance with 
national and international safety standards, 
we maintain strictly audited internal safety and 
health programmes.
Interruption of raw material supply Interruption in the supply of key raw materials 
would signiﬁcantly impact operations and our 
ﬁnancial position. Interruption of supply could 
arise from implementation of new, more 
rigorous legislation or from market shortage.
Wherever possible we multi source our key raw 
materials and/or we purchase them under 
medium to long term contracts. We manage our 
raw material stock levels taking these 
considerations into account.
Employees and the recruitment and 
retention of high quality staff
We rely on knowledgeable and specialised 
employees throughout the Group whose vision 
and experience is critical to maintaining the 
Group’s success. The lack of an appropriately 
skilled workforce could adversely impact the 
Group’s ability to perform in line with expectations.
We have procedures in place to identify and 
retain key employees and to develop succession 
plans for key positions, including a Global T alent 
review process. People development 
programmes are in place. Remuneration policies 
are in place to reward and motivate staff.
IT systems and security failure Croda relies heavily on IT systems and 
infrastructure to operate effectively and efﬁciently 
and to facilitate communication globally. Failure 
of these systems for a prolonged period of time 
will have an impact on operations and ultimately 
our ﬁnancial position.
We have a global IT group who are very 
experienced in network and system security 
management and in project management. 
Key systems run on a high availability mirrored 
hardware and there are documented and tested 
recovery plans for key locations.
Management of pension fund assets Croda has legal commitments relating to the 
provision of pensions and the operation of our 
pension schemes. In volatile market conditions, 
increased future funding requirements may 
have an adverse effect on Croda’s ﬁnancial 
position.
The Group’s pension schemes are overseen by 
the T rustees of the funds who take professional 
actuarial and investment advice as necessary. 
T rustees have the required skills as a result of 
experience and training, and where appropriate 
the Group will appoint professional trustees to 
its schemes.
Risk Description and Impact Mitigation
People and Process
Business Systems
Financial
This year working capital management risk has been removed from the list of key risks in the light of the lower risk levels. Risks which have risen up the risk 
register are loss of market share to competitors and failure to grow position in emerging markets.
The Group faces other risks which are subject to regular review, but which have been assessed as lower risk and are therefore not included here. Some risk 
factors remain beyond the direct control of the Group and the risk management programme can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that 
key risks are managed to an acceptable level.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION Our Sustainability Approach
20
For more information see 
our 2012 Sustainability Report 
or visit www.croda.com/csr
Management & Governance 
Sustainability Strategy 
Sustainability underpins our business strategy, playing a 
holistic role across our business. 
We manage our business across the triple bottom line, as a 
product or service can only be considered truly sustainable 
when the demands of economy, environment and society 
are met. We will continually strive to align our operations with 
this strategy.
Implemented through our CSR activities, we 
ensure that the Material Issues of our business 
and key stakeholders are addressed as part of 
our sustainability strategy.
Our CSR Department is a corporate function and 
part of our dedicated CSR Steering Committee, 
who report directly into our Group Executive 
Committee and subsequently the Board. This is 
via an Executive Committee member who sits 
alongside the CSR Steering Committee Chairman. 
Responsible for developing and supporting the 
implementation of our sustainability strategy and 
targets, our CSR Steering Committee consists of 
four Pillar Owners who are senior managers with 
expertise in one of our Four Pillars: Environment, 
People, Partners and Neighbours. Reﬂecting our 
overall business management approach, we 
also have four Regional Representatives who are 
supported by Regional CSR Steering Committees 
to ensure that our sustainability strategy, targets 
and progress are communicated and supported 
around the world. 
We continually monitor and report progress 
against our targets to the Group Executive 
Committee. Our annual results, covering 
economic, social and environmental 
performance are communicated through our 
Annual Report & Accounts, Sustainability Report, 
online GRI response, CDP disclosure and on our 
website at www.croda.com. This open and 
transparent reporting ensures that our 
stakeholders are kept informed of our CSR 
activities and can see how our sustainability 
strategy is safeguarding our future. 
 and processes by minimising their effect on the 
environment, whilst maximising the efﬁcient 
use of all resources;
 raw materials and products both up and down
our supply chain;
 where we will have long term growth;

when appropriate, set our own more
demanding standards;

so as to provide a safe and healthy
environment in which to work;
 all stakeholders and work cooperatively to
address our Material Issues;
 employees to reach their full potential; and

conditions, providing a stimulating working
environment based on respect and 
partnership.
T o ensure that our sustainability strategy is well 
informed, we use our risk management 
framework, stakeholder engagement and 
strategic discussions with our Group Executive 
Committee to deﬁne our Material Issues.
Each Material Issue has a clear management 
approach within the business to establish clear 
strategy development, performance 
management and implementation 
responsibilities. 
Our sustainability strategy is underpinned by our 
mission to: 21
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
Materiality
Our Material Issues
Employees
Environment
Health & Safety
Community
Responsible Sourcing Corporate Stakeholders
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
6 Material Areas
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
18 Material Issues
OurResponsibility
CSR Targets
  
Strategy
Pillar Owners
Regional Representatives
CSR Department
CSR Activities
CSR Steering Committee
Managed through our Four Pillar approach, we 
have six Material Areas and 18 Material Issues. 
CSR targets have been set with our Group 
Executive Committee to ensure that progress is 
made in addressing our Material Issues, which 
ultimately supports our sustainability strategy.
Our materiality and targets are reviewed on an 
annual basis at a Strategic Review Meeting 
between the CSR Steering Committee and our 
Group Executive Committee. As a result of this 
meeting in 2012, we have broadened our 
previous Landﬁll Waste Material Issue to Land 
Impact in order to reﬂect our growing focus on 
biodiversity. We have also redeﬁned Ethical 
Supply Chain to incorporate product stewardship 
and product quality, and all three Community 
Material Issues have been revised to provide a 
better illustration of the community impact and 
resulting business beneﬁt. 
During 2012, particular focus was placed on two 
Material Issues following a risk review; 
responsible supply chain management and 
consistent community engagement. Increased 
communication and interaction with our 
suppliers, customers and community groups 
through our management of Corporate 
Stakeholders and Community ensured that we 
can report progress in these areas.
Our Materiality Matrix, established in 2011, maps the most 
signiﬁcant issues that will affect the long term success of our 
business against their importance to our stakeholders. 
Environment
1. Air Quality & Climate Change
2. Water Quality & Supply
3. Land Impact
Health & Safety
4. Process Safety Management
5. Occupational Health & Safety
Employees
6. Recruitment & Retention
7. Compensation & Beneﬁts
8. HR Policies & Systems
9.  Talent Management & Employee   
Development
10. Performance Management 
Community
11. Community Communication
12. Community Involvement
13. Community Education
Responsible Sourcing
14. Renewable Raw Materials
15. Responsible Palm Oil Sourcing
16. Product Data Gathering
Corporate Stakeholders
17. Corporate Stakeholder Engagement
18. Ethical Supply Chain 22
Air Quality & Climate Change
T o reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases to the environment 
from our manufacturing sites to ensure that we progress towards 
more sustainable operations
Water Quality & Supply
T o minimise the environmental burden arising from water usage and 
waste water discharges from our manufacturing sites
Land Impact
†
T o mitigate the environmental burden our activities place on land, 
water and air by seeking to preserve biodiversity and phase out 
the disposal of waste to landﬁll
Material Issues
15 .2
Group energy from non-fossil fuel sources
572,000m
3
5.4
Reduction in energy consumption*
As an environmentally responsible company, we have established an effective 
means of managing the Material Issues of Air Quality and Climate Change, Water 
Quality and Supply and Land Impact. From our baseline year of 2010, we set ﬁve year 
targets to focus our efforts as we continually work towards reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions and our impact on the increasingly stressed resources of water and land.
Key Highlights
Environment
* Compared to 2010 
† Previously Landﬁll Waste
Water reduction, equivalent to 
240 Olympic swimming pools*
Reduction in waste sent to landﬁll, 
equivalent to over 120 truck loads
50
For more information see 
our 2012 Sustainability Report 
or visit www.croda.com/csr 23
We recognise the major business risk associated with the poor management of 
process risks, which is why Process Safety Management is placed at the top of 
our list of priorities. Occupational Health and Safety is just as important, requiring 
the sustained commitment of all employees to comply with legislation and our own high 
standards. We are dedicated to developing a competent workforce who take responsibility 
for the safety of our operations.
Health and Safety
Material Issues Key Highlights
Process Safety Management
T o reduce risks associated with all of our chemical processes to 
a point deemed to be as low as reasonably practicable (ALARP)
Occupational Health & Safety
T o reduce the frequency of injuries to all of those who work at our 
operations to a level compatible with the top quartile of peer 
companies, with an aspiration goal of zero harm
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
*Most recent Ceﬁc Responsible Care™ data
† Process Risk Assessments
Point Quality Criteria for PRAs
†
 implemented
13
1
/ 2
Lost time injury rate well below the 
industry average* 24
Renewable Raw Materials
T o ensure that our product portfolio is sustainable and to dedicate new 
product development to meeting our customer needs in this area
Responsible Palm Oil Sourcing
T o fully support sustainable palm oil (PO) and palm kernel oil (PKO)
and to keep working with the industry to secure a sustainable source 
of derivatives
Product Data Gathering
T o ensure that we are leaders in the quality and quantity of product 
data to support all future customer needs and to allow further in depth 
sustainability analysis of our products internally
66.3
of our raw materials originate 
from renewable sources, 
making us industry leaders
Key Highlights Material Issues
The foundation of our business rests upon natural ingredients, with such a large 
percentage of our raw materials originating from renewable sources. Our new 
product developments also foster this principle, whilst meeting the demands of our 
customers and the stringent safety standards within our industry. This goes hand in hand 
with sustainable supply, which is why we continue to be strong advocates for the responsible 
sourcing of palm oil and its derivatives. T o ensure that we make fully informed decisions, we 
place growing importance on the management of the increasing amounts of data regarding 
our products and processes.  
Responsible Sourcing
30
99 ≥
of new products 
originate from
renewable raw materials
100
of PO and PKO used in 2012 
supported sustainable palm oil 
For more information see 
our 2012 Sustainability Report 
or visit www.croda.com/csr 25
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
Recruitment & Retention 
T o attract, recruit and retain high calibre employees to support our 
objectives and changing business requirements
Compensation & Beneﬁts 
T o ensure that our compensation and beneﬁts packages enable 
us to attract, recruit and retain key talent
HR Policies & Systems
T o operate streamlined, fair and coherent employment policies 
and systems
T alent Management & Employee 
Development
T o offer a wide range of development opportunities to enable 
our employees at all levels to gain the skills, competencies and 
experience necessary to attain individual, team and organisational 
goals and expectations
Performance Management
T o instil a high performance culture through an integrated and 
consistent approach to performance management
Key Highlights
60
of our employees have access to 
company funded health checks
Anniversary of the Croda 
Graduate Programme
25
th
Material Issues
Our employees are integral to our business success. Our HR teams, in conjunction 
with business leaders, ensure that we have an effective framework for recruiting, 
developing and retaining employees in a fair and supportive environment across all 
of the countries in which we operate. Our global HR Strategy builds on existing HR systems, 
policies and procedures across our ﬁve employee Material Issues. 
Employees
of new employees 
completed an induction 
during their ﬁrst six months
100 26
For more information see 
our 2012 Sustainability Report 
or visit www.croda.com/csr
Corporate Stakeholders
We are committed to upholding ethical and sustainable standards across all of our 
operations, and within our supply chain, to meet and exceed the expectations of 
others. By actively engaging with our key stakeholders, we are able to target the 
economic, environmental and social issues with the potential to affect the long term success 
of our business. Our proactive approach to sharing and developing our expertise, both 
within our industry and in areas relating to our Material Issues, sees us working with many 
different organisations to continuously improve product safety and quality.
Key Highlights
Corporate Stakeholder Engagement 
T o have open, ongoing engagement with all key stakeholders to 
identify and review the Material Issues for our business and all our 
partners, thus ensuring that we take appropriate action
Ethical Supply Chain
T o continually strive to increase engagement and standards within our 
supply chain to ensure that it is ethical and sustainable, so as to meet 
the future needs of our business
Material Issues
Global Customer 
Sustainability Survey
Checking our 
Materiality with 
key stakeholders
Revised Supplier Code 
of Conduct sent to over
10,000
companies 27
Interaction with local communities has always been a major part of our culture. 
We are aware that our activities have a direct impact on the communities surrounding 
our operations, particularly our manufacturing sites and large ofﬁces. Our mission is 
to ensure that our proactive, engaging approach to community communication, involvement 
and education enhances our relationships and supports our local communities, whilst also 
improving employee morale and skills.
Community Communication
T o develop relationships with the communities in which we operate 
through effective communication regarding our business operations 
and, in doing so, ensure that we consider local concerns to gain 
support for business growth
Community Involvement
T o put community communication into action in order to deliver real 
beneﬁts to the communities in which we operate and, in doing so, 
enhance the performance of our employees and support the 
recruitment needs of our business
Community Education
T o raise the proﬁle of science, technology and engineering by providing 
community education and training opportunities relevant to the 
communities in which we operate and, in doing so, enhance our 
brand and reputation, as well as develop employee skills
Key Highlights Material Issues
1% Club volunteering hours, 
equivalent to c.£80,000
4,541
Reported meetings with 
local community groups
More than one in 
ﬁve employees used 
1% Club time
314
Community
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 28
Martin Flower, Chairman
Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2005 and became 
Chairman at the end of September 2005.
Key strengths and experience: Considerable board and international 
experience and a broad knowledge of strategic management. Martin 
formerly held various senior executive positions over 36 years with Coats 
plc, culminating in a period as Chairman before his retirement in 2004, 
and he was Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Severn 
T rent Plc until June 2006. In 2010 he retired as Chairman of Autogrill 
Holdings UK Plc (formerly Alpha Group Plc). 
External appointments: Chairman of Low & Bonar PLC and Senior 
Independent Director of The Morgan Crucible Company plc.
Committee membership: Chairman of Nomination Committee, 
member of Remuneration Committee.
Sean Christie, Group Finance Director 
Appointment: Appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in April 2006.
Key strengths and experience: Extensive experience in ﬁnancial 
management and acquisitions and disposals. Sean previously held a 
number of senior ﬁnance positions in Northern Foods Plc and was Group 
Finance Director from 1996 to 2004. He was a Non-Executive Director of 
KCOM Group plc for eight years until 2007 and a Non-Executive Director 
of Cherry Valley Farms Ltd from 2006 until the company was sold in 2010.
External appointments: Appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Eminate 
Limited, a developer of intellectual property and a wholly owned subsidiary 
of The University of Nottingham, in November 2012.
Committee membership: Chairman of Risk Management Committee, 
member of Group Executive Committee and Finance Committee.
Steve Foots, Group Chief Executive 
Appointment: Appointed to the Board in July 2010 and became Group 
Chief Executive at the beginning of 2012.
Key strengths experience: Strong business, operation and strategic 
leadership and wide ranging sales and marketing experience. Steve 
joined Croda as a graduate trainee in 1990 and has held a number of 
senior management positions in the Group, becoming President of Croda 
Europe in July 2010. Prior to this, Steve held a number of Managing Director 
roles across Croda’s European business.
Committee membership: Chairman of Group Executive Committee 
and Finance Committee, member of Nomination Committee and 
Remuneration Committee.
Keith Layden, Chief T echnology Ofﬁcer
Appointment: Appointed to the Board as Chief T echnology Ofﬁcer 
in February 2012.  
Key strengths and experience: Deep understanding of chemical 
innovation and broad operational and management experience. 
Keith joined Croda in 1984 and since 2004 has been President of Croda’s 
Enterprise T echnology and Actives businesses. Prior to this he held a 
number of Managing Director roles across Croda’s European business.
External appointments: Keith currently represents Croda as a member 
of the advisory board for chemistry at the Universities of Newcastle, 
Nottingham and York and is a member of the Innovation Strategy Board 
for Chemistry Innovation and the Industrial Biotechnology Leadership 
Forum. Keith is a Representative of the Council of the Learning and 
T eaching Committee, University of Shefﬁeld and a member of the 
Industry and T echnology Division Council, Royal Society of Chemistry.
Committee membership: Member of Group Executive Committee, 
Risk Management Committee and Group SHE Steering Committee.
Board Proﬁles
Martin Flower Steve Foots
Sean Christie Keith Layden
Appointment: Appointed as Secretary 
to the Board in December 2012.
Responsibilities: T om is a solicitor and 
has responsibility for legal affairs, 
corporate governance and insurance. 
T om spent seven years at Wolseley 
plc in a number of legal roles, including as Deputy General Counsel 
and Company Secretary. Before then he worked as a corporate lawyer 
at City law ﬁrm, Hogan Lovells.
Committee membership: Secretary to the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees. Member of the Group Executive Committee, 
Risk Management Committee and Group SHE Steering Committee.
T om Brophy, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary  29
Stanley Musesengwa, Non-Executive Director 
Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2007.
Key strengths and experience: Considerable operational experience in 
global manufacturing, sales and marketing. Stanley joined the T ate & Lyle
Group in 1979 as a reﬁnery manager and subsequently performed a 
number of different roles in Africa, before becoming Regional Director, T ate 
& Lyle Africa in 1995. In December 1999 he was appointed Group Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer of T ate & Lyle Europe. He was appointed to the T ate & Lyle
Board in April 2003 and took up the position of Chief Operating Ofﬁcer on 
1 May 2003 until his retirement in 2008. Prior to that Stanley worked for Nestlé.
Committee membership : Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and 
member of Audit and Nomination Committees.
Steve Williams, Non-Executive Director 
Appointment: Appointed to the Board in July 2010.
Key strengths and experience: Extensive industry, legal and board 
experience. Steve was General Counsel and Chief Legal Ofﬁcer of Unilever 
plc and Unilever NV from 1986 until 2010. Prior to this he spent 11 years at 
Imperial Chemical Industries PLC as a commercial lawyer and Assistant 
Secretary. From 2004 until 2010 he was Senior Independent Director of 
Arriva plc. From 1995 until 2004 he was a Non-Executive Director of Bunzl plc. 
External appointments: Since 2008 he has been a Non-Executive Director 
of Whitbread PLC where he is also the Senior Independent Director. 
In addition Steve is a Non-Executive Director of Eversheds LLP , an 
international law ﬁrm, and a senior advisor to Spencer Stuart LLP . He is 
Chairman of the De La Warr Pavilion Charitable T rust and a member of 
the Board of Leverhulme T rust and of Moorﬁelds NHS T rust.
Committee membership: Member of Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
Nigel Turner, Non-Executive Director 
(Senior Independent Director)
Appointment: Appointed to the Board in June 2009 and was appointed 
Senior Independent Director in August 2011.
Key strengths and experience: Considerable City experience having 
spent over 35 years as a corporate ﬁnancier in the UK and USA. Most 
Recently Nigel was the Chairman of Numis Securities Ltd and Deputy 
Chairman of Numis Corporation plc from December 2005 until his 
retirement in November 2007. From 2000 until 2005 he was with ABN 
AMRO responsible for Global Corporate Finance and Global Equities 
Divisions. Between 1985 and 2000 he was with Lazard Brothers in London 
and New York where he was Managing Director and a member of the 
Supervisory Board of the Lazard Group.
External appointments: Senior Independent Director of Genus plc since 2008.
Committee membership: Member of Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
Alan Ferguson, Non-Executive Director
Appointment: Appointed to the Board in July 2011.
Key strengths and experience: Extensive international ﬁnancial 
management and board experience gained in a broad range of 
industries. Alan was Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and a Director of Lonmin Plc 
until December 2010. Prior to that he was Group Finance Director of 
The BOC Group until it was acquired by the Linde Group in 2006. Before 
then he spent 22 years in a variety of roles at Inchcape plc, including 6 
years as Group Finance Director from 1999. Alan is a Chartered Accountant.
External appointments: Has been a Non-Executive Director of Johnson 
Matthey PLC since January 2011 and was appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director of The Weir Group PLC in December 2011. He chairs the Audit 
Committes at both these companies.
Committee membership: Chairman of Audit Committee and member 
of Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
Stanley Musesengwa Nigel Turner
Steve Williams Alan Ferguson 30
Corporate Governance
Following the appointment of Steve Foots as the 
Company’s Group Chief Executive in January 
2012, in February 2012 Keith Layden was 
appointed to the Board as Chief T echnology 
Ofﬁcer. In support of the Group’s strategy of 
innovation, Keith is responsible for the Enterprise 
T echnology Group, charged with identifying the 
next generation of technologies and 
accelerating their capture. 
Relationships at Board level were further 
strengthened during the year and both 
Steve Foots and I have fostered an open 
atmosphere in the boardroom where all the 
Directors are encouraged to engage in 
challenging but constructive debates on 
important issues and risk areas.
An externally facilitated Board effectiveness 
review was conducted during the year in line 
with the requirements of the Code. The overall 
feedback from the review indicated that the 
Board and its Committees are operating well 
and the composition of the Board reﬂects 
a good range of appropriate skills and 
expertise. I have created an action plan for the 
Board following the review and personalised 
development plans for each Non-Executive 
Director. The review process, together with 
a summary of the actions the Board and 
its Committees are taking following the review 
are discussed further on page 34.
The Board fully supports greater diversity 
within our business. A greater diversity of ideas, 
skills, knowledge, experience, and, not least, 
gender throughout our organisation is very 
important for our continuing long term success. 
This also applies when it comes to the 
composition of our Board to ensure that it is 
well equipped to lead the business effectively, 
embrace new ideas and satisfy all the different 
stakeholders we have as a global organisation 
and member of the FTSE 100.
Whilst we have women in a number of senior 
roles including on our Executive Committee, we 
want to encourage more to join the business 
and progress within it. T o achieve this, we are 
developing initiatives to create an environment 
where the next generation of women in our 
business have the opportunity to become future 
leaders, both at senior management level and 
on the Board. 
Over the coming months our Nomination 
Committee will be looking closely at the balance 
and composition of the Board as part of its 
succession planning. The term of our longest 
serving Non-Executive Director, Stanley 
Musesengwa, is due to expire in May 2014. 
As usual every effort will be made to appoint 
a new Non-Executive Director whose skills and 
experience will not only be of signiﬁcant beneﬁt 
to Croda but will also be complementary to 
existing Board members and enhance the 
Board’s overall effectiveness. 
The Committee will ensure that the speciﬁcation 
for a new Non-Executive Director is equally 
suited to both female and male applicants.
We especially wish to attract and encourage 
talented women candidates to the role and, 
as with all our Board appointments, we will 
appoint search consultants that have signed up 
to the voluntary code on diversity and instruct 
them to compile a long list of candidates that 
includes a good proportion of strong women 
candidates. Regarding all future appointments 
to the Board, whether for Non-Executive or 
Executive positions, we will continue to carefully 
consider the beneﬁts of greater diversity, 
including gender diversity, whilst ensuring that 
we fulﬁl our obligations to our shareholders to 
recruit the best person to the relevant role. 
On pages 4 and 5 of the Group Chief Executive’s 
review there is an explanation of the Group’s 
business model and the basis on which the 
Group generates value over the long term and 
the plan for delivering our strategic objectives. 
In the coming year, the Board will undertake a 
detailed review of the Company’s innovation 
strategy, the globalisation of manufacturing and 
its focus on emerging markets. The Board will 
also be overseeing the Executive led root and 
branch review of the Company’s remuneration 
philosophy, framework and policies and in 
addition will develop a policy on Board diversity.
Martin Flower,  
Chairman
Dear Shareholder, 
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance and to complying with the provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) and I am 
pleased to report that except in one limited respect, the 
Company has complied with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code for the period under review. The Board is accountable 
to the Company’s shareholders for good governance and 
this report, together with the Directors’ Remuneration Report, 
set out on pages 42 to 56, describes how the main principles 
of governance set out in the Code have been applied by 
the Company.  31
Leadership
Role of the Board
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the 
overall leadership of the Company and in this 
role it assists in the development of a clear 
strategy for the Group, monitors operational 
and ﬁnancial performance against agreed 
goals and objectives and ensures that 
appropriate controls and systems are in place 
to manage risk. It has a formal schedule of 
matters speciﬁcally reserved for it, a full copy of 
which can be found on the Company’s website 
(www.croda.com). The principal matters 
reserved for the Board are set out on page 32.
At the date of this report the Board comprises 
the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the 
Group Finance Director, the Chief T echnology 
Ofﬁcer and four independent Non-Executive 
Directors, who have a broad range of business, 
ﬁnancial and international skills and experience. 
This provides an appropriate balance and 
diversity within the Board. Biographical notes 
appear on pages 28 and 29. 
Details of the Company’s Board and 
Committee governance structure are set 
out below. The terms of reference for each 
Committee of the Board can be found on the 
Company’s website. Membership and activities 
of the various committees are summarised 
on the following pages. 
Governance Structure 
The Board has three main committees, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and 
the Nomination Committee. 
Audit Committee – Chaired by Alan Ferguson 
The Committee monitors the integrity of the Company’s ﬁnancial statements/announcements, 
the accounting processes and effectiveness of internal controls and risk management. 
For more information on the Audit Committee see pages 38 and 39.
Remuneration Committee – Chaired by Stanley Musesengwa 
The Committee approves the Company’s remuneration policy and framework and determines 
the remuneration packages for members of senior management. For more information on the 
Remuneration Committee see page 50.
Nomination Committee – Chaired by Martin Flower
The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees. 
It identiﬁes and nominates suitable candidates for appointment to the Board and is responsible 
for succession planning. For more information on the Nomination Committee see page 40.
The day to day operational management of the business is delegated by the Board to the Group 
Chief Executive, who utilises a number of committees to assist him in this task: the Group Executive 
Committee, the Finance Committee, the Risk Management Committee, the Group SHE Steering 
Committee and the Routine Business Committee. For further information on each of these 
committees see page 41.
Board
Nomination 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Group Chief 
Executive
Routine Business 
Committee
Group SHE 
Steering Committee
Risk Management 
Committee
Finance
Committee
Group Executive 
Committee
Membership of the Board as at 31 
December 2012 and attendance (eligibility) 
at Board meetings held during the year.
Meetings during the year 8
Current members 
Martin Flower (Chairman) 8 (8)
Sean Christie 8 (8)
Alan Ferguson 8 (8)
Steve Foots 8 (8)
Keith Layden 8 (8)
Stanley Musesengwa 8 (8)
Nigel T urner 8 (8)
Steve Williams 8 (8)
The overall feedback from the review 
indicated that the Board and its Committees 
are operating well and the composition of the 
Board reﬂects a good range of appropriate 
skills and expertise.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 32
Leadership
Principal Matters Reserved for the Board
Role of Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief 
Executive are separate and clearly deﬁned with 
the division of responsibilities set out in writing 
and agreed by the Board. 
The Chairman leads the Board and is 
responsible for promoting an open and effective 
communication between the Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors and for creating an 
environment at Board meetings in which all the 
Directors contribute to boardroom discussions 
and feel comfortable in engaging in healthy 
debate and constructive challenge. The 
Chairman sets the annual Board agenda 
programme and Board meeting agendas and 
determines the number of meetings to be 
held during the year. He ensures that there is 
adequate time dedicated during meetings and 
throughout the year to discuss all material 
matters, including strategic, ﬁnancial, operational, 
business, risk, HR and governance issues. 
The Chairman leads the annual Board 
effectiveness review process and ensures 
all new Directors undertake an appropriately 
tailored induction process. The Chairman is 
responsible for ensuring effective 
communication with shareholders and for 
ensuring the Board develops an understanding 
of the views of major shareholders. The 
Chairman also ensures that the Company 
complies with good practice in corporate 
governance, ethical, environmental and human 
resources matters and upholds high standards 
of integrity and probity. 
The Group Chief Executive has day to day 
responsibility for the effective management 
of the Company’s business and in ensuring 
the implementation of decisions of the Board. 
The Group Chief Executive plays a key role in 
devising and reviewing sustainable strategies 
for the development of the Company for 
discussion and approval by the Board. He is 
tasked with providing regular reports to the 
Board on all matters of signiﬁcance relating 
to the Company’s business or its reputation to 
ensure the Board has accurate, timely and 
clear information on all matters on which a 
decision of the Board is required. The Group 
Chief Executive promotes the Company’s 
culture and standards.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive liaise 
closely and have frequent meetings, face-to-
face or by telephone, in which the Chairman is 
kept appraised of signiﬁcant developments 
between Board meetings. This also ensures any 
areas of potential conﬂict between the Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors are minimised. 
The Senior Independent Director’s role includes 
providing a sounding board for the Chairman 
and acting as an intermediary for the Non-
Executive Directors, where necessary. He is 
available to shareholders where communication 
through the Chairman or Executive Directors has 
not been successful or where it may not seem 
appropriate. The Senior Independent Director is 
responsible for leading the Non-Executive 
Directors in appraising the performance of the 
Chairman and in their discussions of the 
Chairman’s term of appointment and fees.
In addition to the formal Board meetings, all the 
Directors attended a half day meeting to review 
the Group’s strategy and attended the Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”). They also met with 
the Company’s ﬁnancial and public relations 
advisers to discuss the feedback from investors 
and analysts on the Group’s 2011 annual results. 
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
meet together without the Executive Directors 
present on an ad hoc basis and the Non-
Executive Directors meet at least annually in the 
absence of the Chairman in order to appraise 
his performance.
In addition, senior management are invited to 
attend and present on speciﬁc issues at Board 
meetings which provides an opportunity for the 
Non-Executive Directors to meet the Group’s 
business leaders and enhance their understanding 
of the business. Advisers also attend some 
meetings for discussion of speciﬁc topics.
Strategy and management
Financial reporting and controls
Internal controls
Public communication
Board membership and other appointments
Delegation of authority
Remuneration
Contracts, acquisitions, disposals 
and investments
Policies
Other









of Board Committees





Corporate Governance 33
The Board’s Activities During the Year and Priorities for 2013
The Board has an annual agenda programme to ensure that strategic, operational and business, ﬁnancial, HR and corporate governance items are 
discussed at the appropriate time at Board meetings during the year. Some key highlights of the Board’s activities during the year, and areas for focus 
during 2013, are set out below.
The Board held a strategy day in October 2012 at which senior management presented their proposals for the strategic 
development of the business. At each Board meeting the Board discusses strategic corporate development and M&A 
opportunities. During the year the Board agreed to acquire two companies, Italian based IRB and US based Innovachem. 
During 2013 the Board will be undertaking detailed reviews of its innovation strategy, the globalisation of its manufacturing 
and its focus on emerging markets. 
The Board were given regular quarterly updates on Safety, Health and Environment (SHE), Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), 
and IT . The Board invites senior managers from across the business to give presentations on their business. These items will 
also be discussed in 2013.
The Board monitored regularly the Group’s ﬁnancial performance and approved the ﬁnancial statements, dividend policy and 
treasury policies. 
The Board undertook a detailed review of succession planning and talent development during the year. In 2013 the Board 
will oversee the Executive led root and branch review of the Company’s remuneration philosophy, framework and policies. 
The Board launched a comprehensive anti-bribery and corruption policy, training and awareness campaign that will continue 
in 2013. The Board undertook an externally facilitated review of its effectiveness and the effectiveness of its Committees, further 
details of which can be found on page 34. During 2013 the Board will develop a Board diversity policy. 
The Board contains a broad range of skills 
and experience from different industries and 
advisory roles as well as across international 
markets. These skills support the strategic aims 
of the Company for the future. Following 
individual performance assessments, the Board 
is satisﬁed that each Director continues to 
perform effectively, allocates sufﬁcient time to 
discharge their duties and remains fully 
committed to their role in the Company. 
The Company’s Articles of Association require 
the Directors to offer themselves for re-election 
at least once every three years and for newly 
appointed Directors to offer themselves for 
election at the ﬁrst AGM after the date of their 
appointment. However, in accordance with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors 
will stand for re-election at the 2013 AGM. Full 
biographies for the Directors can be found on 
pages 28 and 29. 
Strategy
Operations 
and business  
Finance
HR
Corporate 
Governance
Board Re-election
The Company’s Articles of Association 
require the Directors to offer themselves 
for re-election at least
once every 
three years
During 2013 the Board will be undertaking 
detailed reviews of its innovation strategy, 
the globalisation of its manufacturing 
and its focus on emerging markets.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 34
Effectiveness
The Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee Report, which 
describes the membership of the Nomination 
Committee, its responsibilities, its main activities 
during the year and its priorities for 2013, is set 
out on page 40.
Board Evaluation
The Board undertakes a formal review of its 
performance and that of its Committees each 
year. This year we commissioned our ﬁrst 
externally facilitated review in accordance with 
the Code. The review was conducted by Sheena 
Crane, an experienced consultant, who does not 
have any other connection with the Company. 
Mrs Crane attended the October 2012 Board 
and Committee meetings and conducted a 
series of one-to-one meetings with each of 
the Directors to gather their views overall on 
how the Board is working and on speciﬁc areas 
considered most valuable (including: strategy; 
ﬁnancial monitoring; risk management; Board 
dynamics; balance and composition; and 
succession planning and HR). 
The Board had a feedback session, facilitated 
by Mrs Crane, which included an open and 
detailed discussion of the ﬁndings. Separately, 
the Chairman provided feedback on a 
one-to-one basis to each of the Non-Executive 
Directors and to the Group Chief Executive and 
has created personalised development plans 
for 2013 for each Non-Executive Director.
The review concluded that the Board is aligned 
to the Group’s strategy, with its focus on 
emerging markets and innovation. The Board 
has good oversight of ﬁnancial reporting and 
it was noted that the Group Chief Executive and 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee have 
provided increased conﬁdence in this area 
during the year. 
The Company has a sound control environment 
with robust risk management systems and a 
strong safety record. The Board is collegiate 
with trusted relationships based on mutual 
respect. The size and composition of the 
Board encourages good open debate and 
there is a good range of skills and experience 
at Board level. 
Directors’ Induction
On joining Croda, Directors receive a 
tailored induction programme based on 
their experience as a Director of a listed 
company and knowledge of the industry 
sector. This includes: time with the Company 
Secretary, members of the Executive 
Committee and other senior management 
across the business; meetings with advisers; 
visits to operations around the Group; and 
provision of current and historical information 
about the Company and the Group and 
speciﬁc details on duties of Directors.
Board Support 
Each Director has access to the Company 
Secretary for his advice and services. Where 
necessary the Directors may take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense. 
Directors are granted an indemnity from the 
Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a 
result of their positions to the extent permitted 
by law. In addition the Company maintained 
Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ liability insurance cover 
throughout the year. 
T raining and brieﬁngs are available to all 
Directors on appointment and subsequently, 
as appropriate, taking into account their existing 
experience, qualiﬁcations and skills. In order to 
build and increase the Non-Executive Directors’ 
familiarity with, and understanding of, the 
Group’s people and businesses and the 
markets in which it operates, presentations from 
senior managers are made at Board meetings 
on a regular basis. The Board also usually holds 
at least one Board meeting a year at a Croda 
operating site. In September the Board held its 
meeting in Singapore, which gave the 
Non-Executive Directors the opportunity to visit 
our Singapore manufacturing site, observe the 
operations at ﬁrst hand and to meet with the 
senior management and local employees of our 
Asian region and gain their insight into the Asian 
business. Non-Executive Directors also 
undertake site visits on an individual basis. 
Prior to each meeting, the Company Secretary 
ensures papers and other information are 
delivered sufﬁciently in advance of the meeting 
to assist in ensuring that each Director has the 
time and resources to fulﬁl their duties. 

CSR and sustainability.


to Croda in the future.




most efﬁcient use of the Board’s time.

Group’s businesses.
Actions and objectives have been agreed based on the feedback and the Board has already begun to implement many of the action points. 
The key actions are summarised below. 
The review concluded that 
the Board is aligned to the 
Group’s strategy, with its 
focus on emerging 
markets and innovation.
The size and composition 
of the Board encourages 
good open debate.
Corporate Governance 35
During the year the Board moved to the 
electronic distribution of Board papers via 
iPad. This ensures Directors have more time 
to review the information for Board meetings 
and embrace more efﬁcient methods of 
communication. 
Non-Executive Directors 
Croda complies with the Code in having 
experienced Non-Executive Directors who 
represent a source of strong advice, judgement 
and challenge to the Executive Directors. 
At present there are ﬁve such Directors, 
including the Chairman and the Senior 
Independent Director, Nigel T urner, each of 
whom has signiﬁcant commercial experience. 
Their understanding of the Group’s operations 
is enhanced by regular business presentations 
and by site visits.
The independence of the Non-Executive 
Directors is kept under review. The Chairman 
was independent on his appointment in 
2005 but, as Chairman, is not classiﬁed as 
independent. Steve Williams has consultancy 
roles with Eversheds LLP , which provides some 
legal services to the Group and Spencer Stuart, 
a search consultancy ﬁrm that has previously 
been used by the Group. The Board does not 
consider that these roles would affect his 
judgement in relation to Croda and its business 
and, therefore, it is the Board’s opinion that all 
the Non-Executive Directors who have served 
during the year are independent in character 
and judgement with no relationships or 
circumstances which are likely to affect, 
or could appear to affect, their judgement.
The Board has an established process for 
declaring and monitoring actual and potential 
conﬂicts. The Articles of Association of the 
Company allow the non-conﬂicted members 
of the Board to authorise a conﬂict or potential 
conﬂict situation. In addition to the potential 
conﬂicts of Steve Williams (noted above), Nigel 
T urner declared a potential conﬂict in relation to 
the possible sale of farm produce (oilseed rape) 
through agents to Croda. In November 2012 
Sean Christie was appointed as a non-executive 
director of Eminate, a subsidiary of Nottingham 
University whose IP could possibly be of interest 
to Croda. After careful review the Board 
authorised these potential conﬂicts.
Details of the professional commitments of the 
Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are 
included in their biographies on pages 28 and 
29. The Board is satisﬁed that these do not 
interfere with the performance of their respective 
duties to the Company.
As noted above, during the year Sean Christie 
was appointed as a non-executive director of 
Eminate. Details of the payments received in 
respect of this appointment are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 48.
During 2012 no Non-Executive Director or 
the Chairman had served on the Board for 
more than nine years from the date of their 
ﬁrst election.
The terms and conditions of appointment of 
Non-Executive Directors can be viewed on 
the Company’s website (www.croda.com). 
They can be inspected during normal business 
hours at the Company’s registered ofﬁce by 
contacting the Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary and will be available for 
inspection at the AGM.
Training
The Board receives regular brieﬁngs from 
the Company Secretary on governance, legal 
and regulatory matters and brieﬁngs from 
the Company’s professional advisers. As noted 
on page 30 personalised training and 
development plans have been prepared for 
each Non-Executive Director for 2013. 
Time Commitment
Each Director is aware of the need to allocate 
sufﬁcient time to the Company to discharge their 
responsibilities effectively. The Board monitors 
the extent of any interest and conﬂicts of each 
Director. During the year Alan Ferguson 
undertook a temporary role providing ﬁnancial 
support to Lonmin Plc who were undertaking 
a reﬁnancing and rights issue. Mr Ferguson 
had previously been Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of 
Lonmin, a role he had held until the end of 2011. 
Before agreeing to fulﬁl the temporary role, 
Mr Ferguson discussed this appointment with 
the Chairman. Mr Ferguson’s commitment and 
availability to Croda and in his role as Chairman 
of the Audit Committee were not affected.
External Consultants
The Board effectiveness review was conducted 
by Sheena Crane, an experienced consultant, 
who does not have any other connection with 
the Company. New Bridge Street, now part of 
Aon plc, acts as remuneration consultant to 
the Remuneration Committee. Whilst the 
Aon group provides insurance services to 
the Company, these services are not provided 
by New Bridge Street. 
On joining Croda, Directors 
receive a tailored induction 
programme based on 
their experience as a 
Director of a listed 
company and knowledge 
of the industry sector.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 36
Accountability
Relations with Shareholders
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee Report, which describes 
the membership of the Audit Committee, its 
responsibilities, its main activities during the 
year and its priorities for 2013, is set out on 
pages 38 and 39.
Risk Management and Internal Control 
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for 
ensuring the maintenance of a sound system 
of internal controls and risk management. 
In accordance with the T urnbull guidance 
(2005) and in order to discharge this 
responsibility, the Directors have utilised an 
organisational structure with clear operating 
procedures, lines of responsibility, and 
delegated authority. 
In particular there are clear procedures and deﬁned authorities to act for: 

and preparation of the ﬁnancial statements. A clear framework of controls which are expected
to be in place is documented and each reporting location prepares an annual self assessment
of compliance with these controls. This is assured via planned internal audit visits which are   
approved by the Audit Committee.

Risk Management Committee. The Group’s approach to risk management is discussed in more 
detail in the Financial Review on pages 16 to 19 and in the Group’s separate Sustainability Report.

The Board has discharged its responsibility for reviewing the operational effectiveness 
of the systems of internal control and risk management throughout the ﬁnancial year and up to 
the date of approval of the annual report using a process which involved:

operation of those elements of the system for which they are responsible;

Manager to the Audit Committee; and

Such a system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or 
loss. The Board also, where appropriate, ensures that necessary actions have been, or are being, 
taken to remedy signiﬁcant failings or weaknesses identiﬁed from the review of effectiveness of 
internal controls.
Communication with Shareholders
The Company recognises the importance 
of communicating with its shareholders. 
The Group Chief Executive and the Group 
Finance Director maintain regular contact 
with major shareholders and they ensure that 
their views are communicated to the Board 
as a whole through the reporting of feedback 
from shareholder meetings and the provision 
of brokers’ reports. The Board invites the 
Company’s brokers and ﬁnancial public relations 
advisers to attend at least one meeting each 
year at which the economic and investment 
environment, Croda’s performance, both 
generally, and in comparison with its sector 
peers, and investor reaction are discussed. 
The Chairman met with shareholders throughout 
the year and he and the Non-Executive Directors 
attended the Company’s results announcements 
and capital markets day. 
The Company has not complied with part of 
Code provision E.1.1, which provides that 
“non-executive directors should be offered the 
opportunity to attend scheduled meetings with 
major shareholders” and that the “senior 
independent director should attend sufﬁcient 
meetings with a range of major shareholders 
to listen to their views in order to help develop 
a balanced understanding of the issues and 
concerns of major shareholders”. The Board 
considers that there is sufﬁcient dialogue with 
shareholders through the Group Chief Executive, 
Group Finance Director and the Chairman, 
who meet with shareholders on a regular 
basis. These meetings provide an appropriate 
mechanism for the views of shareholders to 
be listened to and the Board is regularly 
apprised of shareholders views and key issues. 
The Board does not believe that it is necessary 
for the Senior Independent Director or other 
Non-Executive Directors to attend further 
meetings with major shareholders. All the 
Non-Executive Directors are, however, available 
to attend such meetings if requested by 
shareholders and the Senior Independent 
Director would be available to discuss matters 
relating to the Chairman should the need arise.
The Board believes both that its practices are 
consistent with the relevant main principle of the 
Code concerning dialogue with shareholders 
and are consistent with good governance. 
Corporate Governance
The Company recognises 
the importance of 
communicating with its 
shareholders.  37
Shareholder Information
Annual General Meeting 
The Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) provides 
an opportunity for private shareholders to raise 
questions with the members of the Board. The 
Directors are also available to answer questions 
after the meeting in a more informal setting. The 
annual report and accounts, including notice of 
AGM, are sent to shareholders at least twenty 
working days before the meeting. There is a 
separate investor relations section on the 
Company’s website (www.croda.com) which 
includes, amongst other items, presentations 
made to analysts. 
The AGM will be held at Carlton Towers, 
Carlton, Goole, East Yorkshire DN14 9LZ on 
Thursday, 25 April 2013 at 12 noon. 
Deadlines for Exercising Voting Rights
Votes are exercisable at a General Meeting 
of the Company in respect of which the 
business being voted upon is being heard. 
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, 
or in relation to corporate members, by 
corporate representatives. The Articles of 
Association of the Company provide a deadline 
for submission of proxy forms of not less than 
48 hours before the time appointed for the 
holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Substantial Shareholders 
As at 31 December 2012, the Company 
had received notiﬁcation of the following 
material shareholdings pursuant to the 
Disclosure and T ransparency Rules of the 
UK Listing Authority:
Ordinary shares % of share capital
Mondrian Investment Partners 6,180,992 4.57%
Legal & General Investment Management 5,404,596 3.99%
MFS Investment Management 4,935,950 3.65%
Investor Concentration – Analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 31 December 2012
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
Number of % of issued
Geographical breakdown shares capital
UK 87,362,632 62.43%
Europe (excluding UK) 21,892,148 15.64%
North America 26,083,789 18.64%
Asia 3,700,869 2.64%
Rest of World 910,531 0.65%
Geographical
breakdown
of shares
Number of Number of % of issued
Size of holding holders shares capital
1-1000 2,455 590,966 0.42%
1,001-5,000 2,037 2,155,772 1.54%
5,001-10,000 679 2,169,043 1.55%
10,001-50,000 234 1,662,518 1.19%
50,001-100,000 268 6,266,359 4.48%
100,001-500,000 101 7,375,064 5.27%
500,001-upwards 190 119,730,247 85.55%
Number of Number of % of issued
T ype of holder holders shares capital
Private holders 3,370 7,442,755 5.32%
Institutional and corporate holders 2,590 126,800,216 90.60%
T reasury shares 1 4,646,198 3.32%
Shares held in Croda trusts 3 1,060,800 0.76%
T ype of
holder
Size of
holding 38
Audit Committee
Report of the Audit Committee for the 
ﬁnancial year 31 December 2012
Governance
Members and attendance (eligibility) at meetings held during 
the year ended 31 December 2012.
Meetings during the year 4
Current members 
Alan Ferguson (Chairman) 4 (4)
Stanley Musesengwa 4 (4)
Nigel T urner 4 (4)
Steve Williams 4 (4)
Dear Shareholder,
The Committee is made up of four Non-Executive 
Directors. The Board considers the Chairman 
(Alan Ferguson) and each of the members to be 
independent within the deﬁnition of the Code 
and that each of them has relevant ﬁnancial 
experience. Alan Ferguson has held a number 
of senior ﬁnancial roles, most recently as Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer of Lonmin Plc and is currently 
chairman of the Audit Committee of two other 
FTSE 100 companies. This provides the Board 
with assurance that the Audit Committee has 
the appropriate skills and experience and that 
it meets the Code requirements that at least 
one member of the Committee has signiﬁcant, 
recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience. 
The Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief 
Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group 
Financial Controller, the Group Risk and Control 
Manager and representatives from the external 
and internal auditors regularly attend meetings 
by invitation. The Committee periodically meets 
separately with the Group Risk and Control 
Manager, who is responsible for the internal 
audit function, and also with the external auditors 
without the Executives being present. 
The Committee’s remit is to assist the Board to 
fulﬁl its responsibility for ensuring that the Group’s 
ﬁnancial systems provide accurate and up to 
date information on its ﬁnancial position and that 
the Group’s published ﬁnancial statements 
represent a true and fair reﬂection 
of this position. 
In undertaking its role of monitoring the ﬁnancial 
statements and results announcements of the 
Company, the Committee reviewed whether 
suitable accounting policies had been adopted 
and whether management had made 
appropriate estimates and judgements. With 
support from the external auditors, the key 
ﬁnancial reporting and accounting issues were 
discussed and the main issues for the year 
ended 31 December 2012 are described in 
the following table.
The Key Responsibilities of the Committee are to:

including its annual and half-yearly reports, interim management statements, preliminary  
results announcements and any other formal announcement relating to its ﬁnancial performance;


management systems;

procedures for detecting fraud and the systems and controls for the prevention of bribery;

the Company’s overall risk management system;

removal of the Company’s external auditor;

non-audit services by the external auditor, taking into account any relevant ethical guidance on 
the matter;

terms of engagement;

resources and the effectiveness of the audit process; and

The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the 2013 AGM to respond to any questions 
shareholders may raise on any of the Committee’s activities.
Intangible assets: the Committee reviewed the assumptions made in testing for impairment.
Inventory: the Committee reviewed the carrying value of inventory and considered this 
was appropriate. 
Pensions: the Committee continued to monitor the Group’s pension arrangements, and in particular 
the liability in respect of the deﬁned beneﬁt plans in the UK, US and Netherlands. The Committee 
considered management’s actuarial assumptions to be reasonable.
Provisions: the Committee reviewed whether certain environmental, reorganisation, fair value, 
litigation and other legal provisions were considered sufﬁcient to cover estimated costs and were 
satisﬁed they were reasonable and appropriate.
T ax: the Committee reviewed the basis of calculation of the effective tax rate.
Corporate Governance
Key Financial Reporting and Accounting issues 39
Main Activities During the Year
The Committee met four times during the year 
and I reported the key issues covered to the 
subsequent Board meeting. The main activities 
of the Committee during the year were as follows:

statements and results announcements of 
the Company and reviewed key ﬁnancial 
reporting and accounting issues (as further 
described on page 38).

and approved the internal audit plan and 
considered the results of internal audits,  
the adequacy of management’s response 
to the matters raised and the time taken to 
resolve any such matters.

a report from the chairman of the Risk   
Management Committee and the Group 
Risk and Control Manager and monitored 
compliance with the Group risk management 
programme. The Group’s highest risks were 
discussed and the adequacy of mitigating 
controls was reviewed.

the Group’s material litigation.

the Group’s whistleblowing programme.

of the external auditor to conﬁrm the   
appropriateness of their reappointment and 
undertook a review of the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditor.

non-audit services by the external auditor 
and updated the Company’s policy in this area.

for the year, including the scope and   
materiality level and the audit fees.

material accounting standards and   
governance changes that would impact
the Company.

and external audit without management
being present.

terms of reference in the year and prepared 
an annual plan to help ensure appropriate 
time is allocated to agenda items.
External Auditor’s Audit and Non-Audit Fees
The total fees paid to the Group’s external 
auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) in 
the year ended 31 December 2012 were £2.6m 
(2011: £2.0m) of which £1.8m related to non-audit 
fees (2011: £1.3m). Of the total of non-audit fees 
£1.1m related to work carried out in assisting the 
implementation of the Group’s ERP (Enterprise 
Resource Planning) systems (2011: £0.7m). This 
cost was capitalised in accordance with the 
Company’s accounting policy for Intangible Assets.
During the year the Committee undertook a 
detailed review of the provision of non-audit 
services by PwC and updated the Company’s 
policy in this area. Assignments awarded to 
PwC are subject to controls by management 
that have been agreed by the Audit Committee 
in order to ensure that audit independence is 
not compromised. The Chairman of the Audit 
Committee is required to give prior approval of 
work carried out by PwC and its associates in 
excess of predetermined thresholds, which 
were lowered from £50,000 to £20,000 in 
recognition by the Committee of the level of 
spend on non-audit services performed by PwC. 
Part of the Committee Chairman’s review 
is to determine that other potential providers of 
the services have been properly considered. 
As ﬁrst disclosed in the 2010 report and 
accounts, PwC is providing advisory services 
in relation to the implementation of the ERP 
computer system which increased signiﬁcantly 
their non-audit activities for 2011 and 2012. 
Given the nature of these services the full Audit 
Committee considered and approved PwC’s 
appointment. This work, undertaken in a 
number of the Group’s smaller locations, 
will continue in 2013 as the Group completes 
the roll out of its ERP system to the global sales 
network. All responsibility for the design and 
implementation of the ERP system resides with 
management. This includes managing the 
system’s operation, monitoring its internal 
controls and ensuring data integrity. PwC’s role 
is restricted to assessing the system’s 
implementation against the design criteria 
developed by management. 
The Committee examined carefully the continued 
use of PwC on the ERP roll out and were satisﬁed 
that given their continued high performance 
and excellent knowledge of the Group’s systems 
it was appropriate. In reaching its decision the 
Committee had regard to the fact that a change 
in provider could extend completion of the roll 
out programme considerably, that the 
programme was nearing completion and that 
PwC’s continued role did not compromise their 
independence as auditor of the Company. 
Notwithstanding the fact that in 2013 we will incur 
approximately £0.5m in non-audit fees as PwC 
complete their work on this three year project, it is 
the intention that total non-audit spend will not 
exceed audit spend unless the Committee feels 
this would be in the best interest of shareholders. 
Audit independence
The Committee and the Board place great 
emphasis on the objectivity of the Group’s 
external auditors in their reporting to 
shareholders. The PwC audit partner is present 
at all Audit Committee meetings to ensure full 
communication of matters relating to the audit.
PwC were the Company’s joint auditors from 
1970 to 1980 and have been sole auditors since 
1981. T o ensure objectivity, the rotation of audit 
partners’ responsibilities within PwC is required 
by their profession’s ethical standards, is actively 
encouraged and has taken place. The PwC lead 
audit partner for the Company has held the 
position since 2010.
The scope of the audit was discussed in 
advance by the Audit Committee and audit fees 
are reviewed by the Committee and then 
referred to the Board for approval. During the 
year the Committee reviewed PwC’s 
effectiveness (taking into account the views of 
management) and feedback is to be provided to 
senior members of PwC unrelated to the audit. 
The Committee considered the degree to which 
the auditor was able to assess key accounting 
and audit judgements. A review of effectiveness 
also forms part of PwC’s own system of quality 
control. The Committee concluded that the audit 
was effective and that the effectiveness should 
be kept under review.
The Committee recognises the changes made 
by the UK Financial Reporting Council to 
mandatorily retender auditors and will discuss 
during the year when would be the appropriate 
time to retender the audit. 
In July, the Committee adopted a policy that 
governed how and when employees and 
former employees of the Company’s auditors 
can be employed by the Company.
 Priorities for 2013

the recent changes to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, including the   
appropriate timing for audit retender.


the operational ﬁnance team.


mapping exercise.
Alan Ferguson
Chairman of the Audit Committee
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 40
Nomination Committee
Governance 
Members and attendance (eligibility) at meetings held during 
the year ended 31 December 2012.
Meetings during the year 2
Current members 
Martin Flower (Chairman) 2 (2)
Alan Ferguson 2 (2)
Steve Foots (appointed 1 January 2012) 2 (2)
Stanley Musesengwa 2 (2)
Nigel T urner 2 (2)
Steve Williams 2 (2)
The Key Responsibilities of the Committee are to:

and diversity) of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.

course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and 
what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the Board in the future.

diversity on the Board and, in the light of that evaluation, prepare a description of the role and 
capabilities required for a particular appointment.

when they arise.

with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the   
marketplace;


The Chairman of the Nomination Committee will be available at the 2013 AGM to respond to any 
questions shareholders may raise on any of the Committee’s activities.
Corporate Governance
Dear Shareholder,
The Nomination Committee consists of the 
Chairman of the Board, the Non-Executive 
Directors and the Group Chief Executive. 
It meets on an ad hoc basis and is responsible 
for nominating, for approval by the Board, 
candidates for appointment to the Board 
and succession planning. 
Main Activities During the Year
During the year the Committee recommended 
that the Board extend Nigel T urner’s term 
of ofﬁce for a further three years until May 
2015 and that he retain his role as Senior 
Independent Director.
The Committee carried out its customary 
corporate governance review and was satisﬁed 
that the size, structure and composition of the 
Board and the required time commitment from 
Non-Executive Directors remained appropriate 
and that all the Non-Executive Directors 
continued to fulﬁl the criteria of independence 
and were able to commit the required time for 
the proper performance of their duties.
In accordance with the Code, all Non-Executive 
Directors with a term beyond six years have 
been subject to a rigorous review. In January 
2013 the Committee recommended the 
extension of Stanley Musesengwa’s term of 
ofﬁce for a further one year to May 2014, which 
would bring his term to seven years. The 
Nomination Committee felt the extension of his 
term beyond six years was in the best interest 
of the Company as Mr Musesengwa would 
be asked to take the lead in overseeing the 
Executive led root and branch remuneration 
review during 2013 and his experience as the 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
would be invaluable. 
Since the end of the ﬁnancial year, the 
Committee has recommended that the 
Board extend Steve Williams’ term of ofﬁce for a 
further three years until June 2015. Nigel T urner, 
Senior Independent Director, also chaired the 
Committee in its discussion of Martin Flower’s 
term of ofﬁce. The Committee recommended 
the Board extend Martin’s term of ofﬁce as 
Chairman of the Board for a further two years 
until September 2015.
Priorities for 2013

recent Board evaluation, review the   
balance, experience and skills of the   
Board (including gender). 

term of ofﬁce in May 2014, undertake a 
search for a new Non-Executive Director.

Group Chief Executive.

Martin Flower
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 41
The management of the business is delegated 
by the Board to the Group Chief Executive. He 
utilises a series of committees to assist him in 
this task. The role of each of the Executive level 
committees is set out below together with a 
table showing the membership of each 
committee during 2012.
There were a number of changes made to 
the Executive level committees during the year. 
In February 2012 Steve Foots relinquished his 
role as President, Europe and the European 
business was divided into two areas under 
the leadership of Sandra Breene, President 
– Consumer Care Europe and Maarten 
Heybroek, President – Performance 
T echnologies & Industrial Chemicals Europe. 
Consequently, both have joined the Group 
Executive Committee, the Finance Committee, 
the Risk Management Committee and the 
Group SHE Steering Committee.
Graham Myers – Group Financial Controller 
and T reasurer, was appointed to the Group 
Executive Committee and Risk Management 
Committee in July 2012. Graham was already 
a member of the Finance Committee and joins 
the Group SHE Steering Committee.
At the end of June 2012 Kevin Nutbrown retired 
and Stuart Arnott took the role of President – 
Global Operations. In this role Stuart Arnott 
joined the Group Executive Committee, the 
Finance Committee, the Risk Management 
Committee and became Chairman of the 
Group SHE Steering Committee.
In June 2012 Miguel De Bellis retired and 
Nick Challoner took the role of President – 
Latin America. In this role Nick Challoner joined 
the Group Executive Committee, the Finance 
Committee, the Risk Management Committee 
and the Group SHE Steering Committee.
In December 2012 Louise Scott stepped down 
as Company Secretary and Legal Counsel and 
T om Brophy joined as Group General Counsel 
and Company Secretary. In this role T om Brophy 
joined the Group Executive Committee, the 
Finance Committee, the Risk Management 
Committee, the Group SHE Steering Committee 
and became an alternate on the Routine 
Business Committee. 
Group Executive Committee 
The Committee meets quarterly and its remit 
is responsibility for the development and 
implementation of strategy, operational plans, 
policies, procedures and budgets, the 
monitoring of operating and ﬁnancial 
performance, the assessment and control of risk 
and the prioritisation and allocation of resources. 
Finance Committee
The Finance Committee meets monthly to 
review monthly operating results, identify 
operational and risk issues and examine 
capital expenditure proposals. 
Risk Management Committee
The Committee’s role is to evaluate, propose 
policies and monitor processes to control the 
business, operational and compliance risks 
faced by the Group. It normally meets four 
times a year. 
Group SHE Steering Committee
The Group operates a Safety, Health and 
Environment (“SHE”) Steering Committee that 
meets quarterly and monitors progress against 
the Group SHE objectives and targets, reviews 
safety performance, safety audits and 
determines the requirement for new or revised 
SHE policies, procedures and objectives. Stuart 
Arnott, President – Global Operations replaced 
Kevin Nutbrown as the Chairman of the 
Committee in July 2012. The Committee 
comprises the Regional Presidents, heads of 
operational functions, the Chief T echnology 
Ofﬁcer, the Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary, the Group Financial 
Controller and the Vice President Group SHE.
Routine Business Committee 
The Routine Business Committee comprises the 
Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director with the Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary and Group Financial 
Controller acting as alternates. The Committee 
may make decisions with one Executive Director 
and the alternate for the other Executive Director 
being present. It attends to business of a routine 
nature and to the administration of matters, 
the principles of which have been agreed 
previously by the Board or the Group 
Executive Committee.
Other Committees
Committee Membership
Group Executive Finance Risk Management
Committee Committee Committee
Steve Foots Group Chief Executive 
Stuart Arnott 
1
President – Global Operations 
David Barraclough President – Asia 
Sandra Breene 
2
President – Consumer Care Europe
T om Brophy 
3
Group General Counsel 
and Company Secretary
Sean Christie Group Finance Director 
Nick Challoner 
4
President – Latin America 
Kevin Gallagher President – North America 
Maarten Heybroek
5
President – Performance T echnologies
& Industrial Chemicals – Europe
Keith Layden Chief T echnology Ofﬁcer 
Graham Myers Group Financial Controller and T reasurer
Members who left during the year
Miguel De Bellis 
6
(formerly President – Latin America)
Kevin Nutbrown 
7
(formerly President – Global Operations)
Louise Scott 
8
(formerly Company Secretary and Legal Counsel)
        Chairman           Member          Attendee
1
 Joined in July 2012
2
 Joined in February 2012  
3
 Joined in December 2012
4
 Joined in June 2012
5
 Joined in February 2012  
6
Left in June 2012
7
Left in June 2012
8
Left in December 2012
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 42
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for 2012, for which we will be seeking approval 
from our shareholders at our Annual General Meeting. This report covers 
the remuneration of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Consistent with the draft proposals on directors’ pay published by the 
Department for Business, Innovation & Skills (BIS), the report has been split 
into two sections: a Remuneration Policy Report which sets out the policy 
on the remuneration of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and an 
Implementation Report which discloses how the current remuneration 
policy has been implemented in the year ended 31 December 2012. 
We will be seeking your support for both parts of the report by way of a 
single advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM on 25 April 2013.
In addition to adopting a number of the proposals from BIS on disclosure, 
this Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large 
and Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts & Reports) 2008 
Regulations which set out the current requirements for the disclosure of 
directors’ remuneration, and also in accordance with the requirements 
of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.  
The current legislation requires the auditors to report to the Company’s 
members on the ‘auditable parts’ of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and to state whether, in their opinion, the parts of the report that have 
been subject to audit have been properly prepared in accordance with 
the relevant legislation. The parts of this report which have been audited 
have been highlighted.
The Implementation Report sets out what has been paid in respect of the 
year under review with the Remuneration Policy Report setting out the policy 
that will apply in 2013 (which is the same broad policy that applied in the 
year under review) and, subject to a review to be undertaken in 2013, for 
subsequent years. The report has been approved by the Board and signed 
on its behalf by myself, the chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Performance and Reward for 2012
As described in the Business Review, 2012 was another robust year of 
growth for Croda achieved despite challenging trading conditions, 
particularly in Europe.  
The results demonstrate the ability of our business to continue to deliver 
growth in difﬁcult market conditions and, in particular, the strength of the 
Group’s strategy, focusing on innovation and bringing high margin 
products to market, and the effective leadership of our dynamic 
management team.
The Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) consider the remuneration 
paid to our management team to fairly reﬂect their performance during the 
year. The annual bonus paid out at 28% (arising from the 2012 income, as 
calculated for the purpose of the bonus scheme), and the 2010 L TIP and
BCIP awards’ performance targets were also met in full, which reﬂected a 
growth in earnings per share before exceptional items of 156.4% over the 
three year period ended 31 December 2012 and a total shareholder return 
created of over 230% (which resulted in Croda being ranked 6th against 
other FTSE 250 companies over the three year performance period).
Remuneration Policy for 2013
The Committee considers our current remuneration policy of paying 
competitively against comparable international businesses, with an 
incentive structure weighted towards long-term performance, to continue 
to serve the business well. 
With a substantial proportion of the total package weighted towards 
long-term performance, the requirement to defer part of the annual bonus 
into the Company’s shares, the operation of clawback in both annual and 
long-term incentives arrangements and minimum share ownership 
guidelines, the Committee is comfortable that the current arrangements 
motivate the right types of behaviour across the executive population and 
do not inadvertently encourage undue risk taking.
Furthermore, the Committee has a clear track record of aligning pay with 
performance and shareholder value creation. As a result, our broad policy 
framework is to be retained for 2013. 
Shareholders’ Views
The Committee continues to take an active interest in shareholders’ views 
and developments in ‘best practice’ guidance (for example, clawback 
provisions were introduced into the Company’s executive incentive plans in 
2011 as a result of the updated recommendations included in the 2010 UK 
Corporate Governance Code and shareholder guidance).
No major issues were raised by the vast majority of shareholders in respect 
of our 2011 Directors’ Remuneration Report which received circa 98% 
support from the Company’s voting shareholders. 
The Committee will continue to take the views of shareholders into account 
when setting remuneration policy in future years. Shareholders’ current best 
practice expectations will be taken into account when the Committee 
undertakes its annual review of remuneration in advance of setting 
remuneration policy for 2014. 
As in prior years any substantive changes arising from the Committee’s 
review would be the subject of appropriate consultation with the 
Company’s major shareholders.   
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank shareholders for their 
continued support. The Committee looks forward to your support of our 
remuneration policy at the 2013 AGM.
Stanley Musesengwa
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Remuneration Report  43
The table below summarises the main components of Croda’s remuneration policy: 

those provided by similar companies having regard to the Group’s
turnover, business sector and market worth and the need for skills to 
manage international businesses;

remuneration set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code;

remuneration with the latter being related to objective measurement
of the ﬁnancial performance of the Company;

with the greatest proportion of pay being delivered through long-term 
variable pay at maximum performance levels; and

performance objectives of the Group which are structured so that they
do not encourage undue ﬁnancial or operational risk-taking or give
rise to environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible behaviour. 
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Performance Metrics Application of policy for 2013
Pension & Beneﬁts*
T o assist in the 
recruitment and 
retention of high 
calibre executives.
T o provide competitive 
beneﬁts and to act 
as a retention 
mechanism and 
reward service.
Reviewed annually with increases effective 
from 1 January.
Base salaries will be set by the Committee taking 
into account:

individual concerned


and pan-sector companies of a comparable
size (market capitalisation and turnover)
and complexity
 in the Group

increases across international locations
Pension beneﬁts are typically provided either through
(i) participation in the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension plan with a cash supplement provided 
above the pension salary cap or (ii) a cash 
supplement provided in lieu of pension.
Only basic salary is pensionable.
Other beneﬁts include company cars (or a cash 
allowance), private fuel allowance, health and 
other insured beneﬁts.
Executive Directors may also participate in the 
Group’s HMRC tax approved all-employee share 
plans on the same basis as other employees.
None
None
Salaries for 2013 are as follows:

(from £500,000)

(from £350,208)

(from £280,000)
The salary increase awarded to the Group Chief 
Executive is consistent with phasing his salary 
to comparable market benchmarks (as detailed 
in last year’s Remuneration Report) over a period 
of time.
The salary increases for the Group Finance 
Director and Chief T echnology Ofﬁcer are within 
the typical range of increases awarded to high 
performers across the Company
Pension beneﬁts:

Director: deﬁned beneﬁt pension (1/60th accrual 
up to capped salary of £187,500) and cash 
allowance above the cap

of £56,000
Other beneﬁts:
 to the value of £11,400 per annum
 £5,820 per annum
 level cover

Basic Salary*
Remuneration Policy Report (Unaudited Information)
The key objectives of Croda’s executive remuneration policy are:
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
* Changes to policy for 2013: None 44
Remuneration Report 
Purpose and  
link to strategy Operation Performance Metrics Application of policy for 2013
Long-T erm Incentive Plan (“L TIP”)^
Share ownership guidelines*
T o incentivise and 
reward the execution 
of the business 
strategy over the 
longer term.
Rewards sustained 
proﬁt growth. 
T o incentivise and 
reward the execution 
of the business 
strategy over the 
longer term.
Rewards sustained 
growth in (i) proﬁt and 
(ii) shareholder value.
T o align Executive 
Directors with 
shareholders. 
Each year, the net of tax bonus earned above 
50% of salary is compulsorily invested in shares. 
Additional net of tax bonus may be voluntarily 
invested In the Company’s shares. Invested shares 
are the subject of a matching award determined 
by the Committee which can be earned, subject to 
the delivery of performance goals, over a three year 
performance period.
BCIP awards (from 2012) are subject to potential 
clawback in the event of a material misstatement of 
results or serious misconduct.
Each year, performance shares are allocated 
which can be earned, subject to the delivery 
of performance goals, over a three year 
performance period.
Maximum opportunity of 200% 
of salary although, to date, awards have been 
restricted to 100% of salary.
From 2012, L TIP awards are subject
to clawback in the event of a material 
misstatement of results or serious misconduct.
A shareholding of 100% of salary is expected to be 
achieved within ﬁve years through retention of 50% 
of the net of tax number of vested shares.
Matching awards vest 
based on achievement 
against a challenging 
sliding scale of EPS 
growth targets.
Half of any award vests 
based on achievement 
against a challenging 
sliding scale of EPS 
growth targets with the 
other half vesting based 
on the relative total 
shareholder return (“TSR”) 
performance of the 
Company compared 
against an appropriate 
peer group.
N/A
Compulsory deferred bonus will be the subject of 
a matching award along with any voluntarily 
deferred bonus.
Awards are anticipated being granted at the 
following levels in 2013:



Each of the Executive Directors 
has met and exceeded the 
target shareholding.
Bonus Co-investment Plan (“BCIP”)*
Performance Related Bonus*
T o incentivise and 
reward the delivery of 
the Company’s key 
annual ﬁnancial 
objectives.
Compulsory deferral 
of part of bonus into 
shares provides 
longer-term alignment 
with shareholders.
Maximum opportunity of 100% of salary.
Compulsory deferral (above 50% of salary earned) 
into shares for three years with the balance paid in 
cash unless the executive chooses to further defer 
bonus into shares on a voluntary basis for the 
purposes of receiving a higher matching award.
From 2012, bonuses paid are subject to potential 
clawback in the event of a material misstatement of 
results or serious misconduct.
A challenging range of 
income growth targets 
(where income is Group 
EBITDA for continuing 
operations before 
exceptional items and any 
charges or credits under 
IFRS2 ‘Share based 
payments’ less a notional 
interest charge on 
working capital employed 
during the year).
Maximum bonus will be payable at a growth 
rate of 10% over 2012 base income plus CPI. 
Clawback provisions are in place in the event 
of any misstatement in the ﬁnancial results.
* Changes to policy for 2013: None
^Changes to policy for 2013: The Committee changed the TSR peer group from the constituents of the FTSE250 index to the constituents of the FTSE350 index for the 2013 L TIP grants.
Remuneration Policy Report (Unaudited Information) 45
42%
27%
11%
Remuneration Scenarios for Executive Directors
Group Chief Executive
£000
Below
Threshold
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
Threshold T arget Maximum
Long-T erm 
Share Awards
Annual Bonus
(deferred shares 
- BCIP)
Annual Bonus
(cash)
Pension/Beneﬁts
Salary
The charts below show how the composition of each of the Executive Directors’ remuneration packages varies at different levels of performance under 
the new remuneration policy, as a percentage of total remuneration opportunity and as a total value:
Notes:  1. Chart labels show proportion of the total package comprised of each element  2. For the purposes of simplicity, the potential impact of share price growth has been ignored  
3. No voluntary deferral of annual bonus into shares is assumed until a maximum bonus is payable at which point the entire annual bonus is assumed to be deferred
80% 65% 42% 21%
20% 16% 10% 5%
19%
21%
21%
42%
42%
27%
27%
11%
10%
Group Finance Director Chief Technology Ofﬁcer
Below
Threshold
Below
Threshold
Threshold Threshold T arget T arget Maximum Maximum
80% 65% 42% 21%
20% 16% 10% 5%
19%
19%
21%
21%
21%
78% 63% 40% 21%
22% 18% 12% 6%
21%
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay
The following chart sets out the change on adjusted proﬁt, dividends and 
total employee remuneration costs in 2012 compared to 2011.
How Employees’ Pay is T aken into Account
The Committee takes due account of remuneration structures elsewhere 
in the Group when setting pay for the Executive Directors (for example, 
consideration is given to the overall salary increase budget and the 
incentive structures that operate across the Group).
How Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy Relates to the 
Wider Group
The remuneration policy summarised above and described in detail 
below provides an overview of the structure that operates for the Group 
Executive Directors, the Group Executive Committee and the Finance 
Committee which includes the eleven most senior executives in the Group 
(noting that there are some differences in L TIP participation and levels
within this group).  
Croda operate a global grading scheme below the Executive Committee. 
All roles sit within seven grades .
The performance related bonus scheme as described in the remuneration 
policy table operates on a tiered basis from 100% of salary down to 30% of 
salary across the most senior global grades. The BCIP is offered voluntarily 
to the most senior global grade (outside of the Executive Directors). At this 
level, executives can invest up to 50% of their annual bonus payment 
(net of tax) into the plan. Invested shares are the subject of an award 
determined by the Committee. The performance metrics are the same 
as detailed in the remuneration policy table.
Base salaries are operated under the same policy as detailed in the 
remuneration policy table with comparator groups being country or 
industry speciﬁc.
Outside of these tiers of executive, neither the BCIP nor L TIP is operated
as this arrangement is reserved for those anticipated as having the 
greatest potential to inﬂuence Group level performance.  
However, the Committee believes in wider employee share ownership 
and promotes this through the operation of a HMRC tax approved UK 
SAYE Scheme and the Croda Share Incentive Plan (SIP) which are open 
to all UK employees. Other similar share schemes are offered in other 
jurisdictions where local securities laws allow. 
How Shareholders’ Views are T aken into Account
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to 
the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder representative 
bodies more generally. This feedback, plus any additional feedback 
received during any meetings held with shareholders from time to time, 
is then considered as part of the Company’s ongoing review of 
remuneration policy.  
As noted earlier, since no major issues were identiﬁed by the vast majority 
of shareholders in relation to our 2012 remuneration policy, it was not 
considered necessary to make material adjustments to the Company’s 
remuneration policy in relation to 2013.
With regards to 2014, the Committee intends to undertake a review of 
remuneration policy and will, as a matter of best practice, engage with the 
Company’s major shareholders if substantive amendments to policy are to 
take place in respect of 2014. This is in line with a wider company review 
of Reward Strategy.
2012 2011 %
£m £m Change
Proﬁt after tax 175.1 162.6 7.7%
Dividends 80.2  73.9 8.5%
Employee Remuneration Costs 175.0 172.4 1.5%
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 46
Base Salary 
Base salaries are reviewed annually with effect from 1 January, taking into 
account the performance of the individual, their responsibilities (including 
any changes during the year), appropriate rates of pay in comparably 
sized and complex comparators and pay and employment conditions 
in the wider workforce.
The salary levels of the Executive Directors are set out in the table below:
The increase in salary for Steve Foots, as described in last year’s Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and consistent with the policy set out in the earlier 
table, represents a phasing of the individual’s salary towards an 
appropriate market rate following his promotion to Group Chief Executive 
at the beginning of 2012. On appointment, his salary was set at around 
the lower quartile of appropriate market data. The increase in respect 
of 2013 is the ﬁrst step in the process of achieving a market competitive 
level of base salary with the Committee’s intention being to review salary 
each year, based on performance in post, with a view to achieving an 
appropriate salary positioning in light of its policy detailed in the summary 
table above. 
The increases awarded to Sean Christie and Keith Layden were consistent 
with the typical range of salary increases awarded across the Group and 
reﬂects their continued strong performance. 
Pension and Other Beneﬁts 
Croda has a number of different pension plans in the countries in which 
it operates. Pension entitlements for Croda’s executives are tailored to 
local market practice, the length of service and age of the participants. 
The principal pension plan in the UK is a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme which 
provides a pension based on a proportion of ﬁnal salary with a salary 
cap imposed from 6 April 2011 onwards. A salary supplement in lieu 
of pension provision above the salary cap now applies. 
The Company is ﬂexible in the manner in which pension provision is made 
for Executive Directors with the aim of balancing the needs of the Director 
against the liability of the Company. Hence, it makes contributions by direct 
contribution to the Croda deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme (“CPS”) and/or 
by way of a cash supplement in lieu of pension beneﬁts to enable the 
funding of personal pension arrangements.
Steve Foots’ Pension Provision
Steve Foots accrues pension beneﬁts under the CPS with an accrual rate 
of 1/60th and an entitlement to retire at age 60. From 6 April 2011 
onwards, pension beneﬁts accruing are based on a capped salary of 
£187,500. If Steve Foots retires before age 61, a reduction will be applied 
to the element of his pension accrued after 5 April 2006, and if he retires 
before age 60 a reduction will also be applied to the element of his 
pension accrued before 6 April 2006, unless in either instance he is 
retiring at the Company’s request. In the event of death a pension equal 
to two-thirds of the Director’s pension would become payable to the 
surviving spouse. Steve Foots’ pension in payment is guaranteed to 
increase in line with the rate of inﬂation up to a maximum of 10% per 
annum for beneﬁts accrued prior to 6 April 2006, and in line with inﬂation 
up to a maximum of 2.5% per annum for beneﬁts accrued from 6 April 
2006 onwards. 
Sean Christie’s Pension Provision 
Sean Christie accrues pension beneﬁts under the CPS with an accrual rate 
of 1/60th and an entitlement to retire at age 65. From 6 April 2011 onwards, 
pension beneﬁts accruing are based on a capped salary of £187,500. 
If Sean Christie retires before age 65 a reduced pension is payable unless 
retiring at the Company’s request. In the event of death a pension equal 
to 50% of the Director’s pension would become payable to the surviving 
spouse. Sean Christie’s pension in payment is guaranteed to increase 
in line with the rate of inﬂation up to a maximum of 2.5% per annum. 
Steve Foots and Sean Christie are both also entitled to death in service 
beneﬁts from the CPS.
The above Executive Directors each also receive a cash allowance above 
a pension beneﬁt cap of £187,500. This payment relates to a change in 
beneﬁt structure that was made with effect from 6 April 2011 and each 
individual’s cash supplement above the cap was set to be cost neutral 
to the Company given deﬁned beneﬁt pension beneﬁts are no longer 
provided above the £187,500 cap which was the case prior to 6 April 2011.
Keith Layden’s Pension Provision
Keith Layden withdrew from active membership with effect from 
6 April 2011 and has a deferred pension with the entitlement to retire from 
age 60. However if he retires before age 61 the pension accrued prior to 
6 April 2006 would be unreduced from age 60 and the pension accrued 
between 6 April 2006 and 5 April 2011 would have a reduction applied. 
The elements of his deferred pension increase each year between the 
date of his withdrawal and the date he draws his pension by various 
percentages. Once in payment, the pension will increase in line with RPI 
to a maximum of 10% per annum for pension accrued prior to April 2006 
and a maximum of 2.5% for pension accrued thereafter. He is able to 
draw this deferred pension with company consent while continuing in 
employment. Keith is paid a pension supplement of 20% of base salary 
to enable him to make independent provision for his retirement and has 
an agreement with the Company to provide death in service beneﬁts 
outside of the CPS.
Other customary beneﬁts such as company cars or car allowances, fuel 
allowance and health beneﬁts are made available to Executive Directors. 
Beneﬁts in kind and bonuses are not pensionable. The Committee reviews 
the individual components and the balance of these components from 
time to time. 
Performance-Related Annual Bonus
The Company bonus scheme for its Directors and senior executives 
incentivises and rewards for the delivery of income growth. 
Income growth is the growth in underlying proﬁtability (deﬁned for bonus 
purposes as Group EBITDA for continuing operations before exceptional 
items and any charges or credits under IFRS 2 “Share based payments”) 
less a notional interest charge on working capital employed during the 
year. This measure is used as it looks to reward two key performance 
indicators that are used within the business, namely the growth in 
underlying proﬁtability and the efﬁcient use of working capital. In addition, 
income is measured after providing for the cost of any bonuses.
Remuneration Report 
*With effect from 6 February 2012
Implementation Report (Unaudited Information)
Basic salary at Basic salary at %
Director 1 January 2013 1 January 2012 Increase
Steve Foots £550,000 £500,000 10%
Sean Christie £360,700 £350,208 3%
Keith Layden £288,400 £280,000 3%
* 47
For 2013, the bonus structure will continue to operate on a similar basis 
to that operated in prior years which will require the income delivered in 
2013 (as described above) to exceed that delivered in 2012 for any bonus 
to be earned. The targets operate as a sliding scale between the targets 
shown below:
Once the level of bonus has been determined against the targets set at 
the start of the year, the Committee has the discretion to take health, safety 
and environmental performance into consideration when determining the 
actual overall level of individual bonus payments and it may reduce the 
bonus awards if it considers it appropriate to do so (e.g. if health, safety 
and environmental performance is not considered satisfactory during the 
period over which the bonus was earned).
The Committee considers the range of income targets set for 2013 to be 
equally as challenging as the range of targets set for the 2012 annual 
bonus given that 2012 was another robust year and the fact that current 
economic circumstances remain challenging, particularly in Europe.
The Committee remains comfortable that the structure of the annual 
bonus does not encourage the pursuit of strategies that may involve 
inappropriate risk-taking and that the mandatory reinvestment of net 
bonuses in excess of 50% of salary into shares (other than if an individual 
is within three years of a normal retirement date) is considered to provide 
clear alignment with shareholders and foster a longer-term link between 
annual performance and reward.
Furthermore, the 2013 annual bonus is also subject to clawback provisions 
which will enable the Committee to recover the value overpaid to an 
Executive Director in respect of 2013 performance in the event of a 
misstatement of the Company’s ﬁnancial results, an error being made in 
assessing the extent to which performance targets were ultimately achieved 
or in the event of serious misconduct. The clawback provisions will operate 
for a three year period following the date on which the bonus is paid.
Long-T erm Incentives
Long-term incentives are provided to Executive Directors through two 
long-term incentive plans, the BCIP and the L TIP . 
Bonus Co Investment Plan (“BCIP”)
The BCIP operates in conjunction with the annual bonus scheme and 
requires the net of tax amount of bonus earned above 50% of salary to 
be invested into the Company’s shares for the purposes of receiving a 
matching award. In addition, the BCIP allows participants to voluntarily 
invest a proportion of any remaining net annual cash bonus (up to a 
maximum of 100% of salary) into the Company shares which is also 
eligible to receive a matching award. Matching awards are granted 
under the plan based on the pre-tax number of shares purchased from 
the net of tax annual cash bonus. The level of matching awards is 
determined by the Committee and for 2012, was set at 2.0833:1.
Matching awards vest to the extent that (i) participants hold the invested 
shares for three years and remain employed (other than in certain 
‘good leaver’ circumstances) and (ii) challenging three-year earnings 
per share (“EPS”) growth performance targets are met. 
The maximum number of shares over which an award can be granted 
to an employee in a single year is limited to shares having a market 
value not exceeding 100% of the executive’s salary (i.e. the full net annual 
bonus at the maximum performance level would need to be invested in 
the Company’s shares for a maximum matching award to be eligible 
to be granted). 
The 2013 matching awards will vest, as in prior years, subject to the 
achievement of a challenging sliding scale of adjusted EPS growth targets 
in excess of retail price inﬂation (“RPI”): 
EPS continues to be a key internal measure used to assess the 
performance of the business and is aligned with the Company’s objectives 
of continuing to deliver proﬁtable growth and operating a progressive 
dividend policy. With regard to the range of targets set, they are 
considered to remain appropriate, providing a stretching but realistic 
target from a robust result in 2012.
Long T erm Incentive Plan (“L TIP”)
The maximum annual award limit permitted under the L TIP is 200%
of salary with the 2013 L TIP awards vesting subject to (i) participants
remaining employed (other than in certain ‘good leaver’ circumstances) 
and (ii) the achievement of challenging three-year EPS growth and total 
shareholder return (“TSR”, share price growth plus dividends) performance 
targets. 
2013 Award Levels
While the normal annual award limit is set at 200% of salary, in practice, 
awards have been limited to 100% of salary to date.
With regards to the quantum of awards to be granted in 2013, awards are 
expected to be at the following levels:
Award levels are set after taking due account of the overall market 
positioning of total remuneration, the award’s performance targets and 
the Company’s prevailing share price.
Director 2013 L TIP Award (multiple of salary)
Steve Foots 100%
Sean Christie 100%
Keith Layden 70%
% of Bonus
Level of Award Basis Payable
Threshold Equivalent 0%
to 2012 actual
Maximum 2012 actual 100%
plus CPI plus 10%
Adjusted EPS growth over Proportion of
the three year period award vesting
Less than RPI + 12% No vesting
RPI + 12% 30%
RPI + 24% 100%
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 48
2013 Performance T argets
As in prior years, L TIP awards will be subject to a performance condition
which is split into two equal separate parts, each with a separate 
performance condition.
With regards to the half of the award subject to relative TSR, Croda’s TSR 
performance is compared against the TSR performance of the constituents 
of the FTSE 350 Index (FTSE 250 Index used for 2012 awards). The FTSE 350 
Index was chosen as a comparator group as the Company is a current 
member and it represents a broad-based index of companies of a similar 
size and with similar historic volatility of TSR returns to the Company. 
Vesting under this part of the performance condition will take place on the 
following sliding scale: 
The remaining half of the awards vest based on the same EPS growth 
condition that is set for the BCIP , with vesting thus taking place on the 
following slide scale:
Use of relative TSR in tandem with EPS growth targets is considered 
appropriate since it provides clear alignment between executives and 
shareholders in focusing management to deliver above market total 
returns at the same time as incentivising executives to deliver growth in 
EPS which, as described above, is a key internal measure of performance.
L TIP and BCIP awards granted in 2013 to Executive Directors will also be
subject to clawback provisions (as per the 2012 awards) which will enable 
the Committee to clawback the value overpaid to an Executive Director in 
respect of performance during the three years ending 31 December 2015 
in the event of a material misstatement of the Company’s ﬁnancial results 
or misconduct. The clawback provisions will operate for a three year 
period following the date on which the awards vest.
All-Employee Share Plans
In line with the wider UK employee population, Executive Directors are 
invited, on the same terms, to participate in the HMRC tax approved UK 
SAYE Scheme and the Croda Share Incentive Plan (SIP). 
Shareholding Guidelines
The Committee operates share ownership guidelines which apply to all 
Executive Directors and members of the Group Executive Committee and 
the Finance Committee. Executives are required to build up a target 
shareholding of shares with a market value equivalent to 100% of salary 
from time to time through a combination of share purchases and the 
retention of incentive shares. On the exercise of SAYE or the vesting of L TIP
and/or BCIP awards, executives are required to retain shares awarded 
representing 50% of the net of tax gain until the target is met or exceeded. 
The target is expected to be reached within ﬁve years.
All the Executive Directors have holdings well in excess of the target 
shareholdings.
Sourcing of Shares and Dilution
Awards under all the Group share schemes may be satisﬁed using either 
newly issued shares, treasury shares or shares purchased in the market 
and held in the Company’s employee beneﬁt trust. 
Awards under the Group’s discretionary schemes which may be satisﬁed 
by new issue shares must not exceed 5% of the Company’s issued share 
capital in a 10-year period, and the total of all awards satisﬁed via new 
issue shares under all plans must not exceed 10% of the Company’s issued 
share capital in a 10-year period. 
As at 31 December 2012, the headroom under the Company’s 5% and 10% 
limits was 1.53% and 2.51% of shares respectively, out of an issued share 
capital of 139,949,969 shares. As at 31 December 2012, the employee 
beneﬁt trust held 4,646,198 shares.
Service Contracts and External Appointments Policy
The Remuneration Committee’s policy on Executive Directors’ service 
contracts is for them to contain a maximum notice period of one year. In 
respect of termination, the Committee’s policy is to deal with each case on 
its merits, in accordance with the law and any further policy adopted by the 
Committee at the time. In the event of early termination, other than for 
cause, the relevant Director’s then current salary and contractual beneﬁts 
would be taken into account in calculating any liability of the Company. For 
clariﬁcation, the Company’s policy is that no entitlement to unearned bonus 
will be taken into account when determining payments on early 
termination.
The principal contractual beneﬁts provided in addition to salary are the 
provision of a car or car allowance, private fuel, pension, medical insurance 
and life assurance. Annual bonuses and long-term incentives are 
non-contractual and are dealt with in accordance with the rules of the 
relevant schemes.
Speciﬁc Contracts
Steve Foots, Sean Christie and Keith Layden have service contracts dated 
16 September 2010, 15 December 2006 and 6 February 2012 respectively 
which are terminable by the Company on one year’s notice and by them 
on six months’ notice. 
The Company may also terminate the contracts at any time with immediate 
effect and they would be entitled to receive compensation equivalent to 
twelve months’ salary plus the value of their pension beneﬁts (valued at 
20% of basic salary) and the value of other beneﬁts, payable in equal 
monthly instalments for twelve months or, if less, the remaining period of 
any notice period not yet completed. Such payments would discontinue or 
reduce to the extent that they obtained alternative employment (i.e. any 
such payments would be phased and subject to mitigation to the extent 
that any alternative employment was commenced).
External Appointments
Executive Directors are permitted to accept external Non-Executive 
appointments with the prior approval of the Board. It is normal practice for 
Executive Directors to retain fees provided for Non-Executive appointments. 
Sean Christie was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Eminate 
Limited in November 2012 for which he receives no ﬁxed remuneration but 
is entitled to a share of the value created by the company’s future projects.
Policy on Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration
The Board is responsible for determining the policy on, and level of, the 
remuneration of Non-Executive Directors. The aim is to attract Non-
Executive Directors who through their experience can further the interests of 
the Company through their stewardship and contribution to strategic 
development. The Board’s policy is to provide cash fees at a level 
commensurate with companies of Croda’s size, set fees to reﬂect the 
anticipated time commitment of fulﬁlling the relevant Non-Executive’s duties, 
not to grant share options to Non-Executive Directors and to encourage 
Non-Executive Directors to establish a holding of Croda shares.
Rank of the Company’s TSR against FTSE 350 Vesting % (TSR part)
Below median 0%
Median 30%
Upper quartile 100%
Between median and upper quartile 30% - 100% pro rata
Adjusted EPS growth over
the three year period Vesting % (EPS part)       
Less than RPI + 12% No vesting
RPI + 12% 30%
RPI + 24% 100%
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points
Remuneration Report 
Implementation Report (Unaudited Information) 49
Components of Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration
Non-Executives’ pay comprises cash fees, paid monthly. All Non-Executive 
Directors are reimbursed for travel and related business expenses 
reasonably incurred in performing their duties. The Chairman’s fees are 
determined by the Committee and the fees of the remaining Non-Executive 
Directors are determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors. 
With effect from March 2013 the Chairman receives an all encompassing 
fee of £200,000, ﬁxed for the remainder of his current term. This compares 
to a fee of £170,000 in 2012. Other Non-Executive Directors’ fees are 
structured as follows:
The Non-Executive Director fee has been increased for 2013 for the ﬁrst 
time since 2011. The increase in base fees for the Chairman and the 
Non-Executive Directors was agreed after consideration of the time 
commitment and workload as well as market conditions. 
Non-Executive Directors’ T erms of Appointment
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment for 
an initial ﬁxed term of three years subject to earlier termination by either 
party on written notice. In each case, this term can be extended by mutual 
agreement. The Chairman’s term of ofﬁce was due to expire in September 
2013 after eight years, but the Board has agreed that the Chairman’s 
period of ofﬁce should be extended for a further two years to September 
2015 at which time he will retire from the Board. The discussions were led 
by the Senior Independent Director who consulted with the other members 
of the Board. 
The Board has agreed to extend Steve Williams’ term of ofﬁce by a further 
three years and Stanley Musesengwa’s term of ofﬁce by a further one year, 
at which point he will retire from the Board. 
The Non-Executive Directors have no entitlement to contractual termination 
payments. The dates of their initial appointments are set out below.
With regards to policy in future years, while the Remuneration Committee 
anticipates operating the broad framework detailed above, it intends 
to oversee a Group wide root and branch review of remuneration 
policies and procedures, including policies and objectives to promote 
diversity to ensure the Group’s practices take due account of current 
best practice thinking.
Fee T ype 2013 Fee Level 2012 Fee Level
Basic Fee £52,000 £46,000
Supplementary fees:
1. Senior Independent Director £5,000 £5,000
2. Committee Chairman’s fee £8,000 £8,000
Original Expiry date of
Director appointment date current term
Martin Flower 16th May 2005 28 September 2015
Alan Ferguson 1 July 2011 30 June 2014
Stanley Musesengwa 7 May 2007 6 May 2014
Nigel T urner 1 June 2009 31 May 2015
Steve Williams 1 July 2010 30 June 2016
T otal shareholder return
220.3%
3 years to 31 December 2012
EPS growth
156.4%
3 years to 31 December 2012
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 50
The role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee reviews and approves the annual salaries, incentive 
arrangements (including setting the performance targets and payments/
vesting events), service agreements and other employment conditions 
of the Executive Directors and certain members of the senior executive 
management team designated by the Board. The Committee has 
delegated responsibility for setting the remuneration of the Chairman. 
The full terms of reference of the Committee are published on the 
Company’s website (www.croda.com).
Membership and Operation
The Committee comprises all Non-Executive Directors including the 
Chairman and is chaired by Stanley Musesengwa. 
Key Committee Activities during 2012

for the newly promoted Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance 
Director and Chief T echnology Ofﬁcer;




incentive awards;

performance targets and granting the awards;

proposed regulatory changes to voting and reporting on Executive 
Directors’ remuneration; and

Remuneration Committee Advice 
The Remuneration Committee invites individuals to attend meetings 
to provide advice so as to ensure that decisions are informed and take 
account of pay and conditions in the wider Group. During 2012 these 
individuals included:

Foots, Samantha Brook (VP Human Resources), Graham Myers 
(Group Financial Controller/T reasurer) and Louise Scott (former 
Company Secretary).

adviser to the Committee during 2012 to provide independent advice 
on remuneration policy and practice. New Bridge Street has no 
connection with the Company other than in the provision of advice in 
relation to executive remuneration. Another subsidiary of Aon plc, the 
ultimate parent company of NBS, provides insurance broking services
to the Group. The Committee is comfortable that no conﬂicts arise out 
of these relationships.
Shareholder Voting at 2012 AGM
At last year’s AGM (26 April 2012) the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
received the following votes from shareholders:
T otal number % of
of votes votes cast
For 84,314,186 98.1% 
Against 820,958 1.0%
Discretionary 102,048 0.1%
(Chairman and Other)
T otal votes cast (for and against) 85,237,192 99.2%
Votes withheld 711,844 0.8%
T otal votes cast 85,949,036 100%
(including withheld votes)
Priorities for 2013

Remuneration Report 
Implementation Report (Unaudited Information)
Members and attendance (eligibility) at meetings held during 
the year ended 31 December 2012.
Meetings during the year 4
Current members 
Martin Flower 4 (4)
Alan Ferguson 4 (4)
Stanley Musesengwa (Chairman) 4 (4)
Nigel T urner 4 (4)
Steve Williams 4 (4) 51
Material Contracts
There have been no other contracts or arrangements during the ﬁnancial 
year in which a Director of the Company was materially interested and/or 
which were signiﬁcant in relation to the Group’s business.
Details of Variable Pay Earned in Respect of 2012 
As detailed in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report, the 2012 bonuses 
for Executive Directors were calculated by reference to the amount by 
which the income for the year (deﬁned as detailed in the Policy Report), 
exceeded the income for 2011 calculated on the same basis (the “base 
income”). Bonuses for 2012 are payable against a graduated scale once 
the 2012 income exceeds the base income by inﬂation (deﬁned as the 
consumer prices index (CPI)), with maximum bonuses due at CPI plus 10%.  
With regard to the actual performance delivered during 2012, 
2012 income exceeded base income by 5.5% above CPI. Following 
an assessment of the health, safety and environmental performance 
of the Group in 2012, which was considered satisfactory, the bonuses 
payable to each of the Executive Directors were at 28% of salary 
reﬂecting the fact that 28% of the maximum target was achieved. 
Actual bonus payments for 2011 performance are included in the 
table above. 
Directors’ Remuneration
The remuneration of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2012 payable by Group companies was as follows:
†
 M Humphrey retired as a Director on 31 December 2011 and, as disclosed in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report, became a Senior Adviser providing strategic advice to the Board 
for the period ended 31 December 2012. This role and payment has now ceased.  
<
 The pension supplement is the amount paid to directors in 2012 in relation to beneﬁts provided above the ﬁnal salary pension cap of £187,500 as described on page 43. 
‡
 The bonus is the amount paid in 2012 in respect of 2011 performance.
* K Layden was appointed to the Board on 6 February 2012. 
^
 A M Ferguson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2011. 
≠
P N N T urner was paid £2,083 in respect of prior year’s fees. 
S E Foots
M S Christie
K Layden* 
M Humphrey
†
(former Director)
Subtotal
500,000
350,208
272,670
–
1,122,878
62,500
32,542
54,750
–
149,792
300,000
340,008
199,008
–
839,016
23,193
23,275
18,840
–
65,308
885,693
746,033
545,268
150,000
2,326,994
638,251
722,647
438,361
1,303,095
3,102,354
–
–
–
150,000
150,000
Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors
Basic salary
£
Pension 
supplement
<
£
Bonus
‡
£
Beneﬁts
£
Fees
£
2012 T otal
£
2011 T otal
£
–
–
–
–
–
–
1,122,878
–
–
–
–
–
–
839,016
170,000
54,000
53,083
46,000
54,000
377,083
1,649,961
170,504
54,000
53,083
46,000
54,000
377,587
2,704,581
166.254
52,520
46,834
44,751
26,334
336,693
3,439,047
504
–
–
–
–
504
65,812
–
–
–
–
–
–
149,792
M C Flower
S Musesengwa
P N N T urner
≠
S G Williams
A M Ferguson
^
Subtotal
T otal
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
Implementation Report (Audited Information) 52
BCIP and L TIP Awards Granted in 2012
The BCIP awards granted on 30 April 2012 were as follows:
SIP Shares Awarded in 2012
Details of shares purchased and awarded to Executive Directors under the UK SIP . A brief description of the UK SIP is set out on page 97.
The 2012 BCIP awards will vest, as in prior years, subject to the achievement 
of a challenging sliding scale of adjusted earnings per share growth 
(“EPS”) targets in excess of retail price inﬂation (“RPI”). The range of targets 
set is shown on the right.
With regard to the range of targets set, as disclosed in last year’s Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, they were considered to be appropriate, providing 
a stretching but realistic target from a record result in 2011.
The L TIP awards granted on 22 February 2012 were as follows:  
The 2012 L TIP awards, as in prior years, were subject to a performance condition which is split into two equal separate parts.
Half of the award was subject to a relative total shareholder return (TSR) performance condition, comparing Croda’s TSR performance against the 
constituents of the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) over a three year performance period. The FTSE 250 was considered the appropriate peer group 
as it is the index that Croda has been a constituent of for the majority of the past ﬁve years.
The rationale for using relative TSR and EPS in tandem for long-term incentive awards in 2012 was as detailed above in the Remuneration Policy Report in 
respect of the 2013 awards. 
Vesting under this part of the performance condition will take place on the 
following sliding scale: 
The remaining half of the awards vest based on the same EPS growth 
condition with vesting taking place on the following sliding scale:
* Face value/Maximum Value of award calculated based on the ﬁrst 30 dealing days of 2012
Steve Foots, Sean Christie and Keith Layden each acquired 68 partnership shares and were awarded 68 matching shares. Unrestricted shares (which are 
included in the total shares held at 31 December 2012) are those held until there is no longer a tax liability if they are withdrawn from the plan. 
* Face value/Maximum Value of award calculated based on the ﬁrst 30 dealing days of 2012
Steve Foots
Sean Christie
Keith Layden 
Steve Foots
Sean Christie
Keith Layden 
Steve Foots
Sean Christie
Keith Layden 
9,026 
14,747 
8,622
25,920 
18,154 
10,160 
Number of 
BCIP shares 
awarded
5,222
1,786
5,222
SIP Shares 
held 01.01.12
Number of 
L TIP shares 
awarded
Director
Director
Director
     £173,365 
     £283,250 
     £165,605 
      £497,853 
      £348,689 
     £195,146 
Face/Maximum 
Value of Awards at 
Grant Date*
68
68
68
Partnership 
shares acquired 
in year
Face/Maximum 
Value of Awards at 
Grant Date*
30% (100%)
30% (100%)
30% (100%)
30% (100%)
30% (100%)
30% (100%)
% of Award Vesting 
at Threshold 
(Maximum)
68
68
68
Matching shares 
awarded in year
% of Award Vesting 
at Threshold 
(Maximum)
01.01.12 – 31.12.2014
01.01.12 – 31.12.2014
01.01.12 – 31.12.2014
01.01.12 – 31.12.2014
01.01.12 – 31.12.2014
01.01.12 – 31.12.2014
Performance 
Period
5,358
1,922
5,358
T otal shares 
held 31.12.12
478
314
478
SIP shares that 
became unrestricted 
in the year
 3,750
314
3,750
T otal unrestricted 
SIP shares held at 
31.12.12
Performance 
Period
Adjusted EPS growth over Proportion of 
the three year period award vesting
Less than RPI + 12% No vesting
RPI + 12% 30%
RPI + 24% 100%
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points
Rank of the Company’s TSR against   Vesting %
the FTSE 250 (excluding Investment Trusts)  (EPS part)
Below median 0%
Median 30%
Upper quartile 100%
Between median and upper quartile  30% - 100% pro rata
Adjusted EPS growth over Vesting %
the three year period (EPS part)
Less than RPI + 12% No vesting
RPI + 12% 30%
RPI + 24% 100%
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points
Remuneration Report 
Implementation Report (Audited Information) 53
SAYE Shares Options Granted in 2012
Details of shares awarded under the UK SAYE are set out below. The awards granted took place on 21 September 2012 and have an earliest exercise 
date of 1 November 2015 and an expiry date of 30 April 2016. A brief description of the UK SAYE is set out on page 93.
Pension Rights
The pension rights that accrued during the year (in line with the beneﬁts set out in the Remuneration Policy Report were as follows:
Steve Foots and Sean Christie are also entitled to death in service beneﬁts from the CPS. Keith Layden has a separate agreement which provides death in 
service beneﬁts outside of the CPS.
Members of the CPS have the option to pay voluntary contributions. Neither the contributions nor the resulting beneﬁts are included in this table.
During 2012, Steve Foots was paid £62,500 (2011: nil), Sean Christie was paid £32,541 (2011: £22,876) and Keith Layden was paid £54,750 in addition to 
their basic salary to enable them to make independent provision for their retirement. This contribution reﬂects the introduction of a cap to the maximum 
salary on which beneﬁts at retirement are based under the CPS. Accordingly, beneﬁts above this cap are now provided by a salary supplement in lieu 
of pension beneﬁts above the cap of £187,500. This change in beneﬁt structure is expected to be cost neutral for the Company.
The salary supplements in lieu of pension beneﬁts provided above the cap are included in the emoluments table on page 51.
Notes
1 The ﬁgures shown represent: the amount of annual pension beneﬁts which would have been preserved had the Director left service on 31 December 2012, based on service to,   
and pensionable earnings at, that date. Accrued pension revalued from 5 April 2011 to 31 December 2012 for Keith Layden.
2 The ﬁgure represents the difference between the total accrued pension at 31 December 2012 and the corresponding pension at the beginning of the year.
3 The ﬁgure represents the difference between the total accrued pension at 31 December 2012 and the corresponding pension at the beginning of the year after an adjustment to   
exclude inﬂation was provided as required under paragraph 9.8.8 (12) (a) of the Listing Rules.
4 T ransfer values are quoted on the basis recommended by the Scheme Actuary for valuation of accrued beneﬁts if the member had transferred beneﬁts to another approved scheme 
on the relevant date. The increase/decrease in transfer value between 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2012 takes account of changes in market conditions over the period. 
5 The ﬁgure represents the difference between transfer values of the accrued beneﬁts at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, less contributions paid by the Director or on his behalf 
under the Company’s salary sacriﬁce scheme.
6 The ﬁgure represents the transfer value of the increase in accrued beneﬁts over the period, adjusted for inﬂation, less contributions paid by the Director or on his behalf under the   
Company’s salary sacriﬁce scheme.
7 Following the triennial valuation, the T rustee of the CPS amended the transfer value basis with effect from October 2012. The impact of updating the basis was a reduction in the   
Directors’ transfer values of around 5%.
8 Keith Layden became a Direcor on 6 February 2012. The accrued pension disclosed above has been calculated taking into account his entire pensionable service (including the 
period before his promotion to Director).
Steve Foots
Sean Christie
Keith Layden 
592
1,702
-
Number held 
at 01.01.12
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
Director
Director
92
463
463
Granted 
in year
1942p
1942p
1942p
Exercise 
Price
340
1,702
-
344
463
463
Exercised 
in year
T otal number held 
at 31.12.12
Steve Foots
Sean Christie
Keith Layden 
97
29
103
8
5
3
5
3
3
2
1,233
284
1,998
29
37
40
27
21
41
1,277
336
2,038
Accrued 
pension at 
31.12.12
1
  
£000
Increase in 
accrued 
pension during 
the year
2
  
£000
Increase in 
accrued 
pension during 
the year 
(excluding 
inﬂation)
3
 £000
Transfer value 
of accrued 
pension at 
31.12.11
4
  
£000
Transfer value 
of accrued 
pension at 
31.12.12
4,7
  
£000
Increase/ 
(decrease) in 
transfer value 
over the year
5,7
£000
Transfer value 
of the increase 
in the accrued 
pension
6,7
£000
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 54
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
T otal Shareholder Return: Croda International vs FTSE 250 and FTSE 350
The graph below shows the value, by 31 December 2012, of £100 invested in Croda International Plc on 31 December 2007 compared with the value of 
£100 invested separately in both the FTSE 350 Index and FTSE 250 Index.
In the opinion of the Directors the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 Index are the two most appropriate indices against which the total shareholder 
return of the Company should be measured because Croda has been a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index for the majority of the past ﬁve years and 
is currently a constituent of the FTSE 350 Index.  
Summary of Past Share Awards
SAYE Share Options
T otal Shareholder Return (Rebased)
31/12/2007 31/12/2008 31/12/2009 31/12/2010 31/12/2011 31/12/2012
Croda 
International
FTSE 350
FTSE 250
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters) (unaudited)
15 September 2009
20 September 2011
21 September 2012
15 September 2009
21 September 2012
21 September 2012
Steve Foots
Sean Christie
Keith Layden
Date of grant
1 November 2012
1 November 2014
1 November 2015
1 November 2012
1 November 2015
1 November 2015
Earliest 
exercise 
date
30 April 2013
30 April 2015
30 April 2016
30 April 2013
30 April 2016
30 April 2016
Expiry
date
533p
1432p
1942p
533p
1942p
1942p
Exercise 
price
340
252
-
592
1,702
-
1,702
-
-
Number at 1 
January 2012 
(10p shares)
340
-
-
340
1,702
-
1,702
-
-
Exercised 
in year
-
-
92
92
-
463
463
463
463
Granted 
in year
-
252
92
344
-
463
463
463
463
Number at 31 
December 2012 
(10p shares)
During 2012, the highest mid-market price of the Company’s shares was 2464p and the lowest was 1804p. The year-end closing price was 2376p. 
The year end mid-market price was 2357.17p.
Remuneration Report 
Implementation Report (Audited Information) 55
BCIP
Details of the awards made under the BCIP are set out below (performance targets applying to each award are as described on pages 44):
L TIP
Details of historic awards made under the L TIP are set out below (performance targets applying to each award are as described on page 44):
18 February 2009
24 February 2010
23 February 2011
22 February 2012
18 February 2009
24 February 2010
23 February 2011
22 February 2012
18 February 2009
24 February 2010
23 February 2011
22 February 2012
Steve Foots
Sean Christie
Keith Layden
30 April 2009
29 April 2010
3 May 2011
30 April 2012
30 April 2009
29 April 2010
3 May 2011
30 April 2012
30 April 2009
29 April 2010
3 May 2011
30 April 2012
Steve Foots
Sean Christie
Keith Layden
Date of award
Date of award
30 April 2012
29 April 2013
3 May 2014
30 April 2015
30 April 2012
29 April 2013
3 May 2014
30 April 2015
30 April 2012
29 April 2013
3 May 2014
30 April 2015
Earliest 
vesting 
date
503p
802p
1535p
1929p
503p
802p
1535p
1929p
503p
802p
1535p
1929p
Award price
544p
990p
1881p
2262p
544p
990p
1881p
2262p
544p
990p
1881p
2262p
Market price 
at date of 
award
18 February 2012
24 February 2013
23 February 2014
22 February 2015
18 February 2012
24 February 2013
23 February 2014
22 February 2015
18 February 2012
24 February 2013
23 February 2014
22 February 2015
Earliest vesting 
date
9,878
9,022
12,358
-
31,258
30,765
17,940
16,734
-
65,439
9,878
5,589
5,212
-
20,679
Number at 1 
January 2012 
(10p shares)
509p    
900p
1588p
2171p
509p    
900p
1588p
2171p
509p    
900p
1588p
2171p
Market price 
at date of 
award
-
-
-
9,026
9,026
-
-
-
14,747
14,747
-
-
-
8,622
8,622
Granted 
in year
19,894
13,089
17,102
-
50,085
45,211
28,937
22,151
-
96,299
18,800
12,029
6,482
-
37,311
Number at 1 
January 2012 
(10p shares)
9,878
-
-
-
9,878
30,765
-
-
-
30,765
9,878
-
-
-
9,878
Released 
in year
19,894
-
-
-
19,894
45,211
-
-
-
45,211
18,800
-
-
-
18,800
Exercised 
in year
-
9,022
12,358
9,026
30,406
-
17,940
16,734
14,747
49,421
-
5,589
5,212
8,622
19,423
Number at 31 
December 2012 
(10p shares)
-
-
-
25,920
25,920
-
-
-
18,154
18,154
-
-
-
10,160
10,160
Granted 
in year
-
13,089
17,102
25,920
56,111
-
28,937
22,151
18,154
69,242
-
12,029
6,482
10,160
28,671
Number at 31 
December 2012 
(10p shares)
All outstanding awards under the BCIP were granted as nil exercise price options. T o the extent that they vest, they are normally exercisable from 3 to 4 years from grant. The BCIP awards made 
in April 2010 reached the end of their performance period on 31 December 2012. The Remuneration Committee determined that 100% of the awards should vest, the Company having achieved 
an EPS growth of 156.4% relative to a target of 37.2%. Accordingly, these awards will vest in full on 29 April 2013, the third anniversary of grant. During 2012, the highest mid-market price of the 
Company’s shares was 2464p and the lowest was 1804p. The year-end closing price was 2376p.  The year end mid-market price was 2357.17p.
All outstanding awards under the L TIP were granted as nil exercise price options. T o the extent that they vest, they are normally exercisable from 3 to 10 years from grant. The L TIP awards made in
February 2010 reached the end of their performance period on 31 December 2012. The Remuneration Committee determined that 50% of the awards should vest, the Company’s TSR was in the 
upper quartile of the peer group and EPS growth of 156.4% was achieved. Accordingly, these awards will vest on 24 February 2013, the third anniversary of grant. During 2012, the highest 
mid-market price of the Company’s shares was 2464p and the lowest was 1804p. The year-end closing price was 2376p. The year end mid-market price was 2357.17p.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 56
Gains Made on Exercise of Share Options and L TIPs
The gains are calculated according to market price of Croda International Plc ordinary shares of 10p each on the date of exercise, although the shares 
may have been retained.
Directors’ Interests in the Share Capital of the Company
The interests of the Directors (all of which were beneﬁcial), who held ofﬁce at 31 December 2012, are set out in the table below:
There have been no changes in the interests of any Director between 1 January 2013 and the date of this report except for the purchase of ﬁve SIP 
shares and ﬁve matching shares by each Executive Director, in both January and February 2013.
On behalf of the Board
Stanley Musesengwa
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
1 March 2013
Steve Foots
Sean Christie
Keith Layden
16 March 2012
30 April 2012
1 November 2012
15 March 2012
30 April 2012
22 November 2012
27 March 2012
30 April 2012
Exercise date
19,894
9,878
340
45,211
30,765
1,702
18,800
9,878
Shares 
exercised
L TIP
BCIP
SAYE
L TIP
BCIP
SAYE
L TIP
BCIP
Scheme
Nil
Nil
533p
Nil
Nil
533p
Nil
Nil
Exercise price 
2233p
2262p
2094p
2222p
2262p
2317p
2140p
2262p
Market price 
444,233
223,391
5,307
672,931
1,004,588
695,750
30,364
1,730,702
402,226
223,391
625,617
Gain 
(before tax)
S E Foots
M S Christie
K Layden 
M C Flower
S Musesengwa
P N N T urner
S G Williams
A M Ferguson
Executive Directors
Non-Executive 
Directors
95,670
193,688
64,486
25,925
15,000
15,000
10,524
2,500
56,111
69,242
28,671
-
-
-
-
-
30,406
49,421
19,423
-
-
-
-
-
344
463
463
-
-
-
-
-
1,560
1,560
1,560
-
-
-
-
-
31.12.12 31.12.12 (100% of salary) Unvested Unvested Unvested Unrestricted
74,746
148,538
60,329
22,925
15,000
15,000
10,000
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3,798
362
3,798
-
-
-
-
-
31.12.11 Vested Vested Vested Restricted
Legally owned L TIP Awards BCIP Awards SAYE SIP
187,889
314,736
118,401
25,925
15,000
15,000
10,524
2,500
T otal
>100%
>100%
>100%
-
-
-
-
-
% of salary 
Held Under 
Shareholding 
Guideline 
Remuneration Report 
Director
Implementation Report (Audited Information) 57
Other Disclosures
Principal Activities and Business Review
Croda International Plc is a marketing and technology 
company that produces and sells speciality chemicals. 
It is the parent company of a group with operations across 
the globe with its headquarters at Cowick Hall, Snaith, 
Goole, East Yorkshire. The Group carries out research 
and development activities in the main markets it serves, 
further details of which can be found in the Chief Executive’s 
review on pages 4 and 5.
The Directors are recommending 
a full year dividend of 
59.5p
8.2% 
(2011: 55.0p)
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company 
to set out in this report a fair review of the 
business of the Group during the ﬁnancial year 
ended 31 December 2012 including an analysis 
of the development and performance of the 
Group during the year and the position of the 
Group at the end of the ﬁnancial year, and a 
description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group (known as a 
“Business Review”). 
The information which makes up the Business 
Review can be found in the following sections of 
the annual report:





in the Financial Review section on pages 16
to 19.
Further information on Sustainability can be 
found in our full Sustainability Report or on 
our website at www.croda.com.
Pages 1 to 60 inclusive (together with the 
sections of the annual report incorporated by 
reference) constitute a Directors’ Report that has 
been drawn up and presented in accordance 
with applicable English company law and the 
liabilities of the Directors in connection with 
that report are subject to the limitations and 
restrictions provided by that law.
Going Concern
The ﬁnancial statements which appear on 
pages 61 to 98 have been prepared on a going 
concern basis as, after making appropriate 
enquiries, including a review of forecasts, 
budgets and banking facilities, the Directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future.
Research and Development
Research and development activities are 
undertaken with the prospect of gaining 
new scientiﬁc or technical knowledge and 
understanding.
Proﬁt and Dividends 
The results for the year are set out on page 
62. The Directors are recommending a ﬁnal 
dividend of 32.75p per share (2011: 30.25p). 
If approved by shareholders, total dividends 
for the year will amount to 59.5p per share 
(2011: 55.0p per share). Details of dividends 
are shown in note 9 on page 77 and details 
of the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan 
can be found on page 110.
Directors 
The Company’s Articles of Association (the 
“Articles”) give the Directors power to appoint 
and replace Directors. Under the terms of 
reference of the Nomination Committee, 
any appointment must be recommended 
by the Nomination Committee for approval 
by the Board of Directors. The present Directors 
of the Company are shown on pages 28 
and 29. In accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code each Director will be standing 
for election at the AGM. Details of the Directors’ 
service contracts are given in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 56. 
Apart from the share option schemes, long term 
incentive schemes and service contracts, no 
Director had any beneﬁcial interest in any 
contract to which the Company or a subsidiary 
was a party during the year. 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 58
A statement indicating the beneﬁcial and non-beneﬁcial interests of the 
Directors in the share capital of the Company, including share options, is 
shown in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 56. 
The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company 
and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions 
of relevant statutes, the Company’s Memorandum and Articles and any 
directions given by special resolution. 
Directors’ Indemnities 
The Company maintains Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ liability insurance which 
gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors. 
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its Directors and 
the Company Secretary which represent “qualifying third party indemnity 
provisions” (as deﬁned by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006), in 
relation to certain losses and liabilities which the Directors (or Company 
Secretary) may incur to third parties in the course of acting as Directors (or 
Company Secretary) or employees of the Company or of any associated 
company. In addition such indemnities have been granted to other ofﬁcers 
of the Company who are Directors of subsidiary companies within the 
Group. The Company has also granted an indemnity representing 
“qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions” (as deﬁned by section 
235 of the Companies Act 2006) to a paid director of the corporate trustee 
of the Group’s UK pension scheme.
Share Capital
At the date of this report, 139,949,969 ordinary shares of 10 pence each 
have been issued and are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock 
Exchange. The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary 
shares are set out in the Articles, copies of which can be obtained from 
Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary. There 
are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary 
shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company. No person holds 
securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of 
the Company. The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
securities or on voting rights. 
Further information which fulﬁls the requirements of Section 992 of the 
Companies Act 2006 and which should be treated as forming part of this 
report by reference are included in the following sections of the annual 
report:

attached to the Company’s shares are set out on pages 92 and 97

Power to Issue or Buy Back Shares
At the 2012 AGM, authority was given to the Directors to allot unissued 
shares in the Company up to a maximum amount equivalent to 
approximately one third of the issued share capital (excluding shares held 
in treasury) for general purposes, plus up to a further one third of the 
Company’s issued share capital (excluding shares held in treasury), but 
only in the case of a rights issue. No such shares have been issued. 
A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the 
Directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, without regard 
to the pre-emption provisions of the then Companies Act 1985. Both these 
authorities expire on the date of the 2013 AGM to be held on 25 April 2013 
and so the Directors propose to renew them for a further year. 
At last year’s AGM the members renewed the Company’s authority to 
purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares. No purchases were made 
during the year. As a result the Company will be seeking to renew its 
authority to purchase its own shares at the 2013 AGM. Shares will only be 
purchased if the Board believes that such purchases will improve earnings 
per share and be in the best interests of the shareholders generally. It is 
the Company’s intention that any shares purchased will be held as 
treasury shares. At the date of this report the company holds 4,646,198 
shares in treasury.
Articles of Association
Unless expressly speciﬁed to the contrary in the Articles, the Company’s 
Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Company’s 
shareholders.
Signiﬁcant Contracts and Change of Control
The Group has borrowing facilities which may require the immediate 
repayment of all outstanding loans together with accrued interest in the 
event of a change of control. The rules of the Company’s employee share 
plans set out the consequences of a change in control of the Company on 
participants’ rights under the plans. Generally such rights will vest and 
become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of 
performance conditions. None of the Executive Directors’ service contracts 
contain provisions which are affected by a change of control and there are 
no other agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, 
alter or terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company 
which are considered to be signiﬁcant in terms of their potential impact 
on the Group.
The Company does not have any contractual or other arrangements which 
are essential to the business of the Group.
Other Disclosures
The Company will be seeking to renew its 
authority to purchase its own shares at the 2013 
AGM. Shares will only be purchased if the Board 
believes that such purchases will improve 
earnings per share and be in the best interests 
of the shareholders generally. 59
Employees
Diversity – Croda is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in 
employment and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives less 
favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, 
ethnic origin, religion, disability, sexuality, or age, or is disadvantaged by 
conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justiﬁed. Group 
HR Policies are clearly communicated to all our employees and are 
available through the Company intranet. 
Recruitment & Progression – It is established policy throughout Croda that 
decisions on recruitment, career development, promotion and other 
employment related issues are made solely on the grounds of individual 
ability, achievement, expertise and conduct. 
Croda gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from 
disabled persons. Should an employee become disabled during their 
employment with Croda, they are fully supported by its occupational health 
provision. Efforts are made to continue their employment with reasonable 
adjustments being made to the workplace and role where feasible. 
Retraining is provided if necessary.
Development & Learning – Croda recognises that the key to future 
success lies in the skills and abilities of its dedicated global workforce. 
It is only through the continuous development of our employees that we 
will be able to meet the future demands of our customers in relation to 
enhanced creativity, innovation and customer service. During 2012 our 
employees had an average of 28 hours of training. 
Involvement – Croda is committed to ensuring that employees share in 
the success of the Group. Owning shares in the Company is an important 
way of strengthening involvement in the development of the business 
and bringing together employee and shareholders’ interests. In 2012 over 
56% of employees participated in one of our all-employee share plans, 
indicating a continued desire of employees to be involved in the Company. 
This performance saw Croda honoured for best overall performance in 
fostering employee share ownership at the 2012 IFS Proshare Awards.
Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a variety 
of ways, including the Crodaway (the Company magazine), quarterly 
updates, Croda Connect (the Company intranet), team brieﬁngs, webinars 
and Croda Now (email messages). These communications help achieve a 
common awareness among employees of the ﬁnancial and economic 
factors affecting the performance of Croda and of changes happening 
within the business. Croda is also committed to providing employees 
with opportunities to share their views and provide feedback on issues 
that are important to them. All regions have undertaken an employee 
survey since 2010. The largest of these targeting our European employees 
was completed during 2011. 
Corporate Social Responsibility
Croda continue to believe that good corporate social responsibility is 
essential to the long term success of the business. Details of our corporate 
responsibility initiatives and activities are set out on pages 20 to 27 of this 
report. Our separate Sustainability Report, available in print and online 
at www.croda.com/csr, expands on the core themes of CSR within Croda 
as well as providing more quantitative information on our performance 
against our CSR targets.
Under the supervision of the CSR Steering Committee, responsibility is now 
completely embedded within the regional business units, which are fully 
accountable for delivering business objectives. Croda’s CSR Steering 
Committee is comprised of representatives from all regional business units 
and is responsible for the strategic management of CSR within the Group 
as well as ensuring all reporting obligations can be satisﬁed through the 
effective collation of robust data.
Community Engagement
Community engagement is of great value within Croda and enables 
us to meet our business aims as well as satisfying our moral obligations 
to our employees and the local communities in which we live and 
operate. Community engagement extends across the three key areas of 
communication, involvement and education. The effects of our activities in 
these three areas combine to create beneﬁcial outputs such as increased 
morale, better skills development/training, easier employee recruitment, 
enhanced public relations and a positive reputation with our stakeholders. 
In 2011 we embarked on an ambitious programme of improving our 
educational offering in the area of science by developing a programme 
aligned to the needs of pupils following the UK National Curriculum. This 
was further developed in 2012 and we have an aim to see this extended 
into other geographies in the coming years.
Supplier Payment Policy 
Group policy concerning the payment of suppliers is that each operating 
unit agrees terms of payment at the beginning of business or makes the 
supplier aware of the standard payment terms, and pays in accordance 
with those terms or other legal obligations. At 31 December 2012, the 
Group had an average of 30.6 days (2011: 31.2 days) purchases outstanding 
in trade payables. The Company’s trade payables are not material. 
During 2012 over 56% of 
employees participated in one 
of our all-employee share plans. 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 60
Market Value of Properties
The Group’s property, plant and equipment are included in the ﬁnancial 
statements at depreciated historic cost where the assets were acquired in 
the normal course of business or depreciated fair value if the assets were 
acquired as part of a business combination. The properties are in 
continuing use and many of them were acquired when market values 
were substantially lower than at present. The Directors consider that a 
surplus over book value exists, but have not quantiﬁed the excess.
Charitable and Political Donations 
Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted to £19,000 
(2011: £11,000). No donations were made for political purposes (2011: £Nil). 
Independent Auditors 
Our auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , have indicated their willingness 
to continue in ofﬁce and, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
a resolution regarding their reappointment and remuneration will be 
submitted to the AGM.
Directors’ Responsibilities 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements for 
each ﬁnancial year. Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group 
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, and the Company 
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice). Under company law the Directors must not approve 
the ﬁnancial statements unless they are satisﬁed that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the 
proﬁt or loss of the Group for that period. 
In preparing those ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are required to:



UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company 
ﬁnancial statements respectively; and

inappropriate to assume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that
are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the 
Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group 
ﬁnancial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with 
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group ﬁnancial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose details are set out on pages 28 to 29 
conﬁrms that, to the best of their knowledge:

accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of 
the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt of the Group; and

development and performance of the business and the position of the 
Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces.
Audit Information
The Directors conﬁrm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each 
Director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in 
order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. 
The Directors’ report is the ‘management report’ for the purposes of the 
Financial Services Authority Disclosure and T ransparency Rules (DTR 4.1.8R). 
The Directors’ report was approved by the Board on 1 March 2013 and is 
signed on its behalf by
T om Brophy 
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 
1 March 2013
Other Disclosures 61
We have audited the Group ﬁnancial statements of Croda International Plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Group income 
statement, Group statement of comprehensive income and expense, 
Group balance sheet, Group statement of changes in equity, Group 
statement of cash ﬂows, Group cash ﬂow notes, the Group accounting 
policies, and the related notes. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities statement set out 
on page 60, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group 
ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair 
view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group 
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the 
Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to 
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable assurance that 
the ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the Directors; 
and the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. In addition, we 
read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the annual report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited ﬁnancial statements. 
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements 
In our Opinion the Group Financial Statements: 

31 December 2012 and of its proﬁt and cash ﬂows for the year then ended;

the European Union; and

Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our Opinion:

which the Group ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
Group ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on Which we are Required to Report by Exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 

made; or

our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 


Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code speciﬁed for our review; and

remuneration.
Other Matter 
We have reported separately on the parent company ﬁnancial statements 
of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on 
the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having 
been audited.
Richard Bunter  
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, Hull
1 March 2013
Group Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Croda International Plc 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
Financial Statements 62
Group Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2012
Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue 1 1,051.9 1,028.0
Cost of sales (694.6) (687.7)
Gross proﬁt 357.3 340.3
Net operating expenses 2 (101.9) (102.6)
Operating proﬁt 1 255.4 237.7
Financial expenses 4 (9.3) (10.2)
Financial income 4 7.1 10.0
Proﬁt before tax 253.2 237.5
Tax 5 (78.1) (74.9)
Proﬁt after tax from continuing operations 175.1 162.6
(Loss)/proﬁt after tax from discontinued operations 7 (13.2) 4.9
Proﬁt for the year 3 161.9 167.5
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 161.9 167.5
161.9 167.5
Pence per
share
Pence per
share
Earnings per 10p share
Basic
Total 8 120.2 123.7
Continuing operations 8 130.0 120.1
Diluted
Total 8 118.6 121.6
Continuing operations 8 128.3 118.0
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expense
for the year ended 31 December 2012
2012
£m
2011
£m
Proﬁt for the year 161.9 167.5
Other comprehensive income/(expense):
Currency translation differences (8.2) (8.5)
Actuarial movement on retirement beneﬁt liabilities (note 12) (0.8) (75.8)
Deferred tax on actuarial movement on retirement beneﬁt liabilities (note 5) (3.5) 21.6
Total comprehensive income for the year 149.4 104.8
Attributable to:
Non-controlling interests – 0.1
Owners of the parent 149.4 104.7
149.4 104.8
Financial Statements 63
Group Balance Sheet
at 31 December 2012
Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 13 213.1 205.0
Property, plant and equipment 14 338.3 340 .2 
Investments 16 0.9 15.4
Deferred tax assets 6 64.0 82.3
616.3 642.9
Current assets
Inventories 17 170.5 164.6
Trade and other receivables 18 162.9 145.7
Cash and cash equivalents 53.8 44.3
387.2 354.6
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 (136.5) (159.4)
Borrowings and other ﬁnancial liabilities 20 (5.4) (7.5)
Provisions 21 (7.9) (8.8)
Current tax liabilities (24.3) (23.9)
(174.1) (199.6)
Net current assets 213.1 155.0
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings and other ﬁnancial liabilities 20 (256.1) (267.9)
Other payables (2.7) (4.9)
Retirement beneﬁt liabilities 12 (165.8) (198.9)
Provisions 21 (17.3) (14.9)
Deferred tax liabilities 6 (43.2) (45.1)
(485.1) (531.7)
Net assets 344.3 266.2
Shareholders’ equity
Preference share capital 24 1.1 1.1
Ordinary share capital 22 14.0 14.0
Called up share capital 15.1 15.1
Share premium account 93.3 93.3
Reserves 235.8 157.7
Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 344.2 266.1
Non-controlling interests in equity 26 0.1 0.1
Total equity 344.3 266.2
Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the accounts on 1 March 2013
Martin Flower  Sean Christie
Chairman Group Finance Director
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 64
Group Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2012
Note
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Non-
controlling
interests
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 15.1 93.3 36.1 128.6 1.1 274.2 
Proﬁt for the year attributable to equity shareholders – – – 167.5 – 167.5 
Other comprehensive expense – – (8.6) (54.2) – (62.8)
Transactions with owners:
Dividends on equity shares 9 – – – (67.7) – (67.7)
Share based payments – – – 4.3 – 4.3 
Consideration received for sale of own shares held in trust – – – 1.0 – 1.0 
Purchase of treasury shares – – – (50.4) – (50.4)
Total transactions with owners – – – (112.8) – (112.8)
Transactions with non-controlling interests:
Other comprehensive income – – – – 0.1 0.1 
Transfer of non-controlling interest on disposal – – – 1.1 (1.1) –
Total transactions with non-controlling interests – – – 1.1 (1.0) 0.1 
Total equity at 31 December 2011 15.1 93.3 27.5 130.2 0.1 266.2 
At 1 January 2012 15.1 93.3 27.5 130.2 0.1 266.2
Proﬁt for the year attributable to equity shareholders – – – 161.9 – 161.9 
Other comprehensive expense – – (8.2) (4.3) – (12.5)
Transactions with owners:
Dividends on equity shares 9 – – – (76.8) – (76.8)
Share based payments – – – 4.4 – 4.4 
Consideration received for sale of own shares held in trust – – – 1.1 – 1.1 
Total transactions with owners – – – (71.3) – (71.3)
Total equity at 31 December 2012 15.1 93.3 19.3 216.5 0.1 344.3 
Other reserves include the Capital Redemption Reserve of £0.9m (2011: £0.9m) and the Translation Reserve of £18.4m (2011: £26.6m).
Financial Statements 65
Group Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 December 2012
Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash ﬂows from operating activities
Cash generated by operations ii 208.1 232.7
Interest paid (9.3) (11.0)
Tax paid (60.6) (57.7)
Net cash generated by operating activities 138.2 164.0
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidianes 28 (7.1) –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 14 (50.4) (55.9)
Purchase of other intangible assets 13 (1.9) (2.4)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.1
Proceeds from sale of businesses (net of costs and cash in businesses) 7 1.3 1.0
Proceeds from sale of other investment 15.8 –
Cash paid against non-operating provisions 21 (1.6) (2.2)
Interest received 1.2 0.9
Net cash absorbed by investing activities (42.2) (58.5)
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
New borrowings 0.2 15.6
Repayment of borrowings (6.7) (26.4)
Capital element of ﬁnance lease repayments iii (0.4) (0.4)
Net transactions in own shares 22,25 1.1 (49.4)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 9 (76.8) (67.7)
Net cash absorbed by ﬁnancing activities (82.6) (128.3)
Net movement in cash and cash equivalents i,iii 13.4 (22.8)
Cash and cash equivalents brought forward 37.5 62.5
Exchange differences iii (0.7) (2.2)
Cash and cash equivalents carried forward 50.2 37.5
Cash and cash equivalents carried forward comprise
Cash at bank and in hand 53.8 44.3
Bank overdrafts (3.6) (6.8)
50.2 37.5
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 66
Group Cash Flow Notes
for the year ended 31 December 2012
(i) Reconciliation to net debt
Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
Movement in cash and cash equivalents iii 13.4 (22.8)
Movement in debt and lease ﬁnancing iii 6.9 11.2
Change in net debt from cash ﬂows 20.3 (11.6)
Loans in acquired businesses (0.9) –
Loans in disposed businesses – 2.2
New ﬁnance lease contracts (0.4) (0.3)
Exchange differences 4.4 (1.1)
23.4 (10.8)
Net debt brought forward (231.1) (220.3)
Net debt carried forward iii (207.7) (231.1)
(ii) Cash generated by operations 2012
£m
2011
£m
Continuing operations
Operating proﬁt 255.4 237.7
Adjustments for:
     Depreciation and amortisation 31.1 31.0
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 0.5
     Other provisions charged (note 21) 1.3 1.4
     Share based payments 1.8 4.0
Cash paid against operating provisions (note 21) (1.6) (6.7)
Pension fund contributions in excess of service cost (25.2) (17.4)
Movement in inventories (13.1) (2.5)
Movement in receivables (25.6) (5.1)
Movement in payables (16.4) (15.7)
Cash generated by continuing operations 207.7 227.2
Discontinued operations 0.4 5.5
208.1 232.7
(iii) Analysis of net debt 2012
£m
Cash
ﬂow
£m
Exchange
movements
£m
Other
non-cash
£m
2011
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 53.8 10.2 (0.7) – 44.3
Bank overdrafts (3.6) 3.2 – – (6.8)
Movement in cash and cash equivalents 13.4 (0.7)
Borrowings repayable within one year (1.5) (0.2) – (0.9) (0.4)
Borrowings repayable after more than one year (255.8) 6.7 5.1 – (267.6)
Finance leases (0.6) 0.4 – (0.4) (0.6)
Movement in borrowings and other ﬁnancial liabilities 6.9 5.1
Total net debt (207.7) 20.3 4.4 (1.3) (231.1)
Financial Statements 67
Group Accounting Policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these ﬁnancial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied 
to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs), IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The standards used are those 
published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and endorsed by the EU at the time of preparing these statements (February 2013). A 
summary of the more important Group accounting policies is set out below.
Accounting estimates and judgements
The Group’s critical accounting policies under IFRS have been set by management with the approval of the Audit Committee. The application of these 
policies requires estimates and assumptions to be made concerning the future and judgements to be made on the applicability of policies to particular 
situations. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future 
events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Under IFRS an estimate or judgement may be considered critical if it involves matters 
that are highly uncertain or where different estimation methods could reasonably have been used, or if changes in the estimate that would have a 
material impact on the Group’s results are likely to occur from period to period. The critical judgements required when preparing the Group’s accounts are 
as follows:
(i) Provisions – as disclosed in note 21, the Group has made signiﬁcant provision for potential environmental liabilities and for the costs of the 
restructuring exercise following the acquisition of Uniqema. The rationale behind these and other provisions is discussed in note 21. The directors 
believe that these provisions are appropriate based on information currently available.
(ii) Goodwill and fair value of assets acquired (note 13) – the Group’s goodwill carrying value increased signiﬁcantly in 2006 following the acquisition of 
Uniqema and has grown further in 2012. The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment and the Group’s goodwill value has 
been supported by detailed value-in-use calculations relating to the recoverable amounts of the underlying cash generating units. These calculations 
require the use of estimates. However, as recoverable amounts signiﬁcantly exceed carrying values, including goodwill, there is no impairment within 
a reasonable range of assumptions.
(iii) Retirement beneﬁt liabilities – as disclosed in note 12, the Group’s principal retirement beneﬁt schemes are of the deﬁned beneﬁt type. Year end 
recognition of the liabilities under these schemes and the valuation of assets held to fund these liabilities require a number of signiﬁcant assumptions 
to be made, relating to levels of scheme membership, key ﬁnancial market indicators such as inﬂation and expectations on future salary growth and 
asset returns. These assumptions are made by the Group in conjunction with the schemes’ actuaries and the directors are of the view that any 
estimation should be prudent and in line with consensus opinion. For each 0.1% change in the discount rate net of inﬂation, the carrying amount of 
pension obligations would change by an estimated £16m.
Changes in accounting policy
(a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the ﬁrst time for the ﬁnancial year beginning 1 January 2012 that have had a material 
impact on the Group.
(b) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2012.There 
has been no early adoption of these standards in the preparation of the 2012 consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
(i) IAS 19, ‘Employee beneﬁts’, was amended in June 2011. The impact on the Group will be as follows: to immediately recognise all past service costs; 
and to replace interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net 
deﬁned beneﬁt liability. The amended standard will be applied to the Group’s 2013 ﬁnancial statements and its impact is discussed in note 12.
(ii) IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’, aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise deﬁnition of fair value and a single 
source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs. The requirements, which are largely aligned between IFRSs and 
US GAAP , do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or 
permitted by other standards within IFRSs or US GAAP . IFRS 13 is not expected to have a material impact on the ﬁnancial statements.
(iii) IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, addresses the classiﬁcation, measurement and recognition of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities. IFRS 9 was issued 
in November 2009 and is applicable from 1 January 2015. IFRS 9 is not expected to have a material impact on the ﬁnancial statements.
(iv) IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated ﬁnancial statements’ builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an 
entity should be included within the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the parent company. IFRS 10 is not expected to have a material impact on the 
ﬁnancial statements.
(v) IFRS 12, ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’ includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint 
arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles. IFRS 12 is not expected to have a material impact on the 
ﬁnancial statements.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 68
Group Accounting Policies
Group accounts
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the ﬁnancial and operating 
policies of an entity so as to obtain beneﬁts from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or convertible are 
taken into account. The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements from the date that control commences 
until the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a 
subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group. Acquisition costs are expensed as 
incurred. Identiﬁable assets acquired, and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values 
at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of identiﬁable net 
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also 
eliminated. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
T ransactions with non-controlling interests
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with the equity owners of the Group. For purchases from non-controlling 
interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded 
as equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
Intangible assets
Goodwill
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired. Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration given for a 
business exceeds such net assets. Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalized and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is 
subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is allocated to cash 
generating units for the purpose of this impairment testing. 
Research and development
Research expenditure, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientiﬁc or technical knowledge and understanding, is charged to the income 
statement in the year in which it is incurred. Internal development expenditure, whereby research ﬁndings are applied to a plan for the production of new 
or substantially improved products or processes, is charged to the income statement in the year in which it is incurred unless it meets the recognition 
criteria of IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’. Measurement and other uncertainties generally mean that such criteria are not met. Where, however, the recognition 
criteria are met, intangible assets are capitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives from product launch. Intangible assets relating to 
products in development are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date or earlier upon indication of impairment. Any impairment losses 
are written off immediately to income.
Computer software
Acquired computer software licenses covering a period of greater than one year are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to 
use the speciﬁc software. These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives (three to ﬁve years).
Revenue recognition
Sales of goods
Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods, excludes inter-company sales and value-added taxes and represents net invoice value less 
estimated rebates, returns and settlement discounts. 
The Group supplies products to customers from its various manufacturing sites and warehouses and in some limited instances from consignment 
inventory held on customer sites, under a variety of standard terms and conditions. In each case revenue is recognised when the transfer of legal title, 
which is deﬁned and generally accepted in the standard terms and conditions, arises between the Group and the customer. This will nearly always be on 
dispatch or delivery, but never before dispatch. Provisions for sales discounts and rebates to customers are based upon the terms of sales contracts and 
are recorded in the same period as the related sales as a deduction from revenue. The Group estimates the provision for sales discounts and rebates 
based on the terms of each agreement at the time the revenue is recognised.
Interest and dividend income
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method. 
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Financial Statements 69
Segmental reporting
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products and services that are subject to risks or returns that are different 
from those of other segments. Operating segments presented in the ﬁnancial statements are consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Group’s 
Chief Operating Decision Maker, which has been identiﬁed as the Group Finance Committee and the Group Executive Committee.
Employee beneﬁts
Pension obligations
The Group accounts for pensions and similar beneﬁts under IAS 19 ’Employee Beneﬁts’. In respect of deﬁned beneﬁt plans (pension plans that deﬁne an 
amount of pension beneﬁt that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and 
compensation), obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value. The liability recognised in the balance 
sheet in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is the net of the plan obligations and assets. No allowance is made in the past service liability in respect 
of either the future expenses of running the schemes or for non-service related death in service beneﬁts which may arise in the future. The operating costs 
of such plans are charged to operating proﬁt and the ﬁnance costs are recognised as ﬁnancial income or an expense as appropriate. Service costs are 
spread systematically over the lives of employees and ﬁnancing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise. Actuarial gains and losses are 
recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expense. Payments to deﬁned contribution schemes (pension plans under which the Group 
pays ﬁxed contributions into a separate entity) are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Other post-retirement beneﬁts
Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare beneﬁts to their retirees. The entitlement to these beneﬁts is usually conditional on the 
employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period. The expected costs of these beneﬁts are accrued 
over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans. Actuarial gains and losses are 
recorded in the income statement. These obligations are valued annually by independent qualiﬁed actuaries.
T ermination beneﬁts
T ermination beneﬁts are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts 
voluntary redundancy in exchange for these beneﬁts. The Group recognises termination beneﬁts when it is demonstrably committed to either 
(i) terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal or (ii) providing termination 
beneﬁts as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Share based payments
The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled, share-based incentive schemes. These are accounted for in accordance with IFRS2 ‘Share-
based Payments’, which requires an expense to be recognised in the income statement over the vesting period of the options. The expense is based on 
the fair value of each instrument which is calculated using the Black-Scholes or binomial model as appropriate. Any expense is adjusted to reﬂect 
expected and actual levels of options vesting, as the Group does not use market-based performance criteria. For equity-settled schemes, the credit is 
taken directly to equity.
Currency translations
Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the ﬁnancial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Company’s functional and 
presentation currency.
T ransactions and balances
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the ﬁnancial period. Exchange proﬁts or losses on trading transactions 
are included in the Group income statement except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash ﬂow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Group companies
The results and ﬁnancial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the 
presentation currency as follows:
(i) assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
(ii) income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation 
of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the 
transactions); and
(iii) all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency 
instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders’ equity. When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences 
are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 70
Group Accounting Policies
T axation
The charge for taxation is based on the proﬁt for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the treatment of 
certain items for taxation and for accounting purposes. T emporary differences arise on differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the 
ﬁnancial statements and their tax base and primarily relate to the difference between tax allowances on tangible ﬁxed assets and the corresponding depreciation 
charge, and upon the pension fund deﬁcit. Full provision is made for the tax effects of these differences. No provision is made for unremitted earnings of foreign 
subsidiaries where there is no commitment to remit such earnings. Similarly, no provision is made for temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries 
since realisation of such differences can be controlled and is not probable in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognised, using the liability method, 
to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁt will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. 
All taxation is calculated on the basis of the tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items that in the Directors’ view are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a full 
understanding of the Group’s ﬁnancial performance. In the current year all exceptional items relate to discontinued operations.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation, with the exception of assets acquired as part of a business combination which 
are initially recorded at fair value. Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working 
condition for its intended use. The Group’s policy is to write off the difference between the cost of all property, plant and equipment, except freehold land, 
and their residual value on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. Reviews are made annually of the estimated remaining lives and residual 
values of individual productive assets, taking account of commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear, and adjustments 
are made where appropriate. Under this policy it becomes impractical to calculate average asset lives exactly. However, the total lives range from 
approximately 15 to 40 years for buildings, and 3 to 15 years for plant and equipment. All individual assets are reviewed for impairment when there are 
indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable. By far the bulk of the Group’s ‘plant and equipment’ asset class relates to the value of plant and 
equipment at the Group’s manufacturing facilities. Consequently, the Group does not seek to analyse out of this class other items such as motor vehicles 
and ofﬁce equipment. 
Impairment of non-ﬁnancial assets
The Group assesses at each year end whether an asset may be impaired. If any evidence exists of impairment, the estimated recoverable amount is 
compared to the carrying value of the asset and an impairment loss is recognised where appropriate. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s 
value in use and fair value less costs to sell. In addition to this, goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Non-current assets are classiﬁed as assets held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount 
is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s 
business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations. Classiﬁcation as a discontinued operation occurs upon 
disposal or when the operation meets the IFRS 5 criteria to be classiﬁed as held for sale.
Leases
Assets acquired under ﬁnance leases are included in the balance sheet under property, plant and equipment at an amount reﬂecting the lower of the 
present value of future rentals and the fair value of the asset and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their estimated useful lives. The 
capital element of future lease rentals is included in borrowings. Finance charges are allocated to the income statement each year in proportion to the 
capital element outstanding. The cost of operating leases is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease period.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rates and short-term currency rate ﬂuctuations.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are recorded initially at cost. Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument as either: (i) a hedge of the 
fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a ﬁrm commitment (fair value hedge); or (ii) a hedge of highly probable forecast transactions (cash ﬂow hedge);
(i) Fair value hedge
Changes in the fair value of derivatives, for example interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts, that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges 
are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
(ii) Cash ﬂow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ﬂow hedges are recognised in equity. The gain or 
loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income 
statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect proﬁt or loss (for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). However, when the 
forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-ﬁnancial asset (for example, inventory) or a liability, the gains and losses previously 
deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. When a hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in 
equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Financial Statements 71
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the 
redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classiﬁed 
as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs
General and speciﬁc borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that 
necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets 
are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Trade and other payables
T rade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable amount on a ﬁrst in ﬁrst out basis. Cost comprises all expenditure, including related 
production overheads, incurred in the normal course of business in bringing the inventory to its location and condition at the balance sheet date. Net 
realisable amount is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any applicable variable selling costs. Provision is made for 
obsolete, slow moving and defective inventory where appropriate. Proﬁts arising on intra Group sales are eliminated in so far as the product remains in 
Group inventory at the year end.
Trade and other receivables
T rade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less 
impairment losses. A provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence that the amount will not be collectible. Such amounts are written 
down to their estimated recoverable amounts, with the charge being made to operating expenses.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short term deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of 
the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash ﬂow statement.
Environmental, restructuring and other provisions
The Group is exposed to environmental liabilities relating to its operations and liabilities arising from the restructuring of its operations. Provisions are made 
immediately where a constructive or legal obligation is identiﬁed, can be quantiﬁed and it is regarded as more likely than not that an outﬂow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation. The Group does consider the impact of discounting when establishing provisions and provisions are discounted 
when the impact is material and the timing of cash ﬂows can be estimated with reasonable certainty. 
Share capital
(a) Investment in own shares
Employee Share Ownership T rusts
Shares acquired by the T rustees, funded by the Company and held for the continuing beneﬁt of the Company are shown as a reduction in equity 
attributable to owners of the parent. Movements in the year arising from additional purchases by the T rustees of shares or the receipt of funds due to the 
exercise of options by employees are accounted for within reserves and shown as a movement in equity attributable to owners of the parent in the year. 
Administration expenses of the trusts are charged to the Company’s income statement as incurred.
T reasury shares
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital as treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable 
incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or 
disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction 
costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders.
(b) Preference share capital
Preference share capital is classiﬁed as equity as the Group has full discretion over the transfer of beneﬁts associated with the shares.
(c) Dividends
Dividends on preference shares are recognised as a liability on an accruals basis. Other dividends are recognised as a liability when the liability is 
irrevocable. Accordingly, ﬁnal dividends are recognised when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Investments
Investments in quoted securities are treated as ‘available for sale’ and stated at fair value, being the appropriate quoted market value, with movements in 
the fair value being recognised in equity. Investments in unquoted securities are carried at fair value unless such value cannot be reliably measured, in 
which case the investments are carried at cost. Investments are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date or earlier upon indication of 
impairment. Held to maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 72
Notes to the Group Accounts
1. Segmental analysis
As discussed in the 2011 annual report, with effect from 1 January 2012 the Group has been organised on a worldwide basis into three main business 
segments, relating to the manufacture and sale of the Group’s products which are destined for the markets of Consumer Care, Performance T echnologies 
or Industrial Chemicals. These are the segments for which summary management information is presented to the Group’s Finance and Executive 
Committees, which are deemed to be the Group’s Chief Operating Decision Makers.
There is no material trade between segments. Segmental results include items directly attributable to a speciﬁc segment as well as those that can be 
allocated on a reasonable basis. Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, inventories and trade and other 
receivables.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Income statement
Revenue - continuing operations
Consumer Care 586.4 571.4
Performance Technologies 382.8 373.6
Industrial Chemicals 82.7 83.0
Total Group revenue 1,051.9 1,028.0
Operating proﬁt - continuing operations
Consumer Care 185.4 171.2
Performance Technologies 59.7 55.3
Industrial Chemicals 10.3 11.2
Total Group operating proﬁt 255.4 237.7
Balance sheet
Total assets
Segment total assets:
Consumer Care 592.5 564.7
Performance Technologies 227.7 224.8
Industrial Chemicals 64.6 66.0
Total segment assets 884.8 855.5
Tax assets 64.0 82.3
Cash and investments 54.7 59.7
Total Group assets 1,003.5 997.5
2012
£m
2011
£m
Capital expenditure and depreciation
Additions to  
non-current assets
Depreciation and  
amortisation
Additions to  
non-current assets
Depreciation and  
amortisation
Consumer Care 29.9 18.4 33.3 18.5
Performance Technologies 17.2 10.2 19.1 10.2
Industrial Chemicals 5.6 3.5 6.2 3.5
Total Group 52.7 32.1 58.6 32.2
Financial Statements 73
The Group manages its business segments on a global basis. The operations are based mainly in the following geographical areas; Europe, with 
manufacturing sites in the UK, France, Holland, Italy and Spain; the Americas, with manufacturing sites in the USA and Brazil; and Asia, with 
manufacturing sites in Singapore, Japan, India and Indonesia. 
The Group’s revenue from external customers in the UK is £50.9m (2011: £51.2m), in Germany is £115.0m (2011: £123.5m), in the US is £242.7m 
(2011: £233.3m) and the total revenue from external customers from other countries is £643.3m (2011: £660.4m). 
The total of non-current assets other than ﬁnancial instruments and deferred tax assets located in the UK is £85.6m (2011: £85.9m), and the total of the 
non-current assets located in other countries is £260.2m (2011: £274.8m). Goodwill has not been split by geography as this asset is not attributable to a 
geographical area.
No single external customer represents more than 5% of the total revenue of the Group.
2. Net operating expenses
2012
£m
2011
£m
Analysis of net operating expenses by function:
Distribution costs 36.6 36.4
Administrative expenses 65.3 66.2
101.9 102.6
Additional information on the nature of operating expenses, including depreciation and employee costs, is provided in note 3.
3. Proﬁt for the year
2012
£m
2011
£m
The Group proﬁt for the year is stated after charging:
Depreciation and amortisation (note 13 & 14) 32.1 32.2
Staff costs (note 10) 173.7 171.2
Redundancy costs
     Non-exceptional 1.3 1.2
Inventories
     Cost recognised as expense in cost of sales 638.9 665.2
     Provision release in year (4.3) (3.1)
Loss on disposal and write off of property, plant and equipment – 0.5
Research and development 19.6 23.9
Hire of plant and machinery 1.8 1.7
Other operating lease rentals 3.9 3.8
Net foreign exchange 1.8 1.8
Bad debt release (note 18) (0.3) (1.4)
Services provided by the Group’s auditors
Audit services
Fees payable to the Company auditor for the audit of parent company and
consolidated ﬁnancial statements 0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the Company auditor and its associates for the audit of the
Company’s subsidiaries     0.7 0.6
Other audit services
Fees payable to the Company auditor and its associates for other services:
Tax services (including £0.1m (2011: £0.1m) advisory services) 0.6 0.5
Other advisory services 0.1 0.1
1.5 1.3
In addition to the amounts above, included within additions to other intangibles is £1.1m (2011: £0.7m) of capitalised costs relating to work carried 
out by the auditors on computer system implementations in various of the Group’s smaller locations. Further detail can be found in the Corporate 
Governance Report.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 74
Notes to the Group Accounts
4. Net ﬁnancial expenses 2012
£m
2011
£m
Financial expenses
$100m US loan note due 2020 3.7 3.7
2010 Club facility due 2015 5.0 5.7
Other bank loans and overdrafts 0.6 0.8
9.3 10.2
Financial income
Expected return on pension scheme assets less interest on scheme liabilities (note 12) (5.9) (8.0)
H.I.G. Capital LLC loan note – (1.2)
Bank interest receivable and similar income (1.2) (0.8)
(7.1) (10.0)
Net ﬁnancial expenses 2.2 0.2
5. T ax
(a) Analysis of tax charge for the year
Continuing operations
United Kingdom current corporate tax 11.6 11.7
Overseas current corporate taxes 50.8 51.7
Current tax 62.4 63.4
Deferred tax (note 6) 15.7 11.5
78.1 74.9
(b) Tax on items charged to equity
Deferred tax on actuarial movement on retirement beneﬁt liabilities 3.5 (21.6)
Deferred tax on share based payments (1.3) (1.6)
2.2 (23.2)
(c) Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
Proﬁt before tax from continuing operations 253.2 237.5
Tax at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) 62.0 62.9
Effect of:
Prior years’ over provisions – (0.3)
Tax cost of remitting overseas income to the UK 0.4 0.4
Expenses and write offs not deductible for tax purposes 0.1 0.1
Effect of higher overseas tax rates 15.6 11.8
78.1 74.9
Financial Statements 75
6. Deferred tax 2012
£m
2011
£m
The deferred tax balances included in these accounts are attributable to the following:
Deferred tax assets
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 44.9 57.3
Provisions 19.1 25.0
64.0 82.3
Deferred tax liabilities
Excess of capital allowances over depreciation 40.0 41.9
Revaluation gains 1.9 1.9
Other 1.3 1.3
43.2 45.1
The movement on deferred tax balances during the year is summarised as follows:
Deferred tax charged through income statement
Continuing operations (15.7) (11.5)
Deferred tax credited to equity (note 5b) (2.2) 23.2
Business disposals 1.7 –
Exchange differences (0.2) 0.4
(16.4) 12.1
Net balance brought forward 37.2 25.1
Net balance carried forward 20.8 37.2
Deferred tax charged through the income statement relates to the following:
Retirement beneﬁt obligations (8.1) (7.4)
Excess of capital allowances over depreciation (0.8) (2.3)
Other (6.8) (1.8)
(15.7) (11.5)
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method at a rate of 23% (2011: 25%) in the United Kingdom and at rates 
appropriate to each overseas subsidiary.
During the year, as a result of the change in the UK corporation tax rate from 24% to 23% that was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012 and that will be 
effective from 1 April 2013, the relevant deferred tax balances have been re-measured. Deferred tax expected to reverse in the year to 31 December 2013 
and beyond has been measured using the 23% rate.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in all cases where such assets arise, as it is probable the assets will be recovered.
Deferred tax is only recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries to the extent that remittance is expected in the foreseeable future. If all 
earnings were remitted, an additional £2.4m (2011: £1.8m) of tax would be payable.
All movements on deferred tax balances have been recognised in income with the exception of the charges shown in note 5(b), which have been 
recognised directly in equity.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 77
8. Earnings per share
Total
2012
£m
Continuing
operations
2012
£m
Discontinued
operations
2012
£m
Total
2011
£m
Continuing
operations
2011
£m
Discontinued
operations
2011
£m
Proﬁt for the year before exceptional items 173.3 175.1 (1.8) 165.9 162.6 3.3
Exceptional items (11.4) – (11.4) 1.6 – 1.6
Non-controlling interests and preference dividend (0.1) (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1) –
161.8 175.0 (13.2) 167.4 162.5 4.9
Number
m
Number
m
Number
m
Number
m
Number
m
Number
m
Weighted average number of 10p ordinary shares  
in issue for basic calculation 134.6 134.6 134.6 135.3 135.3 135.3 
Deemed issue of potentially dilutive shares 1.8 1.8 1.8 2.4 2.4 2.4
Average number of 10p ordinary shares for diluted 
calculation 136.4 136.4 136.4 137.7 137.7 137.7 
Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share 120.2 123.7
Basic earnings per share before exceptional items 128.7 122.5
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 130.0 120.1
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations (9.8) 3.6
Diluted earnings per share 118.6 121.6
Diluted earnings per share before exceptional items 127.0 120.4
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 128.3 118.0
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations (9.7) 3.6
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury shares or in the employee share trusts (note 25) which are treated as cancelled as except for a 
nominal amount, dividends have been waived.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive 
ordinary shares. 
Additional earnings per share measures are included above to give a better indication of the Group’s underlying performance.
Pence per share
2011
£m
Pence per share £m
Ordinary
Interim
2011 interim, paid October 2011 –– 24.75 33.1
2012 interim, paid October 2012 26.75 36.0 ––
Final
2010 ﬁnal, paid June 2011 –– 25.25 34.5
2011 ﬁnal, paid June 2012 30.25 40.7 ––
57.00 76.7 50.00 67.6
Preference (paid June and December) 0.1 0.1
76.8 67.7
The directors are proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 32.75p per share, amounting to a total dividend of £44.1m, in respect of the ﬁnancial year ended 
31 December 2012. 
Subject to shareholder approval, the dividend will be paid on 31 May 2013 to shareholders registered on 3 May 2013 and has not been accrued in these 
ﬁnancial statements. The total dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 is 59.5p per share (£80.1m).
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
2012
9. Dividends 76
Notes to the Group Accounts
7. Discontinued operations
In November 2012, the Group sold its Italian manufacturing assets based at Cremona, along with the associated business, to GreenOleo SpA for a 
consideration of £3.9m, generating a loss on disposal of £11.5m, net of a deferred tax credit of £1.7m.
In January 2012, the loan note of £16.1m arising from the sale of the Group’s Chicago site was repaid early by HIG Capital, the purchasers of the site. 
This early settlement gave rise to an exceptional proﬁt of £1.6m.        
The environmental provision relating to sites previously occupied by discontinued businesses has been increased by £2.6m in recognition of further 
information received in 2012 relating to potential future liabilities.        
The Group closed its Bromborough site in 2009. During 2012 the ﬁnal deferred consideration of £0.8m (2011: £1.0m) was received in relation to the 
disposal of the site. Other exceptional income of £0.3m was received in respect of other dormant sites.     
In 2011, the Group completed the sale of its 60% holding in its Korean joint venture, Croda Woobang, to the Korean joint venture partners for a 
consideration of £2.2m, generating a proﬁt on disposal of £0.6m.        
The impact of the operations discontinued in 2012 and 2011, which resided predominantly within the Industrial Chemicals segment, is as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue 30.5 40.4
Net operating expenses (33.0) (35.7)
Pre tax operating results from discontinued operations (2.5) 4.7
Tax 0.7 (1.4)
Post tax operating results from discontinued operations (1.8) 3.3
(Loss)/proﬁt on disposal (10.5) 1.6
Exceptional environmental provision (2.6) –
Tax 1.7 –
Net exceptional (loss)/proﬁt on disposal (11.4) 1.6
Total (loss)/proﬁt after tax from discontinued operations (13.2) 4.9
Cash ﬂows from discontinued operations
Net cash ﬂows from operating activities 0.4 5.5
Net cash ﬂows from investing activities (0.7) 0.2
(0.3) 5.7
Financial Statements 78
Notes to the Group Accounts
10. Employees 2012
£m
2011
£m
Group employment costs including Directors
Wages and salaries 124.9 127.5
Share based payment charges (note 23) 13.3 10.5
Social security costs 23.1 21.4
Other pension costs (note 12) 12.4 11.8
Redundancy costs 1.3 1.2
175.0 172.4
2012
Number
2011
Number
Average employee numbers by function
Production 2,003 1,990
Selling and distribution 842 792
Administration 427 408
3,272 3,190
As required by the Companies Act 2006, the ﬁgures disclosed above are weighted averages based on the number of employees at each month end and 
include Executive Directors. At 31 December 2012, the Group had 3,288 (2011: 3,213) employees in total.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Key management compensation including Directors
Wages and salaries 6.0 5.9
Share based payment charges 3.6 3.5
Social security costs 1.6 1.5
Other pension costs 0.3 0.5
11.5 11.4
Key management comprises the members of the main Board, Group Executive Committee and Group Finance Committee.
11. Directors’ remuneration
Detailed information concerning Directors’ remuneration, interests and options is shown in the parts of the directors’ remuneration report subject to audit 
on pages 42 to 56 which form part of the annual report and accounts.
Financial Statements 79
12. Retirement beneﬁt liabilities
The Group operates a number of retirement beneﬁt schemes throughout the world. The principal schemes are in the UK and cover the vast majority of the 
Group’s UK employees. These schemes are of the deﬁned beneﬁt type with assets held in separate trustee administered funds and are funded. In the US, 
the Group operates a funded deﬁned beneﬁt scheme as well as providing unfunded post-retirement medical beneﬁts for employees. In other countries, 
beneﬁts are determined in accordance with local practice and regulations and funding is provided on several bases. 
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of these schemes are as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Present value of retirement beneﬁt liabilities
UK pension schemes (650.1) (641.6)
US pension and medical schemes (130.8) (123.3)
Rest of World (97.2) (81.5)
(878.1) (846.4)
Fair value of schemes’ assets
UK pension schemes 546.8 498.6
US pension and medical schemes 77.5 72.6
Rest of World 88.0 76.3
712.3 647.5
Net liability (165.8) (198.9)
The gross and net liability above includes an amount of £24.8m in respect of unfunded schemes (2011: £22.8m).
2012
£m
2011
£m
Movement in present value of retirement beneﬁt liabilities in the year:
Opening balance 846.4 789.7
Current service cost 10.1 9.7
Settlements on restructuring and disposal of businesses (0.7) (0.2)
Acquisition of subsidiary 0.1 –
Interest cost 39.7 42.4
Actuarial loss 18.5 32.7
Contributions paid in
Employee 2.6 2.5
Beneﬁts paid (31.8) (30.3)
Exchange differences on overseas schemes (6.8) (0.1)
878.1 846.4
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 80
Notes to the Group Accounts
12. Retirement beneﬁt liabilities (continued)
2012
£m
2011
£m
Movement in fair value of schemes’ assets in the year:
Opening balance 647.5 641.9
Expected return 45.6 50.4
Actuarial gain/(loss) 17.5 (43.1)
Contributions paid in
Employee 2.6 2.5
Employer 35.3 27.1
Beneﬁts paid out (31.8) (30.3)
Exchange differences on overseas schemes (4.4) (1.0)
712.3 647.5
The actual return on scheme assets in the year was £63.1m (2011: £7.3m).
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in equity:
Opening balance 147.7 93.5
Net actuarial losses charged in year 4.3 54.2
152.0 147.7
Total employer contributions to the schemes in 2013 are expected to be £47.3m.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Analysis of amounts recognised in income statement:
Charged to operating proﬁt 
Current service cost 10.1 9.7
10.1 9.7
Credited to net ﬁnancial expenses
Interest on scheme liabilities 39.7 42.4
Expected return on assets (45.6) (50.4)
(5.9) (8.0)
Net charge to income statement before tax 4.2 1.7
Of the amount charged to operating proﬁt, £8.1m (2011: £7.8m) was included in cost of sales and £2.0m (2011: £1.9m) was included in
administrative expenses. 
In all territories, including the UK, assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice from the Group’s actuaries,  
published statistics and experience in each territory. The following mortality tables have been used in respect of the Group’s key schemes:  
UK: SAPS S1 series tables projected to 2011 plus an additional allowance for future projected mortality improvements; USA: RP 2000M
projected 7 years pastvaluation date by Scale AA; Netherlands: AG Prognosetafel 2012-2062.
Financial Statements 81
UK pension schemes
The ﬁnancial assumptions used to assess the UK schemes’ liabilities were: 2012 2011
Valuation method Projected unit Projected unit
Discount rate 4.5% 4.8%
Inﬂation rate - RPI 3.1% 3.3%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.1% 4.3%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.0% 3.1%
Expected return on scheme assets 7.3% 7.3%
The assets in the schemes comprised:
2012
% of fair value
2011
% of fair value
Equities 59.1 49.9
Bonds 14.3 19.5
Property 8.3 8.2
Other 18.3 22.4
100.0 100.0
For funded schemes throughout the Group, the expected return on scheme assets has been derived as the weighted average of the expected
returns from each of the main asset classes. The expected return for each class reﬂects a combination of historical performance analysis, the forward 
looking views of the ﬁnancial markets (as suggested by the yields available) and the views of investment organisations.
The discount rate applied to the Group’s UK scheme is now based on Towers Watson’s Rate:link model that more closely reﬂects interest rates 
applicable to the proﬁle of the scheme’s liabilities than the previously used iBoxx index. Had the previous model been used this year end, the Group’s 
total retirement beneﬁt liability would have been around £8m higher.
History of UK schemes’ deﬁcits and 
experience gains and losses:
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Present value of retirement beneﬁt liabilities (650.1) (641.6) (603.4) (569.7) (397.2)
Fair value of scheme assets 546.8 498.6 503.4 453.2 399.0 
Net (liability)/asset (103.3) (143.0) (100.0) (116.5) 1.8
Experience gain/(loss) on assets 7.1 (40.4) 13.6 23.6 (109.9)
Experience gain/(loss) on liabilities 7.2 (20.3) (12.1) (165.9) 103.7
US pension and post-retirement medical schemes
The ﬁnancial assumptions used to assess the US schemes’ liabilities were: 2012 2011
Valuation method Projected unit Projected unit
Discount rate 3.7% 4.4%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.0% 4.0%
Expected return on scheme assets 7.8% 7.8%
Medical cost inﬂation rate 7.8% 8.0%
A 1% change in the assumed medical cost inﬂation rate would alter the charge to the income statement by £0.1m and the accumulated liability
by £1.6m.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 82
Notes to the Group Accounts
12. Retirement beneﬁt liabilities (continued)
The assets in the schemes comprised:
2011
% of fair value
Equities 50.4 45.0
Government bonds 48.1 45.0
Other 1.5 10.0
100.0 100.0
History of US schemes’ deﬁcits and experience 
gains and losses:
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Present value of retirement beneﬁt liabilities (130.8) (123.3) (106.4) (99.4) (102.9)
Fair value of scheme assets 77.5 72.6 66.6 57.8 59.7
Net liability (53.3) (50.7) (39.8) (41.6) (43.2)
Experience gain/(loss) on assets 3.2 (3.2) 3.6 6.0 (14.9)
Experience (loss)/gain on liabilities (12.7) (13.9) (4.0) (5.4) 2.5
Other deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
The Group has retirement beneﬁt liabilities in a number of other territories, notably Holland, and all schemes have been established in line with local 
custom and practice. The Dutch deﬁned beneﬁt scheme has a net liability of £1.9m (2011: £2.0m surplus) comprising a gross liability of £87.4m and assets 
of £85.5m.
The ﬁnancial assumptions used to assess the Dutch scheme liabilities were: 2012 2011
Valuation method Projected unit Projected unit
Discount rate 3.6% 5.7%
Inﬂation rate 2.2% 2.3%
Rate of increase in salaries 2.8% 2.8%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment 1.3% 2.3%
Expected return on scheme assets 5.7% 5.7%
Deﬁned contribution schemes 2012
£m
2011
£m
Contributions paid charged to operating proﬁt 2.3 2.1
Revised IAS 19 from 2013 onwards
In 2013 the Group will adopt the revised IAS19 standard which, had it been applied in 2012, would have reduced pre-tax proﬁt by around £15m, primarily 
as a result of the change in the net IAS19 ﬁnancial expense to a debit from a credit, resulting in a higher Group interest charge. As a result of the reduced 
opening pension deﬁcit for 2013, the effect in 2013 is expected to be somewhat smaller.
Financial Statements
2012
% of fair value 83
13. Intangible assets
Goodwill is tested at each year end for impairment with reference to the relevant cash generating unit’s (CGU) recoverable amount compared to the unit’s 
carrying value including goodwill. The relevant CGU when testing the Uniqema goodwill of £193.4m is the Group’s Consumer Care operating segment. 
The recoverable amount is based on value in use calculations using pre-tax discounted cash ﬂow projections based on the Group’s current year results  
and a future growth rate of 3% (2011: 3%).
The cash ﬂows have been discounted using the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, which for these purposes has been calculated to be 
approximately 6.8% after tax (2011: 7.8%).        
The key assumptions underpinning the forecast employed in the value in use calculation reﬂect a prudent view of past experience and are that market 
share will not change signiﬁcantly and that gross and operating margins will remain broadly constant. The directors believe there are no reasonably 
probable signiﬁcant changes in assumptions which would give rise to an impairment charge in the year.
Goodwill
£m
Other
intangibles
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2011 199.9 6.4 206.3
Exchange differences – (0.2) (0.2)
Additions – 2.4 2.4
At 31 December 2011 199.9 8.6 208.5
At 1 January 2012 199.9 8.6 208.5
Exchange differences – (0.3) (0.3)
Additions – 1.9 1.9
Acquisitions 6.6 0.7 7.3
At 31 December 2012 206.5 10.9 217.4
Amortisation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2011 – 2.8 2.8
Exchange differences – (0.2) (0.2)
Charge for the year (note 3) – 0.9 0.9
At 31 December 2011 – 3.5 3.5
At 1 January 2012 – 3.5 3.5
Exchange differences – (0.3) (0.3)
Charge for the year (note 3) – 1.1 1.1
At 31 December 2012 – 4.3 4.3
Net carrying amount
At 31 December 2012 206.5 6.6 213.1
At 31 December 2011 199.9 5.1 205.0
At 1 January 2011 199.9 3.6 203.5
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 84
Notes to the Group Accounts
14. Property, plant and equipment Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2011 121.9 396.9 518.8
Exchange differences (1.9) (6.5) (8.4)
Additions 4.9 51.3 56.2
Other disposals and write offs (1.4) (2.0) (3.4)
At 31 December 2011 123.5 439.7 563.2
At 1 January 2012 123.5 439.7 563.2
Exchange differences (4.0) (14.2) (18.2)
Additions 8.9 41.9 50.8
Acquisitions – 0.1 0.1
Business disposals and closures (2.6) (25.0) (27.6)
Other disposals and write offs (0.4) (2.8) (3.2)
At 31 December 2012 125.4 439.7 565.1
Depreciation and impairment losses
At 1 January 2011 38.3 161.1 199.4
Exchange differences (0.9) (4.1) (5.0)
Charge for the year (note 3) 3.9 27.4 31.3
Other disposals and write offs (0.7) (2.0) (2.7)
At 31 December 2011 40.6 182.4 223.0
At 1 January 2012 40.6 182.4 223.0
Exchange differences (1.7) (7.9) (9.6)
Charge for the year (note 3) 3.7 27.3 31.0
Business disposals and closures (1.1) (13.8) (14.9)
Other disposals and write offs (0.4) (2.3) (2.7)
At 31 December 2012 41.1 185.7 226.8
Net book amount
At 31 December 2012 84.3 254.0 338.3
At 31 December 2011 82.9 257.3 340.2
At 1 January 2011 83.6 235.8 319.4
The net book value of assets held by the Group under ﬁnance leases for plant and equipment at 31 December 2012 was £0.7m (2011: £0.7m). The leased 
equipment secures the lease obligations in note 20. No other ﬁxed assets have been pledged as security for liabilities.   
Financial Statements 85
15. Future commitments
2012
£m
2011
£m
Group capital projects
At 31 December the directors had authorised the following expenditure on capital projects:
Contracted but not provided for
      Property, plant and equipment 10.3 12.1
      Intangible assets 0.1 0.1
Authorised but not contracted for
      Property, plant and equipment 23.9 34.1
      Intangible assets 2.1 0.9
36.4 47.2
Operating leases - minimum lease payments
At 31 December the Group’s future minimum lease commitments  were due as follows:
Within one year 2.6 2.2
From one to ﬁve years 5.2 4.5
After ﬁve years 5.3 3.4
13.1 10.1
The Group leases various buildings, vehicles and other plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements. The leases 
have various terms typical of lease agreements for the particular class of asset.
16. Investments 2012
£m
2011
£m
H.I.G. Capital LLC loan note – 14.5
Other investments 0.9 0.9
0.9 15.4
The directors believe the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
Loan note
The Group received a US $ denominated loan note as part of the consideration for a business disposal in 2008. The loan was repaid in January 
2012 following the onward sale of the ex-Croda business by the issuer and the repayment led to a small ﬁnancing gain in 2012.
Other investments
Other investments of £0.9m (2011: £0.9m) comprise equity securities classiﬁed as available-for-sale and are included at cost, as fair value cannot 
be measured reliably.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 86
Notes to the Group Accounts
17. Inventories 2012
£m
2011
£m
Raw materials 33.3 28.0
Work in progress 24.0 27.7
Finished goods 113.2 108.9
170.5 164.6
The Group consumed £638.9m (2011: £665.2m) of inventories during the period.
18. Trade and other receivables 2012
£m
2011
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade receivables 127.0 129.4
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (2.8) (4.6)
Trade receivables - net 124.2 124.8
Other receivables 37.9 17.5
Prepayments 0.8 3.4
162.9 145.7
The ageing of the Group’s year end overdue receivables against which 
no provision has been made is as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Not impaired
Less than 3 months 19.3 19.4
3 to 6 months 0.4 0.3
Over 6 months – 0.1
19.7 19.8
The individually impaired receivables relate to customers in unexpectedly difﬁcult economic circumstances. The overdue receivables against which no 
provision has been made relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default nor any other indication that settlement will not 
be forthcoming. The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s receivables are denominated in 
the following currencies:     
2012
£m
2011
£m
Sterling
13.9
10.7
US Dollar 46.6 44.0
Euro 67.4 55.7
Other 35.0 35.3
162.9 145.7
Financial Statements 87
Movements on the Group’s provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
At 1 January 4.6 6.7
Exchange  differences (0.1) (0.1)
Released to income statement (0.3) (1.4)
Net write off of uncollectible receivables (1.4) (0.6)
At 31 December 2.8 4.6
Amounts charged to the income statement in respect of bad debts are included within administrative expenses. The other classes of receivables 
do not contain impaired assets.         
19. Trade and other payables 2012
£m
2011
£m
Trade payables 53.6 58.1
Taxation and social security 9.9 12.3
Other payables 25.8 22.0
Accruals and deferred income 47.2 67.0
136.5 159.4
20. Borrowings, other ﬁnancial liabilities and other ﬁnancial assets
This note should be read in conjunction with the further liquidity disclosures in our accounting policies note and the Financial Review on page 14.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current assets
Investments 0.9 15.4
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) 162.1 142.3
163.0 157.7
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (excluding taxation, social security,  
accruals and deferred income) 79.4 80.1
Other unsecured bank loans and overdrafts due within one year or on demand 5.1 7.2
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 0.3 0.3
84.8 87.6
Non-current liabilities
2010 Club facility due 2015 177.8 182.4
$100m ﬁxed rate 10 year bond 61.9 64.5
Other unsecured bank loans 16.1 20.7
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 0.3 0.3
256.1 267.9
The Club facility was put in place in November 2010 and falls due for repayment upon expiry of the agreement in May 2015. Interest is charged at 
a ﬂoating rate based on LIBOR or EURIBOR, depending upon the drawdown currency, plus a variable margin. The margin the Group pays on its 
borrowings over and above standard rates is determined by the Group’s net debt to EBITDA ratio. 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 88
Notes to the Group Accounts
20. Borrowings, other ﬁnancial liabilities and other ﬁnancial assets (continued) 2012
£m
2011
£m
Maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial liabilities
Repayments fall due as follows:
Within one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 5.1 7.2
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 0.3 0.3
5.4 7.5
After more than one year
Loans repayable
Within two to ﬁve years 193.9 203.1
Five years and over 61.9 64.5
Obligations under ﬁnance leases payable between years two and ﬁve 0.3 0.3
256.1 267.9
The minimum lease payments under ﬁnance leases fall due as follows:
Within one year 0.3 0.3
Within two to ﬁve years 0.4 0.4
0.7 0.7
Future ﬁnance charges on ﬁnance leases (0.1) (0.1)
Present value of ﬁnance lease liabilities 0.6 0.6
Undiscounted maturity analysis of ﬁnancial liabilities
Within one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 5.2 7.4
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 0.3 0.3
5.5 7.7
After more than one year
Loans repayable
Within two to ﬁve years 200.4 216.7
Five years and over 87.8 94.9
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 0.4 0.4
288.6 312.0
The analysis above includes estimated interest payable to maturity on the underlying loans. For the loans due after more than one year £6.4m 
(2011: £7.8m) of the interest falls due within one year of the balance sheet date, £6.5m (2011: £7.9m) within one to two years, £12.2m (2011: £17.0m) 
within two to ﬁve years and £7.4m (2011: £11.4m) beyond ﬁve years. 
Financial Statements 89
Interest rate and currency proﬁle of  
Group ﬁnancial liabilities Total
£m
Fixed
£m
Floating
£m
                 Fixed Rate
                  Weighted Average
Interest 
Rate %
Fixed Period
Years
Sterling 78.4 – 78.4 – –
US Dollar 87.8 61.9 25.9 5.94 7.1
Euro 93.2 – 93.2 – –
Other 2.1 – 2.1 – –
At 31 December 2012 261.5 61.9 199.6 5.94 7.1
Sterling 88.3 – 88.3 – –
US Dollar 92.9 64.5 28.4 5.94 8.1
Euro 92.3 – 92.3 – –
Other 1.9 – 1.9 – –
At 31 December 2011 275.4 64.5 210.9 5.94 8.1
Fair values
The table below details a comparison of the book and fair values of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. Where there are no readily available market 
values to determine fair values, cash ﬂows relating to the various instruments have been discounted at prevailing interest and exchange rates to give an 
estimate of fair value.
Book
Value
2012
£m
Fair
Value 
2012
£m
Book
Value 
2011
£m
Fair
Value 
2011
£m
Cash deposits 53.8 53.8 44.3 44.3
Other investments 0.9 0.9 15.4  15.4
2010 Club facility due 2015 (177.8) (177.8) (182.4) (182.4)
$100m ﬁxed rate 10 year bond (61.9) (71.9) (64.5) (74.1)
Other bank borrowings (21.2) (21.2) (27.9) (27.9)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases (0.6) (0.6) (0.6) (0.6)
For ﬁnancial instruments with a remaining life of greater than one year, fair values are based on cash ﬂows discounted at prevailing interest rates. 
Accordingly, the fair value of cash deposits and short term borrowings approximates to the book value due to the short maturity of these  
instruments. The same applies to trade and other receivables and payables excluded from the above analysis.     
As noted in the accounting policies note on page 90, the Group’s management of its currency risk includes the use of forward foreign currency 
contracts. The fair value of the contracts in place at 31 December 2012 was zero (2011: £(0.3)m).
Financial instruments        
Effective 1 January 2009, the Group adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 for ﬁnancial instruments that are measured in the balance sheet at fair 
value. This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following hierarchy:
- Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1)
- Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly  
   (that is, derived from prices) (level 2)        
- Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).   
All of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments are classiﬁed as level 3.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 90
Notes to the Group Accounts
20. Borrowings, other ﬁnancial liabilities and other ﬁnancial assets (continued)
Borrowing facilities
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had undrawn committed facilities of £204.2m (2011: £201.5m), all expiring in more than two years. In addition 
the Group had other undrawn facilities of £67.4m (2011: £65.5m) available.
Financial risk factors        
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial risks: currency risk, interest-rate risk, liquidity risk, and credit risk. The Group’s overall risk 
management strategy is approved by the Board and implemented and reviewed by the Risk Management Committee. Detailed ﬁnancial risk 
management is then delegated to the Group Finance department which has a speciﬁc policy manual that sets out guidelines to manage ﬁnancial risk. 
Regular reports are received from all operating companies to enable prompt identiﬁcation of ﬁnancial risks so that appropriate action may be taken.
In the management and deﬁnition of capital the Group includes ordinary and preference share capital and net debt.
Currency risk       
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to currency risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US 
Dollar and the Euro. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in 
foreign operations. Entities in the Group use forward contracts and foreign currency bank balances to manage their foreign exchange risk arising 
from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities. The Group’s risk management policy is to hedge transactional risk up to 
three months forward. The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation 
risk. Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations is not speciﬁcally hedged but is reduced primarily through 
borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies where it is efﬁcient to do so.
For 2012, had the Group’s basket of reporting currencies been 10% weaker/stronger than the actual rates experienced, post-tax proﬁt for the year 
would have been £11.6m (2011: £11.0m) lower/higher than reported, primarily as a result of the translation of the proﬁts of the Group’s overseas 
entities, and equity would have been £17.4m (2011: £20.0m) lower/higher.
Interest rate risk
The Group has both interest bearing assets and liabilities. The Group has a policy of maintaining at least 50% of its gross borrowings at ﬂoating 
interest rates and at 31 December 2012 over 75% of Group borrowings were at ﬂoating rates. During 2010 the Group issued a ten year ﬁxed rate 
$100m loan note. The loan note is repayable in 2020 and carries a ﬁxed rate of 5.94%. 
As at 31 December 2012, aside from the $100m loan note, all Group debt and cash was exposed to repricing within 12 months of the balance 
sheet date.
At 31 December 2012, the Group’s ﬁxed rate debt was at a weighted average rate of 5.94% (2011: 5.94%). The Group’s ﬂoating rate liabilities are 
predominantly based on LIBOR and its overseas equivalents.
Based on the above, had interest rates moved by 10 basis points in the territories where the Group has substantial borrowings, post tax proﬁts 
would have moved by £0.2m (2011: £0.2m) due to increased interest expense on the Group’s ﬂoating rate borrowings.
Liquidity risk
The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and short-term committed facilities designed to ensure the Group has sufﬁcient funds available for 
operations and planned investments. The Group also has a share buyback programme which is managed to ensure the efﬁciency of the Group’s funding 
structure.
On a regular basis, management monitors forecasts of the Group’s cash ﬂows against both internal targets and those targets imposed by external 
lenders. The Group has substantial committed, unused facilities and the directors are conﬁdent this situation will remain the case for the foreseeable 
future.
Credit risk        
The Group has no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk. It has policies in place to ensure that sales of products are made to customers with an 
appropriate credit history. Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high-credit quality ﬁnancial institutions. The Group has policies that 
limit the amount of credit exposure to any ﬁnancial institution.
Financial Statements 91
Capital risk management        
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for 
shareholders and beneﬁts for other stakeholders, as well as maintaining an optimal capital structure to reduce overall cost of capital.
In order to maintain this optimal structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid, issue new shares, return capital to shareholders 
or dispose of assets to reduce net debt. Given the Group’s strong balance sheet and sustained trading growth, the Group announced a new 
dividend policy in 2011 of paying a dividend of between 40% and 50% of sustainable earnings. Further details can be found in the Chairman’s 
statement on pages 2 and 3.
Underlying growth coupled to Return on Invested Capital (ROIC*) is the key perceived driver of shareholder value within the Group. The acquisition 
of Uniqema in 2006 reduced the ROIC, but also reduced Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC+) since the deal was predominantly ﬁnanced 
through debt. The Group’s ROIC has grown steadily since the acquisition and now stands at 23.8% against a WACC of 6.8%, thus hitting the 
Group’s target of maintaining ROIC at a higher level than the WACC. In addition, the Group employs two widely used ratios to measure our ability 
to service our debt. Both net debt/EBITDA and EBITDA interest cover were well ahead of target in 2012. The Group was in compliance with its 
covenant requirements throughout the year. Additional information on performance against key performance indicators can be found in the 
Financial review on page 15.
*ROIC = Group proﬁt after tax (before exceptional items)/average invested capital**. 
+WACC = weighted average cost of servicing the Group’s net debt and its equity share capital 
** Average invested capital = average net assets of the Group (as at the start and end of the year) adjusted to add back net debt,  
retirement beneﬁt liabilities, tax balances and provisions.
21. Provisions      Environmental
£m
Restructuring
£m
Other
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2012 14.0 4.5 5.2 23.7
Exchange differences –  – (0.1) (0.1)
Charged to income statement 3.8 – 1.0 4.8
Cash paid against provisions (0.9) (1.6) (0.7) (3.2)
At 31 December 2012 16.9 2.9 5.4 25.2
Analysis of total provisions 2012
£m
2011
£m
Current 7.9 8.8
Non-current 17.3 14.9
25.2 23.7
Provisions are made where a constructive or legal obligation has arisen from a past event, can be quantiﬁed and where the timing of the transfer of 
economic beneﬁts relating to the provisions cannot be ascertained with any degree of certainty.
The environmental provision relates to soil and potential ground water contamination on a number of sites, both currently in use and previously occupied, 
in Europe and the Americas. Restructuring provisions relate to the remaining employee and property costs associated with the ﬁnal elements of the 
Uniqema integration plan.
In relation to the environmental provision, the directors consider that the balance will be utilised within 20 years. Provisions for remediation costs are 
made when there is a present obligation, it is probable that expenditures for remediation work will be required and the cost can be estimated within a 
reasonable range of possible outcomes. The costs are based on currently available facts and prior experience. Environmental liabilities are recorded at 
the estimated amount at which the liability could be settled at the balance sheet date. Remediation of environmental damage typically takes a long time 
to complete due to the substantial amount of planning and regulatory approvals normally required before remediation activities can begin. In addition, 
increases in or releases of environmental provisions may be necessary whenever new developments occur or additional information becomes available. 
Consequently, environmental provisions can change signiﬁcantly. With regard to the restructuring provision, the directors’ view is that the balance will 
be fully utilised by 2014. Based on information currently available and on the detailed plans established for the restructuring of the Group, this level of 
provision is considered appropriate by the directors.  The Group has considered the impact of discounting on its provisions and has concluded that, as a 
consequence of the signiﬁcant utilisation expected in a relatively short timescale, the impact is immaterial.
The level of environmental provision is based on management’s best estimate of the most likely outcome for each individual exposure. 
Management has also assessed the worst possible case for each exposure and is conﬁdent that the Group’s ﬁnancial position would not be 
signiﬁcantly affected if each case were to require this worst case settlement. 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 92
Notes to the Group Accounts
22. Ordinary share capital
Ordinary shares of 10p
2012
£m
2011
£m
Authorised at 1 January and 31 December
230,744,890 ordinary shares of 10p each  (2011: 230,744,890) 23.1 23.1
Allotted, called up and fully paid at 1 January and 31 December
139,949,969 ordinary shares of 10p each (2011: 139,949,969) 14.0 14.0
In 2012 options were granted to employees under the Croda Savings-Related Share Option Scheme to subscribe for 75,255 ordinary shares at an 
option price of 1942p per share and under the Croda International Overseas Sharesave Scheme to subscribe for 179,182 shares at an option price 
of 1942p per share. No options were granted in 2012 under the Senior Executive Share Option Scheme. No-cost options to subscribe for 92,981 
ordinary shares were granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan during the year and no-cost options over a further 164,951 shares were granted 
under the Bonus Co-Investment Plan.
During the year consideration of £1.1m was received on the exercise of options over 291,309 shares. The options were satisﬁed with shares 
transferred from the Group’s employee share trusts. Since the year end a further 12,331 shares have been transferred from the schemes.
There are outstanding options to subscribe for ordinary shares as follows:
Year option 
granted
Number
of shares
Price Options exercisable from
Croda Savings-Related Share Option Scheme
2009 4,833 533p 1 November 2012 to 30 April 2013
2010 82,784 1144p 1 November 2013 to 30 April 2014
2011 83,801 1432p 1 November 2014 to 30 April 2015
2012 74,830 1942p 1 November 2015 to 30 April 2016
Croda International Overseas Sharesave Scheme
2010 260,596 1144p 1 November 2013 to 30 November 2013
2011 200,396 1432p 1 November 2014 to 30 November 2014
2012 172,289 1942p 1 November 2015 to 30 November 2015
Croda International Senior
Executive Share Option Schemes 2003 7,610 230p 5 March 2006 to 4 March 2013
Croda International Long-term Incentive Plan
2010 212,991 Nil 24 February 2013 to 23 February 2014
2011 144,487 Nil 23 February 2014 to 22 February 2015
2012 92,981 Nil 22 February 2015 to 21 February 2016
Croda International Bonus Co-Investment Plan
2010 220,121 Nil 29 April 2013
2011 201,422 Nil 3 May 2014
2011 2,556 Nil 27 May 2014
2012 164,951 Nil 30 April 2015
Financial Statements 93
23. Share based payments
The impact of share based payment transactions on the Group’s ﬁnancial position is as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Analysis of amounts recognised in income statement:
Charged in respect of equity-settled share based payment transactions 3.8 3.3
Charged in respect of cash-settled share based payment transactions 9.5 7.2
13.3 10.5
Analysis of amounts recognised in balance sheet:
Liability in respect of cash-settled share based payment transactions 10.6 11.9
The key elements of each scheme along with the assumptions employed to arrive at the charge in the income statement are set out below. 
Where appropriate the expected volatility has been based on historic volatility considering daily share price movements over periods equal to the 
expected future life of the awards and the risk free rate is based on the Bank of England’s projected nominal yield curve with appropriate duration.
Croda Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”)
The SAYE scheme, established in 1983, grants options annually in September to employees of the Group at a ﬁxed exercise price, being the market price 
of the Company’s shares at the grant date discounted by up to 20%. Employees then enter into a savings contract over three to ﬁve years and, subject to 
continued employment, purchase options at the end of the period based on the amount saved. Options are then exercisable for a 6 month period 
following completion of the savings contract. As the option is equity settled, under IFRS 2 charges are only made in respect of options granted after  7 
November 2002. For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
Grant date 2012 2011
Share price at grant date 2427p 1789p
Exercise price 1942p 1432p
Number of employees 483 436
Shares under option 75,255 88,371
Vesting period 3 years 3 years
Expected volatility 30% 35%
Option life 6 months 6 months
Expected life – –
Risk free rate 0.4% 0.8%
Dividend yield 2.4% 2.8%
Possibility of forfeiture 7.5% p.a. 7.5% p.a.
Fair value per option at grant date 627p 520p
Option pricing model Black Scholes Black Scholes
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 94
Notes to the Group Accounts
23. Share based payments (continued)
A reconciliation of option movements over
the period is as follows: Number
2012
Weighted
average exercise 
price (p) Number
2011
Weighted
average exercise  
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 332,421 934 403,639 664 
Granted 75,255 1942 88,371 1432 
Forfeited (12,338) 1074 (15,421) 732 
Exercised (146,139) 542 (144,168) 504 
Outstanding at 31 December 249,199 1462 332,421 934 
Exercisable at 31 December 7,692 533 4,722 509 
For options exercised in year, weighted average  
share price at date of exercise 2146  1703 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 2.2 2.1
Croda International Overseas Sharesave Scheme (“International”)
The International scheme, established in 1999, has the same option pricing model, savings contract and vesting period as the SAYE scheme. At exercise, 
employees are paid a cash equivalent for each option purchased, being the difference between the exercise price and market price at the exercise date. 
As the scheme is cash settled, IFRS 2 applies to all options in existence during the year, regardless of grant date. For options granted in the year, the fair 
value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
Grant date 2012 2011
Share price at grant date 2427p 1789p
Exercise price 1942p 1432p
Number of employees 1,135 1,021
Shares under option 179,182 224,897
Vesting period 3 years 3 years
Expected volatility 30% 30%
Option life 1 month 1 month
Expected life – –
Risk free rate 0.4% 0.4%
Dividend yield 2.4% 2.8%
Possibility of forfeiture 7.5% p.a. 7.5% p.a.
Fair value per option at grant date 580p 453p
Option pricing model Black Scholes Black Scholes
Financial Statements 95
A reconciliation of option movements over
the period is as follows: Number
2012
Weighted
average exercise 
price (p) Number
2011
Weighted
average exercise  
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 802,772 1009 815,529 756 
Granted 179,182 1942 224,897 1432 
Forfeited (62,958) 1158 (39,361) 681 
Exercised (279,950) 563 (198,293) 512 
Outstanding at 31 December 639,046 1452 802,772 1009 
For options exercised in year, weighted average  
share price at date of exercise 2106  1705 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 1.8 1.8
Croda International Senior Executive Share Option Schemes (“Executive”)
The Group previously granted options to senior employees each year which are subject to satisfaction of performance conditions before they can be 
exercised. As with the SAYE scheme, the Executive Scheme is equity settled and as a consequence only the options granted in 2003 fall within the scope of 
IFRS 2. No further options will be granted under this scheme. 
A reconciliation of option movements over 
the period is as follows Number
2012
Weighted
average exercise 
price (p) Number
2011
Weighted
average exercise  
price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 163,410 233 297,045 234 
Exercised (145,170) 234 (133,635) 235 
Outstanding at 31 December 18,240 230 163,410 233 
Exercisable at 31 December 18,240 230 163,410 233 
For options exercised in year, weighted average  
share price at date of exercise 2213  1704 
Weighted average remaining life at 31 December (years) 0.3 1.1
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 96
Notes to the Group Accounts
23. Share based payments (continued)
Croda International Long-T erm Investment Plan (“L TIP”)
The L TIP was established in 2005 and grants no cost options to senior employees which vest after 3 years dependent upon an EPS performance related 
sliding scale (non-market condition) and the Group’s total shareholder return (market condition). The L TIP is discussed in detail in the directors’
remuneration report (page 44). For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value 
are as follows:
Market condition
2012
Non-market  
condition Market condition
   2011
Non-market  
condition
Grant date 22 February 2012 22 February 2012 23 February 2011 23 February 2011
Share price at grant date 2171p 2171p 1588p 1588p
Number of employees 12 12 20 20
Shares under option 46,490 46,491 72,243 72,244
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Option life 1 year 1 year 1 year 1 year
Expected life –– ––
Dividend yield 2.6% 2.6% 2.2% 2.2%
Possibility of forfeiture 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5%
Fair value per option at grant date 1178p 1989p 924p 1488p
Option pricing model
Closed form  
valuation
Closed form  
valuation
Closed form  
valuation
Closed form  
valuation
A reconciliation of option movements over
the period is as follows: Number
2012
Weighted average  
exercise price (p) Number
2011
Weighted average  
exercise price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 686,997 – 845,701 –
Granted 92,981 – 144,487 –
Forfeited (3,134) –     – –
Exercised (326,385) – (303,191) –
Outstanding at 31 December 450,459 – 686,997 –
For options exercised in year, weighted  
average share price at date of exercise 2245  1805 
Weighted average remaining life at  
31 December (years) 1.9 1.9
Financial Statements 97
Bonus Co-Investment Plan (“BCIP”)
The BCIP was established in 2005 and grants no cost options to senior employees which vest after 3 years dependent upon a performance related 
condition. The BCIP is discussed in detail in the directors’ remuneration report (page 44). For options granted in the year, the fair value per option granted 
and the assumptions used in the calculation of the value are as follows:
Grant date 30 April 2012 3 May 2011
Share price at grant date 2262p 1881p
Number of employees 75 67
Shares under option 164,951 203,978
Vesting period 3 years 3 years
Dividend yield 2.2% 1.9%
Possibility of forfeiture 5.0% 5.0%
Fair value per option at grant date 2145p 1787p
A reconciliation of option movements over
the period is as follows: Number
2012
Weighted average  
exercise price (p) Number
2011
Weighted average  
exercise price (p)
Outstanding at 1 January 762,022 – 750,801 –
Granted 164,951 – 203,978 –
Forfeited (6,761) – (7,177) –
Exercised (331,162) – (185,580) –
Outstanding at 31 December 589,050 – 762,022 –
For options exercised in year, weighted  
average share price at date of exercise  2262   1881 
Weighted average remaining life at  
31 December (years) 1.2 1.2
Croda International Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”)
The SIP was established in 2003 and has similar objectives to the SAYE scheme in terms of increasing employee retention and share ownership. Under 
the SIP scheme, employees enter into an agreement to purchase shares in the Company each month. For each share purchased by an employee, the 
Company awards a matching share which passes to the employee after three years’ service. The matching shares are allocated each month at market 
value with this fair value charge being recognised in the income statement in full in the year of allocation.
24. Preference share capital
2012
£000
2011
£000
The authorised, issued and fully paid preference share capital comprises:
615,562 5.9% preference shares of £1 616 616
499,174 6.6% preference shares of £1 499 499
21,900 7.5% preference shares of £1 22 22
1,137 1,137
The preference shares have no redemption rights and carry no voting rights other than in certain circumstances affecting the rights of the 
preference shareholders, details of which are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association. The three classes of preference shares rank pari 
passu with each other but ahead of the ordinary shares on winding up. Rights on a winding up are limited to repayment of capital and any 
arrears of dividends.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 102 98
Notes to the Group Accounts
25. Shareholders’ equity
Investments in own shares represent the Croda International Plc Qualifying Share Ownership T rust (QUEST), the Croda International Plc Employee Beneﬁt 
T rust (CIPEBT) and the Croda International Plc AESOP T rust (AESOP), which each hold shares purchased on the open market or transferred from T reasury 
Shares to satisfy the future issue of shares under the Group’s share option schemes. As at 31 December 2012 the QUEST had a net amount due from the 
Company of £1.1m (2011: £0.3m due to the Company) and held 0.1m (2011: 0.2m) shares transferred at nil cost (2011: nil cost) with a market value of £2.2m 
(2011: £4.3m). As at 31 December 2012 the CIPEBT was ﬁnanced by a repayable on demand loan from the Company of £3.9m (2011: £4.3m) and held 
0.3m (2011: 0.9m) shares transferred at a nil cost (2011: nil cost) with a market value of £6.1m (2011: £15.4m). 
As at 31 December 2012 the AESOP had issued all its previously held shares, as ﬁnanced by the Company, and thus had no residual loan balance with the 
Company. All of the shares held by the QUEST and CIPEBT were under option at 31 December 2012 and, except for a nominal amount, the right to receive 
dividends has been waived.
26. Non-controlling interests
2012
£m
2011
£m
At 1 January 0.1 1.1
Exchange differences – 0.1
Disposals – (1.1)
At 31 December 0.1 0.1
In January 2011, the Group completed the sale of Croda Woobang, its 60% owned Korean joint venture, to the minority shareholders.
27. Related party transactions
The Group has no related party transactions, with the exception of remuneration paid to key management and directors which is included in note 10.
28. Business combinations
On 27 July 2012, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Istituto di Ricerche Biotecnologiche (IRB) for a consideration of €7.7m. IRB is an Italian 
technology company specialising in plant cell culture biotechnology. 
The focus of the business is the development and commercialisation of products originating from plant cell culture biotechnology for use in personal 
care applications. Plant cell culture biotechnology is a key new sustainable technology that will be of great value to Croda. Under Croda ownership the 
business will retain its independence but the products will be sold under the Sederma brand. In combination with the existing technical expertise of 
Sederma, the focus will be to continue exploiting the technology in the personal care market, using the Group’s global selling network. Sales and proﬁts 
will thus be expected to grow substantially from their current levels (at current levels IRB would have contributed less than 1% to Group sales and proﬁts 
had it been a member of the Group for the full year). 
The following table summarises the consideration paid for IRB and the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Pending completion of the review of 
acquired intangible assets, the surplus of net consideration over total identiﬁable net assets has been added to goodwill.
£m
Consideration
Gross consideration 6.3
Adjustment for borrowings assumed (1.1)
Net consideration 5.2
Assets and liabilities acquired
Property, plant and equipment 0.1
Intangible assets 0.7
Inventories 0.8
Trade and other receivables 0.5
Cash and cash equivalents (1.1)
Trade and other payables (0.7)
Total identiﬁable net assets 0.3
Goodwill 4.9
Acquisition-related costs of £0.1m have been charged to administration expenses in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012. 
On 20 December 2012, the Group completed the acquisition of the trade and assets of Innovachem LLC, a US technology company specialising in cosmetic 
esters, for $2.8m.There are no tangible assets associated with the acquisition and pending completion of the review of the acquired intangible assets, the 
consideration paid has been added to Group goodwill.
Financial Statements 103
Croda International Plc
Parent Company Financial Statements 
Pages 100 to 107 represent the separate financial 
statements of Croda International Plc as required by 
the Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”).
These financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the Act and UK accounting standards 
and are thus presented separately to the Group financial 
statements which have been prepared in accordance 
with International Accounting Standards.
99 100
Company Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Croda International Plc 
We have audited the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Croda 
International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the 
Company balance sheet, the Company  accounting policies and the 
related notes. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities statement set out 
on page 60, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent 
company ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
parent company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the 
Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of 
the companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.  We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to 
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in 
the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable assurance that the 
ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. In addition, we read all the 
ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the annual report to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited ﬁnancial statements. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the parent company ﬁnancial statements: 
 give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2012;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:  
 the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
  the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial year for 
which the parent company ﬁnancial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the parent company ﬁnancial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the 
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:   
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or 
 the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not
made; or 
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require
for our audit. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group ﬁnancial statements of Croda 
International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Richard Bunter  
(Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, Hull
1 March 2013
Financial Statements 101
Company Balance Sheet
at 31 December 2012
Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets C 1.8 1.7
Investments
      Subsidiary undertakings D 593.4 573.1
      Other E 0.6 0.6
595.8 575.4
Current assets
Debtors F 23.4 10.1
Cash at bank and in hand 13.4 3.7
36.8 13.8
Current liabilities
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year G (13.9) (40.5)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 22.9 (26.7)
Total assets less current liabilities 618.7 548.7
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year G (234.1) (260.2)
Net assets 384.6 288.5
Capital and reserves
Preference share capital 24 1.1 1.1
Ordinary share capital 22 14.0 14.0
Called up share capital 15.1 15.1
Share premium account J 93.3 93.3
Reserves J 276.2 180.1
Shareholders’ funds 384.6 288.5
The ﬁnancial statements on pages 101 to 107 were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2013 and signed on its behalf by
Martin Flower  Sean Christie
Chairman Group Finance Director
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 102
Company Accounting Policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these ﬁnancial statements are set out below. They have all been applied consistently 
throughout the year and the preceding year, unless otherwise stated.
Accounting basis
The ﬁnancial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the 
requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards. Whilst the consolidated 
accounts have been prepared under IFRS, as required by European law, the Company’s accounts continue to be prepared under UK GAAP as permitted.
Land and buildings
In the past the Company’s principal properties have been valued periodically by professional valuers on an open market, existing use basis. Following the 
Company’s adoption of FRS 15 in 2001, no further revaluations will be carried out and previous book values will be retained. Notwithstanding the 
requirements of FRS 15 all ﬁxed assets are written down to their recoverable amount in the event that any impairment review carried out in accordance 
with FRS 11 indicates that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value. The proﬁt or loss on the disposal of land and buildings included in the 
proﬁt and loss account represents the difference between the net proceeds of sale and the net book amount.
Depreciation
T angible ﬁxed assets are stated at cost or valuation less depreciation, where cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs 
attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write down the cost of all 
tangible ﬁxed assets, except freehold land, over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis. The estimated average life for each major asset 
category is:
Freehold buildings – 15 to 40 years 
Computers and ofﬁce equipment – 3 to 5 years
Cars – 3 years
Plant and machinery – 10 to 15 years
Leased assets
The cost of operating leases is charged to the proﬁt and loss account on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Pensions
The deﬁned beneﬁt pension obligations of the Company are ﬁnanced by contributions to separate funds. As the Company is unable to reliably and 
consistently measure its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the funds, the Company accounts as though the funds were deﬁned contribution 
funds and charges contributions paid directly to the proﬁt and loss account.
Currency translations
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the ﬁnancial period. Exchange proﬁts or losses on trading 
transactions are included in the proﬁt and loss account. Other exchange differences arising from non-trading items are dealt with through reserves.
Financial instruments
The Company uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rates and short-term currency rate ﬂuctuations. 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are recorded initially at cost. Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument as either: (i) a hedge of 
the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a ﬁrm commitment (fair value hedge); or (ii) a hedge of highly probable forecast transactions (cash ﬂow hedge);
(i)  Fair value hedge
Changes in the fair value of derivatives, for example interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts, that are designated and qualify as fair value 
hedges are recorded in the proﬁt and loss account, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the 
hedged risk.
(ii)  Cash ﬂow hedge
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ﬂow hedges are recognised in equity. The gain or 
loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the proﬁt and loss account. Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the proﬁt 
and loss account in the periods when the hedged item will affect proﬁt or loss (for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). However, 
when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-ﬁnancial asset (for example, inventory) or a liability, the gains and losses 
previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. When a hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time 
remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the proﬁt and loss account. When a forecast transaction is no 
longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the proﬁt and loss account.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting are recognised immediately in the proﬁt and loss account.
Financial Statements 103
Employee Share Ownership Trusts
Shares acquired by the T rustees, funded by the Company and held for the continuing beneﬁt of the Company are shown as a reduction in shareholders’ 
funds. Movements in the year arising from additional purchases by the T rustees of shares or the receipt of funds due to the exercise of options by 
employees are accounted for within reserves and shown as a movement in shareholders’ funds in the year. Administration expenses of the trusts are 
charged to the Company’s proﬁt and loss account as incurred.
Share based payments
Share based incentive schemes are accounted for in accordance with FRS20 ‘Share-based Payments’, which requires an expense to be recognised in the 
proﬁt and loss account over the vesting period of the options. The expense is based on the fair value of each instrument which is calculated using the 
Black-Scholes or binomial model as appropriate. Any expense is adjusted to reﬂect expected and actual levels of options vesting, as market-based 
performance criteria are not used.
Dividends
All dividends, including preference dividends, are recognised as a liability when the liability is irrevocable. Accordingly, ﬁnal dividends are recognised 
when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are recognised when paid.
T axation  
The charge for taxation is based on the proﬁt for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of 
certain items for taxation and other accounting purposes. Timing differences arise from the inclusion of proﬁts and losses in the accounts in different 
periods from which they are recognised in tax assessments and primarily arise as a result of the difference between tax allowances on tangible ﬁxed 
assets and the corresponding depreciation charge, and upon the pension fund deﬁcit. Full provision is made for the tax effects of these differences. No 
provision is made for unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries where there is no commitment to remit such earnings. Similarly, no provision is made for 
timing differences relating to investments in subsidiaries since realisation of such differences can be controlled and is not probable in the foreseeable 
future. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁt will be available against which the timing differences 
can be utilised. All taxation is calculated on the basis of the tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.  
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the 
redemption value is recognised in the proﬁt and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. Borrowings are 
classiﬁed as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance 
sheet date.
Trade and other debtors
T rade and other debtors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less 
impairment losses.
Investments
Shares in subsidiary undertakings
Shares in subsidiary undertakings are initially stated at cost. Provision is made where, in the opinion of the Directors, a permanent diminution in value has 
occurred.
Unquoted securities
Investments in unquoted securities are carried at fair value unless such value cannot be reliably measured, in which case the investments are carried 
at cost.  
Financial risk factors
The Group accounting policy for ﬁnancial risk factors is also relevant to the preparation of the Company ﬁnancial statements and is disclosed on 
pages 90 and 91.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 104
Notes to the Company Accounts 
A. Proﬁt and loss account
Of the Group’s proﬁt for the year, £167.4m (2011: £256.9m) is dealt with in the proﬁt and loss account of the Company which was approved by the Board 
on 1 March 2013 but which is not presented as permitted by s.408 Companies Act 2006. Included in the Company proﬁt and loss account is a charge of 
£0.1m (2011: £0.1m) in respect of the Company’s audit fee.
B. Retirement beneﬁt obligations
The Company’s employees are members of the UK deﬁned beneﬁt schemes, details of which are disclosed in note 12 to the Group accounts. Whilst the 
Group reports under IFRS, the UK GAAP equivalent ﬁgures for the UK schemes would not be signiﬁcantly different. As the Company is unable to identify its 
share of the underlying assets and liabilities of of the schemes, due mainly to changes in the Group’s corporate structure over the years, the Company has 
accounted as though the schemes were deﬁned contribution schemes and has charged the contributions paid each year to the proﬁt and loss account.
C. T angible ﬁxed assets Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
equipment
£m
Total 
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2012 2.1 1.6 3.7
Additions – 0.6 0.6
Disposals (0.4) (0.3) (0.7)
At 31 December 2012 1.7 1.9 3.6
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2012 1.3 0.7 2.0
Charge for year 0.1 0.2 0.3
Disposals (0.4) (0.1) (0.5)
At 31 December 2012 1.0 0.8 1.8
Net book amount
At 31 December 2012 0.7 1.1 1.8
At 31 December 2011 0.8 0.9 1.7
2012
£m
2011
£m
Net book amount of land and buildings
Freehold 0.7 0.8
Historical cost of land and buildings
Cost 0.3 0.3
1988 valuations 1.4 1.8
At 31 December 1.7 2.1
Revaluation surpluses (1.1) (1.1)
Restated to historical cost 0.6 1.0
Depreciation (0.5) (0.8)
Historical net book amount
At 31 December 0.1 0.2
Financial Statements 105
D. Subsidiary undertakings Shares
£m
Loans
£m
Total 
£m
Cost less amounts written off
At 1 January 2012 345.3 227.8 573.1
Exchange differences – (2.3) (2.3)
Additions 17.7 29.9 47.6
Amounts repaid – (25.0) (25.0)
At 31 December 2012 363.0 230.4 593.4
The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 108.
The directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
E. Investments Other investments 
£m
Cost or valuation of net equity
At 1 January 2012 and 31 December 2012 0.6
Other investments comprise unlisted investments included at directors’ valuation based on appropriate attributable net assets.
F . Debtors 2012
£m
2011
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 2.1 1.0
Corporation tax 20.8 8.3
Other debtors 0.2 0.4
Prepayments 0.3 0.4
23.4 10.1
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 106
Notes to the Company Accounts
G. Creditors 2012
£m
2011
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings (note H) 5.5 27.4
Trade creditors 0.2 0.3
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – 2.2
Taxation and social security 2.7 2.1
Other creditors 4.9 4.8
Accruals and deferred income 0.6 3.7
13.9 40.5
Amounts falling due after one year
Borrowings (note H) 177.8 182.4
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 56.3 77.8
234.1 260.2
H. Financial instruments and liabilities
The Company’s objectives, policies and strategies in respect of ﬁnancial instruments are outlined in the accounting policies note on page 102 which forms 
part of the annual report and accounts. Short term debtors and creditors have been excluded from all of the following disclosures.
2012
£m
2011
£m
Maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial liabilities
2010 Club facility due 2015 177.8 182.4
Bank loans and overdrafts repayable on demand 5.5 27.4
183.3 209.8
Repayments fall due as follows
Within one year
Bank loans and overdrafts 5.5 27.4
5.5 27.4
After more than one year
Loans repayable
Within two to ﬁve years 177.8 182.4
177.8 182.4
Financial Statements 107
I. Share based payments
The total charge for the year in respect of share based remuneration schemes was £3.5m (2011: £3.5m). The grant by the Company of options over its 
equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution. The fair value of employee services 
received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary 
undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity. 
The key elements of each scheme along with the assumptions employed to arrive at the charge in the proﬁt and loss account are set out in note 23 to the 
Group ﬁnancial statements. 
J. Reserves Share
premium
account
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Revaluation
reserve
£m
Proﬁt & loss
account
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2012 93.3 0.9 2.1 177.1 273.4
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year – – – 167.4 167.4
Other gains and losses – – – 0.3 0.3
Dividends – – – (76.8) (76.8)
Share based payments – – – 4.1 4.1
Consideration received for sale of own shares 
(held in trust) – – – 1.1 1.1
At 31 December 2012 93.3 0.9 2.1 273.2 369.5
Details of investments in own shares are disclosed in note 25 of the Group ﬁnancial statements.
K. Contingent liabilities
The Company has guaranteed loan capital and bank overdrafts of subsidiary undertakings amounting to £78.4m (2011: £85.2m).
L. Dividends
Details of dividends are disclosed in note 9 of the Group ﬁnancial statements.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 108
Principal Subsidiary Companies
Other Information
Principal operating companies Incorporated and/or Group beneﬁcial
principally operating in interest %
Croda Europe Ltd*† UK 100
John L Seaton & Co Ltd UK 100
Croda Argentina SA Argentina 100
Croda Australia Australia 100
Croda Belgium BVBA Belgium 100
Croda do Brasil Ltda† Brazil 100
Croda Canada Ltd Canada 100
Croda Chile Ltda Chile 100
Croda China T rading Company Ltd China 100
Croda T rading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China 100
Croda Colombia Colombia 100
Croda France SAS France 100
Crodarom SAS† France 100
Sederma SAS† France 100
Croda Chocques SAS† France 100
Croda GmbH Germany 100
Croda Hong Kong Company Ltd Hong Kong 100
Croda Chemicals (India) Pvt Ltd*† India 100
PT Croda Indonesia Ltd† Indonesia 100
Croda Italiana SpA Italy 100
I.R.B. - Istituto di Ricerche Biotechnologiche SpA† Italy 100
Croda Japan KK*† Japan 100
Croda México SA de CV Mexico 100
Croda Nederland B.V . † Netherlands 100
Croda Peruana S.A.C Peru 100
Croda Poland Sp. z o.o.* Poland 100
Croda Russia Russia 100
Croda Singapore Pte Ltd*† Singapore 100
Croda (SA) Pty Ltd South Africa 100
Croda Korea South Korea 100
Croda Ibérica SA † Spain 100
Croda Nordica AB Sweden 100
Croda (Thailand) Co., Ltd* Thailand 100
Croda Kimya Ticaret Sirketi T urkey 100
Croda Middle East UAE 100
Croda Inc† USA 100
Principal holding companies
Croda Overseas Holdings Ltd* UK 100
Croda Holdings France SAS France 100
Croda Investments Inc USA 100
* Companies owned directly by Croda International Plc.
Companies incorporated in the UK are registered in England.
All companies are involved in the sale of chemicals. Those companies indicated with a † are also involved in manufacturing activities. Full details of 
investments in subsidiary undertakings will be attached to the Company’s annual return made to the Registrar of Companies. Those not listed above were 
either not trading or not material. 109
Shareholder Information
Operating Heads
Stuart Arnott President – Global Operations
David Barraclough President – Asia Paciﬁc 
Sandra Breene President – Consumer Care Europe
Nick Challoner President – Latin America
Kevin Gallagher President – North America
Maarten Heybroek President – Performance T echnologies & Industrial Chemicals Europe
Graham Myers Group Financial Controller and T reasurer
Corporate Calendar 
2013 Annual General Meeting 25 April 2013
2012 Final ordinary dividend payment 31 May 2013
2013 Half year results announcement 23 July 2013
2013 Interim ordinary dividend payment 3 October 2013
2013 Preference dividend payments 1 July 2013
31 December 2013
2013 Full year results announcement February 2014
Investor Relations
Shareholders can now get up to date information on Stock Exchange announcements, key dates in the corporate calendar, the Croda share price and 
brokers’ estimates by visiting our corporate web site at www.croda.com and clicking on the section called “Investor”.
Shareholders can receive shareholder communications electronically by registering on the Registrars’ website, www.capitashareportal.com and following 
the instructions. T o register shareholders will require their investor code (IVC): this is an 11 digit number starting with ﬁve or six zeros and can be found on your 
dividend tax voucher or your share certiﬁcate. Receiving corporate communications by email has a number of beneﬁts including being more environmentally 
friendly, reducing unnecessary waste, faster notiﬁcation of information to shareholders and eventually leading to a reduction in company costs. 
Shareholders who register on the above website can also check their shareholding, view their dividend history, elect for the dividend reinvestment plan, 
register changes of address and dividend mandate instructions.
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 110
Shareholder Information
Share Price Information
As well as being available on our website, the latest ordinary share price is available on the Financial Times Cityline service (0905 817 1690) (calls cost 75 
pence per minute from a BT landline and the average duration is 1 minute per stock quote. Cost from other networks or mobile phones may be higher).
The middle market values of the listed share capital at 31 December 2012, or last date traded*, were as follows:
Ordinary shares 2357.17p
5.9% preference shares 73p*
6.6% preference shares 87p*
Capital Gains T ax
The market value of the listed share capital at 31 March 1982 were as follows:
Ordinary shares 77.5p
Deferred ordinary shares 40.5p
5.9% preference shares 42.5p
6.6% preference shares 47.5p
7.5% preference shares (estimated) 45.0p
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”)
Ordinary shareholders may wish to know about this plan, which allows you to use your dividends to buy further shares in Croda. The DRIP is administered 
by Capita IRG T rustees Ltd (“CIRGT”). CIRGT will instruct the broker to buy shares on the dividend payment date at the then current market price. Any cash left 
over which is insufﬁcient to purchase a whole share will be carried forward and held, without interest, in a client money bank account. The DRIP 
commission charged to the shareholder is 1% of the purchase price of the shares, with a minimum charge of £2.50. This is exclusive of stamp duty reserve 
tax at 0.5% of the deal value. Should you wish to apply you should request an application pack by telephoning 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute 
plus network extras; lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday) or, if calling from overseas, +44 20 8639 3399; alternatively you can email 
shares@capitaregistrars.com. 
Overseas Shareholders 
Capita has an International Payment Service that allows you to receive your dividend payments in your local currency, sent directly to your local bank 
account - potentially saving you time and money. Further details are available from Shareholder Administration, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 
Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU; telephone UK: 0871 664 0385 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 9.00am to 
5.30pm, Monday to Friday) or +44 20 8639 3405 (from outside the UK) or by logging on to www.international.capitaregistrars.com.
Share Dealing
Share dealing services are available for shareholders to either sell or buy Croda ordinary shares. For further information on these services, please contact:
UK shareholders only – Capita Share Dealing Services
www.capitadeal.com (on-line dealing)
0871 664 0364 (telephone dealing) – calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 8.00am to 4.30pm, Monday to Friday
UK & overseas shareholders – Stocktrade 
T elephone dealing 0845 601 0995 (non UK +44 131 240 0414) quoting reference Low Co0238 
For further information visit www.stocktrade.co.uk/Croda
Relating to Beneﬁcial Owners of Shares With ‘Information Rights’
Please note that beneﬁcial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under 
section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares rather than to the Company’s 
registrar, Capita Registrars, or to the Company directly.
Other Information 111
Warning to Shareholders
In recent years many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning 
investment matters. These are typically from overseas based “brokers” who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be 
worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments. These operations are commonly known as “boiler rooms”. These “brokers” can be very persistent 
and extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 
£20,000. It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way; many of the victims have been investing successfully for several years. 
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports into the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:



such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action can be considered. If you deal 
with an unauthorised ﬁrm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. The FSA can be contacted 
by completing an online form at www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/law/alerts/overseas.shtml. 
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.fsa.gov.uk/consumer. 
Secretary and Registered Ofﬁce 
T M Brophy (Company Secretary)
Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, East Yorkshire DN14 9AA 
T el: +44 (0)1405 860551 
Fax: +44 (0)1405 861767
Website: www.croda.com
Registered in England number 206132 
Registrars 
Capita Registrars 
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU
T el: 0871 664 0300 (from UK) - calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday
+ 44 20 8639 3399 (from overseas)
Fax: 01484 601512 (from UK)
+ 44 1484 601512 (from overseas)
Website: www.capitaregistrars.com
E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Merchant Bankers 
Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc
J P Morgan Cazenove
Solicitors
Slaughter & May 
Eversheds LLP
Stockbrokers 
Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc
J P Morgan Cazenove
Consulting Actuaries 
T owers Watson 
Financial PR Advisors
Pendomer Communications LLP
BUSINESS REVIEW
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION 112
Five Year Record 
Earnings 2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
†
£m
2009
†
£m
2008
†
£m
Turnover 1,051.9 1,028.0 1,001.9 827.5 911.1
Operating proﬁt 255.4 237.7 198.6 121.5 112.6
Proﬁt before tax 253.2 237.5 192.3 108.0 96.3
Proﬁt after tax 175.1 162.6 129.8 72.7 64.8
Proﬁt attributable to ordinary shareholders * 161.8 167.4 130.7 23.7 60.9
% %% % %
Operating proﬁt as a % of turnover 24.3 23.1 19.8 14.7 12.4
Return on invested capital (ROIC) 23.8 23.7 19.3 10.5 9.8
Effective tax rate 30.8 31.5 32.5 32.7 32.0
pence pence pence pence pence 
Earnings per share 130.0 120.1 96.1 53.8 48.0
Dividends per share 59.50 55.00 35.00 21.50 19.75
times times times times times
Net debt/EBITDA 0.7 0.8 1.0 1.9 2.6
EBITDA interest cover ** 36.8 33.5 26.9 9.9 6.4
* T otal Group ﬁgures, all other ﬁgures are continuing operations only.
** Excluding pension scheme net ﬁnancial income. 
†
As reported.
Earnings exclude exceptional items in order to present a clearer year on year comparison.
Summarised balance sheet 2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Intangible assets, property plant and equipment 
and investments 552.3 560.6 536.9 556.3 608.5 
Inventories 170.5 164.6 164.6 148.9 201.9
Trade and other receivables 162.9 145.7 146.2 159.0 185.8
Trade and other payables (139.2) (164.3) (183.3) (182.9) (184.5)
Other – – 0.6 – 1.1
Capital employed 746.5 706.6 665.0 681.3 812.8
Tax, provisions and other (28.7) (10.4)     (22.7) (31.1) (60.9)
Retirement beneﬁt liabilities (165.8) (198.9) (147.8) (203.5) (88.5)
552.0 497.3 494.5 446.7 663.4
Shareholders funds 344.2 266.1 273.1 156.5 263.3 
Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.1 1.1 1.7 2.0
344.3 266.2 274.2 158.2 265.3 
Net debt 207.7 231.1 220.3 288.5 398.1
552.0 497.3 494.5 446.7 663.4 
Gearing (%) 60.3 86.8 80.3 182.4 150.1
Financial Statements
