 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
Changing the way the world connects Contents
02 Financial and operational highlights
03 CSR at a glance
04 Chairman’ s statement
06 Chief Executive Officer’ s review
12 CSR’ s markets and opportunities
22 Business Review
32 Corporate Governance
36 Board of Directors
38 Directors’ report
40 Report of the Remuneration Committee
50 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
51 Independent auditors’ report
52 Consolidated income statement
52 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity
53 Consolidated balance sheet
54 Consolidated cash flow statement
55 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
82 Company statement of changes in shareholders’ equity
83 Company balance sheet
84 Company cash flow statement
85 Notes to the Company financial statements 
90 Five year summary
91 Share and corporate information
92 Glossary of industry terms
IBC CSR’ s offices CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 1 Revenue 
$487 million
+92%
Operating profit 
$112 million
+91%
Operating margin
23%
Gross margin
46.9%
Diluted EPS
$0.62 per share
+29%
Operating cash flow
$95 million
+183%
Financial and operational highlights
Revenue $’000
2002 2003
67,622
2004
253,146
2005
486,531
R&D Expenditure $’000
2002 2003 2004 2005
12,602
16,584
27,583
60,340
27,682
2 Changing the way the world connects CSR at a glance
CSR is the market leader in single chip wireless
solutions using the 2.4GHz Bluetooth personal area
network standard, designed to support data and voice
communications between a wide range of products
over short range radio links. 
In 2005, CSR’ s market share of units shipped
increased to over 50% from 45% in 2004 as the Bluetooth
market more than doubled to shipments of 317 million
units compared to 142 million units in 2004. 
During 2005, CSR significantly expanded its
operations and completed the acquisitions of Clarity
T echnologies Inc, and the software business of
UbiNetics, both of which have significantly enhanced 
the Company’ s existing products and capabilities.
Global operations
T otal number of employees 688
Sweden Lund
Denmark Aalborg
US Detroit
US Dallas
UK Cambridge
France Sophia Antipolis
Korea Seoul
Japan Tokyo
Taiwan Taipei
China Shenzhen
India Bangalore
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 3 4 Changing the way the world connects
Chairman’ s statement
2005 has proved yet another remarkable year 
for CSR. Our sales grew impressively by 92% to
$486.5 million, earnings per share rose from $0.48 
to $0.62, and our market capitalisation passed the
billion pound mark.
Such results do not come easily; they have 
been won by excellent product and application
knowledge, good organisation and systems (ERP 
is now implemented across most of the company)
and hard work by our staff and partners alike –
combined, of course, with good executive leadership.
Many events occur throughout a year which can
disrupt progress. Last year we had a major challenge;
a fire at an assembly plant belonging to our production
partner ASE. CSR and ASE staff worked highly
effectively to achieve an astonishingly quick recovery –
for which I congratulate them. 2005 also stands out 
for positive challenges, notably CSR’ s first acquisitions.
Clarity T echnologies, Inc. was acquired in March and
this was followed by the acquisition of the software
business of UbiNetics in August. Clarity T echnologies
provides innovative software to filter out background
noise and improve the quality of audio reception. 
The technology has been integrated extremely quickly
into our product offering and was available to
customers before year end. UbiNetics complements
CSR’ s skill base with extensive wireless software
know-how. Among its assets is a substantial technical
development centre in India, giving us access to 
highly cost effective skills and resources for our future
technology and product development.
As a result of this corporate development and 
our own organic growth, CSR has evolved into a
substantial company with almost 700 staff, and 11
locations across the world.
There have been a number of changes to the
Board in the past year. John Hodgson – who has 
led CSR for the last six years – indicated his wish to
retire and rejoin his family in the USA. John Scarisbrick,
who joined your Board in 2004 and had served as a
non-executive director, takes over from 1 March
2006. John, having been a Senior Vice President of
T exas Instruments Inc responsible for TI’ s $5 billion
DSP (digital signal processor) and Wireless businesses,
in addition to other senior roles in the industry, brings 
a profound knowledge of semiconductor business
development. He will have a significant impact on 
your company’ s future progress and I look forward 
to working with him.
During the past year , significant value
creation has been achieved by your
company , earnings per share rose from
$0.48 to $0.62 and market capitalisation
passed the billion pound mark. CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 5
Mike Shone, chairman of CSR up to the IPO and
subsequently a non-executive director, retired from
the Board as agreed in March 2005. In July 2005, 
we brought the non-executive element of your 
Board back up to strength with the appointment of 
Anthony Carlisle, who has spent his career in
marketing and communications and who has an
extensive knowledge of the mobile telephony market.
Progress towards good corporate governance
has also been made by your Board.
Because of my personal experience with 
public companies, I became chairman of the
Remuneration Committee at the time of the IPO, 
as a practical measure. I have now relinquished 
this role in favour of one of our independent non-
executive directors, Ron Mackintosh. We have 
also undertaken our first Board Effectiveness review
which shows that the Board has matured rapidly 
and is working together effectively .
During the past year significant value creation 
has been achieved by your company. This is a
consequence not only of our own actions, but also
those of our manufacturing partners, our suppliers
and our energetic customers who develop the
application markets so effectively. T o all these
stakeholders, our thanks for their patronage, support
and initiative. 
And finally , I must express the Board’ s deep
appreciation to all our staff, be they in Cambridge,
Asia, Europe, or the USA who respond so well to 
the dynamics of the business with such dedication. 
In particular , I must single out John Hodgson who
retired in February 2006. He has done so much for
CSR over the last six years that it is hard to do it justice
in a few words. His energy , enthusiasm, diligence –
and above all leadership skills – deserve the greatest
praise. Thank you John, and enjoy the future.
John Whybrow
Chairman 6 Changing the way the world connects
Chief Executive Officer’ s review
2005 was another strong year for CSR with our
revenue of $486.5 million dollars representing an
increase of over 90% compared with 2004 as we
shipped (directly and under manufacturing licence)
over 150 million single chip Bluetooth devices.
Our pre-tax profits nearly doubled to $114.4 million
dollars and at year end the share price closed at 
more than four and a half times the IPO price of 200p.
In early 2006 we entered the list of the top 200
companies on the London Stock Exchange.
Highlights of the year included;
• continued strong growth of the Bluetooth market
with the first products for the consumer segment
such as stereo headsets being offered on the market
and the adoption of cellular products by consumers 
in the USA. 
• growth in CSR’ s share of the Bluetooth market 
from 45% to over 50% and the release of
BlueCore5, our fifth generation Bluetooth solution.
• successful completion of the design of our UniFi
solution for the embedded Wi-Fi market.
• the successful acquisition and integration of Clarity
T echnologies, Inc. providing noise and echo
suppression technology with ‘Clear Voice Capture’
software and establishing CSR Detroit as an audio
engineering centre.
• the acquisition and integration of UbiNetics’
software business which will play a key role in
securing Bluetooth and UniFi design wins in mobile
phones and enabling the convergence of fixed 
and mobile services.
• aggressive cost reduction programs allowing us
to maintain our gross margins as we continued 
to drive down the cost of Bluetooth solutions to
enable further adoption of the technology in our
customer’ s products.
• building our organisation to almost 700 people
in 11 locations worldwide.
Leading in Bluetooth designs
CSR continues to lead the Bluetooth market. 
Over the lifetime of the Bluetooth standard, we have
secured more than 60% of the total recorded design
wins. We maintained that level in 2005 with a
particularly strong performance in GSM (global
system for mobile communications) handsets. 
We continued to secure more design wins than all 
our competitors combined, not just overall but in
every application sector. At year end, CSR had won
70% of the designs for the new v2.0 specification 
with EDR (Enhanced Data Rate) with our fourth
generation BlueCore4 product family. This design
performance enabled CSR to achieve unit market
share of over 50% of all Bluetooth devices shipped 
2005 was another strong year for CSR…
with our pre-tax profits nearly doubling.
T he combination of a fast gr owing Bluetooth
market and our continued leadership in
design wins, make us confident for the
outlook for 2006 as a whole. CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 7
in the year, a significant increase on the 45% unit
share achieved during 2004. 
An expanding Bluetooth market
We believe the Bluetooth market is still early in 
its growth phase. Major customers using our
products are undertaking significant consumer
marketing programmes around the world, including
television advertising. 
Mobile phones and headsets are currently the
largest markets for Bluetooth, and at the end of 2005 
we believe that only about 25% of all mobile phones
shipped were Bluetooth enabled. We see this attach
rate increasing. For example a leading European
specialist mobile phone chain now offers Bluetooth 
in 80% of their models, and major retail chains in the
USA and Europe are increasingly offering their own
branded low cost Bluetooth headsets. We expect 
the rate at which Bluetooth is adopted into mobile
phones to increase to around 35% at the end of 2006,
significantly increasing the volume demand 
in 2006 and continuing to grow beyond there. 
The use of Bluetooth in PCs has lagged that in
mobile phones but emerging use of the technology 
in wireless stereo headphones is now increasing the
attach rates with applications for music streaming,
gaming playing, and VoIP (Voice over Internet
Protocol) phone calls. CSR’ s strengths in EDR
technology provides a further stimulus to both the 
PC and consumer Bluetooth market segments.
Bluetooth for automobiles is a market that continues
to develop for both OEM and aftermarket products as
legislation requiring ‘hands on’ driving continues to
spread around the world. Volume vehicle
manufacturers are now following the lead of prestige
brands in embedding Bluetooth capability into the
dashboard with a number of product qualifications 
in the year. 
The evolution of the Bluetooth specification is also
opening up the consumer market segment. Bluetooth
specification additions such as the AV (audio visual)
Profile and EDR enable new applications such as
streaming stereo audio over a Bluetooth link. Multi-
function stereo headphones became available in
2005 which can stream music from MP3 players and
FM radio receivers and pause the music to take calls
from a mobile phone on the stereo headset. Stereo
headsets can be used with PCs, mobile phones and
other portable devices such as MP3 players. Wireless
consoles and controllers were announced in 2005 by
the leading manufacturers of gaming products. Acquisitions
During the year our resources were strengthened 
with two acquisitions and we are delighted with the
progress made in integrating our organisations.
In March 2005, we acquired Clarity T echnologies
based in Detroit, USA. Its leading technology for 
noise and echo suppression in wireless headsets 
and automotive ‘handsfree’ systems is marketed 
as CVC (Clear Voice Capture) and has already been
incorporated into CSR’ s BlueCore devices in products
sold by a number of our major customers.
In August 2005, the acquisition of the Cambridge
headquartered software business of UbiNetics was
completed. UbiNetics provides CSR with a strong
R&D team who developed an industry leading 
multi-mode wireless communications software. 
This adds significant capability to enable us to
design our BlueCore and UniFi devices into mobile
phones and to independently develop software for
FMC (Fixed and Mobile Convergence).
Lowering cost, improving performance
A fundamental belief at CSR is that we must
continuously drive down the cost of the solutions we
offer and increase their performance, thereby both
encouraging further adoption of the technology and
maintaining our competitive position. Beyond the
traditional cost reduction activities focusing on silicon,
package and test, we offer continuously higher levels
of integration to reduce the bill of materials of the end
application and provide increased functionality. 
Our successful BlueCore3-MM (multi-media)
device for stereo headphones, for example, provides
added value by integrating onto the device a CSR
developed DSP (digital signal processor), a stereo 
Hi-Fi quality CODEC (coder-decoder) and battery
charging and power management functions. These
reduce the physical size, power requirements and
cost of the solution. 
Chief Executive
Officer’ s review
continued
Automotive applications benefit 
from CSR’ s CVC technology through 
the suppression of noise and echo,
giving improved sound quality
8 Changing the way the world connects T otal shipments into the Bluetooth Market
Millions of units
64
1
2003 2004 2005 2006E
142
1
317
1
c500*
1
source IMS 
*CSR estimate 
Wi-Fi and Bluetooth brings new
connectivity solutions to mobile devices
CSR continues to dominate both stereo 
and mono headset qualified design wins
Our headset solutions also offer a licence for 
our added-value CVC software from CSR Detroit 
that suppresses echo and noise for much improved
audio quality. CVC is being used on a broad range 
of headset and automotive products which our
customers are developing.
CSR’ s fifth generation Bluetooth solution,
BlueCore5, was announced in 2005 and will be
available for design in and production this year.
Included in the family of devices is BlueCore5-MM
offering an improved DSP , lower power requirements
and reduced cost of the bill of materials. CVC software 
is available with the device for next generation designs.
In 2006 CSR intends to build on the very strong
base we have in Bluetooth and broaden our market
position with our UniFi device which we announced 
at the end of 2004. The highly integrated UniFi device
is the first single chip Wi-Fi product for the embedded
marketplace. T wo on-chip radios enable it to meet 
the IEEE 802.11 a/b/g specifications. UniFi solutions
are now being offered by our partners as completed
modules. At the Consumer Electronics Show in 
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 9 Las Vegas in the first week of 2006, the first product
was shown using CSR’ s reference design with UniFi
and BlueCore4 on a single circuit board. We are the
first to be able to provide the silicon for this combined
solution solving the co-existence issues for 
our customers. 
The number of broadcast radios and the
complexity of connectivity within the modern mobile
phone are increasing. This makes it increasingly
difficult for equipment manufacturers to make new,
very small form factor designs. Connectivity has now
expanded from Bluetooth to include Wi-Fi and will 
add UWB (ultra wideband) in the future. GPS (global
positioning systems) is established today and new
broadcast receivers such as FM radio and Digital TV
broadcast will be added in the next few years. 
This trend has led to the emergence of ‘non-cellular
wireless’ as an increasing value centre in personal
portable devices. Integration of more than one 
‘non-cellular wireless’ technology onto one IC is the
best way of meeting our customers’ time-to-market
and size requirements. CSR’ s proven competence 
in wireless systems integration positions us well to
exploit this opportunity. 
Our research and development organisation
expanded further in 2005 and in particular our
software resources grew significantly with the
acquisitions of Clarity T echnologies and UbiNetics 
in addition to organic growth as we expanded existing
teams. The investment in R&D more than doubled
year on year and we expect it to continue to increase. 
In addition to the UniFi product line, announcements
have been made on the integration of an FM radio
receiver into the BlueCore5 family and the planned
development of a UWB radio to meet the Bluetooth
SIG (special interest group) Seattle specification. 
Other standards are being considered and worked on. 
As a fabless supplier of semiconductor chips 
we rely on our manufacturing partners and enjoy 
close relationships with two industry leaders; TSMC
for wafer fabrication and ASE for assembly and test. 
On 1 May 2005 a major fire at ASE’ s Chung Li facility
disrupted production but the effects on our customers
were minimised with close co-operation throughout
the supply chain. The incident underlined the value of
the ongoing detailed review of our supply chain being
undertaken in order to improve our delivery capability
and further reduce risk. Our devices are now
produced at three separate wafer fabs in T aiwan with
one more being added in T aiwan in the second half of
2006 and a fifth currently being brought on line in the
USA. Assembly and test has been expanded from 
two sites in T aiwan, with the addition of a further facility
in South Korea and two others planned for later in the
Chief Executive
Officer’ s review
continued
10 Changing the way the world connects year of which one will be in China. This in a year when
we increased unit shipments to more than 150 million
which was more than double the prior year, whilst
maintaining high quality levels and further driving unit
costs down.
At the close of 2005, the headcount at CSR had
doubled from the beginning of the year and we now
occupy 12 sites in 11 different locations worldwide.
During the year new design centres were opened in
Lund, Sweden and Sophia Antipolis, France. The
acquisitions of Clarity T echnologies and UbiNetics
added Detroit USA, Shenzhen China, and Bangalore
India. Approximately 70% of our staff have technical
qualifications and over 60% are in R&D.
We believe that 2006 will be another year of 
strong growth and CSR is well positioned to expand
from the current business base to exploit both existing
and emerging wireless communications markets.
We expect the Bluetooth market to continue
growing strongly in 2006 and estimate the year on
year growth in unit shipments to be around 60%.
Whilst the market is highly competitive, CSR’ s share 
of design wins remains strong. We will continue to
drive down the average selling price of our products 
by between 15 and 20% in 2006 with the units
shipped under manufacturing licence diminishing.
The combination of a fast growing Bluetooth
market, our continued leadership in design wins 
and our knowledge of our customers’ development
programmes, make us confident for the outlook for
2006 as a whole.
As previously announced, I retired at the end 
of February. My successor John Scarisbrick, has 
been closely involved with CSR and its business
strategy since June 2004 when he joined the Board 
as a non-executive director. He brings a wealth of
successful semiconductor experience both developing
new product lines and running very large worldwide
businesses. I believe I am indeed very fortunate to
have him take over the significant responsibility of
further developing CSR. 
It has been an exhilarating experience and privilege
to manage such a vibrant company as CSR and I would
like to thank our employees and customers, suppliers
and investors for their support over the last six years. 
I wish the Board and all CSR stakeholders the best of
fortune in the exciting years ahead. Thank you.
John Hodgson
Chief Executive Officer
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 11 CSR’ s markets and opportunities
CSR’ s business is expanding rapidly from its roots 
in Bluetooth. Our vision is based on our core strengths 
of developing software-rich system-on-chip wireless
modem solutions combining analogue and logic
circuits on the same chip. Our technology targets
personal or local area elements of the evolving 
wireless network, particularly those applications that
need to operate in power-sensitive environments.
CSR is now sampling the fifth generation of our
BlueCore single-chip solution for Bluetooth applications.
Five generations of improved performance, tripling 
the data rate supported and providing lower power
and lower cost variants. We have entered a new
market with a single-chip solution for Wi-Fi 
(802.11 a/b/g) applications, called UniFi. Last year , 
we announced our support for integrating UWB 
(ultra wideband) technology with the Bluetooth
specification, and acquired Clarity T echnologies 
and UbiNetics. Here, we look at where our evolving
capability is taking us.
12 Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  13 As the global leader in the Bluetooth segment 
of the wireless communications market, we
continuously invest in product development. 
CSR’ s silicon solutions integrate circuits often left 
off the chip. These solutions include providing
complex battery management and power supply
management circuits which prolong battery life and
lower customer manufacturing costs. Our solutions
also integrate the memory on the same chip which
lowers costs for our customers and allows them 
to build the smallest possible Bluetooth devices. 
This enables them to create innovative, appealing,
product designs. 
We have created Bluetooth solutions with
advanced functionality, even offering variants with 
an advanced Kalimba Digital Signal Processor.
Kalimba technology means DSP software can be
added to the chip for superior voice and music quality .
CSR is the only company to provide such advanced
features, which are critical to our headset customers.
But we go much further than just supplying 
the silicon chip. We create system solutions for
Bluetooth applications. This takes two forms. First is
vital software support and integrated components
that reduce the cost and effort required to build
products. This makes CSR chips fast and easy for 
our customers to use. Secondly we develop unique
solutions for specific application areas like mobile
phones, headsets and automotive handsfree kits. 
Our Clear Voice Capture technology running on the
Kalimba DSP in the Bluetooth chip is an example,
providing superior audio quality in demanding
environments. In a mobile phone application, it can
run on the phone’ s processor, providing flexibility 
for our customers to tailor their solution.
As the adoption of Bluetooth proliferates, 
more and more complex user modes are emerging.
T oday’ s predominant single connection applications
such as the Bluetooth headset and in-car handsfree
systems are being augmented by multiple connection
PANs (personal area networks). These include
simultaneous printing, mouse and keyboard control
and mobile phone synchronisation from the PC and
multi-user consumer games consoles featuring both
wireless controllers and wireless audio feeds. This
increases the demand for the most robust and secure
radio solution and CSR is well placed to deliver this
next wave of Bluetooth solutions.
Bluetooth – from cable replacement 
to personal area network
CSR’ s markets and opportunities continued
14 Changing the way the world connects In the future, CSR will introduce other
improvements to drive Bluetooth forward. We will 
add ‘sniffing modes’ to our Bluetooth solutions to
further improve battery consumption. And we will 
add an ‘extended enquiry’ feature to allow Bluetooth
devices to link up faster, so headsets will hook up 
to phones faster. We will be introducing enhanced
quality of service features, which will further improve
voice and music quality and the user’ s experience.
Driving Bluetooth performance and features is
CSR’ s core mission. Better, smaller, faster Bluetooth
products will increase the rate that Bluetooth is built
into mobile phones and other devices – the so called
attach rate. It will drive innovative accessory development
for personal audio, music and video applications. 
Importantly CSR will integrate an ultra wideband
(UWB) capability into its Bluetooth chips. T oday’ s EDR
(extended data rate) CSR Bluetooth chips are 
already available and are up to three times faster 
than most of the devices being shipped by 
our competitors. UWB will increase this by up to a
hundred times. This will drive compelling applications
like fast downloads of music to phones, or the super-
fast transfer of tomorrow’ s high resolution digital
camera or camera-phone images to printers. 
And by re-using the well established and rich 
software already developed for Bluetooth, it will be
easier to use and therefore be adopted faster than
other schemes. UWB opens up enormous potential.
Mobile phones are incorporating more and more
consumer services such as cameras and music
players. UWB-based Bluetooth will enable the
uploading and downloading of large multi-media 
data files with ease. It also opens up many new
applications in areas such as home entertainment, 
for example, streaming video from a set top box to 
an on the wall flat screen – without unsightly wires 
or expensive installations. It may enable wireless
docking stations, so notebook and laptop PCs can
connect with office networks with ease and security.
While we’re busy painting the world blue we’re
also expanding into other wireless communications
areas where our core competence in integrated
CMOS chip and systems design can bring real value.
First among them is Wi-Fi.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  15 Bluetooth
CSR’ s markets and opportunities continued
16 Changing the way the world connects Automotive is a growth opportunity for wireless
technology . Bluetooth is already used for headset to
mobile phone voice links to allow handsfree driving. 
It is also increasingly being installed in the car itself as
part of a standard handsfree capability with the addition 
of smart features like linking to your mobile phone’ s
address book and displaying it on the car’ s dashboard
and providing voice recognition satellite navigation
equipment for added safety and convenience. It’ s only 
a short step from there to provide a wireless pathway to
the vehicle diagnostics unit for service calls or roadside
assistance, eliminating bulky and expensive cables.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  17 We have a distinctive position in Wi-Fi. Originally
developed for the PC market, Wi-Fi chips have not 
been well suited for use where power consumption 
or operating near other wireless communication
devices is a prime consideration. Our UniFi device
family offers extremely low power consumption and 
is designed to co-exist with other wireless systems
such as mobile phones and Bluetooth. This makes
UniFi particularly suitable for emerging high-volume
applications for Wi-Fi in the embedded environment,
such as mobile phones and other portable battery-
powered products.
Wi-Fi is already seen as a valuable feature for 
high level converged phones, which are targeting
business users with features such as high speed web
browsing. However , what will drive UniFi attach rates
is the ability to design a phone which will work as a
normal mobile phone much of the time, but when near
a “hot spot” or wireless access point will be able to
connect to it using VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol).
Such access points could well be in our homes too.
These “converged phones” will be able to take
advantage of the different costs that normal and 
hot spot connections may offer.
Such handsets, switching between mobile 
phone and Wi-Fi communications channels, will need 
a high performance, lower power Wi-Fi solution which
is happy co-existing with mobile phone and Bluetooth
wireless systems – such as UniFi. They will also 
need considerably more software to manage the
communication. This was one of the driving reasons 
for our acquisition of UbiNetics.
This is an exciting opportunity. The mobile 
handset market is already 700 to 800 million units a
year and a large part of the broadband infrastructure
for ‘converged’ handsets is already in place, with
approaching 100 million homes in Western Europe
and North America now having broadband internet
connections. Many of these homes have also installed
Wi-Fi access points to provide the added flexibility of
wireless connectivity.
Wi-Fi – increasingly important within 
the mobile phone and other battery 
powered devices
CSR’ s markets and opportunities continued
18 Changing the way the world connects With Bluetooth and Wi-Fi solutions – and UWB in
development – CSR is emerging as a broad supplier
of wireless communications solutions for shorter-
range applications on power-sensitive client devices.
We operate in standards-driven marketplaces and
have pioneered the technology that has proved to be
the catalyst for these fields: the use of the low-cost
CMOS process for radio-frequency applications. 
We possess an enormous amount of know-how in 
this area, and our future value will be driven by our
exploitation of this and related design principles: 
• We will continue to offer complete system solutions
for wireless applications including software, as well
as silicon building blocks that demand a lot of
integration effort. 
• We have a gifted design team with a proven track
record of making the right architectural decisions,
greatly benefiting all our customers and particularly
those who rely on our radio know-how. 
• Our portfolio and roadmap now encompasses 
a range of wireless technologies for personal and
local area networking. With each addition we make,
we become a more valuable partner to our OEM 
and ODM customers. 
Moreover, the highly integrated nature of our offering
means that we eliminate much of the challenging
design and manufacturing work that would otherwise
be required to create and build a radio-based product.
It is this that has allowed – and continues to allow – us
to support many new manufacturers wishing to enter
exciting product markets.
We believe the foundations that we have built 
and the rich set of future market opportunities give 
us the potential to grow from being the largest fabless
semiconductor company in Europe to being in the top
tier of worldwide fabless semiconductor suppliers in 
a few years time.
Our evolving vision
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  19 V oIP (V oice over Internet Protocol) is coming soon,
enabling low-cost global voice and data
communications. CSR’ s UniFi chips are the first
specifically designed for the battery-powered mobile
environment and provide low power , small size and
high performance. CSR’ s investment in software 
means that our Bluetooth and UniFi applications will 
work smoothly and seamlessly .
Wi-Fi
CSR’ s markets and opportunities continued
20 Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  21 22 Changing the way the world connects
Business Review
Business Review
CSR plc is the holding company of an international
group of companies with its headquarters in
Cambridge, UK. CSR plc listed on the London 
Stock Exchange in March 2004 and is a constituent 
of the FTSE 250 Index. 
Operations
CSR designs and supplies single chip wireless
devices. Through its BlueCore range of products, 
we are the market leader in the supply of single chip
solutions for Bluetooth wireless voice and data
communications, providing low cost, high
performance integrated circuits (IC’ s or silicon chips)
to manufacturers of a wide range of electronic devices
including mobile phones, headsets, laptop PC’ s,
personal digital assistants (PDA’ s), PC peripherals,
stereo headphones and automotive based systems.
We supply over 450 end customers including Nokia,
Dell, Panasonic, Samsung, Sharp, Motorola, IBM,
Apple, LG, NEC, T oshiba, RIM and Sony.
CSR is organised around its research and
development team of 454 staff (2004: 183). The
majority of these are based in Cambridge, UK, with
teams in Aalborg, Denmark, Lund, Sweden and
Detroit in the US. During the year, these were
augmented by the opening of a hardware design
centre in Sophia Antipolis, France, and UbiNetics has
added further research and development teams in
Bangalore, India and Shenzhen, China. Our sales 
and marketing function is centred in Cambridge, 
with sales liaison offices in Dallas, T exas; T aipei,
T aiwan; Seoul, South Korea and T okyo, Japan. 
CSR is a “fabless” semiconductor company. 
All wafer fabrication, assembly and test, and shipping 
is subcontracted, predominantly to T aiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) 
and Advanced Semiconductor Engineering (ASE) in
T aiwan. Manufacturing is currently located in T aiwan
to minimise production cycle time and inventory,
simplify logistics and to take advantage of a common
language and culture. During 2006, CSR is to expand
the number of TSMC wafer fabrication sites it uses 
to five, including a site outside T aiwan. Similarly,
assembly and test sites will be increased to five
locations. By increasing sourcing options, we will be
able to deal with any unplanned interruptions at any
single location, as well as having access to additional
capacity to respond to any increases in demand. 
We have developed excellent relationships at all levels
with TSMC and ASE. This has served us well and
provided us with leading-edge manufacturing
technology and strong support in satisfying capacity
requirements and controlling costs. Using this
production process has enabled CSR to successfully
ship (directly and under manufacturing licence) over
150 million Bluetooth single chip devices in 2005,
whilst aggressive cost management has maintained
margins as we drive selling prices down. This
encourages adoption of our technology in the
products of current and potential customers.
CSR successfully shipped over 150
million Bluetooth single chip devices 
in 2005. Aggressive cost management
has maintained margins as we drive
selling prices down. CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 23
CSR markets to Original Equipment Manufacturers
(OEM’ s) and Original Design Manufacturers (ODM’ s),
principally through our own direct sales force and, in
North America, through sales representatives. We also
market our ICs through a network of distributors. 
Our marketing efforts are supported by a team of
applications engineers who provide technical support
and assistance to existing and potential customers 
in designing, testing and qualifying systems that
incorporate our products. 
This support is generally provided without 
charge to customers who have the potential to
purchase large volumes of products. An important
part of our marketing effort involves providing technical
support to product developers to encourage them to
design products using CSR’ s ICs. For this purpose,
we provide a range of development kits and tools.
Strategy
CSR’ s objective is to be the supplier of choice 
of single chip solutions for wireless voice and data
communications. Key elements of our strategy include:
• Focusing on existing and growing Bluetooth
markets. We believe we are well positioned to
develop hardware and software solutions to address
the existing and future applications for Bluetooth.
• Increasing software content in new products. 
We believe that increased software content enables
new products to provide complete solutions for
customers. The software also improves the
robustness and flexibility of our solutions and 
helps to distinguish them from competing offerings.
We intend to increase our emphasis on software in
the future.
• Extending its expertise in Bluetooth technologies.
We plan to extend our expertise in Bluetooth
technology to provide differentiated products 
for different segments of the market.
• Focus on lowering the cost of Bluetooth solutions
using our Integrated Circuits. We believe that, 
by continuing to increase the functionality of our 
ICs and developing its on-chip application software,
we will be able to further reduce the total cost of 
our complete Bluetooth system to our OEM and
ODM customers.
• Enhancing sales, marketing and technical support
organisations. We are committed to maintaining our
high level of technical support to our customers as
well as pursuing new markets.  • Leveraging expertise in other wireless markets
exemplified by the UniFi product in the Wi-Fi
market. We believe our single chip, radio frequency
and software design expertise, combined with our
knowledge of integrating wireless solutions with
customers’ products, positions us well to pursue
opportunities for solutions for new and developing
wireless communications standards, starting with 
Wi-Fi and our product UniFi, the industry’ s first single
chip IEEE802.11a/b/g embedded solution.
Competitive environment
The markets in which CSR operates are intensely
competitive and are characterised by rapid
technological change, evolving industry standards
and declining average selling prices. CSR’ s primary
competition includes Broadcom and T exas Instruments.
We provide our customers with a number of benefits:
• Leading Edge T echnical Solution. We introduced
the world’ s first production ready single chip that
complied with the Bluetooth standard with the launch
of BlueCore1. All CSR’ s BlueCore ICs comply fully
with the Bluetooth standard, and provide on a single
chip; a radio, a baseband digital signal processor, 
a microcontroller and software. With UniFi we are
developing a range of true single-chip Wi-Fi devices
which combine small size, low power consumption
and low cost but with high performance.
• Low overall solution cost. An important factor in 
an OEM’ s or ODM’ s decision to adopt a Bluetooth
solution is cost. As we continue to increase
production volumes and enhance our operational
and technical expertise, the overall solution cost 
will be further reduced.
• Small size. The space available to include Bluetooth
capability in portable electronic devices is very
limited. OEMs and ODMs can design very small
systems with our single chip BlueCore solution
compared to alternative solutions, which can require
two or more chips. 
• Extensive development and product support.
Our worldwide operations deploy applications
engineers with substantial experience in supporting
customer development projects.
Performance in 2005
Market Conditions
The Bluetooth market more than doubled in 2005 
with market estimates of shipments of Bluetooth ICs
of 317 million units compared to 142 million units in
2004 (source: IMS). 
This considerable growth was driven largely by
increased Bluetooth attach rates in mobile phones. 
As expected, attach rates of Bluetooth into mobile
phones grew to around 25% in 2005 from 14% in
2004. We expect that attach rates for 2006 will reach
around 35% for the year as a whole. Bluetooth is well
established in all top tier mobile phone manufacturers’
roadmaps with many high and mid-range phones
now specifying its inclusion. The very low Bluetooth
attach rates in the US began to increase as the mono
headset application gained some popularity.
Additionally, the mobile phone market is starting 
to see a trend towards handset manufacturers
seeking space and cost efficiencies by specifying 
the integration of more than one non-cellular wireless
technology onto one IC. This trend should favour
suppliers such as CSR, with proven competence 
of wireless systems integration. 
The headset market has also grown significantly 
in 2005, driven by the proliferation of Bluetooth mobile
phones. We estimate that the headset attach rate 
to Bluetooth enabled mobile phones was between
25% and 30% in 2005. The headset market continues
to segment from very high end headsets with full
feature sets to low cost headsets with less
functionality. 2005 saw the introduction of the first
stereo headphones which can be used for both voice
calls and listening to music. We expect this market 
to show strong growth over the coming years. 
The PC market for Bluetooth continues to grow
with penetration of Bluetooth in laptops rising to the
high teens percent in 2005, compared to 15% in
2004. We expect penetration rates to grow further 
as the stereo headphone market grows, VoIP calls
using cordless headsets paired to PCs increase and
the bandwidth of Bluetooth increases in 2007 and
beyond, allowing very fast file transfer. 
The automotive market provides a significant
growth opportunity as the number of car
manufacturers offering Bluetooth connectivity
increases. In 2005, a number of mid-range car
makers including Nissan, Renault, Ford and T oyota
introduced Bluetooth connectivity as an optional extra
for their customers. In addition to built-in Bluetooth,
used predominantly for handsfree calls via the car HiFi
system, there is a significant aftermarket serviced by
clip-on handsfree Bluetooth devices. At below 5%,
attach rates are relatively low. 
Music and gaming applications have started 
to appear in the consumer segment. Bluetooth
connectivity for MP3 players is gaining traction, 
initially via plug-in adaptors enabling stereo
headphones to be connected wirelessly. 
Operational status and design wins in 2005
Revenue increased for the fifth consecutive 
year to $486.5 million and represented a 92% 
increase on 2004 revenue ($253.1 million). The key
areas of revenue in 2005 for the Company’ s BlueCore
products were the mobile phone and headset market
which accounted for over 70% of all CSR’ s unit
shipments. Other important end markets for BlueCore
included PCs, and PC peripherals (which includes
printers, mice and keyboards), automotive and
consumer (which includes MP3 players, cameras 
and camcorders). 
Business Review
continued
24 Changing the way the world connects CSR has maintained its leading position in the
Bluetooth market across all applications, with the
majority of design wins listed on the Bluetooth website
in 2005. CSR defines a design win as an end product
or module listed on the Bluetooth.com website
identifying one of CSR’ s BlueCore parts as the
Bluetooth solution being used. As a rule these design
wins will be an indicator of future revenue although
some design wins are for products, such as mobile
phones, which sell in more volume than others whilst
some listed qualified products never go to production.
In total, CSR won over 460 new designs in 2005
(2004: 346) of which 43% (2004: 31%) were in the
cellular sector (mobile phones and mono headsets).
Over 70% of CSR’ s unit shipments were shipped into
the cellular sector . CSR’ s strong position with the top tier
mobile phone manufacturers continued with notable
wins with BenQ, Kyocera, LG, Nokia, Motorola,
Philips, RIM and Samsung. 
CSR’ s leading position in the mono headset
segment continued with 89% of qualified design 
wins (2004: 85%). Notable design wins included 
GN Netcom (Jabra brand), i T ech Dynamic, Logitech,
Motorola, Nokia, Philips, Plantronics and Siemens. 
In the automotive sector CSR secured 77% of all
designs with customers including Bury GmbH, Delphi
Corporation, Nokia and T om T om. In the PC sector
CSR achieved a 71% share of all laptop designs
including NEC, and Sony as well as more PC
peripherals (including printers, cards and dongles)
than any other competitor. Notable design wins
included end products for Canon, Eastman Kodak,
Fujitsu and Seiko Epson.
In the stereo headset market, CSR secured 69% 
of the available designs for customers such as Nokia,
Samsung, GN Netcom (Jabra), Philips for Siemens 
as well as I-T ech dynamic. CSR has also won a
number of designs for plug-in adaptors for MP3
players, including Griffin.
CSR’ s BlueCore4 solution with EDR was 
adopted in 69% of relevant Bluetooth end products,
mainly in the mobile phone and PC segments.
Shipments of BlueCore4 exceeded 20 million 
units to the end of 2005.
Acquisitions
CSR made two acquisitions in the year.
In March 2005, CSR acquired Clarity T echnologies,
Inc. for $17.1 million. Its voice extraction and echo
cancellation software is based on its proprietary Clear
Voice Capture technology (CVC). The acquisition
brings CSR: 
• Ownership of CVC, a patented and high profile 
audio solution that has allowed CSR to enhance the
features in its next generation of Bluetooth products.
• Established customer relationships in the
automotive sector , especially in the US, giving CSR
additional opportunities to increase its share of the
market for Bluetooth solutions. 
• Additional technical competencies in the operation of
wireless headsets, which will further enhance CSR’ s
position in this increasingly competitive market.
In August 2005, CSR acquired the software business 
of UbiNetics for $48 million. UbiNetics specialises 
in communication protocol software for mobile phone
manufacturers. The acquisition provides CSR with 
a strong additional research and development team 
to accelerate its existing software developments in
Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and UWB (ultra wideband). 
Launch of BlueCore5 product range
In late September 2005, CSR announced the next
generation of its Bluetooth offering which is expected 
to start volume production in 2006. This fifth
generation of BlueCore includes ROM (Read Only
Memory) and multi-media variants.
BlueCore5-ROM has continued CSR’ s drive 
to offer the lowest cost and smallest Bluetooth
implementation in the market; essential factors 
for success in the mobile phone market. CSR’ s
BlueCore5-MM (multi-media) offers significant 
audio enhancements. An enhanced version 
of CSR’ s “Kalimba” DSP is integrated in the 
Bluetooth chip and brings marked improvements 
to stereo audio performance. CSR also announced
BlueCore5-FM the first of a series of broadcast
reception capable chips which will integrate different
radio technologies into the Bluetooth device, part of
CSR’ s “BlueMedia” vision.
Kalimba is the focal point of the major
enhancements in multi-media variants of BlueCore5
and is a key competitive differentiator . CVC technology
is incorporated into the DSP inside BlueCore5-MM
bringing an important differentiator to designers of
automotive and voice applications. The CSR DSP
also offers support for a wider range of CODECs
(formats of compressed data, usually music) which
brings power consumption improvements; an
important factor for portable stereo music applications,
such as wireless stereo headphones for MP3 players.
Research and Development
CSR devotes substantial effort to research and
development, which underpins and sustains our
success. We are conscious of the need to ensure
adequate financial and human resources are available
for research and development, and these issues 
and future planning are considered at operational 
level and at each Board meeting. In 2005, research
and development costs were $60.3 million (2004:
$27.6 million) representing 12.4% (2004:10.9%) of
turnover . Our commitment to R&D to drive revenue
growth is reflected in the acquisition of the software
business of UbiNetics. We have the experience, skills
and track record to design the software for UMS
(Universal Mobile Access) and fixed-mobile converged
phones and hence extend our range of products
going forward. In the longer term CSR’ s research 
and development expenditure is expected to average
17% of revenue.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  25 Future Prospects
CSR expects the overall market for Bluetooth enabled
products to continue to grow strongly . Global annual
Bluetooth IC shipments are expected to increase 
by around 60% in 2006, as attach rates for Bluetooth
increase in mobile phone handsets. We expect the
mobile phone and headset market to continue to be 
a significant proportion of CSR’ s income in 2006. 
In addition, new applications for Bluetooth are expected
to develop in greater volumes, such as stereo
headphones for use with digital music players, mobile
phones and PCs. In 2006, more of our product range
will include our Clear Voice Capture technology . 
A material factor in the success in any business 
in consumer electronics is the ability to reduce unit
prices both in existing and new release products. 
In line with the semiconductor industry as a whole, 
we expect average selling prices to reduce by between
15% to 20% per year. We place significant focus on
controlling product costs to maintain gross margins.
In the longer term we expect gross margin to reduce 
to within the range of 42% to 45%.
We expect to start shipping UniFi products in 
the second half of 2006. Building on our success 
in single-chip Bluetooth devices, UniFi is CSR’ s first
non-Bluetooth product. UniFi is a range of true single-
chip Wi-Fi devices which offers small size, low power ,
low cost, and high performance. CSR’ s UniFi devices
offer designers the first Wi-Fi solution specifically
targeted at mass-market mobile phones and other
pocket sized consumer products such as digital
cameras and MP3 players. UniFi combines up to
three Wi-Fi standards into a true single-chip and 
will support applications such as Voice over Internet
Protocol, the fast exchange of picture and music files,
downloading data from Wi-Fi hotspots and video
streaming. Customers are in the process of laying 
out designs using UniFi. Modest revenue is expected 
in 2006, becoming more significant in 2007.
Employees
CSR’ s employees are key contributors to its success.
We encourage good employee relations across all our
operations and require that this is facilitated by regular
meetings and scheduled briefings attended and
supported by senior management. 
Regular company-wide briefings are held with 
all staff. In addition, scheduled meetings are held at
team and department levels to consider commercial,
strategic, financial and human resource issues. 
Key findings from these meetings are discussed at 
a weekly meeting of senior management for CSR’ s
operations worldwide. These have been an important
element in supporting our rapid growth.
We also recognise our responsibilities to ensure
fair treatment of all employees in accordance with
national legislation in the territories in which we
operate. Equal opportunities for appropriate training,
career development and promotion are available 
to all employees, regardless of any physical disability,
gender , religion, race or nationality . In particular , having
regard to their aptitudes and abilities, we give full and
fair consideration to applications for employment
received from disabled persons.
Provisions for pension are available for all employees
either through participation in the state pension
schemes operated by the country in which the
employee is resident or provision of a defined
contribution pension scheme. Such defined
contribution schemes are maintained in accordance
with legislative requirements, custom and practice
and Company policy as appropriate.
Social Responsibility
CSR recognises the importance of social,
environmental and ethical (SEE) matters and during
2005, continued to work towards compliance with 
the ABI disclosure guidelines on social responsibility.
This includes the Company’ s impact through its
operations on the environment, on the safety and well
being of our employees, and end users of our products
as well as those who contribute to the process of the
development and manufacture of CSR’ s products
through its suppliers, distributors and customers.
The directors consider that the Company’ s
business practices already take due account 
of certain of our responsibilities for SEE matters. 
The Company has identified the resources which 
are key to our business and established practices
intended to safeguard and maintain them. It has also
established policies and practices which encourage
the recruitment, retention and motivation of staff.
Key business risks which might impact our
operations have been identified. These risks are
reviewed on a regular basis and account is taken 
of the potential SEE impact on the business and 
its stakeholders resulting from any such risks. 
In February 2005, the principle UK company was
registered under the internationally recognised health
and safety standard OHSAS 18001. That company 
is also registered under the quality standard ISO 9000.
T o the extent they apply to the Company’ s
operations, we consider issues connected with 
the safe manufacture, disposal and treatment of
products at the end of their working life. During 2005,
we assessed the impact of both the Waste from
Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive,
which came into effect in August 2005 and the
Restriction on use of Hazardous Substances in
Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) Directive
which comes into effect in July 2006. Based on this
assessment, we believe there is limited application 
of the WEEE Directive to our operations as it is not
applicable to the integrated circuits that we
manufacture. This is a matter which we will continue 
to monitor in respect of our developing operations. 
We believe the RoHS Directive will apply to the
Company. Work was undertaken during 2005 in
preparation for the implementation of the
requirements in 2006 as regards the selection and 
use of materials, focused primarily on reducing the
lead content in our products. This work applies to
both products in manufacture and those which
presently are under development. We are also able 
to provide confirmation to our customers of the
constituent materials in our devices, supported by
detailed laboratory analysis. We expect to further
develop our work in this area during 2006.
Business Review
continued
26 Changing the way the world connects We recognise the importance of ensuring that 
our suppliers have appropriate policies and practices
on SEE matters. As a result, we undertake periodic
audits of our principal direct suppliers in relation
primarily to environmental, but also considering 
social and ethical issues. The most recent audit was
completed in April 2005. 
We are also aware of the importance of ensuring
that our products can be used in a safe manner. 
The Company considers that its products actively
facilitate the safe and convenient use of a range 
of consumer products. We support our customers 
in the drive for ever smaller and cheaper mobile
communication devices, employing low power 
radio waves. Through application of our technology ,
customers can supply mobile phones which 
facilitate compliance with the growing amount 
of legislation worldwide concerning the safe use 
of phones whilst driving. 
Financial Review
International Accounting Standards
During the year , the Company adopted International
Financial Reporting Standards for the first time. 
As a result prior period figures have been restated 
to comply with International Financial Reporting
Standards. Full details of the adjustments on transition
and of the related changes to accounting policies are
included in notes 2 and 28 to the accounts.
Review of operations
Change
$’000 2005 2004 04/05
Revenue 486,531 253,146 +92%
Gross Profit 228,113 118,383 +93%
Gross Margin 46.9% 46.8%
R&D 60,340 27,583 +119%
% of revenue 12.4% 10.9%
SG&A 55,837 32,343 +73%
% of revenue 11.5% 12.8%
Operating profit 111,936 58,457 +91%
% of revenue 23.0% 23.1%
Earnings per share
($) (Diluted) 0.62 0.48 +29%
Revenue increased for the fifth consecutive 
year to $486.5 million and represented a 92%
increase on 2004 revenue ($253.1 million). This level 
of growth was significantly above expectations at the
beginning of 2005. This success was underpinned 
by a particularly strong performance in shipping
BlueCore ICs into the mobile phone and headset
segment where Bluetooth attach rates are increasing. 
CSR places significant focus on controlling
product costs and during 2005, has aggressively
reduced costs in line with average selling prices. 
As a result, gross margins have been maintained 
at over 46%.
Operating costs have increased by 94% in 
2005 over 2004 as CSR continues to invest in R&D 
for current wireless solutions as well as new projects.
Investment in applications engineers and sales 
people continued during 2005 and general and
administration costs have increased to support 
the growing levels of business.
Operating profit was $111.9 million at 23%
operating margin compared to $58.5 million in 2004,
(23% in 2004).
Investment income 
Investment income increased to $3.2 million in 
2005 compared to $1.2 million in 2004 as a result 
of increased levels of cash and cash equivalents, 
as well as higher UK and US interest rates.
Taxation
CSR made its first payment of UK corporation tax 
in July 2005. The effective tax rate for the year was
27.3% (note 8). This is below the statutory rate of 
30% principally due to the availability of R&D tax credits.
Earnings per share 
Earnings per share (diluted) was $0.62 for 2005, 
an increase of 29% compared to $0.48 for 2004.
Basic earnings per share was $0.67 compared to 
$0.53 for 2004. It should be noted that 2005 was 
the first year in which CSR was chargeable to
Corporation T ax (at 27.3%).
Operating profit up 91%
$ Millions 
2003 2004 2005
58
(2)
112
Net Assets up 78%
$ Millions 
2003 2004 2005
155
35
277
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  27 Financial Position 
Goodwill arose on the acquisitions of Clarity and
UbiNetics during the year, which are discussed 
on page 25 and also detailed in note 23. Intangible
assets include the net book value of the Group’ s
software licences of $10.9 million (2004: $6.0 million)
which support R&D, along with the $14.5 million of in-
process R&D and customer contracts purchased as
part of the acquisitions in the year (2004: $nil).
Trade receivables increased to $62.5 million
(2004: $31.8 million) as a result of increased levels 
of business. Days’ sales outstanding increased 
to 42 days (2004: 40 days) as a result of a higher
proportion of business with direct customers who 
can command longer credit terms.
Inventory stands at $69.7 million (2004: $30.1
million), again reflecting increased levels of business.
CSR aims to keep sufficient inventory to meet the
often short customer order lead times in this industry
which results in inventory turns of between five and
seven times in inventory. 
Cash Flow
During 2005 there has been a cash inflow 
of $24.9 million (2004: $49.8 million). Operating cash
flow contributed $95.0 million (2004: $33.6 million),
with $64.5 million (2004: $nil) spent on acquisitions
and capital expenditure of $18.7 million (2004: $7.2
million). Net tax paid was $8.1 million (2004: $1.9
million) and cash inflow from financing was $0.2
million (2004: $57.2 million). 
The significant growth in CSR has resulted in the
requirement for a $21.1 million (2004: $31.0 million)
investment in working capital in 2005 impacting
operating cash flow.
Capital expenditure of $18.7 million (2004: $7.2
million) reflects the continued investment in test and
computer equipment and CAD software required to
support current and future R&D projects as well as 
the purchase of production testers to enable more
cost effective testing. This expenditure represents
3.8% of revenue (2004: 2.8%). CSR’ s longer term
target for expenditure on tangible and intangible
assets is estimated at 4% to 5% of revenue. 
Capital structure and Liquidity
The issued share capital at 30 December 2005 
was 127,879,155 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each
(2004: 122,101,811). As a result of the funds raised
through the initial public offering in March 2004 and
the subsequent positive operating cashflows, CSR
has a total of $124.4 million of treasury deposits, 
cash and cash equivalents at 30 December 2005
(2004: $110.1 million). CSR therefore currently
expects to fund its current and future operations 
from its existing cash resources.
Dividend Policy
The Company currently intends to retain future
earnings to fund the development and growth of 
the business. Any payment of future dividends will 
be at the discretion of the Board after taking into
account various factors, including the Company’ s
financial condition, operating results, current and
anticipated cash needs and plans for expansion.
Business Review
continued
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Operating profit 111,936 58,457
Non-cash items 12,407 8,393
Working capital (21,059) (31,003)
Taxation (8,102) (1,939)
Interest paid (213) (308)
Net cash from 
operating activities 94,969 33,600
T reasury management 12,878 (33,787)
Acquisitions (64,464) –
Capital expenditure (18,673) (7,244)
Financing 172 57,208
Net cash inflow 24,882 49,777
30 December 2005 31 December 2004
$’000 $’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 52,697 –
Other intangible assets 25,508 6,350
Property , plant and equipment 22,541 6,475
Deferred tax asset 18,137 8,112
118,883 20,937
Current assets
Inventory 69,672 30,088
T rade and other receivables 75,287 35,952
T reasury deposits 25,000 35,000
Cash and cash equivalents 99,386 75,074
269,345 176,114
T otal assets 388,228 197,051
Current liabilities (109,212) (38,800)
Non-current liabilities (1,979) (2,766)
T otal liabilities (111,191) (41,566)
Net assets 277,037 155,485
Net Cash from Operating activities up 183%
$ Millions 
2003 2004 2005
34
3
95
28 Changing the way the world connects Foreign exchange and Treasury policy
CSR has well defined and consistently applied
policies for the management of foreign exchange 
and interest rate exposures. There has been no
change since the year end in the major financial risks
faced by the Company. The audit committee of the
Board reviews and agrees policies for managing
foreign exchange and interest rate exposure risks. 
The Company’ s financial instruments comprise 
cash and cash deposits and items such as trade
receivables and creditors which arise in the normal
course of business. It is the Company’ s policy not 
to enter into speculative transactions.
Substantially all of the Company’ s sales and costs 
of sales are denominated in US dollars, the
Company’ s functional currency. A majority of the
Company’ s overhead costs and other fixed costs 
are denominated in GBP . This exposure to different
currencies would result in gains or losses with respect
to movements in foreign exchange rates and the
impact of such fluctuations could be material.
Accordingly, the Company enters into hedging
transactions pursuant to which it purchases GBP
under forward purchase contracts in order to cover 
its GBP exposure. These transactions necessarily
involve judgements and assumptions about future
expense levels, and, as a result, do not entirely
eliminate the Company’ s exposure to currency
fluctuations. Further, whilst the hedging transactions
provide fixed currency rates for periods covered by
the contracts, the transactions will not protect the
Company from long term underlying movements in
currency rates. The average USD/GBP rate achieved
in 2005 was 1.7792 and 2006 contracts are in place
at an average of 1.8026.
Business Risks
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking
statements. These statements are made by the
directors in good faith, based on the information
available to them up to the time of the approval of this
report. By their nature, forward-looking statements
involve risks and uncertainties because they relate 
to events and depend on circumstances that will or
may occur in the future. Actual results may differ from
those expressed in such statements, depending on 
a variety of factors. These factors include consumer
and market acceptance of the Company’ s products
and the products that use the Company’ s products;
decreases in the demand for the Company’ s
products; excess inventory levels at the Company’ s
customers; declines in average selling prices of the
Company’ s products; cancellation of existing orders
or the failure to secure new orders; the Company’ s
failure to introduce new products and to implement
new technologies on a timely basis; the Company’ s
failure to anticipate changing customer product
requirements; fluctuations in manufacturing and
assembly and test yields; the Company’ s failure to
deliver products to its customers on a timely basis;
disruption in the supply of wafers or assembly or
testing services; the timing of significant orders;
increased expenses associated with new product
introductions, masks, or process changes; the
commencement of, or developments with respect to,
any future litigation; the cyclicality of the semiconductor
industry; and overall economic conditions.
There are a number of potential risks and
uncertainties which could have a material impact 
on the Group’ s long term performance:
Fabless Business Model. The Company uses
independent suppliers to manufacture, assemble 
and test all of its products. As a result, the Company’ s
business model is less capital intensive. TSMC, the
world’ s largest semiconductor manufacturer is the
Company’ s principal wafer foundry. ASE performs
substantially all of the assembly and testing of CSR’ s
ICs. CSR is therefore reliant on these independent
suppliers to provide the required capacity to
manufacture, assemble and test all of its products 
and to provide high quality products on time. 
The Company maintains an internal manufacturing
support group which directs product supply, helps
ensure a high level of quality and reliability and works
with the wafer foundry and production assembler 
to resolve issues.
Product Design Cycle. The design cycle for the
Company’ s ICs in Bluetooth enabled products 
can take up to 24 months to complete and volume
production of products using the Company’ s ICs 
can take an additional 6 months or more. This lengthy
design cycle makes forecasting product demand 
and the timing of orders difficult for the Company. 
In addition, the delays inherent in lengthy design
cycles increase the risk that the Company’ s
customers may seek to cancel or modify orders.
Delays in new products due to complexity.
The Company’ s products are complex and may
contain undetected hardware and software errors 
or failures when first introduced or as new versions 
are tested. The resolution of these errors could 
cause the Company to invest significant capital 
and other resources and divert its technical staff 
from other development efforts. If CSR delivers
products with errors, defects or bugs, its credibility
and the market acceptance and sales of its products
could be harmed.
Transitioning to smaller geometry process
technologies. T o remain competitive, the Company
expects to continue to transition its semiconductor
products to increasingly smaller line width geometries.
This transition requires modification to the manufacturing
processes and the re-design of some products as well
as standard cells and other integrated circuit designs
that may be used in multiple products. This may result
in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product
deliveries and increased expenses. 
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  29 Business Review
continued
Product Life Cycle; Declining Prices. The life 
cycle of the Company’ s ICs can be relatively short.
The average selling prices of the Company’ s ICs 
will generally fall over the product’ s life cycle. 
The Company’ s ability to increase turnover , therefore,
depends on its ability to increase unit volume and to
introduce new products that are accepted by customers.
T erms of Sale. Sales are made through purchase
orders with specific terms and conditions. 
Industry practice does, however, allow customers 
to re-schedule and cancel orders on relatively short
notice. As a result, backlog may not be an accurate
indicator of future turnover. Customer order
cancellations and changes in product specifications
could result in a loss of turnover and excess inventory .
Seasonality. Principally all of the Company’ s
customer design wins have been in products with
consumer electronic applications. As a result, CSR
expects its business to be subject to seasonality, 
with increased turnover in the period April to
November with a slowdown in activity in December 
and into the first quarter of the following year.
Cyclicality. The semiconductor industry is cyclical
and has experienced significant downturns, often 
in connection with maturing products and declines 
in general economic conditions. Such periods have
reflected production overcapacity, excess inventory
levels and accelerated erosion in average selling prices.
New revenue sources. The Company’ s future
success is dependent upon our ability to develop 
new semiconductor solutions for existing and new
markets, introduce these products in a cost-effective
and timely manner , and convince leading equipment
manufacturers to select these products for design 
into their own new products. 
Reliance on success of customers’ products.
The Company relies on equipment manufacturers 
to select our products to be designed into their
products. Furthermore, even if an equipment
manufacturer selects CSR’ s product, we cannot 
be assured that their product will be commercially
successful. As a result, sales of the Company’ s
products are largely dependent on the commercial
success of customers’ products. 
Inability to protect the Company’s intellectual
property. The success of CSR depends on our ability
to protect our intellectual property and trade secrets.
Despite prudent steps taken by the Company to
protect its proprietary rights, third parties may attempt
to copy aspects of CSR’ s products and seek to use
information that CSR regards as proprietary. There 
is a risk that the Company’ s means of protecting its
intellectual property rights may not be adequate and
weaknesses or failures in this area could adversely
affect CSR’ s business.
Infringement of third party intellectual property
rights. Companies in the semiconductor industry
often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual
property rights. Claims against the Company could
adversely affect our ability to market our products,
require us to re-design products or seek licences from
third parties, and seriously harm the Company’ s
operating results. In addition, the defence of such
claims could result in significant costs and divert the
attention of the Company’ s management or other 
key employees. 
Management of the Company are constantly
considering and reviewing risk. In addition the
Company has put in place formal processes for the
identification and, where possible, the management
of significant risks which are reviewed regularly by
senior management. This is formally reported on a
regular basis to the Audit Committee, as a result of
which the directors are aware of the potential cost 
and resources involved in managing these risks.
Details on the identification and management of 
risks are also addressed on pages 34 and 35 in the
Corporate Governance Report. 
Critical Accounting Policies
The preparation of these financial statements 
under IFRS requires management to make estimates
and judgements that affect the reported amount 
of assets, liabilities, turnover and expenses, and
related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
On an ongoing basis, CSR evaluates estimates,
including those related to uncollectable accounts
receivable, inventories, investments, intangible
assets, income taxes, financing operations, warranty
obligations and contingencies and litigation. 
The Company’ s estimates are based on historical
experience and on various other assumptions 
that CSR believes to be reasonable under the
circumstances, the results of which form the basis 
for making the judgements about the carrying values 
of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent
from other sources. Because this can vary in each
situation, actual results may differ from the estimates
under different assumptions and conditions.
CSR believes the following critical accounting
policies are important in understanding the
Company’ s Consolidated Financial Statements:
Inventory valuation. Inventories are stated at the
lower of cost and net realisable value. Provisions 
for excess or obsolete inventory are recorded based
upon assumptions about future demand and market
conditions. If actual market conditions are less
favourable than those projected by management,
additional inventory provisions may be required.
Impairment of non current assets including
goodwill. An annual impairment test is performed 
in respect of goodwill. In addition CSR assesses 
its non current assets, for possible impairment if 
there are events or changes in circumstances that
indicate that carrying values of the assets may not 
be recoverable. Indicators of potential impairment
include changes in the Group’ s business plans, 
30 Changing the way the world connects failure to meet performance projections included 
in our forecasts of future operating results, and a
slowdown in the worldwide economy or the
semiconductor industry. 
The assessment for impairment entails comparing
the carrying value of the non-current asset with the
recoverable amount of the asset, that is, the higher 
of net realisable value and value in use. Value in use 
is usually determined on the basis of discounted
estimated future net cash flows. Significant
management judgement is required in the forecasts 
of future operating results that are used in the
discounted estimated future net cash flows. The
estimates we have used are consistent with the plans
and estimates that we use to manage our business. 
It is possible, however, that the plans and estimates
used may be incorrect. If our actual results, or the
plans and estimates used in future impairment
analyses, are lower than the original estimates used 
to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could
incur additional impairment charges.
Foreign Currencies. The functional currency of the
Group is the US dollar . The majority of sales are billed 
in US dollars and the cost of product purchased is 
in US dollars. A significant proportion of the Group’ s
operating expenses, however, are paid for in pounds
sterling, exposing the Group to the financial risks 
of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 
The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts 
to hedge these exposures. However exposure to
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rate
movements still exists and could impact results. 
The Group does not use derivative financial
instruments for speculative purposes. 
Research and Development. Expenditure on
research activities undertaken with the prospect 
of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge 
and understanding, is recognised in the income
statement as an expense as incurred.
Where a product can be identified, its cost can 
be measured, it is technically feasible and it is
probable it will generate future economic benefits,
development costs are capitalised and amortised 
on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life 
of the respective product. The Company believes 
its current process for developing products is
essentially completed when products have achieved
the ‘Transfer to Production’ status as it is only then
that technical feasibility of the products to be
manufactured and sold to the commercial
marketplace is confirmed. Accordingly , development
costs incurred after the establishment of technical
feasibility have not been significant and, therefore, 
no costs have been capitalised to date. Where no
internally-generated intangible asset can be
recognised, development expenditure is recognised
as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Share options: The share option schemes allow
Group employees to acquire shares of the Company .
Share options granted before 7 November 2002
No expense is recognised in respect of these options.
The shares are recognised when the options are
exercised and the proceeds received allocated
between share capital and share premium.
Share options granted after 7 November 2002 
and vested after 1 January 2005
IFRS 2 “Share-based payments” is effective in 
respect of options and share awards granted after 
7 November 2002 and which had not vested as at 
1 January 2005. The Group issues equity-settled
share-based payments to certain employees. 
Equity settled share-based payments are measured 
at the fair value at the date of grant. The fair value
determined at the grant date of the equity-settled
share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line
basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’ s
estimate of shares that will eventually vest. The fair
value of the majority of options granted is measured
by use of a Black-Scholes model, taking into account
the terms and conditions upon which the options
were granted. For certain share options which 
include total shareholder return related conditions, 
the fair value is estimated through the use of a 
Monte-Carlo simulation.
The amount recognised as an expense is 
adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that
vest. Non-market vesting conditions are included 
in assumptions about the number of shares that are
expected to become exercisable. The estimates of 
the number of shares that are expected to become
exercisable are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
The impact of the revision of original estimates, 
if any, is recognised in the income statement and 
a corresponding adjustment to equity . The proceeds
received net of any directly attributable transaction
costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) 
and share premium (the balance) when the options
are exercised.
The deferred tax on the employee share 
options and share awards which were granted after 
7 November 2002 is computed on a different basis 
to that used for calculating the share option and share
award expense in the income statement and as a
result the effective tax rate may be affected by the
calculation at each period end. Similarly the amount 
of current tax payable is affected by the tax relief
available when share options and share awards are
exercised by employees. The timing of this relief is not
possible to predict as it is dependent on the decisions
of individual share option and share awards holders.
Paul Goodridge
Finance Director
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  31 Corporate Governance
Statement of compliance
The Company supports the principles of corporate
governance contained in the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance which is appended to the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Board is accountable to the Company’ s
shareholders for good governance. The Company
has throughout the year complied with the majority 
of the provisions of the Combined Code – Principles 
of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice. 
The statements below describe how the Company
has applied the principles identified in the Combined
Code and areas where the Company is presently
working towards compliance.
The Board
As at 30 December 2005, the Board comprised nine
members being the Chairman, Mr John Whybrow,
who served throughout the year, five executive
directors and three non-executive directors. The four
executive directors who served throughout the year
were Mr John Hodgson, Chief Executive Officer; 
Mr Paul Goodridge, Finance Director; Mr James
Collier , Chief T echnical Officer and Mr Glenn Collinson,
Sales Director. Effective 1 December 2005, Mr John
Scarisbrick, formerly a non-executive director of the
Company, was appointed Chief Executive Officer
Designate. Mr Hodgson retired on 28 February 2006
and, effective 1 March 2006, Mr Scarisbrick was
appointed Chief Executive Officer.
The non-executive directors, who served
throughout the year were Mr David Tucker and 
Mr Ron Mackintosh. Mr Anthony Carlisle was
appointed a non-executive director on 1 July 2005.
Mr John Scarisbrick stood down as a non-executive
director on 1 November 2005. Mr Mike Shone stood
down as a non-executive director on 31 March 2005. 
Until 1 November 2005, when Mr Scarisbrick
stood down as a non-executive director, the number
of non-executive directors represented half the Board.
As a consequence of the change, the proportion 
of non-executive directors does not represent half 
the Board and does not comply with the Code. 
It is the intention of the Board to appoint an additional
non-executive director during 2006. 
Mr David Tucker is the Senior Independent 
Director. Mr Goodridge has throughout the year 
been the director responsible for health and safety
within the Company . The directors possess diverse
business experience in spheres complementary 
to CSR’ s activities, as well as other sectors.
Biographies of the directors are shown on pages 
36 and 37. Mr Brett Gladden served as Company
Secretary throughout the year.
The Chairman, Mr John Whybrow is also chairman
of Wolseley plc and a non-executive director of DSG
international plc, positions which he held at the time 
of his appointment as Chairman to the Company. 
The Board considers that the time which 
Mr Whybrow provides to the Company and his
availability to directors and senior management is
more than adequate. Mr Whybrow provides strong
leadership and contributes valuable experience and
knowledge to the business of the Company and the
conduct of the Board and its committees.
In accordance with the provisions of the Combined
Code, consideration has been given to the independence
of all the non-executive directors. The Board considers
all the non-executive directors to be independent 
of management and free from any business or other
relationship that could materially interfere with the
exercise of independent judgement.
The Board meets regularly during the year 
as well as on an ad-hoc basis as required by time
critical business needs. The Board is responsible 
to shareholders for the effective and proper
management and control of the Company and has a
formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions.
Its primary roles are to determine and review Company
strategy and policy , consider acquisitions and disposals,
assess requests for major capital expenditure and
give consideration to all other significant financial
matters. This process is undertaken following
discussions in conjunction with senior executive
management who in turn are responsible for day 
to day conduct of the Group’ s operations and for
reporting to the Board on the progress being made 
in meeting the objectives. The Board met eight times
during the year and the attendance of each of the
directors is shown on page 35. Mr Scarisbrick
attended all meetings but did not participate in
discussions concerning the Board’ s consideration 
of the acquisition of the software business of
UbiNetics Holdings Limited, of which he was a
shareholder and non-executive director, or on 
matters associated with the appointment of a 
new Chief Executive Officer where the potential 
for conflict of interest had been identified.
During the year, the Board undertook a formal
process of performance evaluation. Each director
completed an internally produced questionnaire
covering a wide range of matters associated with 
the activities and conduct of the Board and its
committees. The process was conducted without
reference to external agencies. The responses to 
the questionnaire were discussed as an agenda 
item at the Board’ s full meeting in November 2005. 
The overall conclusion was that the Board and 
its Committees were performing appropriately. 
The Chairman holds regular meetings with 
all the directors individually. In addition, prior to 
the year end, the Chairman held a meeting of the 
non-executive directors to discuss the performance 
of the executive directors. 
In accordance with the Company’ s Articles 
of Association, all directors are required to retire 
and submit themselves for re-election at least once 
32 Changing the way the world connects every three years. It is the policy of the Board that 
non-executive directors are appointed for an initial
term of three years, following which it will be reviewed
and as appropriate, extended for a further three year
period. Non-executive directors should not generally
serve for more than nine years. 
On appointment, all directors are advised that 
they have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary and, in addition, that they are
entitled to seek independent professional advice 
in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary , at the
Company’ s expense.
In accordance with the Company’ s Articles of
Association, directors are granted an indemnity from
the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect
of liabilities incurred as a result of the performance 
of their duties in their capacity as directors to the
Company. The indemnity would not provide any
coverage to the extent that a director is proved to
have acted fraudulently or dishonestly . The Company
has also arranged insurance coverage in respect of
legal action against the directors and officers.
Communications with shareholders
Principally via the executive directors, the Company
seeks to build on a mutual understanding of objectives
with its major shareholders through regular meetings
and presentations following announcements of each
quarter’ s results. The Senior Independent Director, 
Mr David Tucker, is available to meet institutional
shareholders should there be unresolved matters 
they wish to bring to his attention. Although the 
non-executive directors are not asked at present 
to meet with the Company’ s shareholders, their
attendance at the Annual General Meeting is required.
Corporate information is also available on the
Company’ s website, www.csr.com. 
Committees of the Board
The Board has three committees, Remuneration,
Nomination and Audit, whose members comprise the
Chairman and non-executive directors. In accordance
with the Combined Code, the duties of the committees
are set out in formal terms of reference. These are
available from the Company Secretary and can be
found on the Company’ s website, www.csr.com.
Membership of the committees is shown on pages 
36 and 37. The Company Secretary acts as secretary
to each of the committees.
Remuneration Committee
Mr Ron Mackintosh is the Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee. The other members 
of the Committee at 30 December 2005 were 
Messrs Carlisle, T ucker and Whybrow. The principal
function of the Committee is to establish and review
the terms and conditions for the executive directors,
and the overall policy framework for the remuneration
of other senior executives and the Group as a whole.
The Committee met three times during the year 
and the attendance of its members is shown in the
table on page 35.
During 2005, in order to comply with the Code, 
Mr Whybrow stood down as Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee, although he remains a
member of the Committee. The Board considers this
to be appropriate given his experience in this role in 
other listed companies and the contribution which 
he makes to matters which the Committee considers.
The report to shareholders on how directors are
remunerated, together with details of individual
directors’ remuneration are shown on pages 40 to 47.
Nomination Committee
Mr John Whybrow is the Chairman of the Nomination
Committee. The other members of the Committee at
30 December 2005 were Messrs Carlisle, Mackintosh
and Tucker. Mr Scarisbrick served as a member of the
Committee during 2005 until, following discussions
with the Chairman, he declared an interest in the
appointment as Chief Executive Officer to the
Company . Thereafter he took no part in the business 
of the Committee where it concerned the
appointment of the new Chief Executive Officer. 
The Committee meets as appropriate to consider
appointments to the Board. The Committee reviews
the composition of the Board, particularly in relation 
to the diversity of skills, experience, age and term 
of office and seeks to ensure that both executive 
and non-executive directors have the necessary 
skills and attributes for the future success of the Group.
The Committee retains external search consultants as
appropriate and during 2005 engaged Egon Zehnder
International to assist in the appointment of an
additional non-executive director which was
completed with the appointment in July 2005 of 
Mr Carlisle. Capital Christian Timbers were also
engaged during 2005 to assist in the appointment 
of a Chief Executive Officer. 
The appointment of the new Chief Executive
Officer was completed in November 2005 following a
thorough process. Capital Christian Timbers assisted
in the development of a candidate profile following
meetings with the members of the Committee and 
the executive directors. They also undertook initial
search and analysis of all candidates, reporting the
results to the Committee and thereafter to the Board,
and assisted in the conduct of meetings between
candidates and members of the Board. 
During 2005, the Committee met a total of eight
times, seven of which were as part of the formal
business of the Board, to discuss the appointments 
of a non-executive director and of a new Chief
Executive Officer. This ensured that the views of the
executive directors were taken into consideration.
Audit Committee
Mr David Tucker is the Chairman of the Audit
Committee. The other members of the Committee at
30 December 2005 were Messrs Carlisle, Mackintosh
and Whybrow. The Board is satisfied that Mr Tucker, 
a chartered accountant with extensive experience
through his past and present involvement as chairman
of the audit committees of various listed companies,
brings recent and relevant experience to the
Committee. Mr Whybrow, Chairman of the Company
also serves on the Committee. The Board considers
this to be appropriate, given his experience in other
listed companies as well as the contribution to and 
the benefit derived from participating in matters which
the Committee considers. The experience and expertise
of the members of the Committee are summarised 
on pages 36 and 37. The attendance of its members 
is shown in the table on page 35.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  33 The Committee met four times during the 
year and reported its conclusions to the full Board.
The Committee invites the Chief Executive Officer, 
the Finance Director, the Internal Auditor and senior
representatives of the external auditors to attend
meetings as appropriate to the business being
considered. In addition, the Committee has the right 
to invite any other employees to attend meetings
where this is considered appropriate.
The Committee is responsible for the
development, implementation and monitoring of the
Company’ s policy on external audit and for overseeing
the objectivity and effectiveness of the auditors. 
The Committee recommends the appointment
and re-appointment of the Company’ s external
auditors and considers the scope of their audit work,
the terms of their appointment, their fees and the cost
effectiveness of their work. During 2005, as part of its
formal business, the Committee met on three
occasions with the external auditors. On two occasions
the Committee also held separate meetings with the
external auditors at which no executive director or
employee of the Company was present. 
The Committee is aware of the audit and 
non-audit services which have been provided by the
Company’ s external auditors, Deloitte & T ouche LLP
during 2005. Those non-audit services concerned
advice on tax matters which was considered to be
appropriate, given their in-depth knowledge of the
affairs and financial practices in the Group. The
Committee is satisfied that, notwithstanding this 
work, Deloitte & T ouche LLP have retained objectivity
and independence during the year. 
Deloitte & T ouche LLP have been the Company’ s
auditors since July 2002 and the cost, scope and
effectiveness of the audit are reviewed regularly. 
In 2005 the Board requested that a formal review 
of the audit be undertaken with due regard for good
governance and to ensure shareholders are receiving
the best available service. 
This review commenced in December 2005 
and will be completed to allow a recommendation 
to be put to shareholders for their consideration at the
Annual General Meeting to be held on 2 May 2006.
More particulars on the matter are contained in the
Notice of the Annual General Meeting and the
Chairman’ s letter accompanying the Annual Report.
In relation to the appointment of external auditors
and in order to safeguard auditor independence and
objectivity, the Committee has a policy of permitted
services which details the services that can be
provided by the Company’ s auditors and those
services which require specific approval by the
Committee. The policy also details services that the
Company’ s auditors are not permitted to provide. 
The policy has been complied with throughout the year .
The Committee reviews, where practicable, 
all proposed announcements to be made by the
Company to the extent they contain financial
information. During the year, the Committee has
received regular updates on the introduction of
International Financial Reporting Standards and 
the impact of their adoption on the Company and 
has monitored progress in meeting the new reporting
requirements. The Committee also monitors and
reviews the effectiveness of the Group’ s internal
control systems, accounting policies and practices,
risk management procedures and compliance
controls as well as the statement on internal controls
before they are agreed by the Board for each year’ s
annual report. 
The Chairman of the Committee attends the
Company’ s Annual General Meeting to respond 
to any shareholder questions that might be raised
concerning the Committee’ s activities.
Internal control
Philosophy and policy
The objective of the directors and senior 
management is to safeguard and increase the value 
of the business and assets of the Company. Part of
this objective requires the development of relevant
policies and appropriate internal controls to ensure
proper management of the Company’ s resources 
and the identification of risks which might serve to
undermine them.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the
Company’ s system of internal control and for
reviewing its effectiveness. The systems and
processes established by the Board are designed 
to manage, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives and provide reasonable,
not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss. 
The Board has delegated responsibility for 
the review of practices and procedures to the 
Audit Committee. The Company’ s senior
management, in conjunction with external advisers 
are responsible for undertaking periodic reviews 
of the suitability of current systems on which they
report to the Committee. 
The Committee reviews the findings to ensure 
the effectiveness and efficiency of the processes
implemented by senior management. This includes
discussions with senior management of the 
Company and consideration of reports that have been
submitted. These findings are in turn discussed by 
the full Board. The Board is satisfied that this process
accords with the internal control guidance for
directors set out in the Turnbull Report “Internal
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined
Code” and that through its interface with
management, the Board is aware of the major risks
facing the Company and the steps taken by the
Company where possible to mitigate such risks. 
The risk evaluation process described in this report
has been in place for 2005 and up to the date of
approval of the annual report and financial statements.
Managing risks
A summary of the structures and processes 
in place to identify and manage risks across 
the Group are set out on page 35.
Corporate Governance
continued
34 Changing the way the world connects Risk profiling
There is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate
risks faced by the Company, through the conduct 
of regular meetings by the Company’ s senior
management. Findings are reported to the Committee
together with recommended actions and a timetable
for implementation. A list of prioritised risks is
refreshed on a regular basis to reflect changes to the
business and any observations or proposals arising
from events since the last review. The schedule, 
along with other management information, is used 
to develop an overall assurance plan for the Company .
Controlling risk
The Company has policies which address a number
of key business risks, including financial, treasury 
and health and safety . The policies are made available
to relevant employees through policy manuals, 
an intranet site and also via employee briefings on
specific topics as appropriate. The Company also 
has a formal whistle blowing policy which has been
communicated to all employees and which provides
information on the process to follow in the event any
employee feels it appropriate to make a disclosure.
The Audit Committee satisfies itself periodically that
the policy provides an adequate basis for employees
to make representations in confidence to the
Company and for appropriate and proportionate
investigation. The Group carries out a programme 
of management self-assessments over the status 
of key business risks through formal reviews which
consider the risks faced by the business, how these
might be mitigated and who within the Company 
is responsible for implementing agreed actions.
Where appropriate, external advisers are appointed 
in order to support this process.
Monitoring and managing the status 
of residual risk
The actions arising from these assessments 
are consolidated and during 2005 the results 
were reported to the Audit Committee. 
The Committee assesses the findings and
proposed actions for addressing residual risks 
and also advises on areas for further attention. 
Internal financial controls
The Company has a comprehensive system 
for regular monitoring and reporting of financial
performance and assessing the adequacy 
of the Group’ s systems of internal controls. 
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of 
the annual planning cycle. This includes assessment
of the Company’ s strategic direction, objectives 
and financial returns and the risks in achieving them. 
As part of the planning cycle, a detailed budget is
prepared by management and thereafter is reviewed
and formally adopted by the Board. The budget and
other targets are regularly updated via a rolling
forecasting process and regular business review
meetings are also held involving senior management
worldwide, at which the Company’ s overall
performance is assessed. The results of these reviews
are in turn reported to and discussed by the Audit
Committee and the Board at each meeting. 
A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the
Company’ s business is given on pages 29 and 30.
These processes are supported by discreet
reviews conducted by external advisers, 
as determined by the Committee, in addition 
to the routine audits.
In October 2005, the Company appointed 
an Internal Auditor. The Committee will review 
the effectiveness of the internal audit function
including the development of the function in 
the coming year against objectives which will 
be agreed with the Committee.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed 
the effectiveness of the system of internal controls 
for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005.
Attendance at meetings
The table below shows the attendance of each of the
directors at meetings of the Board and its committees
held during the year . A comprehensive file of briefing
papers and a meeting agenda is provided for each
director in advance of each meeting. Decisions are
taken by the Board, in conjunction, where
appropriate, with the recommendations of its
committees and advice from external consultants 
and executive management. In addition, during those
months when a Board meeting is not scheduled, 
a pack of management reports, including financial
analysis is sent to each of the directors.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
No. of meetings 8 4 3 8 
J S Hodgson 8 – – –
J D Y Collier 8 – – –
G Collinson 8 – – –
P G G Goodridge 8 – – –
A Carlisle
2
31 2 2
R Mackintosh 8 4 3 8
J Scarisbrick 8 – 1 4
D T ucker 8 4 3 8
J W Whybrow 8 3 3 8
M L Shone
1
11 1 1
1
Stepped down from the Board 31 March 2005
2
Appointed to the Board 1 July 2005
Annual General Meeting resolutions
The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General
Meeting to be held on 2 May 2006, together with
explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice 
of the Annual General Meeting, which has been sent 
to all registered shareholders.
By Order of the Board
Brett Gladden
Secretary
28 February 2006
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  35 John Hodgson
Chief Executive Officer
(retired 28 February 2006) 
John Hodgson served as the
Company’ s Chief Executive
Officer from February 2000 to
February 2006. From April 1997
to July 1999, Mr Hodgson 
served as senior vice president of
worldwide sales and technology
centres at VLSI T echnology . 
From January 1990 to April 1997,
Mr Hodgson served as vice
president for worldwide sales
and marketing and corporate
officer at Lucent Microelectronics.
Prior to 1990, Mr Hodgson was 
a co-founder , director and
executive vice president at VTC
Inc., a start up semiconductor
company , and prior to that held 
a number of executive, sales 
and technical positions at 
various semiconductor
companies, including Fairchild
Semiconductor and T exas
Instruments. Mr Hodgson holds 
a B.Sc. from Leeds University . 
Mr Hodgson retired from the
Company and stood down from
the Board on 28 February 2006.
Age 62.
James Collier 
Chief T echnical Officer , 
Co-founder
James Collier has served as 
the Company’ s Chief T echnical
Officer since CSR’ s
establishment in April 1999. 
Mr Collier is a co-founder of CSR.
Between 1984 and April 1999,
Mr Collier held a number of
executive and technical positions
at Cambridge Consultants Ltd,
where he formed the
microelectronics group in 1987 .
Prior to 1984, Mr Collier held a
number of executive and technical
positions at Schlumberger . 
Mr Collier has a degree in physics
from Oxford University . 
Age 47.
John Whybrow ● ■ ▲
Chairman,
Chairman Nomination
Committee
John Whybrow served as 
non-executive director of the
Company since December 2003
and was appointed Chairman in
March 2004. Having spent the
majority of his career with Philips
Electronics, he was appointed
president & CEO of Philips
Lighting Holdings BV , based in
Holland, in 1995, becoming
executive vice president of Royal
Philips Electronics BV and
member of the Board of
Management in 1998. He
returned to the UK in 2002,
becoming chairman of Wolseley
plc having been a non-executive
director of the company since
1997. He is also a non-executive
director of DSG international plc.
Mr Whybrow is a graduate of 
the Imperial College, London
where he completed a degree 
in Mechanical Engineering. 
He also has an MBA from
Manchester Business School.
Age 58.
● Remuneration Committee 
■ Audit Committee 
▲ Nomination Committee
John Scarisbrick 
Chief Executive Officer
(effective 1 March 2006) 
John Scarisbrick was appointed
Chief Executive Officer on 
1 March 2006, having been 
Chief Executive Officer Designate
since 1 December 2005. 
Mr Scarisbrick joined the board 
of CSR in June 2004 as a 
non-executive director . 
He has extensive experience 
in the telecommunications and
semiconductor sectors, having
worked for T exas Instruments 
for 25 years in a variety of senior
roles including President TI
Europe and a Senior Vice
President of T exas Instruments
Inc responsible for TI’ s $5 billion
Application Specific Products
chip business and led the team
which created TI’ s Digital Signal
Processor business. Prior to TI,
Mr Scarisbrick worked in
electronics systems design 
roles at Rank Radio International
and Marconi Space and Defence
Systems in the UK. He is a 
non-executive director of ARM
Holdings plc and Intrinsity Inc 
and is chairman of Cambridge
Positioning Systems Limited.
Age 53.
Board of Directors
36 Changing the way the world connects Paul Goodridge 
Finance Director
Paul Goodridge has served as
Finance Director for CSR since
January 2002, having joined 
the Company in 2000. Prior to
joining CSR, Mr Goodridge 
was head of UK finance for PA
Consulting. From 1990 to 1997
Mr Goodridge had a variety of
senior financial positions at Black 
& Decker Inc. and Charringtons
Fuels Limited. Mr Goodridge 
is a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants in
England and Wales. 
Age 40.
Ron Mackintosh ● ■ ▲
Non-executive Director ,
Chairman Remuneration
Committee
Ron Mackintosh was appointed
a non-executive director of CSR
in May 2004. Mr Mackintosh has
held a number of senior executive
positions in European technology
companies. Between 1992 and
2000 he was chief executive of
Computer Sciences Corporation’ s
(CSC) European business which
had revenues of $2.5 billion. 
He is also a former director 
and interim CEO of Gemplus SA,
the world’ s largest smartcard
manufacturer . Mr Mackintosh 
is a non-executive director of
software company Royalblue
PLC, chairman of software
company Smartstream
T echnologies Ltd and chairman 
of Differentis, a privately owned
IT consultancy which he 
co-founded in July 2000. 
Age 57.
David T ucker ● ■ ▲
Non-executive Director ,
Senior Independent Director ,
Chairman Audit Committee
David T ucker joined CSR as 
a non-executive director in
January 2004. After nineteen
years as an investment manager
with M&G unit trusts, Mr T ucker
retired as deputy managing
director in 1988. He is currently 
a non-executive director of
Edinburgh UK T racker T rust plc
where, until April 2005, he was
chairman and is a non-executive
director of Rexam PLC where 
he chairs the audit committee.
He is also a trustee of the
Mineworkers’ Pension Scheme.
Mr T ucker is a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants
in England and Wales. 
Age 66.
Anthony Carlisle ● ■ ▲
Non-executive Director
Mr Carlisle was appointed 
a non-executive director of 
CSR in July 2005. Mr Carlisle is
an executive director of Citigate
Dewe Rogerson, where he 
is responsible for strategic
consultancy and client services.
He has over thirty years
experience in marketing and
communications, advising 
major companies in the UK and
internationally . He holds a BA 
in Economics and is a Fellow 
of the Institute of Public Relations.
Age 59.
Glenn Collinson
Sales Director , 
Co-founder
Glenn Collinson has served 
as CSR’ s Sales Director since
August 2002. Mr Collinson is
a co-founder of CSR. Between
October 1996 and 1999, 
Mr Collinson served as a 
senior engineer and then 
as a marketing manager at
Cambridge Consultants Ltd.
Prior to that, he served as a
design engineer and marketing
manager at T exas Instruments
Limited. Mr Collinson is a 
non-executive director of
Sonaptic Limited. Mr Collinson
holds a B.Sc. in physics, 
an M.Sc. in electronics from
Durham University , and an MBA
from Cranfield University and 
is a member of the Institute 
of Electrical Engineers. 
Age 42.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  37 Directors’ report
Introduction
The directors present their report on the affairs of the
Group, together with the financial statements of the
Company for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005.
Activities and business review
CSR is a leading developer and provider of single chip
wireless solutions designed to support data and voice
communications between a wide range of products
over short range radio links. More detailed information
on the principal activities of CSR plc and its subsidiaries,
together with a review of the businesses, are set out
on pages 6 to 11. Details of the subsidiaries and
branches of the Company are set out on page 85.
On 15 March 2005, through an indirect wholly
owned subsidiary, the Company acquired the entire
issued share capital of Clarity T echnologies, Inc.
(‘Clarity’) for a consideration of $17.1 million, payable
in cash. More information on Clarity is given on page 8.
On 17 August 2005, the Company completed the
acquisition of the software business of UbiNetics
Holdings Limited for a consideration of $48 million
payable in cash. More information on the integration
of UbiNetics (VPT) Limited and its operations with
those of the Company are given on page 8.
Financial results
The Group’ s consolidated income statement, set 
out on page 52 shows an increase to $111.9 million 
in operating profit compared to an operating profit 
in 2004 of $58.5 million. Turnover increased by 92% 
to $486.5 million from $253.1 million and diluted
earnings per share were $0.62 from $0.48 in 2004. 
A detailed analysis of the Group’ s performance is set
out on pages 22 to 31. The use of financial instruments
is covered within the business review section.
In accordance with stated policy, no dividend 
will be paid in respect of the 52 weeks ended 
30 December 2005.
Future development
It remains the Board’ s intention to develop the Group
through organic growth and selective acquisition.
Directors
Details of the directors of the Board who 
served during the year are contained on page 32.
Biographies of the directors in office at 
30 December 2005 are on pages 36 and 37.
The interests of the executive directors in the
options of the Company are detailed in the Report 
of the Remuneration Committee on page 47.
Directors’ interests in shares
The register kept by the Company pursuant to section
325 of the Companies Act shows that the Directors in
office at 30 December 2005 and their families had the
under-mentioned interests in the ordinary shares of
the Company.
30 December 2005 1 January 2005
James Collier 1,509,898 2,119,898
Glenn Collinson 1,715,840 2,696,840
Paul Goodridge – 2,946
John Hodgson 942,082 942,082
Ron Mackintosh 20,000 20,000
David T ucker 80,000 60,000
John Whybrow 120,000 100,000
In accordance with the Articles of Association, 
the director retiring at the Annual General Meeting 
will be Mr Anthony Carlisle, as he has been appointed
since the last meeting. Being eligible, Mr Carlisle offers
himself for election. Mr John Whybrow, Mr David
Tucker and Mr Paul Goodridge are retiring by rotation
and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 
Payment of creditors
In the UK, the Company agrees payment terms with 
its suppliers when it enters into binding purchase
contracts. At 30 December 2005 the number of
creditor days outstanding for the Company was 30
(2004 – 58) and for the Group was 62 (2004 – 58).
Donations
The Company and employees support a number 
of charities for a variety of causes. During the past
year the most significant contributions have been
made in response to the T sunami in December 2004
that affected large areas of south east Asia and the
earthquake in October 2005 in Pakistan. In both
cases the Company agreed to match total giving
made by employees and as a result a total amount 
of $30,000 was donated to the Disasters Emergency
Committee in response to the T sunami and a total
amount of $17,000 was donated to the Red Cross
following the earthquake in Pakistan. The Company 
did not make any political donations during the year .
Directors’ responsibility statement
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual
Report and the financial statements. The directors are
required to prepare financial statements for the Group
in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) and have also elected to prepare
financial statements for the Company in accordance
with IFRS. Company law requires the directors to
prepare such financial statements in accordance 
38 Changing the way the world connects with International Financial Reporting Standards, 
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires 
that financial statements present fairly for each
financial year the Company’ s financial position,
financial performance and cash flows. This requires
the faithful representation of the effects of transactions,
other events and conditions in accordance with the
definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities,
income and expenses set out in the International
Accounting Standards Boards’ ‘Framework for 
the Preparation and Presentation of Financial
Statements’. A fair presentation will be achieved by
compliance with all applicable International Financial
Reporting Standards. Directors are also required to:
• properly select and apply accounting policies; 
• present information, including accounting policies,
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable,
comparable and understandable information; and
• provide additional disclosures when compliance
with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient
to enable users to understand the impact of particular
transactions, other events and conditions on the
entity’ s financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper
accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the
company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation 
of a directors’ report and directors’ remuneration
report which comply with the requirements of the
Companies Act 1985.
The directors, having prepared the financial
statements, have permitted the auditors to take
whatever steps they consider appropriate for the
purpose of enabling them to give their audit opinion. 
Substantial shareholdings
The following interests of 3% or more in the issued
share capital of the Company appears in the register
maintained under the provisions of Section 211 of 
the Companies Act 1985.
Going concern
After making due enquiries, the directors have a
reasonable expectation at the time of approving 
the financial statements that the Group has adequate
financial resources to continue to operate for the
foreseeable future and, consequently, continue 
to use the going concern basis for preparing the
financial statements which follow.
Auditors
Deloitte & T ouche LLP have been the Company’ s
auditors since July 2002 and the cost, scope and
effectiveness of the audit are reviewed regularly. 
In 2005 the Board requested that a formal review 
of the audit be undertaken with due regard for good
governance and to ensure shareholders are receiving
the best available service. 
This review commenced in December 2005 
and will be completed to allow a recommendation 
to be put to shareholders for their consideration at 
the Annual General Meeting to be held on 2 May 2006.
More particulars on the matter are contained in 
the Notice of the Annual General Meeting and the
chairman’ s letter accompanying the Annual Report.
By Order of the Board
Brett Gladden
Secretary
28 February 2006
Disclosed holding
ordinary share capital % of issued
Fidelity , FMR Corp, Fidelity International Ltd 17,928,645 13.96%
Wellington Management Company LLP 5,466,600 4.26%
Deutsche Bank AG 5,095,839 3.97%
Lloyds TSB Group Plc 4,892,758 3.81%
Legal & General Group Plc 4,377,040 3.41%
Morgan Stanley Securities Ltd 4,165,759 3.24%
*at 20 March 2006
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  39
* 40 Changing the way the world connects
Introduction
The Board presents the remuneration report for 
the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005.
The Board sets the Company’ s remuneration policy .
The Remuneration Committee (‘the Committee’)
makes recommendations to the Board within its
agreed terms of reference (available on the Company’ s
website www.csr .com or from the Company Secretary
at the Company’ s registered office) on the Company’ s
framework of executive remuneration and its cost. 
It also determines on behalf of the Board, specific
remuneration packages for each of the executive
directors and for the Chairman. The Committee
administers the Company’ s share incentive plans 
for employees and monitors and makes
recommendations on the level and structure of
remuneration for senior management who report 
to the Chief Executive. The Board itself determines 
the remuneration of the non-executive directors. 
No director plays a part in any discussion about their
own remuneration.
During the year, Mr Whybrow stood down as
chairman of the Committee and Mr Mackintosh was
appointed as chairman. The other current members 
of the Committee, all of whom are independent 
non-executive directors within the definition of the
Code are set out on page 33 and the Company
Secretary acts as its secretary. Mr Scarisbrick was 
a member of the Committee until 1 November 2005.
None of the members of the Committee has any
personal financial interest (other than as shareholders),
conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships
or day-to-day involvement in running the business 
of the Company. An evaluation of the performance 
of the Committee was conducted during the year 
in regards to which more information is contained 
in the Corporate Governance report on page 32.
The Committee has access to detailed external
research from independent consultants. 
For the period to May 2005 professional advice was
provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and
PinsentMasons LLP each of whom were appointed 
by the Committee. For the period since October 2005,
professional advice has been provided by New Bridge
Street Consultants LLP and Slaughter and May, the
latter advising the Committee in respect of the service
agreement for Mr Scarisbrick. Both advisers were
appointed by the Committee. Slaughter and May 
act as legal advisers to the Company generally. 
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP provides no 
other services to the Company.
In determining the remuneration policies 
and levels for the year, the Committee consulted 
Mr Hodgson (Chief Executive Officer) and following 
his appointment on 1 December 2005 as CEO
Designate, Mr John Scarisbrick, about its proposals
and invited them to attend Committee meetings,
except where their own remuneration was discussed.
Further information on meetings held and directors’
attendance is disclosed in the Corporate Governance
report on pages 32 to 35. 
The Directors’ report on remuneration for the year
ended 31 December 2004 was approved by the
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held in
May 2005. As required by the Companies Act,
shareholders will be invited to approve this report at
the Annual General Meeting to be held on 2 May
2006.
This report has been prepared in accordance with
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985. The report
also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority and
describes how the Board has applied the Principles of
Good Governance relating to directors’ remuneration. 
The Act requires the auditors to report to the
Company’ s members on certain parts of the Report of
the Remuneration Committee and to state whether in
their opinion those parts of the report have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985. The report has therefore been divided into
separate sections for audited and unaudited
information.
Unaudited information
Remuneration Committee
Remuneration policy for the executive directors
Executive remuneration packages are designed 
in order to attract, motivate and retain employees 
of the highest calibre required by the Group in order 
to achieve its objectives, to meet the needs of our
customers and enhance value to our shareholders.
There are five main elements of the remuneration
package for executive directors and senior
management, which include medium and long 
term incentives comprising basic annual salary,
benefits-in-kind, a money purchase pension, 
a cash bonus plan and participation in the Company’ s
share incentive plans.
The Company’ s policy is that a substantial
proportion of the remuneration of the executive
directors should be performance-related. The
payment of both cash bonuses and the vesting 
of share incentives are subject to meeting
performance conditions established by the
Committee at the beginning of each financial year
reflecting what, at that time, the Committee considers
to be demanding targets. These targets are set taking
appropriate account of the challenging and rapidly
evolving market in which the Group operates, 
and the expectations of the investment community 
on the Company’ s potential future performance.
A detailed review of the remuneration policy 
of the Board was undertaken prior to the Company’ s
flotation and in November 2005 at the time of the CEO
Designate’ s appointment. The Committee considers
that the present Board policy is appropriate and with
the exception of the introduction of a share ownership
guideline, EPS hurdles in respect of the vesting of
awards under the Share Option Plan and an increase 
in the annual bonus potential, do not intend making
changes to the structure or basic terms of the
incentive arrangements for executive directors.
Report of the Remuneration Committee CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  41
In November 2005, John Hodgson announced 
his intended retirement from the Company. The
Committee considered the performance of the
Company under both the CSR plc Share Option Plan
and the CSR plc Share Award Plan and determined
that the performance conditions should apply to
awards in the event of his retirement but in respect 
of awards under the Share Award Plan time pro rating
should not apply. The performance conditions have
been satisfied under both plans over the shortened
period to 30 December 2005. This decision was taken
in recognition of his outstanding contribution to the
earnings growth of the Company and to the support
provided in facilitating a smooth handover to John
Scarisbrick in the period from 1 November 2005 to
John Hodgson’ s retirement. In accordance with the
respective rules of the plans, these awards will be
exercisable for a period of six months from his
cessation of employment. With regard to the
unexercised share options under the Global Share
Option Plan, the Committee restricted the exercise
period to the period of two years and three months
from the date of retirement. No enhancements have
been made to any element of his package and the
bonus payable is in line with terms for the other
executive directors.
In December 2005 the Company appointed 
John Scarisbrick as CEO Designate. With his
extensive experience in the telecommunications 
and semiconductor sectors and his knowledge of
CSR, his successful appointment was crucial to the
future performance of the Company . T o facilitate his
recruitment, it was agreed that options and share
awards would be made under the Company’ s Share
Option Plan and Share Award Plan effective from 
his appointment. In addition given these exceptional
circumstances on recruitment, the Company has
conditionally awarded 100,000 deferred shares.
These incentive awards are explained in more detail 
in this report. The Committee felt these awards 
were necessary and appropriate for a successful
recruitment and consistent with the Committee’ s
policy that a substantial proportion of remuneration
should be in the form of long term incentives.
Basic salary
An executive director’ s basic salary is reviewed by 
the Committee prior to the beginning of each year and
when an individual changes position or responsibility.
When making a determination as to the appropriate
remuneration, the Committee considers remuneration
practices within the Group as a whole and where
considered relevant, consults objective research on
companies within the Group’ s UK listed peers with an
international focus. The target salary is at the median,
with the opportunity to go above this level, subject to
sustained individual performance. With the exception
of Mr Hodgson, who was paid in US Dollars, and 
Mr Scarisbrick, who is paid part of his remuneration 
in US Dollars and part in Pounds Sterling, the
executive directors are paid in Pounds Sterling.
Details of the basic salary of the executive directors 
for the period ending 30 December 2005 are set 
forth in the table on page 45.
Current salaries at February 2006 are :
John Scarisbrick $700,000
James Collier $434,361
Paul Goodridge $390,038
Glenn Collinson $390,038
Increases that took effect from 1 January 2005 and 
1 January 2006 have been felt appropriate to meet 
the policy of mid market base pay set against UK
listed companies of similar size and international 
focus and reflecting that the Company is competing 
in a global market. The appointment of the CEO
Designate highlighted the need to maintain a
competitive package within a highly challenging and
evolving industry in which the Company has a market
leading position yet competes with significantly larger
overseas based companies. The Committee still feels
that UK listed companies are the correct benchmark
yet will keep this under review as the Company
develops and expands further. Over the two years
since flotation the profile of the Company’ s senior
executives has increased significantly with diluted
EPS rising from $0.03 per share in 2003 to $0.62 
per share in 2005. This has been reflected by an
increase in share price of 368% since flotation.
Benefits-in-kind
The executive directors receive certain benefits-in-kind,
comprising private medical insurance, life assurance
of four times basic salary, and personal accident
insurance and subsistence expenses. Mr Scarisbrick
has been provided with a relocation allowance and
homebuyer protection to facilitate re-location to
Cambridge, where the Company’ s head office is
located, subject to his moving in the next three years.
Cash bonus plan
The Committee is responsible for determining on 
what basis to incentivise employees, including
executive directors, through a cash bonus plan. 
The Committee establishes against defined targets 
the minimum and subsequent thresholds at which 
a bonus will be payable and the maximum potential
award. In setting appropriate bonus thresholds and
targets, the Committee may refer to the objective
research on a comparator group as noted above. 
The Committee seeks to apply performance
conditions which are suitably demanding and 
aligned with the interests of shareholders.
For the cash bonus plan applicable to executive
directors in 2005, the targets were set after considering
the Company’ s budgeted operating profit and market
expectations. The budget was agreed based upon
objectives which were considered to be appropriate
and stretching against the background of an operating
profit for the year ended December 2004 of $58.5m.
T argets were set that required operating profit 
to reach $81.6 million for the minimum award of 
3.3% of basic salary rising on a straightline basis 
to $91.5 million for an award of 20% and thereafter
increasing on a straightline basis to the maximum
award of 50% of basic salary for an operating profit 
of $103.5m or above. Mr Scarisbrick did not
participate in the cash bonus plan for the year to 
30 December 2005. For each of the other executive
directors an award of 50% of basic salary was 
made in February 2006.  42 Changing the way the world connects
Report of the
Remuneration
Committee
continued
In accordance with the terms of his service agreement,
the maximum bonus potential for 2006 is 100% of
salary for Mr Scarisbrick. Following the November
2005 remuneration review, the Committee decided 
to increase the maximum bonus potential from 50%
to 80% of salary for the other executive directors. 
This brings packages more into line with those of its
UK listed benchmark group thereby maintaining a 
mid market competitive remuneration position
following a strong period of growth since flotation 
and takes appropriate account of the fact that the
Company is competing in a global market. T argets for
the bonus plan for 2006 are also based on operating
profits for the 52 weeks ending 29 December 2006
and taking account of market expectations.
Share option plans
The Company has four share option plans, intended 
to facilitate the motivation and retention of employees.
T wo of the plans were established prior to the
Company’ s flotation, being the Founders Share
Option Plan and the Global Share Option Plan. 
Whilst not all the awards under these two plans 
have fully vested, the schemes are closed for the
purpose of any new awards, and neither scheme 
was used during 2005 for grants to executive
directors or to other employees.
Following shareholder approval at the 2004
Annual General Meeting, the Company established
the CSR plc Share Option Scheme (the ‘CSOP’). 
The reason for the introduction of this scheme was 
to incentivise the executive directors and employees
whilst aligning their interests more closely with those
of the Company’ s shareholders following the
Company’ s flotation. The Committee has
responsibility for supervising the CSOP and the 
grant of options in accordance with its rules.
Options granted may be exercised between three
and ten years after the date of grant, subject to the
Company satisfying predetermined performance
conditions. The performance criterion is based on
growth in the Company’ s Earnings Per Share (EPS).
For those awards made in 2005 to vest, the EPS
growth must be greater than the growth in the Retail
Prices Index plus a compound 4% per annum over a
fixed period of three financial years beginning in 2005.
No re-testing is permitted. The criteria, which was
determined at the start of 2005, was considered by
the Committee to be challenging given the financial
performance of the Company to that point, the
requirement for sustained growth over the three years
and the fact that the Company would for the first time
be paying corporation tax in the performance period.
The performance criterion, which applies to all
participants, including executive directors, was chosen
to ensure that the vesting of benefits was aligned 
to improved financial performance of the Company,
from which shareholders would also benefit.
The rules of the CSOP do not allow for options 
to be granted at a discount to the Company’ s share
price at the date of grant.
The Company’ s policy is to grant options to
executive directors at the discretion of the Committee
up to a maximum of 200% of salary , taking into account
individual performance. Pursuant to the rules of the
CSOP , the Committee also reserves to its discretion
the right to grant awards at a higher proportion of
basic salary and which, in exceptional circumstances
only, could be up to 400% of basic salary. 
Under the service agreement entered into with
John Scarisbrick, awards equivalent to 400% of his
basic salary will be made in equal instalments of a
quarter every three months commencing December
2005 and concluding in September 2006. These
options cannot be exercised until the third anniversary
of each grant and will be dependent upon achieving
the performance condition pursuant to the rules of 
the CSOP for awards granted in 2005.
It is intended that awards made in 2006 to other
executive directors will vest according to stretching
EPS targets which for 2006 awards will provide for the
proportion of the award that vests to increase against
pre-determined thresholds set by the Committee
subject to the Company meeting or exceeding those
thresholds. No options will vest if the growth in the
Company’ s EPS is below a compound 12% plus RPI.
If the Company’ s EPS growth meets or exceeds a
compound 12% plus RPI, 30% of the share options
will vest. If the Company’ s EPS growth meets or exceeds
14% plus RPI an additional 50% of the share options
will vest. If the Company’ s EPS growth meets or exceeds
a compound 17% plus RPI all options will vest.
The Company also operates an Inland Revenue
approved SAYE Share Option Scheme for eligible
employees under which options may be granted at 
a discount of up to 20% of market value. Executive
directors are eligible to participate in the SAYE Share
Option Scheme.
Performance share awards 
At the Annual General Meeting held on 4 May 2005,
shareholders approved the introduction of a new
Share Award Plan called the CSR Share Award Plan.
The first awards under the Share Award Plan were
made in May 2005. Awards are made to employees 
at the discretion of the Committee. Awards for all
participating employees are subject to a three year
retention period and the requirement that, subject 
to certain mitigating factors, the participant is an
employee at the end of the retention period. 
In addition, for executive directors and other
senior employees, vesting of the Share Awards 
is subject to stretching targets based on T otal
Shareholder Return, (“TSR”) over the fixed three year
retention period with an additional requirement that
the Company should have achieved a sustained
improvement in underlying financial performance over
the same three year period. In measuring the TSR, 
it is averaged over the three month periods prior 
to the beginning and the end of the retention period.
The Committee will assess the performance 
of the Company’ s TSR performance against a
comparator group of UK and overseas companies.
The constituent members of the comparator 
group are shown opposite. The comparator group
comprises international companies that are either
customers, suppliers or competitors of CSR in 
the telecommunications and semiconductor
industries with whom the Committee considers the
performance of the Company can most appropriately
be compared. There is no intention to change the
comparator group from that established for the
awards made in 2005. 
For the awards made in May 2005 the Committee
has determined certain thresholds which have to be
satisfied in order for part or all of the award to vest. 
If the TSR performance is below the median of the
comparator group, no shares will vest. If the CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  43
performance is at median, 30% of the shares will 
vest, whilst for performance between median and 
the upper quartile the proportion of shares which will
vest is determined on a straightline basis pro-rata
between 30% and 100%. For performance in the
upper quartile or higher, 100% of the shares will vest.
The award lapses if the performance condition has
not been satisfied at the end of the retention period.
In the event that the TSR performance meets
the conditions of vesting, the Committee will, prior 
to vesting, also consider the underlying financial
performance of the Company and whether in light 
of this performance, vesting should be permitted. 
The Committee will in a year in which an award 
vests, report to shareholders on the underlying
financial performance which was considered when
approving vesting. 
The adoption of TSR as the primary performance
criteria, which applies to executive directors and other
senior employees, was chosen to ensure that the
vesting of benefits was directly aligned to the interests
of shareholders. The inclusion within the performance
criteria of the consideration of the underlying financial
performance of the Company was adopted to ensure
that at the vesting of the award appropriate account 
is taken of the extent to which the Company’ s own
performance has contributed to the growth in
shareholder value. These criterion were adopted
following consultation with the Company’ s advisers
and institutional shareholders.
The Committee considers that these performance
conditions are appropriate for the form of award and
are suitably stretching.
The share awards are intended to reward 
strong relative performance, whilst share options 
will continue to reward absolute performance. 
In keeping with the share option plan, the Committee
will reserve the right to grant awards at a proportion 
of basic salary normally up to a maximum of 100% 
of salary (200% in exceptional circumstances). 
Under the service agreement entered into 
with Mr Scarisbrick on 1 November 2005, awards
equivalent to 200% of his basic salary will be made 
in equal instalments of a quarter every three months
commencing in December 2005 and concluding 
in September 2006. These awards will not vest until 
the third anniversary of each award and subject 
to the satisfaction of the performance conditions.
The table below summarises awards made in
2005 under the CSR Share Award Plan, being the 
first year in which such awards were made, and the
total awards currently held by each executive director 
at 30 December 2005.
Name Date of award Award made Award Price Award Interests at 30 Performance
during the year vesting date December 2005 Cycle
J D Y Collier 5 May 2005 18,850 £3.18 5 May 2008 18,850 1 January 2005 to 
31 December 2007
G Collinson 5 May 2005 17,000 £3.18 5 May 2008 17,000 1 January 2005 to 
31 December 2007
J S Hodgson
1
5 May 2005 44,850 £3.18 28 February 44,850 1 January 2005 to 
2006 30 December 2005
P G G Goodridge 5 May 2005 17,000 £3.18 5 May 2008 17,000 1 January 2005 to 
31 December 2007
J Scarisbrick 15 December 22,557 £8.93 15 December 22,557 1 January 2005 to 
2005 2008 31 December 2007
ARM Holdings plc Hewlett-Packard Company STMicroelectronics N.V .
ASE T est Inc. Infineon T echnologies AG SigmaT el, Inc.
ASML Holding NV INTEL CORPORATION SILICON LABORATORIES INC.
Analog Devices Inc Logitech International SA Skyworks Solutions, Inc.
Apple Computer , Inc. Marvell T echnology Group Ltd Spirent plc
Atheros Communications, Inc Motorola, Inc. Synopsys Inc.
austriamicrosystems AG National Semiconductor Corporation TTP Communications plc
Bookham, Inc. Nokia Oyj T aiwan Semiconductor 
Manufacturing Company Limited
Broadcom Corporation Nordic Semiconductor ASA TERADYNE, Inc.
Cirrus Logic Inc. PMC-Sierra Inc. T exas Instruments Incorporated
Conexant Systems, Inc Plantronics Inc Wavecom SA
Dell Inc. QUALCOMM Incorporated Wolfson Microelectronics plc
Dialog Semiconductor Plc Research in Motion Ltd
GN Store Nord A/S SiRF T echnology , Holdings Inc
1
As explained above, the performance period has been curtailed on Mr Hodgson’ s retirement to 30 December 2005.
T otal Shareholder Return comparator group of companies
The following table shows the comparator companies for determining the relative TSR performance of 
the Company. 44 Changing the way the world connects
Report of the
Remuneration
Committee
continued
No significant amendments are proposed to be made
to the terms and conditions of any entitlement of an
executive director under these share incentive plans. 
The level of award is considered each year in the light 
of performance.
The Company monitors the awards of shares
made under the various share plans which it operates 
in relation to their effect on dilution limits. Following
shareholder approval at the 2004 AGM, the Company
is able to make selective share awards while
maintaining the traditional overall 10% limit on awards
as a proportion of the issued share capital in any
rolling 10 year period. 
Pension arrangements
Three of the executive directors are members of 
the Cambridge Silicon Radio Retirement Benefits
Scheme (‘the UK Pension Plan’) which is an Inland
Revenue approved money purchase (defined
contribution) scheme operated for eligible employees 
in the United Kingdom. Mr Scarisbrick participates 
in the US based 401K plan and is a member of the 
UK Pension Plan. Mr Hodgson is not a member of 
the 401K plan or the UK Pension Plan.
Contributions are determined as a percentage 
of the employee’ s gross basic salary. Details of the
actual contributions made by the Group to the
Pension Plan on behalf of the executive directors 
are set out in the table on page 46. 
With the exception of Mr Scarisbrick, who is
entitled to retire at age 58, normal retirement age 
is 65 for employees and executive directors. 
Other than basic salary , no element of the directors’
remuneration is pensionable. 
Under Inland Revenue rules, to the extent 
that a director’ s benefits from a company scheme 
are restricted by limits set by the Inland Revenue,
payments may be made to funded unapproved
retirement benefit schemes or the equivalent cash 
sum paid to the executive. Mr Scarisbrick has 
terms allowing him to receive this benefit. No such
arrangements are in place for the other executive
directors of the Company.
Issue of Shares
Necessary for the successful recruitment of and
pursuant to the service agreement with Mr Scarisbrick,
he was on 15 December 2005 conditionally awarded
100,000 shares in the Company. The shares vest 
in three instalments dependent on continued
employment and payment by Mr Scarisbrick of 
the nominal value of the shares. Commencing 30
November 2008 fifty per cent vests. Thereafter on 
30 November 2009 twenty five per cent vests and 
on 30 November 2010 the remaining twenty five 
per cent vests. 
Share Ownership
During 2006 the Board will be adopting as part of its
remuneration policies, a requirement for executive
directors to hold ordinary shares in the Company in
order to be eligible to participate fully in the share
incentive plans. The policy reflects the Company’ s
belief that its executive directors should also be
shareholders. Executive directors have 5 years from
introduction of the requirement or appointment to the
Board in which to establish a shareholding which can
be satisfied through the retention of shares derived
from the exercise of vested awards under the 
Company’ s share incentive plans. The executive
directors are required to hold shares equivalent 
to 100% of their basic annual salary.
Performance graph
The graph below shows the Company’ s performance,
measured by total shareholder return, compared 
with the performance of the FTSE 250 index. 
The FTSE 250 index has been selected for this
comparison because it is a broad equity index of
which CSR plc is a constituent company . The graph
covers the period since the Company was listed on
the London Stock Exchange. 
–– CSR –– FTSE 250
Directors’ contracts
It is the Company’ s policy that executive 
directors should have contracts of an indefinite term. 
All executive directors have a service contract which
is subject to one year’ s notice from the Company.
Each of Mr Collier, Mr Collinson and Mr Goodridge
have service agreements and Mr Hodgson had a
service agreement requiring them to give six months’
notice to the Company. Mr Scarisbrick has a service
agreement requiring that he give three months’ notice
to the Company. Mr Goodridge who is proposed for 
re-election at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting has a service contract which provides 
for a notice period by the Company of one year.
The details of the directors’ service contracts and
notice period from the Company under their respective
contracts are summarised in the table below:
Name of director Date of service contract Period of notice
J D Y Collier 25 February 2004 1 year
G Collinson 25 February 2004 1 year
P G G Goodridge 25 February 2004 1 year
J S Hodgson 25 February 2004 1 year
J C Scarisbrick 1 November 2005 1 year
In the event of termination, a director would be entitled
to a payment not exceeding one year’ s basic salary. 
In an appropriate case, the Company would have
regard to the departing director’ s duty to mitigate loss.
Non-executive directors
All non-executive directors have specific terms of
engagement provided in formal letters of appointment
and their remuneration is determined by the Board
within the limits set by the Articles of Association 
and based on independent surveys of fees paid to
non-executive directors of similar companies which
are considered annually. The non-executive directors
are appointed for a fixed three year term, subject to 
re-appointment by the shareholders. The terms and
conditions of appointment are available for inspection
at the Company’ s registered office during normal
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
02/03/04 31/12/04 30/12/05 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  45
business hours on request to the Company Secretary
and up to 15 minutes prior to and at the Company’ s
Annual General Meeting.
The fees payable to non-executive directors
were reviewed in December 2005. The basic fee 
paid to each non-executive director for the 52 weeks 
to 30 December 2005 was £32,000. An additional
fee of £5,000 was paid for the chairmanship of 
the audit committee, whilst for acting as chair 
of the remuneration and nomination committees, 
the fee paid was £3,000. Mr T ucker who is the senior
independent director was paid £3,000 for acting 
in that capacity.
Non-executive directors do not receive any bonus,
do not participate in awards under the Company’ s
share schemes and are not eligible to join the
Company’ s pension schemes. Mr John Whybrow and
Mr David T ucker who are proposed for re-election and
Mr Anthony Carlisle who is proposed for election at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, being non-
executive directors, do not have a service contract.
Date of letter Duration of
Name of director of appointment appointment
J W Whybrow 17 December 2003 3 years
†
D T ucker 23 January 2004 3 years
R Mackintosh 16 March 2004 3 years
A Carlisle 1 July 2005 3 years
†
Mr Whybrow’ s term of appointment commenced on 2 March 2004, being the
date of the Company’ s admission to the London Stock Exchange.
Outside appointments
Executive directors are entitled to accept
appointments outside the Company provided that the
Chairman’ s permission is sought prior to accepting
the appointment. During the year Mr Collinson acted
as a non-executive director of Sonaptic Limited and
fees of £6,581 were paid to CSR plc.
Audited information
Directors’ emoluments or fees
The emoluments or fees of directors serving during the year , for the financial years 2004 and 2005 were as follows:
Fees/Basic salary Benefits in kind Annual bonuses 2005 total 2004 total
Name of director $ $ $ $ $
Executive
J D Y Collier 356,794 531 133,439 490,764 369,259
G Collinson 321,114 531 120,095 441,740 326,634
P G G Goodridge 321,114 531 111,199 432,844 339,318
J S Hodgson 540,000 20,167 187,500 747,667 564,126
J C Scarisbrick 58,333 – – 58,333 –
P L O’Donovan – – – – 13,373
Non-executive
J W Whybrow 224,780 – – 224,780 139,671
D T ucker 71,359 – – 71,359 47,333
R Mackintosh 59,770 – – 59,770 33,248
M L Shone* 14,234 – – 14,234 63,013
J C Scarisbrick 52,305 – – 52,305 22,697
A E C G Carlisle 28,620 – – 28,620 –
A Arts˚ (Gilde IT Fund BV)† – – – – 2,586
L Garrett ˚(3i)† – – – – 2,424
Dr H Hauser˚ (Amadeus I LP)
▲
– – – – 2,586
S Paterson (Scottish Equity Partners II)˚ † – – – – 2,586
Total 2,048,423 21,760 552,233 2,622,416 1,928,854
Fees to third parties – 10,182
The salary for Mr Hodgson was paid in US Dollars. The salary for Mr Scarisbrick was paid partly in US Dollars and partly in Pounds Sterling. The salary and fees
for other directors were paid in Pounds Sterling, but denominated in US Dollars for reporting purposes, consistent with the accounting policies of the Company . 
*Stood down 31 March 2005. ˚T otal fees of $10,182 were paid in 2004 to third parties in respect of the services of A Arts, L Garrett, H Hauser and S Paterson as
indicated in the table above. †Resigned 30 January 2004. 
▲
Resigned 21 January 2004. 
Aggregate directors’ remuneration
The aggregate directors’ remuneration was as follows:
2005 2004
$$
Emoluments 2,622,416 1,928,854
Gains on exercise of share options 20,485,050 1,686,400
Notional gains from the issue of shares at less than fair value – 339,005
Money purchase pension contributions 139,863 87,106
Total 23,247,329 4,041,365 46 Changing the way the world connects
Report of the
Remuneration
Committee
continued
Directors’ pension entitlements
Contributions paid by the Group in respect of the directors during the year were as follows: 
2005 2004
$$
J D Y Collier 49,951 31,634 
G Collinson 44,956 27,799 
P G G Goodridge 44,956 25,808 
P L O’Donovan – 1,865 
Total 139,863 87,106 
Directors’ share options
Aggregate emoluments disclosed on page 45 do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire
ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the directors. 
Details of the options exercised during the year were as follows: 
Gains on
Number Cost Market value exercise 
Name of director Notes Grant description Date of exercise exercised per share per share Gain 2004
££ $ $
Note (ii)
J D Y Collier Founder Grant 21 September 2005 147,000 0.003 6.90 1,834,286 –
Founder Grant 21 September 2005 352,998 0.054 6.90 4,372,611 –
G Collinson Founder Grant 23 May 2005 147,000 0.003 3.58 961,476 –
Founder Grant 23 May 2005 147,000 0.054 3.58 947,945 –
Founder Grant 23 May 2005 75,000 0.503 3.58 421,973 –
J S Hodgson Starter Grant 18 March 2005 150,000 0.156 3.50 962,424 1,653,371
Starter Grant 8 June 2005 300,000 0.156 3.75 1,981,524 –
Starter Grant 21 September 2005 300,000 0.156 6.90 3,660,395 –
Starter Grant 6 December 2005 300,000 0.156 9.10 4,928,050 –
P G G Goodridge Starter Grant 8 June 2005 41,838 0.503 3.75 249,678 33,029
Starter Grant 8 June 2005 2,626 0.503 3.75 15,671 –
Starter Grant 21 September 2005 2,850 0.503 6.90 32,984 –
Dec 2000 
Bonus Grant 21 September 2005 14,204 2.385 6.90 116,032 –
M L Shone* Note (i) 13 July 2005 400,000 0.054 4.41 3,058,645 –
Note (i) 29 July 2005 200,000 0.054 4.90 1,705,219 –
Note (i) 24 October 2005 200,000 0.054 6.60 2,318,569 –
Note (i) 24 November 2005 97,100 0.054 8.68 1,442,790 –
Note (i) 21 December 2005 50,000 0.054 9.00 778,596 –
*Stood down 31 March 2005
Note (i): These share options were granted under a specific agreement with Mr Shone with vesting being subject to achieving the following performance criteria:
a) There is a take over or listing which places a value on the whole of the Company of at least $100 million before 8 April 2006; or
b) Before 8 April 2004, the turnover of the Group reaches at least $75 million in any 12 month period and:
i) the profit after tax is at least 10% of turnover in that 12 month period; or
ii) the profit before tax is at least 20% of turnover in that 12 month period.
T urnover and profit are determined by reference to the management accounts for the relevant 12 month period.
These criteria were met in March 2004, following the listing of the Company on the London Stock Exchange.
Note (ii): The US $ gain represents the number of options exercised multiplied by the market value per share shown in pounds sterling and translated at the 
US $/pounds sterling exchange rate prevailing on the date of exercise. CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  47
Details of options for directors who served during the year are as follows:
1 Jan 2005 
(or date of 30 Dec 2005 Exercise 
Name appointment) (or date Price £ Date from
of Director Scheme Note (v) Granted Exercised of resignation) Note (v) which exercisable Expiry date
J D Y Collier Founders 147,000 – 147,000 – 0.0033 01 Apr 00 Note (i) 01 Apr 09 
Founders 735,000 – 352,998 382,002 0.0537 01 Apr 00 Note (i) 01 Sep 10 
Global 120,000 – – 120,000 0.5033 10 May 01 Note (i) 10 May 10
CSOP 75,000 – – 75,000 2.00 26 Feb 07 Note (vi) 26 Feb 14
SAYE 5,013 – – 5,013 1.88 01 May 07 Note (vii) 01 Nov 07 
CSOP – 62,350 – 62,350 3.21 05 May 08 Note (viii) 05 May 15
Performance award – 18,850 – 18,850 0.001 05 May 08 Note (ix) 05 May 15
G Collinson Founders 147,000 – 147,000 – 0.0033 01 Apr 00 Note (i) 01 Apr 09 
Founders 147,000 – 147,000 – 0.0537 01 Apr 00 Note (i) 01 Sep 10 
Global 75,000 – 75,000 – 0.5033 10 May 01 Note (i) 10 May 10
CSOP 11,148 – – 11,148 2.35 26 Feb 07 Note (vi) 26 Feb 14
CSOP 55,852 – – 55,852 2.00 26 Feb 07 Note (vi) 26 Feb 14
SAYE 5,013 – – 5,013 1.88 01 May 07 Note (vii) 01 Nov 07 
CSOP – 56,100 – 56,100 3.21 05 May 08 Note (viii) 05 May 15
Performance award – 17,000 – 17,000 0.001 05 May 08 Note (ix) 05 May 15
J S Hodgson Global 2,065,792 – 1,050,000 1,015,792 0.1563 19 Feb 01 Note (ii) 27 May 08
CSOP 120,000 – 120,000 2.00 28 Feb 06 Note (vi) 28 Aug 06
CSOP – 89,000 – 89,000 3.21 28 Feb 06 Note (viii) 28 Aug 06
Performance award – 44,850 – 44,850 0.001 28 Feb 06 Note (ix) 27 Aug 06
P G G Goodridge Global 47,314 – 47,314 – 0.5033 01 Sep 01 Note (i) 01 Sep 10 
Global 50,000 – 14,204 35,796 2.385 31 Dec 01 Note (i) 31 Dec 10 
Global 2,400 – – 2,400 2.385 31 Dec 02 Note (i) 31 Dec 11 
Global 37,500 – – 37,500 1.01 31 Dec 02 Note (i) 25 Nov 12 
Global 60,000 – – 60,000 1.01 30 Sep 03 Note (i) 30 Sep 12 
Global 40,000 – – 40,000 1.025 18 Nov 04 Note (iii) 18 Nov 13 
CSOP 12,765 – – 12,765 2.35 26 Feb 07 Note (vi) 26 Feb 14
CSOP 54,235 – – 54,235 2.00 26 Feb 07 Note (vi) 26 Feb 14
SAYE 5,013 – – 5,013 1.88 01 May 07 Note (vii) 01 Nov 07 
CSOP – 56,100 – 56,100 3.21 05 May 08 Note (viii) 05 May 15
Performance award – 17,000 – 17,000 0.001 05 May 08 Note (ix) 05 May 15
J C Scarisbrick Performance award – 22,557 – 22,557 0.001 15 Dec 08 Note (ix) 15 Dec 15
CSOP – 45,114 – 45,114 8.93 15 Dec 08 Note (viii) 15 Dec 15
Recruitment award – 100,000 – 100,000 0.001 30 Nov 08 Note (x) 30 Nov 10
M L Shone* Note (iv) and (xi) 947,100 – 947,100 – 0.0537 Note (iv) 01 Sep 09 
Total 4,965,145 528,921 2,927,616 2,566,450
*Stood down 31 March 2005.
Note (i): Vesting of option 20% on anniversary of grant, then 5% each subsequent calendar quarter end (31 March, 30 June, 30 September , 31 December) for 16 quarters.
Note (ii): Vesting of option 25% on anniversary of grant, then 6.25% each subsequent calendar quarter end (31 March, 30 June, 30 September , 31 December) for 12 quarters.
Note (iii): Vesting of option 5% each calendar quarter end (31 March, 30 June, 30 September , 31 December) for 20 quarters.
Note (iv): These share options were granted under a specific agreement with Mr Shone with vesting being subject to achieving the following performance criteria:
a) There is a take over or listing which places a value on the whole of the Company of at least $100 million before 8 April 2006; or
b) Before 8 April 2004, the turnover of the Group reaches at least $75 million in any 12 month period and:
i) the profit after tax is at least 10% of turnover in that 12 month period; or
ii) the profit before tax is at least 20% of turnover in that 12 month period.
T urnover and profit are determined by reference to the management accounts for the relevant 12 month period.
These criteria were met in March 2004, following the listing of the Company on the London Stock Exchange.
Note (v): Option numbers are adjusted to reflect changes to the share capital structure on listing in March 2004.
Note (vi): Options granted to Directors under the CSOP scheme in 2004 vest after 3 years and have certain performance criteria attached. The options vest in proportions from 10% – 100% dependent upon
the EPS achieved by the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006, the target EPS is in the range $0.17 to $0.26. Thereafter the option may be exercised for the rest of its ten year life without further test.
Note (vii): Options granted under the SA YE scheme vest after 3 years and must be exercised within 6 months of vesting date.
Note (viii): Options granted under the CSOP scheme in 2005 vest after 3 years and have certain performance criteria attached.For options to vest, the EPS growth must be greater than the growth in the RPI
plus a compound 4% per annum over a fixed period of three financial years beginning in January 2005. The performance period in respect of the options granted to Mr Hodgson ended on 30 December 2005.
Note (ix): Shares granted under the Share Award scheme in 2005 vest after 3 years and have certain performance conditions attached. The shares vest in proportions from 30% to 100% dependent on the
Company’ s TSR against a basket of comparator companies established at the start of the three year period and thereafter only if the Company’ s underlying financial performance has improved to the
satisfaction of the Remuneration Committee, details of which shall be disclosed to shareholders in reports of the Remuneration Committee subsequent to the determination of the Committee. 
The performance period in respect of shares granted to Mr Hodgson ended on 30 December 2005.
Note (x): T o facilitate the recruitment of Mr Scarisbrick, and as part of the terms of his appointment, the Company agreed to award Mr Scarisbrick 100,000 ordinary shares in the Company . This award is
subject to vesting after the satisfaction of conditions relating to service. Fifty per cent will vest on 30 November 2008, twenty five per cent will vest on 30 November 2009 and the balance will vest on 
30 November 2010. Mr Scarisbrick will subscribe for such shares in cash at a price per share equal to their nominal value.
Note (xi): Mr Shone exercised his options in the period after he stood down from the Board and prior to 30 December 2005.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 30 December 2005 was £9.36 and the range during the year was £3.01 to £9.36.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of directors and signed on its behalf by:
R Mackintosh
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
28 February 2006 48 Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  49
Financial statements contents
Financial statements
50 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
51 Independent auditors’ report
52 Consolidated income statement
52 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity
53 Consolidated balance sheet 
54 Consolidated cash flow statement 
55 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
82 Company statement of changes in shareholders’ equity
83 Company balance sheet 
84 Company cash flow statement 
85 Notes to the Company financial statements
90 Five year summary
91 Share and corporate information
92 Glossary of industry terms
IBC CSR’ s offices 50 Changing the way the world connects
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements. The directors are required to prepare financial statements 
for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the
Company in accordance with IFRS. Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Company’ s financial position, financial
performance and cash flows. This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the
definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards’ ‘Framework for
the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements’. A fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial
Reporting Standards. Directors are also required to:
• properly select and apply accounting policies; 
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; and
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact 
of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’ s financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company , for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for 
the preparation of a directors’ report and directors’ remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions. CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  51
Independent auditors’ report
Independent auditors’ report to the members of CSR plc
We have audited the Group and individual Company financial statements (the “financial statements”) of CSR plc for the period ended 30 December
2005 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and individual Company balance sheets, the consolidated and individual
Company cash flow statements, the consolidated and individual Company statements of changes in shareholders’ equity , the statement of accounting
policies and the related notes 1 to 36. These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also
audited the information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’ s members, as a body , in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has been
undertaken so that we might state to the Company’ s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other
purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’ s
members as a body , for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the
statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance
with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant framework and whether the
financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations. We also report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, 
if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration 
and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the four directors’ remuneration disclosure requirements specified 
for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority . These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and
information on share options, details of long term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined benefit schemes. We give a statement, to the
extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company’ s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority , and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the
board’ s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’ s corporate governance
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors’ report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above period as described in the contents section including
the unaudited part of the directors’ remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements
or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report described as having been audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the
directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company
and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report described as having
been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report described as having
been audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state 
of the group’ s affairs as at 30 December 2005 and of its profit for the period then ended; 
• the individual company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union 
as applied in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, of the individual Company’ s affairs as at 30 December 2005; 
• the financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS 
As explained in Note 2, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, 
has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. Accordingly , in our opinion the financial statements 
give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Group’ s affairs as at 30 December 2005 and of its profit for the period then ended.
Deloitte & T ouche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, Cambridge, United Kingdom
28 February 2006 52 Changing the way the world connects
Consolidated income statement
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
Notes 2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Revenue 4 486,531 253,146
Cost of sales (258,418) (134,763)
Gross profit 228,113 118,383
Research and development (60,340) (27,583)
Sales and marketing (38,696) (20,864)
Administrative expenses (17,141) (11,479)
Operating profit 111,936 58,457
Investment income 4 3,213 1,213
Finance costs (783) (690)
Profit before tax 114,366 58,980
Tax 8 (31,210) 2,579
Profit for the period 6 83,156 61,559
Earnings per share $$
Basic 9 0.67 0.53
Diluted 9 0.62 0.48
The results were all derived from continuing operations.
The profit for the period is wholly attributable to equity holders of the parent company , CSR plc.
Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
Notes 2005 2004
$’000 $’000
At beginning of period 155,485 35,393
Profit for the period 83,156 61,559
Issue of share capital 21 3,402 74,553
Share issue costs – (5,531)
Redemption of redeemable preference shares – (11,189)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (47) –
Share based payments 26 2,408 700
Deferred tax benefit on share option gains 17 21,282 –
Current tax benefit on share option gains 22 13,532 –
Loss on cash flow hedges 22 (3,828) –
Net tax on cash flow hedges in equity 22 936 –
T ransferred to income statement in respect of cash flow hedges 22 711 –
At end of period 277,037 155,485 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  53
Consolidated balance sheet
30 December 2005
30 December 31 December
Notes 2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 10 52,697 –
Other intangible assets 11 25,508 6,350
Property , plant and equipment 12 22,541 6,475
Deferred tax asset 17 18,137 8,112
118,883 20,937
Current assets
Inventory 14 69,672 30,088
T rade and other receivables 15 75,287 35,952
T reasury deposits 15 25,000 35,000
Cash and cash equivalents 15 99,386 75,074
269,345 176,114
T otal assets 388,228 197,051
Current liabilities
T rade and other payables 19 95,590 35,803
Current tax liabilities 1,932 71
Obligations under finance leases 18 3,806 580
Cash flow hedges 16 3,828 –
Provisions 20 4,056 2,346
109,212 38,800
Net current assets 160,133 137,314
Non-current liabilities
Obligations under finance leases 18 1,979 1,160
Long-term provisions 20 – 1,606
1,979 2,766
T otal liabilities 111,191 41,566
Net assets 277,037 155,485
Equity
Share capital 21 228 218
Share premium account 22 81,161 77,769
Capital redemption reserve 22 950 950
Merger reserve 22 61,574 61,574
Hedging reserve 22 (2,181) –
Exchange retranslation reserve 22 (47) –
Share based payment reserve 22 3,167 759
Retained earnings 22 132,185 14,215
T otal equity 277,037 155,485
These financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue. 
They were signed on its behalf by:
Paul Goodridge Glenn Collinson
28 February 2006 28 February 2006 54 Changing the way the world connects
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
Notes 2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Net cash from operating activities 24 94,969 33,600
Investing activities
Interest received 2,878 1,213
Sale (purchase) of treasury deposits 10,000 (35,000)
Purchases of property , plant and equipment (17,250) (4,827)
Purchases of intangible assets (1,423) (2,417)
Acquisition of subsidiaries 23 (64,464) –
Net cash used in investing activities (70,259) (41,031)
Financing activities
Dividends paid – (325)
Redemption of redeemable preference shares – (10,864)
Repayments of obligations under finance leases (3,262) (582)
Proceeds on issue of shares 3,434 74,510
Share capital issue costs – (5,531)
Net cash from financing activities 172 57,208
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 24,882 49,777
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 75,074 25,949
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (570) (652)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 99,386 75,074 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  55
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
1 General information
CSR plc is a Company incorporated in England under the Companies Act 1985. The address of the registered office is given on page 91. 
The nature of the Group’ s operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5 and in the business review on pages 22 to 31.
These financial statements are presented in US dollars because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial
statements were in issue but not yet effective:
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures; and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial
statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the relevant standards come into effect for periods
commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
2 Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), as adopted for use in 
the European Union for the first time. The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS are given in note 28. 
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union, and therefore, comply with 
Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial information has been prepared on the basis of all applicable IFRS, including all International Accounting Standards (IAS), Standing
Interpretations Committee (SIC) interpretations and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) before 30 December 2005. These include IFRS endorsed by the EU and those awaiting 
formal endorsement. 
The rules for first adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS1, “First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards”. IFRS1 requires use 
of the same accounting policies in the IFRS transition balance sheet and for all periods presented thereafter . The accounting policies must comply 
with all IFRS effective at the reporting date for the first financial reporting under IFRS, the period 1 January 2005 to 30 December 2005.
IFRS1 permits companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period. 
This financial information has been prepared on the basis of taking the following exemptions:
(a) Business combinations prior to 1 January 2004 have not been restated to comply with IFRS3 “Business Combinations”.
(b) Cumulative translation differences on foreign operations are deemed to be zero at 1 January 2004. Any gains and losses recognised
in the consolidated income statement on subsequent disposals of foreign operations will therefore exclude translation differences arising 
prior to the transition date.
(c) IAS32 and IAS39 have been adopted from 1 January 2005. There is no effect on reported profits and no restatement of comparative information 
is required.
(d) Fixed assets have not been revalued as at the date of transition. The depreciated cost has been assumed as the effective carrying value 
for IFRS purposes.
The financial information presented for the year ended 31 December 2004 has been restated to comply with IFRS. 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments. The principal accounting
policies adopted are set out below.
The financial statements cover the 52 week period from 1 January 2005 to 30 December 2005, the comparatives are presented for the year from 
1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004. The financial statements are reported on a 52 week basis to be consistent with the Group’ s internal reporting.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of CSR plc (the Company) and entities controlled by the Company 
(its subsidiaries) drawn up to the dates indicated in the primary financial statements. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to 
govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date 
of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. 56 Changing the way the world connects
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
2 Accounting policies (continued)
Basis of consolidation (continued)
Where necessary , adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used 
by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair value, 
at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the
acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination. 
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition. Any excess 
of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of the acquisition
below the fair vale of the identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to profit or loss in the period of acquisition. 
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’ s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets 
and liabilities of a subsidiary , associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually . Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss 
and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary , associate or jointly controlled entity , the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit 
or loss on disposal.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration
received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, 
VAT and other sales related taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Royalty income is recognised upon shipment of the royalty earning product by the licencee. 
For the sale of services, revenue is recognised in accounting periods in which the service is rendered on a percentage of completion basis. 
Revenue from post contract support is recognised over the period of performance. The excess of service fees and post-contract support invoiced 
over revenue recognised is recorded as deferred income.
Revenue is shown net of estimated provision for credit notes and returns.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or , if lower , at the present value of the minimum lease payments,
each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining
balance of the liability . Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Foreign currencies
The functional currency of the Group is the US dollar . T ransactions in currencies other than US dollars are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing 
on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated
at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are
translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the net profit 
or loss for the period. 
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts (see page 59 for details of the Group’ s
accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments). CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  57
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
2 Accounting policies (continued)
Foreign currencies (continued)
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’ s overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly . Exchange
differences arising, if any , are classified as equity and transferred to the Group’ s exchange retranslation reserve. Such translation differences are
recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Government grants
Government grants towards Japanese recruitment are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs 
and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Operating Profit
Operating profit is stated before investment income and finance costs.
Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Differences between contributions payable 
in the period and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Taxation
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year . T axable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it
excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Group’ s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences, unused carried forward tax losses and unused carried
forward tax credits can be utilised. However , such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from: 
• goodwill; 
• the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit 
nor the accounting profit;
• investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient
taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is
charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity , in which case deferred tax is also
dealt with in equity .
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when
they relate to income taxed levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
Property, plant and equipment
Plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of the assets, less estimated residual value, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight line
method, on the following basis:
Computer equipment 2 to 3 years
T est equipment 2 to 5 years
Office equipment 3 years
Furniture and fittings 5 years
Leasehold improvements minimum lease period
Residual values are the estimated amount that the Group would obtain from disposal of the asset, after deducting estimated costs of disposal, 
if the asset were already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
In general residual values are zero or negligible, due to the technical and specialised nature of assets held.  58 Changing the way the world connects
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
2 Accounting policies (continued)
Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or , where shorter , over the term 
of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount 
of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost. Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible fixed assets are stated at cost or fair value for items acquired in business combinations, net of amortisation and any provision for
impairment. No amortisation is provided on assets in the course of construction. On other intangible fixed assets amortisation is provided at rates
calculated to write off the cost or fair value, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life as follows:
Software licences 3 to 5 years
Customer contracts and relationships 3 years
Purchased R&D 4 years
Residual values are the estimated amount that the Group would obtain from disposal of the asset, after deducting estimated costs of disposal, 
if the asset were already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
In general residual values are zero or negligible, due to the technical and specialised nature of assets held. 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or , where shorter , over the term 
of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount 
of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost. Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Research and development expenditure
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Group’ s product development is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met:
• an asset is created that can be identified (such as a new device or software);
• the project from which the asset arises meets the Group’ s criteria for assessing technical feasibility; 
• it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits; and
• the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably .
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives. Where no internally generated intangible asset can be
recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Patents and trademarks
Expenditure on patents and trademarks is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication
that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine
the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates 
the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment
annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted
to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the
asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately .
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate 
of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined
had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as 
income immediately . CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  59
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
2 Accounting policies (continued)
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, those overheads that 
have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Cost is calculated using the FIFO method. Net realisable value
represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’ s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument.
T rade receivables
T rade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable
amounts.
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require
delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Investments consist of money market deposits in both USD, GBP , Euros and Indian Rupees. Interest income is recorded as it accrues over the period 
of the investment at rates fixed at the time of inception. 
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity instrument
is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
T rade payables
T rade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group’ s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Group uses foreign exchange 
forward contracts to hedge these exposures. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’ s policies approved by the board of directors, which provides written principles on the use 
of financial derivatives. The Group hedges forecast GBP , JPY , SEK and DKR expenditure for the following 11 to 15 months. 
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at cost and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates. Changes in the fair value 
of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is
recognised immediately in the income statement. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an
asset or liability , then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised
in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability . For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability , amounts
deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged firm commitment or forecasted transaction affects 
net profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. 
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur , the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
Provisions
Provisions for warranty and returns costs are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products, at the directors’ best estimate of the expenditure
required to settle the Group’ s liability .
Provision is made for onerous contracts at the fair value of the minimum unavoidable lease payments.
Share-based payment
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment. In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied 
to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005. 
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, including share options with non-market based vesting conditions.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled
share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’ s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. 60 Changing the way the world connects
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
2 Accounting policies (continued)
Share-based payment (continued)
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model for the majority of share options in issue. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted,
based on management’ s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability , exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
For certain share options which include TSR related conditions, the fair value is estimated through the use of a Monte-Carlo simulation.
3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk 
of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Impairment of Goodwill
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating 
units to which the goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the
cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. The carrying amount of
goodwill at 30 December 2005 was $52,697,000 (2004: $nil). More details are given in Note 10.
Inventory Valuation
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Provisions for excess or obsolete inventory are recorded based upon assumptions
about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favourable than those projected by management, additional inventory
provisions may be required. The carrying amount of inventory at 30 December 2005 was $69,672,000 (2004:$30,088,000).
Provisions
Determining the level of provision required for returns and warranty claims requires management to review the historic levels of usage whilst considering
the growth in the business and other changes which have occurred in the manufacturing cycle. The carrying amount of the provision at 30 December
2005 was $3,900,000 (2004: $1,610,000).
4 Revenue
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Sale of goods 479,281 250,850
Royalties 7,250 2,296
486,531 253,146
Investment income 3,213 1,213
489,744 254,359
5 Business and geographical segments
Business segments
The Group has one class of business, being the design and marketing of single chip radio devices. All information disclosable under IAS 14 
is shown within the consolidated financial statements and the associated notes, these disclosures are not repeated below.
Geographical segments
The Group’ s operations are located in Europe, the USA and Asia. The head office is located in Europe and the manufacturing operations are 
centred in Asia. 
The following table provides an analysis of the Group’ s sales by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods and services:
Sales revenue by 
geographical market
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Europe 54,095 40,204
USA 22,738 23,897 
Asia 397,594 183,980 
Other 12,104 5,065 
486,531 253,146 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  61
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
5 Business and geographical segments (continued)
Geographical segments (continued)
The following is an analysis of the carrying amount of segment assets, and additions to property , plant and equipment and intangible assets, 
analysed by the geographical area in which the assets are located:
Additions to property , plant
Carrying amount of and equipment and
segment assets intangible assets
2005 2004 2005 2004
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Europe 275,168 154,571 25,120 8,563 
USA 16,810 125 277 95 
Asia (15,185) 789 387 61
Other 244 – – –
277,037 155,485 25,784 8,719
6 Profit for the period
Profit for the period has been arrived at after charging (crediting)
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Net foreign exchange losses 646 383
Research and development costs 60,340 27,583
Government grants (11) (21)
Depreciation of property , plant and equipment 4,991 2,271
Amortisation of intangible assets 4,817 2,040
Staff costs (see note 7) 54,096 23,457
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services (see below) 341 168
Amounts payable to Deloitte & T ouche LLP and their associates by the Company and its UK subsidiary undertakings in respect of non-audit services 
were $373,000 (2004: $721,000).
A more detailed analysis of auditors’ remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below:
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Audit services
– statutory audit 306 143
– audit-related regulatory reporting 35 25
341 168
Further assurance services 55 423
T ax services
– tax compliance 77 44
– tax advisory 241 80
318 124
Other services
– other services that give rise to a self-review threat –10
– consultancy – 164
– 174
Fees for further assurance services principally comprise amounts payable to the auditors for due diligence on the acquisition of Clarity T echnologies Inc. 
in March 2005 and in their role as reporting accountants for the Group’ s IPO in March 2004. 62 Changing the way the world connects
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
6 Profit for the period (continued)
Fees for consultancy services principally comprise amounts payable to the auditors for advice regarding the Group’ s remuneration policies; 
following the Group’ s IPO, the auditors no longer provide these services.
Fees for other services that give rise to a self-review threat comprise amounts payable to Deloitte & T ouche in T aiwan for their role as the local branch
accountants. Following the IPO in March, the Group took steps to replace Deloitte & T ouche as local accountants in T aiwan and this relationship ended 
in July 2004.
A description of the work of the audit committee is set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 33 and includes an explanation of how auditor
objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
Significant non-audit services require pre-approval by the Audit Committee.
7 Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) was:
2005 2004 
Number Number
Research and development 303 141
Sales and marketing 131 80
General and administrative 55 27
489 248
$’000 $’000
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
Salaries 46,532 19,954
Social security costs 4,807 1,948
Other pension costs 2,757 1,555
54,096 23,457
8 T axation
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Current tax payable for the year 9,964 5,392
Current tax benefit recognised in equity (note 22) 14,468 –
Current tax 24,432 5,392
Deferred tax (note 17) 6,778 (7,971)
31,210 (2,579)
Corporation tax is calculated at 30% (2004: 30%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year .
T axation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
2005 2005 2004 2004
$’000 % $’000 %
Profit before tax 114,366 100.0 58,980 100.0
T ax at the UK corporation tax rate of 30% (2004: 30%) 34,310 30.0 17,694 30.0
T ax benefit of additional specific tax reliefs (2,945) (2.6) (3,357) (5.7)
T ax effect of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised (268) (0.2) (22,233) (37.7)
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions (155) (0.1) 59 0.1
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years (408) (0.4) 5,258 8.9
T ax losses not utilised 676 0.6 – –
T ax expense and effective tax rate for the period 31,210 27.3 (2,579) (4.4) CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  63
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
9 Earnings per share
The calculations of earnings per share are based on the following data:
Earnings 2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Earnings for the financial period 83,156 61,559
Number of shares
Number of shares Number of shares
Weighted average number of shares:
For basic earnings per share 124,190,594 117,081,552
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares – share options 9,414,582 10,592,566
For diluted earnings per share 133,605,176 127,674,118
10 Goodwill
$’000
Cost and carrying amount
At 1 January 2005 –
Recognition on acquisition of subsidiaries (note 23) 52,697
At 30 December 2005 52,697
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the single cash generating unit.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is determined from a value in use calculation.The key assumptions for the value in use calculations 
are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period. Management estimates
discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to CSR. Changes in selling
prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The calculation has been based on the most recent cash flow forecasts for the next 3 years which have been approved by management.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows is 12%. 64 Changing the way the world connects
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
11 Other intangible assets
Purchased in process Customer contracts Assets in the 
research and and Software course of 
development relationships licences construction Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost
At 1 January 2004 – – 8,024 – 8,024 
Additions – – 2,269 384 2,653 
At 1 January 2005 – – 10,293 384 10,677 
Additions – – 8,241 246 8,487 
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 13,400 2,000 2,677 – 18,077
Disposals – – (33) – (33)
Transfers – – 473 (473) – 
At 30 December 2005 13,400 2,000 21,651 157 37,208 
Amortisation
At 1 January 2004 – – 2,287 – 2,287 
Charge for the year – – 2,040 – 2,040 
At 1 January 2005 – – 4,327 – 4,327 
Charge for the year 546 369 3,902 – 4,817 
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries – – 2,589 – 2,589
Disposals – – (33) – (33) 
At 30 December 2005 546 369 10,785 – 11,700 
Carrying amount
At 30 December 2005 12,854 1,631 10,866 157 25,508 
At 31 December 2004 – – 5,966 384 6,350 
Leased assets included above:
Carrying amount
At 30 December 2005 – – 6,866 – 6,866 
At 31 December 2004 –––––
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets is included within ‘Research and development’ and ‘Administrative expenses’ in the income statement. CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  65
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
12 Property, plant and equipment
Assets in the
Test Leasehold Furniture Computer Office course of
equipment improvements and fittings equipment equipment construction T otal
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost
At 1 January 2004 4,485 492 891 2,271 626 – 8,765 
Additions 1,672 886 67 3,177 139 125 6,066 
Disposals – (356) (198) (60) (72) – (686)
At 1 January 2005 6,157 1,022 760 5,388 693 125 14,145 
Additions 9,764 1,545 935 4,670 383 – 17,297 
Disposals – (180) (226) (1,105) (82) – (1,593)
Transfers – – – 125 – (125) –
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 9,313 374 121 6,349 547 – 16,704 
At 30 December 2005 25,234 2,761 1,590 15,427 1,541 – 46,553 
Depreciation
At 1 January 2004 2,353 130 508 2,445 463 – 5,899
Charge for the year 1,030 202 129 771 139 – 2,271
Disposals – (269) (133) (26) (72) – (500)
At 1 January 2005 3,383 63 504 3,190 530 – 7,670 
Charge for the year 2,439 258 316 1,906 72 – 4,991 
Disposals – (180) (217) (1,031) (78) – (1,506)
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 7,531 281 71 4,505 469 – 12,857 
At 30 December 2005 13,353 422 674 8,570 993 – 24,012 
Carrying amount
At 30 December 2005 11,881 2,339 916 6,857 548 – 22,541 
At 31 December 2004 2,774 959 256 2,198 163 125 6,475 
Leased assets included above:
Carrying amount
At 30 December 2005 – – – 863 47 – 910
At 31 December 2004 –––––––
At 30 December 2005, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property , plant and equipment amounting
to $nil (2004: $3,230,000).
13 Subsidiaries
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation, proportion of ownership interest is given in note 31
to the Company’ s separate financial statements.
14 Inventories
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Raw materials 28,272 13,328
Work in progress 24,092 5,494
Finished goods 17,308 11,266
69,672 30,088 66 Changing the way the world connects
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
15 Other financial assets
T rade and other receivables
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
T rade receivables 62,540 31,783
Corporation tax 18 23
VAT 1,716 908
Other debtors 6,623 1,370
Prepayments and accrued income 4,390 1,868
75,287 35,952
The average credit period taken on trade receivables is 42 days (2004: 40 days). An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts 
within trade receivables of $162,000 (2004: $158,000). This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
T reasury deposits
T reasury deposits represent bank deposits with an original maturity of over three months.
Credit risk
The Group’ s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, treasury deposits and trade and other receivables.
The Group’ s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances 
for doubtful receivables.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned 
by international credit-rating agencies.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a number of counterparties and customers.
16 Derivative financial instruments
Currency derivatives
The Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows. The instruments purchased are denominated in GBP ,
DKR, SEK and JPY .
At the balance sheet date, the total notional amount of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts that the Group has committed are as below:
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts 87,791 57,699
These arrangements are designed to address significant exchange exposures for the next 14 months (2004: 12 months) and are renewed on a revolving
basis to cover between 11 and 15 months forward.
At the balance sheet date, the fair value of the Group’ s currency derivatives is shown below:
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts (3,828) 3,574
These amounts are based on market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date. The fair value of currency derivatives that are 
designated and effective as cash flow hedges amounting to ($3,828,000) (2004: $nil) has been deferred in equity .
Amounts of $590,000 and $121,000 respectively have been transferred to the income statement and fixed assets in respect of contracts matured 
in the period. CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  67
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
16 Derivative financial instruments (continued)
Currency derivatives (continued)
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in IFRS 1, to not restate comparative information in accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39. 
Comparatives are stated under UK GAAP .
The adjustments that would arise if comparatives had been presented in accordance with IAS 39 would be:
• Recognition of an asset or liability representing the fair value of financial instruments in issue at the balance sheet date
• Charge or credit to the income statement in respect of movements in the fair value of financial instruments
Movements in the fair value of financial instruments would be recorded in the income statement as the Group did not meet all the requirements of IAS 39 
in respect of hedge designation and documentation, as financial instruments were contracted for pre the date of transition to IFRS.
The Group would have been required to disclose the amount charged or credited to the income statement in respect of the movements in the fair value 
of financial instruments.
17 Deferred tax asset
Accelerated Share-based Fair value adjustments Other temporary
tax depreciation payment on acquisition T ax losses differences T otal
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
At 1 January 2004 (538) – – 71 608 141
(Credit) charge to income (855) 83 – 7,252 1,491 7,971
At 1 January 2005 (1,393) 83 – 7,323 2,099 8,112
(Credit) charge to income (2,597) 362 274 (7,033) 2,233 (6,761)
Charge to equity – 21,282 – – – 21,282
Acquisition of subsidiaries – – (4,479) – – (4,479)
Exchange differences – – – – (17) (17)
At 30 December 2005 (3,990) 21,727 (4,205) 290 4,315 18,137
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the net deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes:
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Deferred tax liabilities (8,195) (1,393)
Deferred tax assets 26,332 9,505
18,137 8,112
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of $19,130,000 (2004: $7,323,000) available for offset against future profits. A deferred 
tax asset has been recognised in respect of $290,000 (2004: $7,323,000) of such losses. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the
remaining $18,840,000 (2004: $nil) due to the unpredictability of future profit streams within certain subsidiary entities. Included in unrecognised tax
losses are losses of $8,094,000 (2004: $nil) that will expire in 20 years. Other losses may be carried forward indefinitely .
At 30 December 2005 there was no recognised or unrecognised deferred tax liability (2004: $nil) for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted
earnings of certain of the Group’ s subsidiaries, as the Group has no liability to additional taxation should such amounts be remitted due to the availability 
of double taxation relief.
In 2004, there was an uprovided deferred tax asset of $13,855,000 relating to unexercised share options this was not recognised because there was
insufficient support in relation to future taxable profits. 68 Changing the way the world connects
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
18 Obligations under finance leases
Present value of 
Minimum minimum
lease payments lease payments
2005 2004 2005 2004
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 3,811 580 3,806 580
In the second to fifth years inclusive 1,985 1,160 1,979 1,160
5,796 1,740 5,785 1,740
Less: future finance charges 11 – – –
Present value of lease obligations 5,785 1,740 5,785 1,740
Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities) (3,806) (580)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 1,979 1,160
It is the Group’ s policy to lease certain of its equipment under finance leases and purchase certain software licences under agreements containing
deferred payment terms. The average lease term is 2.2 years. Interest rates are fixed at the contract date, all of the agreements containing deferred
payment terms are interest free. For the period ended 30 December 2005, the average effective borrowing rate was 0.07% (2004: 0%). All leases are 
on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The fair value of the Group’ s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
The Group’ s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ right over the leased assets.
19 Other financial liabilities
T rade and other payables
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
T rade creditors 67,839 21,922
Other taxation and social security 2,064 619
Other creditors 1,827 252
Accruals and deferred income 23,860 13,010
95,590 35,803
T rade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for 
trade purchases is 62 days (2004: 58 days).
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
20 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Returns 
Onerous and warranty
lease provision provision T otal
$’000 $’000 $’000
At 1 January 2005 2,342 1,610 3,952
Charged to profit and loss account 21 4,918 4,939
Released in year (1,506) – (1,506)
Utilised in year (701) (2,628) (3,329)
At 30 December 2005 156 3,900 4,056
Onerous lease provision
The Group has provided for the discounted anticipated costs of satisfying the terms of any onerous leases, less any anticipated income from subletting
the buildings. During the year one building previously accounted for as an onerous contract was reoccupied and the remaining provision was released. 
It is anticipated that the provision will be used over the remaining lease terms. In 2004, $1,606,000 was shown as greater than 1 year . 
Returns and warranty provision
The Group provides for the anticipated costs associated with returns under standard warranty terms. It is anticipated that the provision will be used 
over two years. CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  69
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
21 Called-up share capital
Company
Authorised share capital
2005 2004
£’000 £’000
185,000,000 Ordinary Shares of £0.001 each – equity 185 185
7,500 Deferred Shares of £0.00067 each – non-equity – –
185 185
Allotted, called-up and fully paid:
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
127,879,155 (2004: 122,101,811) Ordinary Shares of £0.001 each – equity 228 218
7,500 Deferred Shares of £0.00067 each – non-equity – –
228 218
Changes to share capital:
Equity shares:
5,777,344 Ordinary Shares were issued from employee option exercises between 1 January 2005 and 30 December 2005. 
Consideration was $3,402,216, at a premium of $3,391,827.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. 
The deferred shares have no rights.
The following options and share awards over Ordinary Shares of £0.001 have been granted and were outstanding at the end of the year:
Number of 
shares subject to Exercise price
Grant date option or share award per share £ Vesting period
1 April 1999 319,026 0.00333 5 years
17 August 1999 – 25 November 1999 940,740 0.05367 5 years
24 January 2000 to 19 February 2000 1,096,992 0.15633 5 years
21 February 2000 – 23 October 2000 885,834 0.50333 5 years
30 October 2000 – 9 September 2002 887,696 2.38500 5 years
30 September 2002 – 10 November 2003 731,788 1.01000 5 years
18 November 2003 – 2 February 2004 423,118 1.02500 5 years
26 February 2004 715,300 2.35000 3 years
26 February 2004 172,015 2.35000 3 years
2
26 February 2004 221,800 2.00000 3 years
26 February 2004 727,985 2.00000 3 years
2
1 April 2004 72,000 2.37000 3 years
2
1 May 2004 492,152 1.88000 3 years
3
30 June 2004 25,000 4.02000 3 years
2
30 September 2004 128,704 2.89400 3 years
3
30 September 2004 35,000 3.62500 3 years
2
19 March 2005 92,932 3.06000 3 years
3
4 April 2005 28,358 3.35000 3 years
2
5 May 2005 624,000 3.21000 3 years
2
5 May 2005 217,300 0.00100 3 years
5 May 2005 377,350 0.00100 3 years
1
1 November 2005 277,290 4.52870 3 years
3
15 December 2005 22,557 0.00100 3 years
1
15 December 2005 100,000 0.00100 5 years
15 December 2005 45,114 8.93000 3 years
3
9,660,051 70 Changing the way the world connects
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
21 Called-up share capital (continued)
1 These options have vesting conditions based on the Company’ s performance against comparator companies based on TSR rankings over the vesting period.
2 These options have vesting conditions based on EPS growth over the vesting period.
3 These options have been issued as part of the Company’ s SA YE scheme.
Exercise period: Vested options and share awards are exercisable within ten years from the grant date, SAYE options are exercisable within 6 months 
of the vesting date.
22 Reserves
Share Capital Exchange Share-based 
premiumredemption Merger Hedging retranslation payment Retained
account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
At 1 January 2005 77,769 950 61,574 – – 759 14,215 155,267
Share issues 3,392–––––– 3,392
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations –––– (47) – – (47)
Share-based payment ––––– 2,408 – 2,408
Deferred tax benefit on share option gains –––––– 21,282 21,282
Current tax benefit taken directly to equity – – – 936 – – 13,532 14,468
Loss on cash flow hedges – – – (3,828) – – – (3,828)
T ransferred to income statement in respect of cash flow hedges – – – 711––– 711
Retained profit for the year –––––– 83,156 83,156
At 30 December 2005 81,161 950 61,574 (2,181) (47) 3,167 132,185 276,809
The share premium account and the capital redemption reserve are not distributable. The merger reserve arose on the combination of CSR plc 
and Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited. The exchange retranslation reserve arises from the revaluation of overseas subsidiaries. 
23 Acquisition of subsidiaries 
UbiNetics (VPT) Limited
On 19 August 2005, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of UbiNetics (VPT) Limited for a cash consideration of $48 million. 
UbiNetics (VPT) Limited is the parent company of a group of companies involved in software development. This transaction has been accounted for 
by the purchase method of accounting.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
$’000 $’000 $’000
Net current liabilities acquired (926) – (926)
Property , plant and equipment 3,539 – 3,539
Intangible assets – 14,000 14,000
Deferred tax on intangible assets – (4,200) (4,200)
2,613 9,800 12,413
Goodwill 36,907
T otal consideration 49,320
Satisfied by:
Cash 48,000
Directly attributable costs 1,320
49,320
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 48,000
Directly attributable costs 1,320
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (1,779)
47,541 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  71
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
23 Acquisition of subsidiaries (continued)
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of UbiNetics (VPT) Limited represents the value of the workforce acquired and future synergistic benefits 
of the combination of CSR and UbiNetics technology . 
UbiNetics (VPT) Limited contributed $942,000 of revenue and a loss of $6,397,000 to the Group’ s profit before tax for the period between the date 
of acquisition and the balance sheet.
If the acquisition of UbiNetics (VPT) Limited had been completed on the first day of the financial year , Group revenues for the period would have been
$486,551,000 and Group profit attributable to equity holders of the parent would have been $82,975,000.
Clarity T echnologies, Inc.
On 15 March 2005, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Clarity T echnologies, Inc. for a cash consideration of $17.1 million. Clarity
T echnologies, Inc. is a company involved in software development. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.
Fair value 
Book value adjustments Fair value
$’000 $’000 $’000
Net current assets acquired 112 (8) 104
Property , plant and equipment 425 (117) 308
Intangible assets 432 1,056 1,488
Deferred tax on intangible assets – (279) (279)
969 652 1,621
Goodwill 15,790
T otal consideration 17,411
Satisfied by:
Cash 17,100
Directly attributable costs 311
17,411
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 17,100
Directly attributable costs 311
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (488)
16,923
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Clarity T echnologies, Inc. represents the value of the workforce acquired and future synergistic benefits 
of the combination of CSR and Clarity technology . 
Clarity T echnologies, Inc. contributed $1,182,000 of revenue and a loss of $1,542,000 to the Group’ s profit before tax for the period between the date 
of acquisition and the balance sheet.
If the acquisition of Clarity T echnologies, Inc. had been completed on the first day of the financial year , Group revenues for the period would have been
$486,815,000 and Group profit attributable to equity holders of the parent would have been $82,209,000. 72 Changing the way the world connects
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
24 Notes to the cash flow statement
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Operating profit from continuing operations 111,936 58,457
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property , plant and equipment 4,991 2,271
Amortisation of intangible assets 4,817 2,040
Loss on disposal of property , plant and equipment 87 186
Share related charges 2,408 700
Increase in provisions 104 3,196
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 124,343 66,850
Increase in inventories (39,584) (23,208)
Increase in receivables (35,553) (24,777)
Increase in payables 54,078 16,982
Cash generated by operations 103,284 35,847
Foreign taxes paid (131) (20)
Repayment of research and development tax credit – (2,495)
Receipt of research and development tax credit – 576
Corporation tax (7,971) –
Interest paid (213) (308)
Net cash from operating activities 94,969 33,600
Additions to software licences during the year amounting to $7,573,000 were purchased under staged payment plans.
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of asset on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and other short term
highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
25 Operating lease arrangements
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the income statement for the year 1,721 1,189
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, 
which fall due as follows:
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Within one year 2,768 1,310
In the second to fifth years inclusive 8,772 8,886
After five years 5,413 6,314
16,953 16,510
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties and office equipment. Leases are negotiated for 
an average term of 2.74 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 2.74 years. CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  73
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
26 Share-based payments
Global share option scheme
The Company has a share option scheme for all employees of the Group, under which share options were issued prior to flotation, at a price based on 
the most recent private funding round. The vesting period is 5 years, with 20% of options vesting 1 year after grant, then the remainder vesting in equal
quarterly instalments over the remaining 4 years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Flotation grant
On the Company’ s flotation in March 2004, the Company issued share options to all employees, at a price based on the share price on the day of 
flotation. The vesting period is 3 years, certain of these options have EPS based performance conditions attached. If the options remain unexercised 
after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
SAYE Schemes
The Company operates a SA YE scheme, whereby employees are allowed to subscribe to a monthly savings amount for a period of 3 years; at the end of 
the three year period, the employee is allowed to either receive their saved amount plus interest or purchase shares in the Company at a price based on
the average share price on the three days prior to commencement of the SAYE scheme, discounted by 20%. These schemes are open to all employees
subject to Inland Revenue approved limits on total investment, and invitations are issued every six months. Employees have a period of six months
following the conclusion of the scheme to exercise their option to purchase shares.
Company Share Option Plan (CSOP)
The Company has a share option scheme where option grants can be made to new starters to assist in recruitment or as part of certain staff members
annual remuneration. Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average share price on the three days preceding the grant date. The vesting period 
is 3 years, and these options have EPS based performance conditions attached. If the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the 
date of grant, the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Retention Awards
The Company issues certain employees with rights to purchase shares at nominal value (£0.001) as a method of staff retention. The vesting period of
these share awards is 3 years. If the share awards remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, the awards expire. Awards are
forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Performance Awards
The Company issues certain employees with rights to purchase shares at nominal value (£0.001) as a method of staff incentivisation. The vesting period 
of these share awards is 3 years, and these awards have TSR related performance conditions attached. If the share awards remain unexercised after a
period of 10 years from the date of grant, the awards expire. Awards are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2005 2004
Number Weighted average Weighted average 
of share exercise price Number of exercise price
options (in £) share options (in £)
Outstanding at beginning of period 13,767,865 0.85 13,331,364 0.41
Granted during the period 1,790,335 2.27 2,682,787 2.18
Forfeited during the period (120,805) 0.99 (59,624) 1.74
Exercised during the period (5,777,344) 0.33 (2,186,662) 0.42
Outstanding at the end of the period 9,660,051 1.42 13,767,865 0.85
Exercisable at the end of the period 4,625,634 0.67 9,749,840 0.43
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £5.91. The options outstanding at 
30 December 2005 had a weighted average exercise price of £1.42, and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 6 years. In 2005, options 
were granted on 29 March, 4 April, 5 May , 1 November and 15 December . The aggregate estimated fair value of the options granted on those dates 
is $7,575,000. The weighted average fair value of these options was $4.23. In 2004, options were granted on 12 January , 26 January , 2 February , 
26 February , 1 April, 1 May , 30 June and 30 September . The aggregate estimated fair value of the options granted on those dates is $2,704,000. 
The weighted average fair value of these options was $1.01. 74 Changing the way the world connects
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
26 Share-based payments (continued)
The fair values of the share option and share award grants were based on the following inputs:
Global share option scheme
The inputs to the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
2005 2004
Weighted average share price (£) – 1.025
Weighted average exercise price (£) – 1.025
Expected volatility – 33%
Expected life – 1.11 years
Risk free rate – 4.62%
Expected dividends –0%
Expected volatility was based on volatility in the techMARK index over the three years prior to the date of grant as an estimate of the Company’ s volatility 
when it was an unlisted Company . The expected life used in the model has been adjusted based on management’ s best estimate, for the effects of 
non-transferability , exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Flotation grant
The inputs to the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
2005 2004
Weighted average share price (£) –2
Weighted average exercise price (£) – 2 – 2.35
Expected volatility – 29%
Expected life – 3 – 4 years
Risk free rate – 4.62%
Expected dividends –0%
Expected volatility was based on volatility in the techMARK index over the three years prior to the date of grant as an estimate of the Company’ s volatility 
when it was an unlisted Company . The expected life used in the model has been adjusted based on management’ s best estimate, for the effects of 
non-transferability , exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
SAYE Schemes
The inputs to the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
2005 2004
Weighted average share price (£) 3.83 – 5.66 2.00 – 3.62
Weighted average exercise price (£) 3.06 – 4.53 1.88 – 2.89
Expected volatility 43% 35% – 47%
Expected life 3 years 3 years
Risk free rate 4.35% – 4.73% 4.74% – 4.97%
Expected dividends 0% 0%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’ s share price over the period since flotation. The expected 
life used in the model has been adjusted based on management’ s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability , exercise restrictions and 
behavioural considerations. CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  75
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
26 Share-based payments (continued)
Company Share Option Plan (CSOP)
The inputs to the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
2005 2004
Weighted average share price (£) 3.21 – 8.70 2.37 – 4.02
Weighted average exercise price (£) 3.21 – 8.93 2.37 – 4.02
Expected volatility 43% – 44% 47% – 49%
Expected life 3 – 4 years 3.25 – 3.75 years
Risk free rate 4.30% – 4.73% 4.74% – 4.97%
Expected dividends 0% 0%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’ s share price over the period since flotation. The expected 
life used in the model has been adjusted based on management’ s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability , exercise restrictions and 
behavioural considerations. The adjustments for the performance conditions are reflected in the proportion of options anticipated to vest.
Retention award
The fair value was based upon the share price on the date of grant.
Performance Awards
The fair value was based upon Monte-Carlo simulation of the performance of the 40 comparator companies included in the TSR conditions of the award. 
Expected volatility for each Company was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the individual Company’ s share price over the longer 
of the period from flotation and 3 years from the date of grant.
Modifications to share option grants
On 15 December 2005, the performance share awards, flotation share options and CSOP awards for John Hodgson (CEO) were modified so 100%
vested early on 28 February 2006. The incremental fair value of $637,000 will be expensed over the remaining vesting period. The incremental fair value
was measured based upon the share price at the date of the modification, following the acceleration of the performance period.
The Group recognised total expenses of $2,408,000 and $700,000 related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in 2005 and 
2004 respectively . 
27 Related party transactions
T ransactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed 
in this note. 
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories 
specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 47.
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Short-term employee benefits 2,622 1,929
Post-employment benefits 140 87
Share-based payment 777 130
3,539 2,146
On 19 August 2005, the Company paid John Scarisbrick (CEO) $90,039 for 215,164 A shares in UbiNetics (VPT) Limited as part of the acquisition 
of UbiNetics (VPT) Limited (see note 23) (2004: nil). 76 Changing the way the world connects
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
28 Explanation of transition to IFRS
This is the first year that the Company has presented its financial statements under IFRS. The following disclosures are required in the year of transition.
The last financial statements under UK GAAP were for the year ended 31 December 2004 and the date of transition to IFRS was therefore 
1 January 2004.
Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2004 (date of transition to IFRS)
Effect of
UK GAAP transition to IFRS IFRS
Note $’000 $’000 $’000
Non-current assets
3 Other intangible assets – 5,737 5,737
3 T angible assets 8,603 (5,737) 2,866
2 Deferred tax asset – 141 141
8,603 141 8,744
Current assets
Inventory 6,880 – 6,880
2 T rade and other receivables 14,395 (141) 14,254
4 T reasury deposits 24,263 (24,263) –
4 Cash and cash equivalents 1,686 24,263 25,949
47,224 (141) 47,083
T otal assets 55,827 – 55,827
Current liabilities
T rade and other payables 19,476 – 19,476
Obligations under finance leases 202 – 202
5 Short-term provisions – 756 756
19,678 756 20,434
Net current assets 27,546 (897) 26,649
Non-current liabilities
5 Long term provisions 756 (756) –
T otal liabilities 20,434 – 20,434
Net assets 35,393 – 35,393
Effect of
UK GAAP transition to IFRS IFRS
Note $’000 $’000 $’000
Equity
Share capital 1,000 – 1,000
Share premium account 20,107 – 20,107
Other reserve 325 – 325
Merger reserve 61,574 – 61,574
1 Share-based payment reserve –5959
1 Retained earnings (47,613) (59) (47,672)
T otal equity 35,393 – 35,393 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  77
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
28 Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Notes to the reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2004
1 Share-based payment
A share-based payment reserve of $59,000 was recorded, representing the charge of $59,000 for all preceding periods.
2 Deferred tax
$141,000 was reclassified from trade and other receivables to deferred tax assets.
3 Intangible assets
At 1 January 2004, the adoption of IFRS resulted in the reclassification of $5,737,000 of computer software as intangible assets, mainly being 
licences for CAD tools.
4 T reasury deposits
At 1 January 2004, the adoption of IFRS resulted in the reclassification of $24,263,000 as cash and cash equivalents.
5 Provisions
Under IFRS, provisions should be split between shorter than one year and greater than one year . At 1 January 2004, this resulted in the reclassification 
of $756,000 to provisions less than one year .
Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004 (date of last UK GAAP financial statements)
Effect of
UK GAAP transition to IFRS IFRS
Note $’000 $’000 $’000
Non-current assets
3 Other intangible assets – 6,350 6,350
3 T angible assets 12,825 (6,350) 6,475
2 Deferred tax asset – 8,112 8,112
12,825 8,112 20,937
Current assets
Inventory 30,088 – 30,088
2 T rade and other receivables 43,981 (8,029) 35,952
4 T reasury deposits 108,167 (73,167) 35,000
4 Cash and cash equivalents 1,907 73,167 75,074
184,143 (8,029) 176,114
T otal assets 196,968 83 197,051
Current liabilities
5, 6 T rade and other payables 36,454 (651) 35,803
5 T ax liabilities –7171
6 Obligations under finance leases – 580 580
7 Short-term provisions – 2,346 2,346
36,454 2,346 38,800
Net current assets 147,689 (10,375) 137,314
Non-current liabilities
Obligations under finance leases 1,160 – 1,160
7 Long term provisions 3,952 (2,346) 1,606
5,112 (2,346) 2,766
T otal liabilities 41,566 – 41,566
Net assets 155,402 83 155,485 78 Changing the way the world connects
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
28 Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Effect of
UK GAAP transition to IFRS IFRS
Note $’000 $’000 $’000
Equity
Share capital 218 – 218
Share premium account 77,769 – 77,769
Capital redemption reserve 950 – 950
Merger reserve 61,574 – 61,574
1 Share-based payment reserve – 759 759
1,2 Retained earnings 14,891 (676) 14,215
T otal equity 155,402 83 155,485
Notes to the reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004
1 Share-based payment
A share-based payment reserve of $759,000 was recorded, representing the charge of $700,000 for 2004 and a charge of $59,000 
for all preceding periods.
2 Deferred tax
The deferred tax asset was increased by $83,000 being the additional taxation benefit in the year from the recording of share-based payment 
charges under IFRS 2.
$8,029,000 was reclassified from trade and other receivables to deferred tax assets.
3 Intangible assets
At 31 December 2004, the adoption of IFRS resulted in the reclassification of $6,350,000 of computer software as intangible assets,
mainly being licences for CAD tools.
4 T reasury deposits
At 31 December 2004, the adoption of IFRS resulted in the reclassification of $73,167,000 as cash and cash equivalents.
5 T ax liabilities
T ax liabilities are shown separately on the face of the balance sheet, this resulted in the reclassification of $71,000 from trade and other payables 
to tax liabilities.
6 Finance leases
Liabilities related to the purchase of intangible licences under payment plans have been reclassified as finance leases.
7 Provisions
Under IFRS, provisions should be split between shorter than one year and greater than one year . At 31 December 2004, this resulted in the 
reclassification of $2,346,000 to provisions less than one year . CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  79
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
28 Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of profit for 2004
Effect of
UK GAAP transition to IFRS IFRS
Note $’000 $’000 $’000
Revenue 253,146 – 253,146
1 Cost of sales (134,721) (42) (134,763)
1 Gross profit 118,425 (42) 118,383
1 Research and development (27,281) (302) (27,583)
1 Sales and marketing (20,710) (154) (20,864)
1 Administrative expenses (11,702) 223 (11,479)
1 Operating profit 58,732 (275) 58,457
Investment income 1,213 – 1,213
Finance costs (690) – (690)
Profit before tax 59,255 (275) 58,980
2Tax 2,496 83 2,579
Profit for the period 61,751 (192) 61,559
Earnings per share $$
Basic 0.53 0.53
Diluted 0.48 0.48
Notes to the reconciliation of profit for 2004
1 Share-based payment
A charge of $700,000 was recognised in respect of share options falling within the scope of IFRS 2, this was allocated between cost of sales, 
research and development, sales and marketing and administrative expenses in line with staff costs.
A credit of $425,000 was recorded in respect of the reversal of the UITF 17 share related charge, previously recognised under UK GAAP , 
as this transaction fell outside the scope of IFRS 2. This was allocated between sales and marketing and administrative expenses.
2 Deferred tax
In accordance with IFRS 2, an increase of $83,000 was made to the tax credit, being 30% of the charge above. 80 Changing the way the world connects
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
28 Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of the cash flow statement for 2004
Effect of 
UK GAAP transition to IFRS IFRS
Note $’000 $’000 $’000
Net cash from operating activities 33,600 – 33,600
Investing activities
Interest received 1,213 – 1,213
3 Purchase of treasury deposits (83,904) 48,904 (35,000)
1,2 Purchases of property , plant and equipment (7,624) 2,797 (4,827)
1 Purchases of intangible assets – (2,417) (2,417)
Net cash used in investing activities (90,315) 49,284 (41,031)
Financing activities
Dividends paid (325) – (325)
Redemption of preference shares (10,864) – (10,864) 
2 Repayment of obligations under finance leases (202) (380) (582)
Proceeds on issue of share capital 74,510 – 74,510
Share capital issue costs (5,531) – (5,531)
Net cash from financing activities 57,588 (380) 57,208
3 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 873 48,904 49,777
3 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 1,686 24,263 25,949
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (652) – (652)
3 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 1,907 73,167 75,074
Notes to the reconciliation of the cash flow for 2004
1 Intangible assets
At 31 December 2004, the adoption of IFRS resulted in the reclassification of the purchase of $2,417,000 of computer software as intangible assets,
mainly being licences for CAD tools.
2 Finance leases
Liabilities related to the purchase of intangible licences under payment plans have been reclassified as finance leases.
3 T reasury deposits
At 31 December 2004, the adoption of IFRS resulted in the reclassification of $73,167,000 as cash and cash equivalents 
(1 January 2004: $24,263,000). CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  81
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
28 Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of the notes to the cash flow for 2004
Effect of 
transition
UK GAAP to IFRS IFRS
Note $’000 $’000 $’000
1 Operating profit 58,732 (275) 58,457
Adjustments for:
2 Amortisation of intangible assets – 2,040 2,040
2 Depreciation of property , plant and equipment 4,311 (2,040) 2,271
Loss on property , plant and equipment 186 – 186
1 Share related charge 425 275 700
Increase in provisions 3,196 – 3,196
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 66,850 – 66,850
Increase in inventories (23,208) – (23,208)
Increase in receivables (24,777) – (24,777)
Decrease in payables 16,982 – 16,982
Cash generated by operations 35,847 – 35,847
Foreign tax (20) – (20)
Repayment of Research and Development tax credit (2,495) – (2,495)
Receipt of Research and Development tax credit 576 – 576
Interest paid (308) – (308)
Net cash from operating activities 33,600 – 33,600
Notes to the reconciliation of the notes to the cash flow for 2004
1 Share-based payment
A charge of $700,000 was recognised in respect of share options falling within the scope of IFRS 2, this was allocated between cost of sales, 
research and development, sales and marketing and administrative expenses in line with staff costs.
A credit of $425,000 was recorded in respect of the reversal of the UITF 17 share related charge, previously recognised under UK GAAP , 
as this transaction fell outside the scope of IFRS 2. This was allocated between sales and marketing and administrative expenses.
2 Intangible assets
At 31 December 2004, the adoption of IFRS resulted in the reclassification of $6,350,000 of computer software as intangible assets
(1 January 2004: $5,737,000), mainly being licences for CAD tools. Notes 2005 2004
$’000 $’000
At beginning of period 80,612 21,595
Profit for the period 23 425
Issue of share capital 21 3,402 74,553
Share issue costs – (5,531)
Share-based payments 2,408 759
Redemption of redeemable preference shares – (11,189)
At end of period 86,445 80,612
82 Changing the way the world connects
Company statement of changes in shareholders’ equity
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  83
Company balance sheet
30 December 2005
30 December 2005 31 December 2004
Notes $’000 $’000
Non-current assets
Investments 31 50,311 991
Current assets
Other receivables 32 478 736 
T reasury deposits 32 25,000 35,000 
Cash and cash equivalents 32 40,716 43,906 
66,194 79,642 
T otal assets 116,505 80,633 
Current liabilities
T rade and other payables 33 30,060 21 
Net current assets 36,134 79,621
Net assets 86,445 80,612
Equity
Share capital 21 228 218
Share premium account 22 81,161 77,769
Capital redemption reserve 22 950 950
Share-based payment reserve 22 3,167 759
Retained earnings 34 939 916
T otal equity 86,445 80,612
These financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue. 
They were signed on its behalf by:
Paul Goodridge Glenn Collinson
28 February 2006 28 February 2006 84 Changing the way the world connects
Company cash flow statement
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
2005 2004
Notes $’000 $’000
Net cash from operating activities 35 29,690 8,429
Investing activities
Interest received 1,593 865
Sale (purchase) of treasury deposits 10,000 (35,000)
Acquisition of subsidiary 23 (47,541) –
Net cash used in investing activities (35,948) (34,135)
Financing activities
Dividends paid – (325)
Redemption of redeemable preference shares – (10,864)
Proceeds on issue of share capital 3,435 74,510 
Share capital issue costs – (5,531)
Net cash from financing activities 3,435 57,790 
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (2,823) 32,084 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 43,906 11,040 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (367) 782
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 40,716 43,906 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  85
Notes to the Company financial statements
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
29 Significant accounting policies
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985. As permitted by that Act,
the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. 
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis. The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those 
set out in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
30 Profit attributable to CSR plc
The profit for the financial year dealt with in the financial statements of the parent Company , CSR plc, was $23,000 (2004: $425,000).
As permitted by s230 of the Companies Act 1985, no separate income statement is presented in respect of the parent Company .
Profit is stated after charging:
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Net foreign exchange losses 367 782
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services 48 10
The Company had no employees during 2005 (2004: nil).
31 Subsidiaries
Details of the Company’ s subsidiaries at 30 December 2005 are as follows:
Place of Proportion of Proportion of
incorporation ownership voting power Method used to
(or registration) interest held account for
Name and operation % % investment
Direct ownership
Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited UK 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics VPT Limited (note 23) UK 100 100 Acquisition
Indirect ownership
Cambridge Silicon Radio Inc. USA 100 100 Acquisition
CSR kk Japan 100 100 Acquisition
CSR Korea Limited Korea 100 100 Acquisition
CSR Sweden AB Sweden 100 100 Acquisition
Cambridge Silicon Radio Sarl France 100 100 Acquisition
Cambridge Silicon Radio (UK) Limited UK 100 100 Acquisition
Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Inc Delaware 100 100 Acquisition
Clarity T echnologies, Inc. (note 23) Michigan 100 100 Acquisition
CSR (India) Private Limited India 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics Wireless T echnologies (Shenzen) Limited China 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics (Cayman Islands) Ltd Cayman Islands 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics (North America) Inc. USA 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics T aiwan Limited T aiwan 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics (IP) Limited UK 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics 3G Limited UK 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics Module Limited UK 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics T echnology Limited UK 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics Designs Limited UK 100 100 Acquisition 86 Changing the way the world connects
Notes to the Company financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
32 Other financial assets
Other receivables
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Amounts receivable from subsidiary undertakings –12
VAT – 368
Other debtors 181 159
Prepayments and accrued income 297 197
478 736
The directors consider that the carrying amount of other receivables approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
T reasury deposits
T reasury deposits represent bank deposits with an original maturity of over three months.
33 Other financial liabilities
T rade and other payables
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
T rade creditors –12
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 29,893 –
Other taxation and social security 167 9
30,060 21
T rade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken 
for trade purchases is 30 days.
34 Reserves
Retained earnings
$’000
Balance at 1 January 2004 491
Net profit for the year 425
Balance at 1 January 2005 916
Net profit for the year 23
Balance at 30 December 2005 939
The movements on the other reserves are disclosed in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  87
Notes to the Company financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
35 Notes to the cash flow statement
2005 2004
$’000 $’000
Operating loss from continuing operations (1,488) (1,222)
Adjustments for:
Share related charge 2,408 700
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 920 (522)
Decrease in receivables 511 9,002 
Increase (decrease) in payables 28,261 (49)
Cash generated by operations 29,692 8,431 
Interest paid (2) (2)
Net cash from operating activities 29,690 8,429 
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of asset on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and other short 
term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
36 Explanation of transition to IFRS
This is the first year that the Company has presented its financial statements under IFRS. The following disclosures are required in the year of transition.
The last financial statements under UK GAAP were for the year ended 31 December 2004 and the date of transition to IFRS was therefore 
1 January 2004.
Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2004 (date of transition to IFRS) 
Effect of
UK GAAP transition to IFRS IFRS
Note $’000 $’000 $’000
Non-current assets
Investments 991 – 991
Current assets
1 Other receivables 9,634 59 9,693
2 T reasury deposits 10,314 (10,314) –
2 Cash and cash equivalents 726 10,314 11,040
20,674 59 20,733
T otal assets 21,665 59 21,724
Current liabilities
T rade and other payables 70 – 70
Net current assets 20,604 59 20,663
Net assets 21,595 59 21,654
Equity
Share capital 1,000 – 1,000
Share premium account 20,107 – 20,107
1 Share-based payment reserve –5959
Retained earnings 488 – 488
T otal equity 21,595 59 21,654
Notes to the reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2004
1 Share-based payment
A share-based payment reserve of $59,000 was recorded, representing the charge of $59,000 for all preceding periods, this charge related 
to employees of other Group companies and was recharged to the trading company Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited. 88 Changing the way the world connects
Notes to the Company financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
36 Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Notes to the reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2004 (continued)
2 T reasury deposits
At 1 January 2004, the adoption of IFRS resulted in the reclassification of $10,314,000 as cash and cash equivalents.
Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004 (date of last UK GAAP financial statements)
Effect of
UK GAAP transition to IFRS IFRS
Note $’000 $’000 $’000
Non-current assets
Investments 991 – 991
Current assets
1 Other receivables 724 12 736
2 T reasury deposits 78,906 (43,906) 35,000 
2 Cash and cash equivalents – 43,906 43,906 
79,630 12 79,642
T otal assets 80,621 12 80,633
Current liabilities
1 T rade and other payables 683 (662) 21 
Net current assets 78,947 674 79,621 
Net assets 79,938 674 80,612 
Equity
Share capital 218 – 218
Share premium account 77,769 – 77,769
Capital redemption reserve 950 – 950
1 Share-based payment reserve – 759 759
Retained earnings 1,001 (85) 916 
T otal equity 79,938 674 80,612 
Notes to the reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2004
1 Share-based payment
A share-based payment reserve of $759,000 was recorded, representing the charge of $700,000 for 2004 and a charge of $59,000 for all preceding
periods, this charge related to employees of other Group companies and was recharged to the trading company Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited.
2 T reasury deposits
At 31 December 2004, the adoption of IFRS resulted in the reclassification of $43,906,000 as cash and cash equivalents (1 January 2004: $10,314,000). CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  89
Notes to the Company financial statements (continued)
For the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005
36 Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of the cash flow statement for 2004
Effect of
UK GAAP transition to IFRS IFRS
Note $’000 $’000 $’000
Net cash from operating activities 8,429 – 8,429 
Investing activities
Interest received 865 – 865 
1 Purchase of treasury deposits (68,592) 33,592 (35,000)
1 Net cash used in investing activities (67,727) 33,592 (34,135)
Financing activities
Dividends paid (325) – (325)
Redemption of preference shares (10,864) – (10,864)
Proceeds on issue of share capital 74,510 – 74,510 
Share capital issue costs (5,531) – (5,531)
Net cash from financing activities 57,790 – 57,790 
1 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (1,508) 33,592 32,084
1 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 726 10,314 11,040 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 782 – 782
1 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period – 43,906 43,906
Notes to the reconciliation of the cash flow for 2004
1 T reasury deposits
At 31 December 2004, the adoption of IFRS resulted in the reclassification of $43,906,000 as cash and cash equivalents (1 January 2004: $10,314,000).
Reconciliation of the notes to the cash flow for 2004
Effect of
UK GAAP transition to IFRS IFRS
Note $’000 $’000 $’000
1 Operating loss (1,562) 340 (1,222)
Adjustments for:
1 Share related charge 340 360 700
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (1,222) 700 (522)
1 Decrease in receivables 9,040 (38) 9,002 
1 Increase (decrease) in payables 613 (662) (49)
Cash generated by operations 8,431 – 8,431
Interest paid (2) – (2)
Net cash from operating activities 8,429 – 8,429 
Notes to the reconciliation of the notes to the cash flow for 2004
1 Share-based payment
A charge of $700,000 was recognised in respect of share options falling within the scope of IFRS 2, this charge related to employees of other 
Group companies and was recharged to the trading company Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited.
A credit of $425,000 was recorded in respect of the reversal of the UITF 17 share related charge, previously recognised under UK GAAP , as this
transaction fell outside the scope of IFRS 2. This was allocated between sales and marketing and administrative expenses. Of this charge, $85,000 
had been recharged to another Group company .  2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Results
Turnover 16,979 27,682 67,622 253,146 486,531
Operating (loss) profit (22,412) (15,343) (2,407) 58,457 111,936
(Loss) profit on ordinary activities before taxation (21,497) (15,175) (1,616) 59,980 114,366
Taxation 827 1,123 4,540 1,579 (31,210)
(Loss) profit for the financial year (20,670) (14,052) 2,924 61,559 83,156
Assets employed
Non-current assets 7,686 6,530 8,603 20,937 118,883
Net current assets 21,808 25,678 27,546 137,314 160,133
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year (2,846) (202) – (1,160) (1,979)
Long term provisions (277) (464) (756) (1,606) –
Net assets 26,371 31,542 35,393 155,485 277,037
Key statistics $$$$$
Earnings per share (0.26) (0.17) 0.03 0.53 0.67
Diluted earnings per share (0.26) (0.17) 0.03 0.48 0.62
The amounts disclosed for 2003 and earlier periods are stated on the basis of UK GAAP because it is not practicable to restate amounts for periods 
prior to the date of transition to IFRS. The principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRS are explained in note 28 to the financial statements which
provides an explanation of the transition to IFRS.
90 Changing the way the world connects
Five year summary CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005  91
Share and corporate information
CSR plc
Unit 400
Cambridge Science Park
Milton Road
Cambridge
CB4 0WH
Registered in England and Wales number 4187346
www.csr.com
Advisors
Auditors Deloitte & T ouche LLP
Corporate brokers JPMorgan Cazenove Limited, UBS Limited
Solicitors Slaughter and May
Bank Lloyds TSB Bank plc
Share information
Shares outstanding 128,444,782
T rading symbol CSR
Country of register Great Britain
Market London Stock Exchange
SEDOL 3414738
Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway , Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
Shareholder information
Number of % age of total 
Holding shareholders shareholders
1- 1,000 663 47.32%
1,001 – 5,000 250 17.84%
5,001 – 10,000 92 6.57%
10,001 –  50,000 183 13.06%
50,001 – 100,000 65 4.64%
100,001 – 250,000 62 4.43%
Over 250,000 86 6.14%
Total 1,401 100.00%
Share capital structure
Disclosed holding
ordinary share capital % of issued
Fidelity , FMR Corp, Fidelity International Ltd 17,928,645 13.96%
Wellington Management Company LLP 5,466,600 4.26%
Deutsche Bank AG 5,095,839 3.97%
Lloyds TSB Group Plc 4,892,758 3.81%
Legal & General Group Plc 4,377,040 3.41%
Morgan Stanley Securities Ltd 4,165,759 3.24%
Other shareholders 86,518,141 67.35%
Total 128,444,782 100.00%
Based on notifications to the Company in accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985. 92 Changing the way the world connects
Glossary of industry terms
analogue: a continuous representation of phenomena in 
terms of points along a scale, each point merging imperceptibly
into the next; analogue signals vary continuously over a range of
values; real world phenomena, such as sound, light and touch,
are analogue 
application software: software that is written specifically 
to address a real-world problem or task 
baseband processor: that part of a chip which is designed 
to implement in a digital format the algorithms, protocols and 
logic required to implement, for example, a standard such as 
the Bluetooth wireless standard 
bit: a unit of information; a computational quantity that can 
take one of two values, such as true and false or 0 and 1; also 
the smallest unit of storage sufficient to hold one bit, kbt or Mbt 
Bluetooth protocol stack: the communications software
which is required together with the baseband processor and
other subsystems, to implement the Bluetooth standard 
Bluetooth qualified: certified by one of a number of
organisations approved by the SIG as meeting the Bluetooth
specification and ‘Bluetooth qualified products’ are end products
and modules which are Bluetooth qualified 
Bluetooth specification: the specification determined by the
SIG which defines the parameters which a device providing a
Bluetooth system must meet; different versions of the Bluetooth
specification are designated v1.0, v1.1, v1.2 and v2.0 
CAD: Computer Aided Design: a general term referring 
to software applications and the method of designing things 
using a computer 
CMOS: Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor
technology: a semiconductor process technology that uses
planar transistors to make chips that consume relatively low
power and permit a high level of integration 
codec: an acronym for coder/decoder: codecs are integrated
circuits or chips that include analogue-to-digital conversion and
digital-to-analogue conversion on a single chip 
chip: short for a microchip; semiconductor device or 
integrated circuit 
communications protocol stack: communications
software, which is required, together with the baseband
processor and other subsystems, to implement a wireless
communications standard 
converged phones: phones capable of switching between
fixed broadband and wireless telecommunications networks
automatically without interruption in the reception or transmission
of voice or data
CSP: Chip-Scale Package: a semiconductor package which is 
as small as the semiconductor chip and is used for small firm factor
applications such as mobile phones, PDAs and wireless devices
customer applications software: software that is not generic
and which is written to specifically address a customer-defined
problem or task 
DSP: Digital Signal Processor; a device which enables computer
manipulation using processing elements or stored programs of
analogue signals which have been sampled and converted to
digital form 
design win: CSR records a design win when a product using 
one of its ICs becomes Bluetooth qualified 
die: another word for chip; often used to refer to the ‘chips’ whilst
they are still an integral part of the silicon ‘wafer’ or where they
have been cut from the ‘wafer’ but are, as yet, unpackaged 
digital: the representation of data by a series of bits or discrete
values such as 0s and 1s 
dongle: an electronic device that is usually plugged into the 
USB port of a computer in order to provide added functionality 
EDR (Enhanced Data Rate) An extension of the Bluetooth
standard enabling faster communication of larger files (pictures,
videos and music) by a rate of up to 3 times
embedded solution: a system in which all processing is carried
out on-chip without the need for an external host processor
end products: products produced by a product manufacturer
which are in their final form and ready for the user , examples
include PCs and mobile phones 
fab: short for silicon fabrication facility , manufacturing plant 
or foundry
fabless: short for fabricationless, a business model used in the
semiconductor industry , where the manufacture (or fabrication) 
of ICs is subcontracted to a foundry
fabless semiconductor company: Company that uses a third
party semiconductor fabrication service to manufacture silicon
chips as opposed to fabrication facilities owned directly
firmware: software which interfaces with and typically configures
and manages the hardware in a system
flash memory: electronic memory where the contents (usually
an applications program) may be programmed prior to use and
which retains its contents irrespective of applied power
foundry: a semiconductor manufacturer that makes integrated
circuits for third parties
GHz: giga-Hertz
GSM/GPRS: GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications)
the most common digital mobile standard; GPRS (General
Packet Radio Service) a digital mobile standard designed to send
and receive voice and data such as email information from the
web and which is able to transmit data at higher rates than the
GSM standard 
host software: software running on the system in which the
device is embedded
IC or integrated circuit: a semiconductor device consisting 
of many thousands or millions of interconnected transistors 
and other components
IEEE: Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers 
ISO: International Standards Organisation: the international
organisation responsible for developing and maintaining
worldwide standards for manufacturing, environmental
protection, computers, data communications, and many 
other fields 
ISO 9000: a series of international standards for quality
assurance in business practices, ratified by the ISO beginning 
in 1987. Certification of ISO 9000 compliance is important for
selling many types of goods and services including 
data-communications equipment and services 
internet protocols: the communications protocols used 
over the Internet 
kbs: 1kbs is a unit of 1024 ‘bits’ per second 
LEDs: Light Emitting Diode; a semiconductor device that 
emits visible light when electrical power is supplied to it 
Mb or Mega Byte: 1024 times 1024 bytes where 1 byte 
is equal to 8 ‘bits’ 
memory: any device that can store data in machine-readable
format which may include RAM, ROM and Flash 
microcontroller: often defined as being a microprocessor
together with its memory and a means of allowing input 
and output 
microprocessor: a computer with its entire CPU contained 
on one integrated circuit 
modem: A device that enables electronic equipment to transmit
and receive data over a network
motherboard: the principal printed circuit board embedded
within an electronic product 
MP3: a file format which compresses or ‘shrinks’ voice and music
files for transfer between one electronic device to another whilst
retaining CD quality audio
ODM: or Original Design Manufacturer: a manufacturer that
designs and manufactures equipment for another Company 
who will, in turn sell this to the end-user 
OEM: or Original Equipment Manufacturer: a manufacturer 
that sells equipment to retail and wholesale outlets 
P AN (Personal Area Network) a short distance wireless
network specifically designed to support portable and mobile
computing devices
PC: personal computer
PCM: Pulse Code Modulation: a coding technique where 
an electrical signal is represented as digital data 
PDA: personal digital assistant: a pocket-sized 
personal computer 
package: the package of a semiconductor is the physical 
and electrical interface between the chip and the system in 
which it operates 
profile: a set of specifications defined by the SIG aimed at
facilitating communication between classes of Bluetooth-
enabled devices; examples include the headset and 
hands-free profiles 
protocol: a method by which two dissimilar systems 
can communicate 
RAM: random access memory 
RF: radio frequency 
ROM: read only memory 
radio modulation: dynamic modification of the characteristics
of a radio (electromagnetic) wave in order to convey information 
SIG: the Bluetooth Special Interest Group 
sampling: the process of shipping small quantities of a new 
IC to a customer in order to allow the customer to test the IC 
in its product 
semiconductor: a material, typically crystalline, that can be
altered to allow electrical current to flow or not flow in a pattern;
common semiconductors are silicon, germanium and gallium-
arsenide and the term is also used to apply to ICs made from
these materials 
silicon: a semiconducting material used to make wafers, 
widely used in the semiconductor industry as the basic 
material for integrated circuits 
short range: Bluetooth is principally used for communicating
over ranges of up to 10 metres 
sniffer: Software that is combined with hardware for monitoring
data and voice traffic on a network over the air
SOC (System on chip) A technology that takes all the necessary
electronic circuits and parts for a complete system and integrates
them into a single circuit (Silicon chip)
software stack: software required to implement the 
Bluetooth standard
transistor: the basic building block of modern semiconductor
microelectronics; a transistor regulates current flow or voltage 
Unlicensed Mobile Access (UMA - also known as GAN
Generic Access Network) is the technology that enables GSM
voice and GPRS data services to be provided over unlicensed
radio interfaces such as Wi-Fi
USB: Universal Serial Bus: an interface between a computer 
and add-on devices 
UWB: Ultra wideband, a wireless technology for transmitting
large amounts of digital data over a wide spectrum of frequency
bands with very low power for a short distance 
Wi-Fi: Wi-Fi short for ‘wireless fidelity’ (also known as IEEE
802.11a/b/g) is an 1155 Mbs raw radio bit rate data centric
wireless communication standard mainly used today for wireless
computer networks at home and in the office
wafer: a disc made of a semiconducting material such as 
silicon, usually between 150mm (6’) and 300mm (12’) in diameter ,
in which integrated circuits are manufactured; a wafer may
contain several thousand individual integrated circuits 
wireless modem: a modem that accesses a wireless network
yield: when used in connection with manufacturing, the ratio 
of the number of usable products to the total number of products
on a wafer CSR’ s offices
United Kingdom
Unit 400
Cambridge Science Park
Milton Road
Cambridge
CB4 0WH
UK 
T el: +44 1223 692000
Fax: +44 1223 692001
www.csr.com
Churchill House
Cambridge Business Park
Cowley Road
Cambridge
CB4 0WZ
UK 
T el: +44 (0)1223 692000
Fax: +44 (0)1223 692001
www.csr.com
China
UbiNetics Wireless T echnologies
(Shenzhen) Ltd
17B Benyuan Building
6015 Shennan Road
Shenzhen 518040
China
T el: +86 755 3335 8816
Fax:  +86 755 3335 8807
www.csr.com
Denmark
CSR Denmark
Novi Science Park 
Niels Jernes Vej 10 
9220 Aalborg East 
Denmark 
T el: +45 72 200 380 
Fax: +45 96 354 599
www.csr.com
France
Cambridge Silicon Radio SARL
Bat. 7, Green Side 
400, Av Roumanille
BP 309
06906 Sophia Antipolis Cedex
France
T el: +33 4 93 00 87 57
Fax: +33 4 93 00 87 55
www.csr.com
India
CSR India Private Limited
Suraj Ganga Soft Park, 3rd Floor
#34, Sarakki Industrial Layout
1st Main, 3rd Phase, 
J P Nagar
Bangalore - 560 078
India
T el: +91 80 2649 2700
Fax: +91 80 2649 2701
www.csr.com
Japan
CSR kk
Kojimachi KS Square 9F 
5-3-3 Kojimachi 
Chiyoda-ku, T okyo 
102-0083 
Japan 
T el: +81 3 5276 2911 
Fax: +81 3 5276 2915
www.csr.com
Korea
CSR Korea Ltd.
15F , West wing
POSCO center , 892
Daechi-4 dong, Gangnam-Gu
Seoul 135-777
Korea
T el:  +82 2 3474 2372
T el:  +82 2 6444 2000
(from 15 April 2006)
www.csr.com
Sweden
CSR Sweden AB
Emdalav. 16
SE-223 69 LUND
Sweden
T el:  +46 46 2881600
Fax: +46 46 2881601
www.csr.com
Taiwan
CSR T aiwan
6 Floor
No. 407, Ruey Kuang Road
Neihu, T aipei 11492
T aiwan, R.O.C 
T el: +886 2 7721 5588 
Fax: +886 2 7721 5589
ww.csr.com
US
Cambridge Silicon Radio, Inc.
2425 N. Central Expressway
Suite 1000
Richardson
TX 75080
USA
T el: +1 972 238 2300 
Fax: +1 972 231 1440
www.csr.com
Clarity T echnologies, Inc.
1740 Opdyke Court
Auburn Hills
MI 48326
USA
T el: +1 248 409 1400
Fax: +1 248 409 1401
www.claritycvc.com
www.csr.com
Designed and produced by Imagination (GIC). Printed by Jones and Palmer CSR plc
Unit 400
Cambridge Science Park
Milton Road
Cambridge
CB4 0WH
www.csr.com
