 Afren plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
 Ahead of 
 the curve Afren plc is an international independent 
exploration and production (E&P) company 
with a Premium Listing on the London 
Stock Exchange (symbol AFR) and a 
constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.
Afren is a dynamic, entrepreneurial organisation with a portfolio of 
world-class assets located in several of the world’s most proliﬁc and 
fast-emerging hydrocarbon basins in Africa and the Middle East. 
Our activities span the full-cycle E&P value chain of exploration, 
appraisal, development through to production. Our success depends 
on our ability to deliver long-term value for all our stakeholders 
through a clear and consistent strategy, which recognises that our 
responsibilities go beyond our operations.
To leverage our track record of operational delivery and effective 
portfolio and ﬁnancial management our business has been strategically 
positioned into three core business units, Nigeria and other West Africa, 
Afren East Africa Exploration and the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
For more information see: 
www.afren.com
www.ar2012afren.com
www.afren.com/afreneax/index.html
P04
For more information 
on our business P40
Nigeria and other 
West Africa P50
Afren East Africa 
Exploration P54
Kurdistan 
region of Iraq Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
01
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Nigeria and other West Africa 40–49
Afren East Africa Exploration 50–53
Kurdistan region of Iraq 54–55
Chairman’s overview 68
Afren’s Board of Directors 70
Directors’ report 72
Corporate governance statement 74
Nomination Committee 80
Audit and Risk Committee 81
Directors’ remuneration report 85
The Afren approach to Corporate responsibility 58
Environment 61
Health and Safety 62
Social 63
Business ethics 64
Human Resources 65
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 98
Independent auditors’ report 99
Group statement of comprehensive income 100
Group balance sheet 101
Group cash ﬂow statement 102
Group statement of changes in equity 103
Notes to the Group’s ﬁnancial statements 104
Company balance sheet 133
Company cash ﬂow statement 134
Company statement of changes in equity 135
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements 136
Licences 140
Oil and gas reserves 142
Glossary of terms 143
Advisers and Company Secretary 144
Our highlights 02
Leadership across three business units 04
Chairman’s statement 08
Industry overview 12
Chief Executive’s review 14
Our business model 18
A strategy delivering long-term value 20
KPIs (Key Performance Indicators) 22
Performance metrics 24
Risk management process 26
Principal risks and uncertainties 28
Financial review 32
The Business review provides an overview 
of Afren, our performance, details of our 
risk management processes and outlook 
for the Group.
Through strategic foresight Afren has 
assembled a balanced portfolio of world- 
class assets consisting of high-impact 
exploration and appraisal opportunities, 
major development projects and producing 
assets that are organised into three core 
business units, Nigeria and other West 
Africa, Afren East Africa Exploration and 
the Kurdistan region of Iraq. Read about 
our operational performance here.
Corporate responsibility (CR) underpins the 
way we do business. We are committed to 
improving the quality of life in the countries 
where we operate, recognising foremost 
that our responsibilities go beyond our 
operations. Here you can read about our 
approach to our responsibilities.
Corporate governance is about managing 
our business in the right way to ensure we 
meet our objectives. Learn more about our 
approach to corporate governance here.
The ﬁnancial statements provide a summary 
of our ﬁnancial performance throughout 
2012 and our position as at 31 December 
2012. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements 
are prepared in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the European Union.
Our licences, unaudited oil and gas 
reserves and glossary.
Operations 
review
P38
Corporate 
responsibility
P56
Corporate
governance
P66
Financial 
statements
P97
Supplementary 
information
P140
Business 
review
P02 Business review
02
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
+1 5 1 %
2010 2011 2012 2009
89
46
268
675
+1 5 1 %
2010 2011 2012 2009
319
336
597
1, 4 9 9
+1 2 3%
2010 2011 2012 2009
22, 100
14,333
19,284
43,059
US$ 1, 4 9 9m
(2011: US$597 million) 
Revenue
(US$m)
US$675m
(2011: US$268 million) 
Operating proﬁt
(US$m)
US$244m
*
(2011: US$125 million) 
* Refer to page 24 for deﬁnition
+95%
2010 2011 2012 2009
51
62
12 5
244
- 0 .4 9 TRIR
+0.31 L TIF
2010 2011 2012 2009
TRIR LTIF
2010 2011 2012 2009
2.45
9.33
1.96
1. 6 3
0.22
0.53
1.4 7
2.4 1
2010 2011 2012 2009
900
372
847
464
-1 6%
2010 2011 2012 2009
11 . 6
18. 1
17 . 9
15.0
+1 7 7 %
2010 2011 2012 2009
27 8
209
338
93 5
(2.6)
+56%
5.0
12 .0
18. 7
2010 2011 2012 2009
Normalised proﬁt after tax
(US$m)
cents 18.7
(2011: cents 12.3) 
Basic proﬁt/(loss) per share
(cents)
Our 
highlights
Afren delivered record ﬁnancial results in 
2012 driven by strong production performance 
at the Ebok and Okoro production hubs, 
offshore Nigeria. 
Financial highlights
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 
and Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF)
Debt maturity
(US$ million)
Net effective working 
interest production
(boepd)
43,05 9boepd
*
(2011: 19,284 boepd*)
+23,776 boepd (+123%) year-on-year
*including OML 26
US$ 15 . 0/boe
*
(2011: US$17.9/boe)*
-US$2.9/boe year-on-year decrease
* Refer to page 23 for deﬁnition
1. 4 7 TRIR
0. 5 3 LTIF
(2011: TRIR 1.96, LTIF 0.22)
US$93 5m
(2011: US$338 million)
+US$597 million 
Operating cash ﬂow
(US$m)
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
464%
*
(2011: 847%*)
*Refer to page 22 for deﬁnition
Reserves replacement ratio
(%)
Normalised operating 
cost per barrel
(US$/boe)
293
531
189
158
89
179
0
0
682
Due within 
one year
Due within
2-5 years
Due after
5 years
December 2010
December 2011
December 2012
81 %
December 2012: 81% 
of debt due after 
more than one year
December 2011: 81% 
of debt due after 
more than one year
December 2010: 67% 
of debt due after 
more than one year. Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
03
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
During the period, we enjoyed an exploration success 
rate of 88%. With full-cycle capabilities, a track record 
of operational delivery and balance sheet strength, 
we are well positioned to deliver continued growth 
in line with our strategic priorities.
Corporate responsibility is an integral part of Afren’s 
culture, permeating all aspects of the business. We are 
committed to conducting business safely and in an 
ethically, socially and environmentally responsible manner. 
This commitment is not only put into practice on a 
day-to-day basis, but also regularly monitored through 
both our management and governance systems.
Across the Group the Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) 
and Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) for 2012 
showed mixed success with the LTIF slightly above target 
at 0.53 and the TRIR better than target at 1.47. These 
results reﬂect in part the wide range of operations in 
which Afren was involved during the course of 2012 
and in particular the signiﬁcant increase in exploration 
activity in East Africa.
Responsibility highlights
P56
For more information 
on our CR
– Full year net working interest production of between 
40,000 to 47,000 boepd (excluding Barda Rash) in 2013
– Multi-well E&A drilling campaign targeting net 
Pmean resources in excess of 650 mmboe across 
our business units
– Good ﬁnancial management underpinning a well-funded 
and agile business
Outlook
P1 2
For more information 
on the environment 
we operate in
Operational highlights
Funding future growth
Afren’s remarkable growth is underpinned by a disciplined approach to 
ﬁnancial and portfolio management that recognises the importance of 
allocating our cash resources in a prudent and effective manner across our 
areas of operation. Supporting our thriving cash generative base is a robust 
and ﬂexible capital structure, which was strengthened during the period 
following the completion of our second secured Bond issue of US$300 million 
in the ﬁrst quarter of 2012.
P38
For more information 
on our operations
World-class exploration and appraisal success 
The Afren team enjoyed an excellent year of E&A success in 2012 with three 
signiﬁcant discoveries announced at the Okoro Field Extension and Ebok 
North Fault Block, offshore Nigeria, and at the Ain Sifni PSC, Kurdistan region 
of Iraq, representing an E&A success ratio of 88%. The discoveries in Nigeria 
have given the Group a 2P reserves replacement ratio of 265%.
In East Africa, the recent completion of the seismic data acquisition programme 
and ongoing portfolio maturation has resulted in a mean prospective 
resource upgrade in the period to 5,838 million barrels of oil equivalent 
(from 2,1 13 million barrels of oil equivalent at 31 December 201 1), net to Afren, 
as we mature the assets technically and move forward into an active phase 
of exploration drilling in 2013, targeting both established and new basins. 
Solid platform of producing assets 
In 2012 we delivered record production driven by a full year of production 
from the Ebok ﬁeld and continued outperformance at the Okoro ﬁeld, both 
offshore Nigeria. We successfully fast tracked production at the Okoro ﬁeld 
Extension, within ten months from discovery, and initiated production 
operations at the Barda Rash PSC, Kurdistan region of Iraq.
With a net 2P & 2C recoverable reserves and resources base of over 
one billion barrels, of which only 5% has so far been developed, Afren has in 
place a solid platform for revenue growth and future cash ﬂow generation. Business review
04
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Leadership across three 
business units
Côte 
d’Ivoire
Ghana
Nigeria
São Tomé & Príncipe
Congo
Madagascar
South
Africa
Tanzania
Seychelles
Kenya
Ethiopia
Kurdistan 
region of Iraq
Key ﬁgures from across Afren
Net reserves and resources
mmboe
Afren East Africa Exploration 5,838
Nigeria and other West Africa 1,257
Kurdistan region of Iraq 1,052
1,2 57
5,838
1,052
P40
For more information 
on our Nigeria and 
other West Africa 
operations
Gross acreage 121,193 sq km
Total number of employees and contractors 460
2012 net working interest production 
(inc. OML 26)
43,059 boepd
Net 2P & 2C reserves and resources 1,020 mmboe
Net reserves and resources 8,147 mmboe  Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
05
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Lead time (years)
60
45
30
Over 100 ﬁelds in 
the opportunity set
15
0-1
1-5
5-10
10- 25
25-50
50- 100
100- 250
250-500
500-1,000
1,000-2,500
Through strategic foresight Afren has assembled a balanced and focused portfolio of 
world-class assets consisting of high-impact exploration and appraisal opportunities, 
major development projects and key producing assets. These are organised into 
three core business units: Nigeria and other West Africa, Afren East Africa Exploration 
and the Kurdistan region of Iraq. We hold market leadership positions across each 
of our business units and are well positioned to deliver further growth capitalising on 
our early mover advantage and operational track record.
Nigeria and other West Africa
A dominant and growing position
From the outset one of Afren’s key priorities 
was to establish a reliable platform of 
cash-generative reserves and production 
that would enable us to build and grow the 
business on a sustainable basis. Our initial 
entry into the region allowed us to fulﬁl this 
objective and develop the necessary track 
record and credentials to expand across 
and beyond Africa. 
Nigeria and other West Africa remains a 
proliﬁc oil and gas region. In Nigeria alone, 
which represents a signiﬁcant portion of 
our West African portfolio, remaining 
reserves are assessed at 37 billion bbls of oil 
and 182 tcf of gas, ranking it tenth for oil 
reserves and ninth for oil production and 
gas reserves globally. Despite an abundance 
of opportunities, less than 35% of the 
discovered ﬁelds in Nigeria (of which there 
are in excess of 1,000) have been developed. 
It is estimated that of this opportunity set, 
well in excess of 100 such ﬁelds exist, each 
with estimated recoverable reserves of 
between 50 to 250 million bbls. The majority 
of such assets have been licensed to 
indigenous operators or are peripheral within 
the Major IOCs’ portfolios that struggle to 
compete for the necessary technical, capital 
and human resources required to bring the 
assets into production. 
Against this backdrop, Afren has positioned 
itself strategically as a partner of choice to 
assist in the effective development and 
monetisation of these assets by providing 
access to capital and the necessary technical 
and operational capability.
To date, we have successfully delivered two 
high-quality Nigerian development projects 
in Ebok and Okoro in record time, and have 
built a portfolio of six further development, 
appraisal and exploration projects. Our 
acquisition and partnership-led growth is 
evidence that, as pressure mounts on the 
incumbent asset holders to optimise 
development of Nigeria’s national hydrocarbon 
resources and develop local capacity, a 
secondary asset acquisition and divestiture 
market is opening up in the country. We are 
very well positioned within this market and 
the future for us in Nigeria is bright.
Beyond Nigeria, our other West African 
portfolio includes production assets in Côte 
d’Ivoire and attractive exploration acreage in 
Ghana, Congo Brazzaville and South Africa.
– Balanced portfolio of assets across 
the full-cycle E&P value chain
– Proven track record as a developer 
and explorer
– Gross acreage position >20,100 km
2
– Regional ofﬁces in Lagos, Nigeria 
and Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire
 1,257 mmboe
Nigeria and other West Africa 
net reserves and resources
Development lead times offshore 
Nigeria with an FPSO/FSO
(Number of developments) 
Source: IHS, Afren
Distribution of resource ownership
Source: Wood Mackenzie, Afren 
Nigerian proved undeveloped ﬁelds (original reserve size distribution)
(Number of ﬁelds) 
Source: Wood Mackenzie
Licence interests
Source: Wood Mackenzie, Afren
%
Indigenous E&P 37
Major IOC 35
State owned 15
International NOC 5
International E&P 4
International Integrated 4
%
Major IOC 47
State owned 43
International NOC 5
Indigenous E&P 3
International E&P 1
International Integrated 1
Exploration
Appraisal and Development
Production
Business model key
4-6 7-9 10+ 0-3
Okoro, 
Ebok
03
07
04
06
47
43
5
3
11
37
35
15
5
4
4 Business review
06
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
14,600
19,000
480
06
East Africa
Central and
North Africa 
West Africa
Leadership across three 
business units
Continued
High-impact forward exploration 
programme 
Relative to other African regions, East Africa 
has been explored to a far lesser degree than 
the proliﬁc oil and gas producing regions of 
West and North Africa, where a signiﬁcantly 
greater number of wells have been drilled.
Mesozoic rifting phases associated with 
the break-up of the mega-continent, 
Gondwanaland, have created several proliﬁc 
hydrocarbon Basins. The Anza, Lamu and 
Mandera Basins in Kenya, the Ogaden Basin 
in Ethiopia, Ambilobe Basin in Madagascar 
and the Seychelles Basin share many similar 
characteristics, including source rocks, 
reservoirs, seals and structure with other 
Mesozoic rift basins that are today producing 
signiﬁcant volumes of oil and gas. 
Oil seeps are common and several wells 
drilled to date have encountered oil or oil 
shows, indicating that the regional source 
rocks are also liquid-prone. Major oil 
accumulations have also been discovered 
in Uganda, Sudan and Madagascar in 
particular, with Yemen and the Bombay/
Cambay Highs in India also proliﬁc oil 
producing areas that share a common 
geological origin with East Africa.
The next phase of exploration in East Africa, 
based on modern data, is already leading to 
a signiﬁcant increase in activity and discovery 
rates in the region.
Having achieved our early strategic priority 
of establishing a reliable platform of 
cash-generative reserves and production 
from our Nigeria and other West African 
base, the Afren Board deemed 2010 an 
opportune time to take an East African 
position by completing the all-share 
acquisition of Black Marlin Energy Holdings 
Ltd (Black Marlin).
Afren East Africa Exploration
Black Marlin, an independent exploration 
and appraisal company, was an attractive 
target for Afren with a high-impact portfolio 
of exploration and appraisal assets across 
Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar and the 
Seychelles. The acquisition provided Afren 
with an early entry position of critical mass 
in East Africa consistent with Afren’s 
mandate to establish a pan-African presence. 
The acquisition immediately expanded our 
exploration inventory by adding several 
exploration targets across multiple geological 
basins, play types and geographies that have 
allowed the Group to leverage its proﬁtable 
cash-generative production base in Nigeria 
and other West Africa. We augmented our 
position further in East Africa in 2010 with 
the acquisition of the Tanga Block offshore 
north-east Tanzania which lies south of, and 
is contiguous with, Afren’s 100% owned 
and operated Block L17 & L18 in Kenya.
Afren’s East African exploration portfolio 
today covers an extensive surface area of 
100,221 km
2
 on a gross basis, focused on 
Cretaceous, Jurassic and Tertiary rift basins 
which are geological settings that have 
yielded signiﬁcant discoveries in Uganda, 
Sudan, Tanzania, Madagascar, Mozambique 
and, most recently, Kenya.
Since the acquisition, Afren has signiﬁcantly 
increased the seismic coverage with a total 
of 9,444 km 2D and 5,607 km
2
 3D acquired 
across the portfolio.
Estimated total number of African 
oil and gas wells drilled to date
Source: Wood Mackenzie, IHS
Exploring East Africa’s 
petroleum systems
(Source: IHS, Afren)
Oil seeps and shows
Oil discovery
Gas discovery
Afren acreage
5,838 
mmboe
Afren East Africa Exploration 
net resources
– Diversiﬁed geology and play types
– Proved working hydrocarbon systems
– High-equity positions
– In possession of the largest seismic 
database in East Africa
– Gross acreage position > 100,200 km
2
– Regional ofﬁce in Nairobi, Kenya
10A
1
7
8
L17
L18
A&B
Tanga
1101
Seychelles
Ethiopia
Kenya
P50
For more information on our Afren 
East Africa Exploration operations
Madagascar
Tanzania Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
07
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
In recognition of the opportunity at hand, 
in 201 1, Afren undertook its most ambitious 
acquisitions to date by acquiring the Barda 
Rash (60% operated) and Ain Sifni (20% 
non-operated) PSCs located in the Kurdistan 
region of Iraq, from Komet Group and the 
Kurdistan Regional Government respectively.
Afren is now the most active international 
independent E&P Group in Nigeria, and also 
in East Africa where we have assembled a 
highly attractive acreage position in some of 
the region’s most sought-after play fairways. 
Thematically, the Kurdistan region of Iraq 
shares similarities with the Nigerian and other 
West African opportunity set. Although oil 
has been discovered in abundance and plays 
proven, the region until very recently has 
nevertheless been overlooked by, or remained 
out of reach for, much larger international 
companies. This has created a window of 
opportunity for smaller, agile independents 
to secure assets with world-class potential. 
The acquisition is consistent with our 
strategic priorities and at the time delivered 
independently certiﬁed net 2P & 2C 
resources at US$0.68 per 2P & 2C bbl – 
well below other regional transaction values. 
As the region develops politically, we are 
one of the best-placed resource companies 
to beneﬁt from signiﬁcant reserves growth, 
de-risking of the geopolitical landscape 
and a consequent realisation of sustained 
oil export revenues.
– World-class assets located in 
a proliﬁc hydrocarbon province
– Early mover advantage (entry cost 
US$0.68 per 2P & 2C bbl)
– Gross acreage position >860 km
2
– Regional ofﬁce in Erbil 
An early entrant – signiﬁcant 
reserves growth
Kurdistan is a semi-autonomous region in 
the north-west of Iraq comprising an area 
of approximately 40,600 km
2
. Kurdistan is 
one of the last onshore exploration regions 
that promise to deliver proliﬁc hydrocarbon 
resources in an attractive ﬁscal environment. 
Data from OPEC currently puts Iraq’s oil 
reserves at c.143 billion boe, of which 
c.45 billion boe (c.30%) is believed to be 
in Kurdistan. The oil industry has enjoyed 
signiﬁcant success with cumulative gross 
discoveries of more than ﬁve billion bbls 
representing a success rate in excess of 70%, 
with production growing from 2,000 bbls/d 
in 2006 to some 250,000 bbls/d currently. 
The region is developing rapidly with over 
40 oil companies awarded PSCs, including 
four of the top ten oil majors, which followed 
Afren’s entry into the region.
We are an entrepreneurial company and take 
a long-term view of growing our business. 
We play to our strengths by leveraging our 
relationships and expertise to access new 
basins in areas where we can gain a 
strategically and competitively advantageous 
position – always willing to move ahead of 
the competition for the right opportunities.
 1, 0 5 2
 mmboe
Kurdistan region of Iraq net reserves 
and resources
Kurdistan region of Iraq 
Locations of the world’s top ten oil reserves
(Billion bbls) 
Source: Oil and Gas Journal
300
100
Venezuela
Saudi Arabia
Canada
Iran
Iraq
Kuwait
UAE
Libya
Russia
Nigeria
200
Kurdistan exploration success rate
Source: Wood Mackenzie, IHS
Exploration
Appraisal and Development
Production
Business model key
Afren holds assets in two 
of the top ten positions
P54
For more information on our operations 
in the Kurdistan region of Iraq
%
Discoveries 71
Dry/No data 29
71
29 Business review
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 08
Chairman’s 
statement
Egbert Imomoh, 
Chairman 09
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
Our vision and strategic priorities
Afren’s vision is to be the leading 
independent E&P company in each of the 
areas in which we operate. We also aim to 
be recognised as the partner of choice by 
all of our stakeholders, and have created a 
balanced portfolio of high-quality upstream 
assets across the E&P value chain. 
In order to achieve our vision, we have 
clear strategic priorities that are focused on 
delivering growth and creating shareholder 
value in a responsible and efﬁcient way. 
High-impact exploration and 
appraisal drilling campaign 
delivering success
2012 was a year in which the Group enjoyed 
excellent exploration success. In Nigeria, the 
proximity to existing infrastructure of the 
Okoro Field Extension and Ebok North Fault 
Block discoveries, means that we have been 
able to establish early production at both 
assets, and are very well positioned to 
leverage our detailed understanding of the 
subsurface and our development track 
record offshore south-east Nigeria as we 
progress full ﬁeld development solutions. 
In the Kurdistan region of Iraq we have 
made a truly world-class discovery with the 
Simrit-2 exploration well on the Ain Sifni PSC, 
and to date have tested aggregate light oil at 
a rate of 18,952 bopd. The latest test results 
continue to suggest excellent production 
capability and the transformational potential 
of this discovery to Afren. Drilling on the 
Simrit-3 well, exploring the eastern extent 
of the large scale is continuing with 
hydrocarbon intervals logged in the 
Cretaceous, Jurassic and Triassic reservoirs. 
Record ﬁnancial results
The Group beneﬁted from increased 
production and stability in the oil price 
environment in 2012, achieving record proﬁts 
of c.US$200 million on turnover of c.US$1,500
million. During the year we successfully 
completed a second Bond issue, proceeds 
of which were US$300 million before issue 
costs. The proceeds have been used to repay 
the Group’s US$200 million VTB/BNPP 
facility which was issued in connection with 
the acquisition of the Group’s interests in the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq and for other corporate 
purposes. We continue to adopt a prudent 
approach to ﬁnancial management and have 
in place a ﬂexible capital structure that is 
supported by a cash-generative production base. 
Low-cost reserves growth
In 2012, we achieved a 2P reserves 
replacement ratio of 265%. This growth in 
reserves has been achieved through our 
exploration success in Nigeria. Following our 
successful E&A campaign at Okwok, offshore 
Nigeria, and at the Simrit discovery located 
on the Ain Sifni PSC, Kurdistan region of Iraq, 
we expect further growth in our reserves 
and resources base in 2013.
Following the completion of an independent 
assessment of the reserves and contingent 
resource potential of the Ogini and Isoko 
ﬁelds for First Hydrocarbon Nigeria (FHN), 
an Afren associate, in March 2013, 2P & 2C 
oil reserves and resources at the ﬁelds are 
estimated to be 135 mmbbls and 68 mmbbls 
respectively, representing a year-on-year 
increase in net 2P reserves carried by FHN 
of 231% and net 2P & 2C reserves and 
resources carried by FHN of 10%.
Key Performance Indicators
We measure the performance of the business 
with ﬁve KPIs that are designed to measure 
progress against our strategic objectives. 
In 2012 we achieved strong year-on-year 
performance. More information on our KPIs 
and 2012 performance is included on pages
22 to 23.
The Afren team
We have continued to witness a tightening 
recruitment market with demand and 
competition for skilled and experienced people 
increasing further during the past year. Afren’s 
growth and success revolves ﬁrst and foremost 
US$ 1 ,499
million
Record turnover in 2012
12 3 %
Increase in net working interest production 
year-on-year
26 5 %
2P reserves replacement ratio
“ Afren made excellent progress in 2012 across all fronts. We 
delivered record production and ﬁnancial results, and achieved 
signiﬁcant exploration success in Nigeria and the Kurdistan region 
of Iraq. With a high-quality portfolio located in some of the 
world’s most proliﬁc and emerging oil and gas basins, we have 
a rich opportunity set to enable us to grow our reserves base 
through a multi-well E&A drilling campaign in both established 
and new basins, funded by our growing production base. With 
robust cash ﬂows, a strong balance sheet and operational control 
on all key assets, we are well positioned to leverage our track 
record to deliver further growth in 2013 and beyond.” 
We have made a successful start to our 
2013 drilling campaign with the Okwok-10 
and Okwok-11 appraisal wells and in 
aggregate have encountered 256 ft of net 
oil pay in the ‘D’ series reservoirs. We will 
be looking to replicate this success offshore 
Nigeria with further wells planned across the 
Ebok/Okwok/OML 115 area and OPL 310 
over the remainder of the year. In East Africa, 
having spent the last two years acquiring 
substantial amounts of new seismic data, 
we are now moving ahead into an active 
phase of exploration drilling that will see us 
participate in multiple high-impact wells in 
the key rift and coastal basin plays, each of 
which has the potential to materially increase 
our discovered resource base. 
Record production levels in 2012
In 2012, net working interest production at 
the Group’s assets averaged c.43,000 boepd 
representing a year-on-year increase of 
123%. Our strong production performance 
was primarily driven by increased output at 
the Ebok ﬁeld and early production start-up 
from the Okoro Field Extension, both 
offshore Nigeria, within ten months of 
announcing the discovery. In the Kurdistan 
region of Iraq we initiated production 
operations at the Barda Rash ﬁeld and 
maintained stable output at the Group’s 
assets in Côte d’Ivoire.
We will continue to grow production by 
developing the existing production and appraisal 
opportunities within our portfolio, whilst also 
pursuing high-impact exploration targets 
across our three business units, Nigeria and 
other West Africa, Afren East Africa Exploration 
as well as the Kurdistan region of Iraq. Business review
10
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
around the quality and commitment of our 
people – and the values to which we all 
subscribe, namely professionalism, dedication, 
creativity and respect. In order to ensure that 
we can attract and retain the best people, 
we have in place a remuneration policy that 
is necessarily competitive within the industry, 
and rewards exceptional performance with a 
balance between short and long-term rewards 
and a comprehensive beneﬁts scheme. 
We continued to grow our team in 2012 
with 62 new arrivals joining us during the 
year. Our total workforce grew to 460, up 
28% year-on-year. We remain committed 
to developing local content in each of our 
operating areas and employ 190 people 
in Africa, of whom over 96% are local 
nationals. We will continue to evolve our 
employment practices and policies to ensure 
we are able to attract and retain the 
best talent, and are wholly committed to 
developing all our staff to their full potential.
Corporate responsibility
At Afren, we strive to be a responsible 
and transparent business. Our CR policies 
encompass our relationship with all 
stakeholders including shareholders, 
employees, contractors, local communities 
and host governments, as well as with the 
environments in which we work. To further 
demonstrate our commitment and to set 
visible benchmarks for our stakeholders, 
we intend to expand our CR reporting 
during 2013 using the Guidelines on 
Sustainability Reporting developed by 
the International Petroleum Industry 
Environmental Conservation Association 
(IPIECA) as the framework.
Our safety performance in 2012 proved to be 
below expectations as we recorded our ﬁrst 
fatality in Block 1, onshore Kenya, following 
a road trafﬁc accident involving one of our 
seismic contractors. We deeply regret the 
loss of this life and are very saddened by 
the effect this tragedy has had on the family 
involved. Following a full and thorough 
investigation into the incident, we have 
further strengthened measures in place with 
our contractors to ensure that the required 
standards of driver training and vehicle 
safety are met across all of our operations. 
During 2012 our Lost Time Injury Frequency 
(LTIF) increased to 0.53 from 0.22 in 2011. 
The Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 
however did improve, decreasing to 1.47 from 
1.96 in 2011. 
An achievement of note during the year 
was the award of Sword of Honour from 
the British Safety Council (BSC) for our 
operations in Côte d’Ivoire. This represents 
the culmination of several years’ work to 
establish a robust safety management system 
in our Côte d’Ivoire operations. Afren is 
continuing with the BSC Five Star Audit 
system for operations in both Côte d’Ivoire 
and Nigeria and will commence auditing 
in Kurdistan during the course of 2013.
In 2012 we continued to develop and 
implement social and economic capacity 
building programmes in our areas of activity. 
More information on our CR initiatives and 
performance in 2012 is included on pages 
56 to 65.
Managing risks to our business
The monitoring and management of risks 
to the business are integral to Afren’s 
organisational framework. We are constantly 
identifying and analysing potential risks that 
could adversely affect our ability to deliver 
against our objectives. 
We have a robust, solutions-based reporting 
system in place that enables the direct and 
timely reporting of risks to the Board of 
Directors. So that we can identify all risks 
to the delivery of our strategy early and 
put mitigation measures in place, we are 
continuing to enhance our risk management 
process and to embed it in the organisation. 
We are therefore cascading the management 
of risks to all organisational levels to reafﬁrm 
that everyone is responsible for managing 
those risks that may impact their day-to-day 
work. More information on our risk 
management and performance in 2012 
is included on pages 26 to 31.
Governance and the Board
Your Board is collectively responsible for 
the long-term success of Afren and for its 
overall strategic direction, its values and 
its governance. It provides the leadership 
necessary for the Company to meet its 
business objectives within the framework of 
its internal controls, while also discharging the 
Company’s obligations to its shareholders.
“ We remain committed to developing local content in 
each of our operating areas and employ 190 people 
in Africa, of whom over 96% are local nationals.”
Our governance principles
Independence
The independence of each of the 
Non-Executive Directors is considered 
upon appointment, annually and at any 
other time a Director’s circumstances 
change in a way that warrants 
reconsideration. Following a review of 
Board composition, the Company has 
reassessed the independence of all its 
Non-Executive Directors. It regards all as 
“independent” within the meaning of 
the term as deﬁned in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. 
Knowledge
Our Non-Executive Directors contribute 
international operational know-how and 
were chosen for their wide range of skills 
and experience. They understand the 
sectors in which we operate and have 
valuable knowledge of international 
capital markets. In addition, they bring 
in-depth understanding of the health, 
safety, environmental, political and 
community challenges we face.
Responsibility
The Board has a formal schedule of 
matters speciﬁcally reserved to it for 
decisions. Responsibility for developing 
and implementing the Group’s strategic 
and ﬁnancial objectives is delegated to 
the senior management of the Group. 
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive 
are separate and the responsibilities of 
Chairman and Chief Executive are 
independently deﬁned.
P68
For more information on 
our corporate governance Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
11
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
As Chairman, I recognise that it is my role 
to provide the leadership to the Board to 
enable it to discharge its role effectively. 
The Board takes seriously its responsibility for 
promoting the Group’s values. We have a 
zero tolerance approach to corrupt practices, 
and we continue to keep our anti-corruption 
policies and practices under review to ensure 
that they fully reﬂect this approach.
It is our commitment as a Board to maintain 
a culture which expresses our core principles 
of respect, honesty and transparency. 
This is based on the recognition that good 
governance is fundamental to achieving our 
goal to create and protect value on behalf 
of the Company’s shareholders. We strive to 
demonstrate ethical leadership and promote 
the collective vision of the Group’s purpose, 
values, culture and behaviours. Good corporate 
governance is vital to achieving our objectives. 
We have formalised our focus on maintaining 
high ethical standards and strong personal 
integrity in our Group Code of Business 
Conduct, which is implemented across the 
business and clearly sets out expectations 
of how our employees and those who work 
for or on behalf of Afren, should behave. 
The Board sets the “tone from the top” 
and works with management to embed 
the values throughout the organisation.
Outlook
2012 saw record production and ﬁnancial 
performance combined with signiﬁcant 
exploration success in Nigeria and the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq. In 2013 we expect 
to further grow our reserves base through 
a multi-well exploration and appraisal drilling 
campaign in both established and new basins, 
funded by our growing production base. 
We are ﬁnancially well positioned with robust 
cash ﬂows, a strong balance sheet and the 
necessary ﬁnancial capacity and ﬂexibility 
to optimally explore and develop our 
high-quality portfolio of growth opportunities 
well into the future. There is much to look 
forward to in 2013 and beyond.
Egbert Imomoh 
Chairman
We are committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance and consider it critical for 
upholding our business integrity wherever we work 
around the world. 
The Board has been fully briefed on the new UK Corporate Governance 
Code. Key areas include annual re-election of all Directors, Board diversity, 
external evaluation, greater emphasis on risk, and a clear explanation 
of business model and strategy. We welcome these changes and are 
committed to complying with them.
Explore our governance in more detail
Board breakdown
P81
Audit and 
Risk Committee P80
Nomination 
Committee P85
Remuneration 
Committee 
Non-Executive Directors 5
Executive Directors 3
Chairman 1
5
3
1
Board experience
Oil and gas industry 6
Engineering 4
Finance 4
Capital markets 4
Accountancy 2
6
4
4
4
2
Mr Egbert Imomoh
Chairman
Dr Osman Shahenshah
Chief Executive
Mr Peter Bingham
Non-Executive Director
Mr Toby Hayward
Non-Executive Director
Mr Darra Comyn
Group Finance Director
Mr Ennio Sganzerla
Non-Executive Director
Mr Shahid Ullah
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Mr John St. John
Non-Executive Director
Mr Patrick Obath
Non-Executive Director Business review
12
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Industry overview
Economic context
Global economic growth in 2012 continued 
to fade with an estimated 3% growth in 
GDP versus 3.8% in 2011. The developed 
OECD nations in particular faced stiff 
economic headwinds in the form of the 
Eurozone crisis, US unemployment and 
declining Japanese exports. The developing 
economies such as China and India fared 
better but were unable to escape the drag 
of the global slowdown.
Despite the economic malaise, commodity 
indices held up over the course of 2012 albeit 
with periods of volatility. Oil and gas followed 
this same pattern with prices ranging broadly 
during the year but on average remaining 
little changed from 201 1 levels. 
Oil consumption reached an all-time high 
of 87.3 million barrels per day (mmbpd). 
Year-on-year growth slowed though as 2012 
consumption rose a modest 0.4 mmbpd, 
equivalent to 0.5% above 2011. 
Crude oil prices
During 2012 oil prices were volatile with 
Brent Crude in the North Sea trading in a 
range of over US$40 per barrel. Prices 
reached an average US$125 per barrel in 
March then slid dramatically over the next 
three months to average US$95 per barrel in 
June. However, the average Brent price for 
2012 – US$111 per barrel – was in line with 
the average US$112 per barrel in 2011.
Supply disruptions across the globe were a 
major factor behind these price movements. 
Geopolitical events – US/EU sanctions against 
Iran, ﬁghting in Syria and the dispute between 
Sudan and South Sudan – reduced crude 
exports. Similarly, operating events – leaks in 
China’s largest offshore ﬁeld and unscheduled 
maintenance in the North Sea – also shut 
down sizeable amounts of crude production.
To offset these supply problems and keep a lid 
on prices, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait increased 
production by nearly one million barrels per 
day early in 2012 and maintained that level. 
Their action was the reason for average Brent 
to be little changed from 201 1.
Complementing this was increased production 
from the US and Iraq. The application of 
hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling 
technologies made it possible for the US 
to expand production from thousands of 
marginal wells in shale formations. Iraq’s 
growth comes from only a few highly 
productive conventional wells and the country 
clearly has immense potential.
Market outlook
The world has entered a period of higher 
oil prices. On the supply side, depletion and 
scale have begun to outweigh the ability to 
add new production capacity. The response 
has been to target more expensive resources 
such as deepwater, tight oil and frontier 
exploration areas.
Global oil production reached 82.7 mmbpd 
in 2012. Assuming a conservative 6% annual 
decline rate for existing oil ﬁelds means that 
additions to capacity each year must be 
ﬁve mmbpd just to hold production ﬂat. This 
is the equivalent of adding another Nigeria 
(two mmbpd) and another Canada (three 
mmbpd) annually – quite the supply challenge.
Iraq, which holds the world’s ﬁfth largest 
proved oil reserves, will play a key role in 
meeting that challenge. Iraqi production, 
currently around three mmbpd, is forecast to 
nearly double over the next eight years with 
growing output from the large southern 
ﬁelds as well as from Kurdistan in the north. 
Companies from across the globe – ranging 
from the large IOCs such as ExxonMobil to 
the smaller independents such as Afren – 
have stepped up to participate in developing 
Iraq’s vast oil resource. Activities are under 
way to establish the associated infrastructure 
including the addition of new pipelines and 
export facilities.
Oil and gas analysts and forecasters, Groppe, Long & Littell, 
provide an insight into the economics of the oil and gas 
industry that we operate in.
OECD
Non
OECD
2020
2015
2010
2005
2000
1995
1990
1985
1980
1975
30
20
40
50
Gas
Oil
2000
2011
1980
1990
1970
1960
1950
20
40
60
80
100
World oil consumption
(Million barrels per day) 
Source: GL&L 
33
29
24
9
5
%
Petroleum 33
Coal 29
Natural gas 24
Renewables 9
Nuclear 5
World energy use by source
(%) 
Source: GL&L
Historical oil and gas production
(Million barrels oil equivalent per day) 
Source: GL&L  Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
13
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Africa is also attracting a signiﬁcant level of 
upstream activity. West African production 
extends back to the 1950s yet exploration 
continues to expand with a focus on 
deepwater and pre-salt drilling. Nigeria 
remains an important element in global oil 
supply and ranks in the top ten of worldwide 
proved oil reserves with an estimated 
37 .2 billion barrels. It also holds Africa’s largest 
natural gas reserves at 182 trillion cubic feet.
The advantage shared by Nigeria and 
Iraq is competitive cost of supply. More 
expensive horizons such as Arctic drilling 
or unconventional oil carry greater exposure 
to a downward move in oil prices – an 
undesirable but possible outcome in the 
current global outlook.
Slowing demand growth is forecast to 
moderate crude oil prices. Annual average 
Brent prices in the US$70 to US$90 per 
barrel range would support development of 
oil resources necessary to offset depletion 
and meet global energy needs. These price 
levels are also sufﬁciently high to ration 
global demand to the available level of 
supply – a trend already under way. Given 
tighter supply, daily or monthly prices will 
continue to see signiﬁcant volatility derived 
from geopolitical and economic events.
Global natural gas prices will likely harmonise 
over the longer term. New Liqueﬁed Natural 
Gas (LNG) supply will help narrow the 
regional gaps with North American prices 
rising and Asian prices falling. Natural gas 
demand is expected to grow at a healthy 
pace as more nations move away from using 
oil as a stationary fuel (e.g. heating, power 
generation) in favour of cheaper and cleaner 
natural gas.
Meeting the energy challenge
The global challenge remains making the 
necessary adjustments to achieve sustainable 
economic growth. Key among these is 
ensuring energy security. Continued 
improvements in energy efﬁciency can 
help ease reliance on energy imports while 
also curbing emissions. Technology will 
help provide energy suppliers with greater 
access to resources as well as broaden the 
energy mix.
Oil and natural gas currently provide more 
than 50% of the world’s energy needs. 
Renewables by comparison provide less 
than 10%. Each has their place but clearly 
hydrocarbons have a long and important 
role ahead in sustaining global development.
For companies involved in the oil and gas 
industry, the path will be ﬁlled with 
opportunities and challenges. Price volatility, 
access to acreage and escalating costs will 
create challenges given a more scarce resource 
environment. However, companies that can 
navigate these complexities and establish a 
competitive position stand to ﬂourish.
Company description
Groppe, Long & Littell (GL&L) has been providing thoughtful, proven insight on the economics 
of the oil and gas industry since 1975. The ﬁrm strives to achieve a deep understanding of 
the complex economic and political forces which determine oil and natural gas prices through 
continuous review and analysis. Recognising that markets move in discontinuous patterns, 
GL&L specialises in forecasting major changes of direction based on thorough bottom-up 
analysis of supply and demand. These real-world assessments and forecasts better position 
the ﬁrm’s clients to make long-term decisions concerning future business strategies.
Estimated proved oil reserves
Source: Oil and Gas Journal
Rank Country Billion bbl
01 Venezuela 297.6
02 Saudi Arabia 265.4
03 Canada 173.1
04 Iran 154.6
05 Iraq 141.4
06 Kuwait 101.5
07 United Arab Emirates 97.8
08 Russia 80.0
09 Libya 48.0
10 Nigeria 37 .2
Estimated proved oil reserves
(%) 
Source: GL&L
%
Middle East 48.9
Latin America 19.9
North America 12.5
Africa 7.8
Eastern Europe 7.3
Asia Paciﬁc 2.9
Western Europe 0.7
0.7 2.9
19.9
12.5
7.8
7.3
48.9
“ The advantage shared by Nigeria and 
Iraq is competitive cost of supply.” Business review
14
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s 
review
Osman Shahenshah, 
Chief Executive and Founder Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
“ In 2012 we achieved record ﬁnancial results driven 
by strong production growth at our greenﬁeld 
development offshore Nigeria. We realised an 
E&A success ratio of 88% and a 2P reserves 
replacement ratio of 265%. We have started 
our 2013 multi-well E&A campaign with success 
at Okwok, offshore Nigeria, and Simrit-2 and 
Simrit-3, in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. With a 
track record of project delivery, exploration 
success and strategic acquisitions, we are well 
placed to continue to create signiﬁcant value for 
our shareholders.”
2012 was a period of major success for 
Afren and represents an important step in 
our journey and evolution. Over the past 
eight years Afren has positioned itself as 
the leading independent oil producer 
offshore Nigeria; built a track record as a 
skilled and efﬁcient fast-track developer of 
oil and gas assets; an agile deal-maker that 
is able to deliver signiﬁcant reserves and 
resource growth at a low cost; and is now 
demonstrating its credentials as an explorer, 
having delivered major success in 2012 and 
ongoing execution of a multi-well E&A 
drilling campaign across some of the world’s 
most prospective basins.
There are a number of key attributes that 
have enabled Afren to thrive, and form 
the foundations of our success. Whilst we 
have invested in assembling a world-class 
portfolio of assets, we have also invested 
in making sure that we have the right 
people in place to manage and operate the 
business, and that we prioritise long-term 
relationships with all of our stakeholders 
including local partners, host communities 
and governments alike, ahead of short-term 
gains. This long-term approach is what sets 
us apart, and coupled with our strategic 
foresight means that we have been able 
to access oil and gas plays in both new 
and established basins that are of genuine 
world-class quality while creating signiﬁcant 
value for our shareholders. 
US$ 9 35m
+1 7 7 %
Operating cash ﬂow
88%
E&A success ratio in 2012 Business review
16
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s review 
Continued
Proving our exploration credentials, 
delivering commercial success
This time last year we set out our exploration 
strategy, and the three play-based themes 
it is predicated on. Successful exploration 
remains one of the most efﬁcient ways of 
creating signiﬁcant value, but it requires 
capital, technology, knowledge and most 
importantly a high-quality and balanced 
portfolio of assets. At Afren, we believe 
that we have all of the necessary ingredients 
to be a successful explorer. Early results 
from our ongoing multi-well E&A drilling 
campaign have been highly encouraging, 
and we have multiple wells planned over 
the remainder of the year targeting over 
650 mmboe of net prospective resources.
1. Low-risk, quick to monetise 
opportunities in and around our 
core production and development 
areas in the Niger Delta and 
Kurdistan region of Iraq.
In 2012 we made three discoveries that 
have materially added to Afren’s discovered 
reserves and resource base. In Nigeria, the 
Okoro Field Extension and Ebok North Fault 
Block discoveries represent high-value 
incremental development opportunities and 
we have already started production at both 
ﬁelds by utilising our existing infrastructure, 
ahead of implementing full ﬁeld development 
solutions that will add signiﬁcant new 
production capacity in the region. In the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq, the Simrit-2 discovery 
is a major step forward in unlocking the 
vast potential of the Ain Sifni PSC. Having 
achieved aggregate ﬂow rates of 18,952 
bopd on test from the Triassic Kurra Chine, 
Mus, Adaiyah and Butmah formations, 
we see this discovery as a transformational 
opportunity for Afren. Drilling on Simrit-3, 
exploring the eastern extent of the large 
Simrit aniticline is continuing and has 
successfully encountered hydrocarbon bearing 
intervals in the Cretaceous, Jurassic and 
Triassic reservoirs. A multi-zone testing 
programme across Simrit will be undertaken 
once drilling operations conclude.
We have got off to an excellent start in 2013 
with the successful appraisal of the Okwok 
discovery, and over the remainder of the year 
have further wells planned across the Ebok/
Okwok/OML 115 area and Ain Sifni PSC in 
order to de-risk further upside potential that 
we can rapidly commercialise and develop 
over the near to medium term.
There are risks associated with monetising 
our reserves in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, 
while ongoing discussions between the 
Kurdistan Regional Government and the 
Federal Government of Iraq continue. 
However, we believe our ﬁrst export is 
imminent and we will continue to monitor 
this situation in order to manage our risk 
proﬁle accordingly.
2. Moderate risk, proven play 
concepts that offer signiﬁcant upside 
along the West Africa Transform 
Margin and other parts of the region.
In 2012 we continued to mature our 
prospect inventory along the West Africa 
Transform Margin and Atlantic Margin, and 
in 2013 will participate in exploration wells 
at OPL 310 offshore south-west Nigeria 
and at the La Noumbi Block onshore 
Congo Brazzaville. 
3. Higher risk, play opening 
opportunities in the rift and coastal 
basins of East Africa.
2012 was a period of extensive data 
acquisition across our East African portfolio, 
when we acquired 3,483 km of 2D seismic 
and 2,262 km
2
 of 3D seismic together with 
1,193 km of aero-magnetic data. We have 
signiﬁcantly increased our net prospective 
resource volume across the region by 
176% to 5,838 mmboe, and are now in 
the process of selecting what prospects we 
plan to drill on each of our licences. Having 
already participated in our ﬁrst well onshore 
Kenya, over the next 18 months we will 
be drilling further wells in Kenya, Tanzania, 
Seychelles, Madagascar and Ethiopia. 
We may also look to actively manage our 
portfolio from a risk/reward perspective, 
and will consider farm-out opportunities 
as appropriate.
Strong production performance
The combined performance of our 
producing assets in 2012 yielded full year 
average production of c.43,000 boepd 
(compared to c.19,300 boepd in 2011) 
including associated volumes from OML 26. 
This strong production performance was 
driven by the year-on-year increase in net 
production from the Ebok and Okoro ﬁelds 
offshore Nigeria, where Afren is now the 
largest independent oil producer. During 
the period, the Company commenced 
production from the Okoro Field Extension 
offshore Nigeria within ten months of 
announcing the discovery and also initiated 
production from the Barda Rash ﬁeld in the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq. In keeping with 
our fast-track development strategy we 
commenced production from the North Fault 
Block discovery in January 2013, just nine 
months after announcing the discovery. 
With a pipeline of large-scale development 
projects and multiple exploration and 
appraisal wells planned, the Company is well 
positioned to maintain production growth 
in 2013 and beyond.
Signiﬁcant reserves growth
2012 has been a year of continued reserves 
growth. We achieved an enviable E&A 
success ratio of 88% in the period, a 
testament to our growing credentials as a 
high-impact explorer. Our success with the 
drill bit in Nigeria has resulted in net 2P 
reserves additions of 39 mmbbls, representing 
a 265% 2P reserves replacement ratio, and 
increasing net 2P reserves to 210 mmboe.
Delivering excellent total 
shareholder return
In 2012 Afren’s Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) was 53%, representing an upper 
quartile performance versus our Main 
Market listed independent peer group. 
We outperformed the FTSE All Share and 
FTSE 350 Oil & Gas indices by 45% and 
65% respectively during the period. Since 
IPO to the end of 2012 we have delivered 
a TSR of 556%. Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
17
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Making good progress towards 
our 2012 to 2015 business targets
Having expanded the business signiﬁcantly, 
we set out last year our business targets for 
the period 2012 to 2015, in alignment with 
our strategic vision and objectives. Targets 
to 2015 and the progress we made towards 
achieving them in 2012 are shown in the 
table below.
It is evident that Afren made signiﬁcant 
progress against its business objectives 
during the period, and we have carried 
this momentum into 2013.
Outlook
Looking to the year ahead we are well 
positioned for ongoing success and delivery 
against our business targets and strategic 
objectives. We will continue to de-risk our 
portfolio through a high-impact E&A 
campaign in established and new basins and 
will continue to target material growth in 
our reserves and production base. Through 
maintaining this balanced mix of production, 
development, appraisal and exploration 
activities and a rigorous capital allocation 
process, we are building a world-class 
reserves and resource base and delivering 
commercial results. 
With an exciting work programme in 2013 
encompassing both established and new 
basins we expect to further solidify our 
leading position in Nigeria, further demonstrate 
the quality of our asset base in the Kurdistan 
region of Iraq and open up new oil and 
gas basins in East Africa. With numerous 
opportunities for growth, 2013 promises 
to be another excellent year of achievement 
for Afren. 
Osman Shahenshah 
Chief Executive and Founder
Business target Progress in 2012
Continue to grow Afren’s presence in our core areas 
of activity and geological plays
Established Afren as the leading independent oil producer in Nigeria and a leading industry participant 
in both East Africa and the Kurdistan region of Iraq
Progressively transition a signiﬁcant portion of our 
existing 2C resource base into the 2P reserves category
Net 2P reserves growth in 2012 of 39 mmbbls, representing a 265% 2P reserves replacement ratio
Field Development Plan to be submitted at the Okwok ﬁeld, offshore Nigeria, in 2013 following successful 
E&A campaign conﬁrming management estimates of gross recoverable reserves of 52 mmbbls
Maintain valuation discipline by targeting 2P/2C 
additions at a cost of under US$4/bbl
The Company made no acquisitions in 2012, but did deliver the 2P reserves growth at a ﬁnding cost 
of US$1.5 per barrel
Discover 250 mmboe of net recoverable 2P/2C 
reserves and resources from our forward exploration 
drilling programme
The Company made three signiﬁcant discoveries in Nigeria and the Kurdistan region of Iraq representing 
an E&A success ratio of 88%. Our discoveries in Nigeria have added net 2P reserves of 39 mmbbls. To date, 
our 2013 multi-well E&A campaign has delivered successful results on the Okwok appraisal in Nigeria and 
the Simrit exploration wells on the Ain Sifni PSC in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. Both results are expected 
to further grow our reserves and resources base in 2013
Deliver year-on-year production growth Net production in 2012 increased by 123% year-on-year to 43,059 boepd (including OML 26)
Manage and optimise our production and development 
operations to maximise the core value of the business
Production at the Ebok ﬁeld increased by 276% year-on-year and at the Okoro ﬁeld by 7%
The Okoro Field Extension and Ebok North Fault Block discoveries have both been brought onstream with 
early production wells via existing facilities, within ten months of announcement of discovery
Ensure that available capital is deployed in the most 
efﬁcient way and in alignment with our full cycle 
business requirements
2012 capital expenditure was in line with guidance at US$520 million, and balanced across the Company’s 
production, development, appraisal and exploration activities
Continually improve CR performance The Group prioritises CR performance. Whilst EHSS performance came in below expectations in 2012, 
measures have been put in place to drive continual improvement in future years
During the year the Group continued to participate in numerous community projects in its areas of operation. 
In Nigeria, our ongoing participation with the University of Uyo project has helped the Petroleum Engineering 
department to receive re-accreditation from COREN and NUC following earlier funding constraints. In Kenya, 
we are in our third year of a business skills and micro-credit scheme which provides six months of business 
training to three women’s co-operatives in Shimoni and Mtwapa. In the Kurdistan region of Iraq, we provided 
recreational and IT equipment to the Barda Rash Community and Youth Centre. This centre provides an 
important area for the local community to congregate and participate in social and educational classes 
556 %
Afren’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) since IPO
P20
Discover our strategy Business review
18
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our business 
model
Appraisal and 
Development
Production Exploration
– Early mover advantage
– Proving up resources for relatively low 
capital cost
– Efﬁciency and speed key to success
e.g. Kurdistan region of Iraq
– High return projects
– Low cost, efﬁcient operations
– Add additional reserves
– Extend ﬁeld maturity
e.g. Ebok and Okoro
– Access early stage
– Add value
– Mitigate risk
e.g. Black Marlin
Business development/
”deal-making ”
Priority on value acquisitions, in addition to farm-in 
opportunities and selective divestments including 
farm-out opportunities. This allows us to ultimately 
maximise value for our shareholders.
At Afren, our business model is designed to create 
and preserve long-term value for our shareholders 
across the E&P value chain. Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
19
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Executive Committee
Senior management
Board of Directors
Technical 
operational 
leadership team
Corporate 
functions team
How we are organised 
At Afren, we aim to be a responsible and 
transparent business. 
The Board has established a management structure with 
deﬁned lines of responsibility and clear delegation of 
authority. The various committees are key elements of 
the overall control structure. These include the Executive 
Committee, which meets at least bi-monthly and is 
responsible for the day-to-day management of all 
strategic and operational activities. The Group has 
developed a formal structured business planning process, 
which operates on an annual cycle. The Board approves 
the consolidated annual budget, and performance 
against budget is monitored and reported to the Board. 
Key risks for strategic delivery are identiﬁed and assessed 
in the context of our business plans and the risk registers 
that are generated are monitored and actioned by 
functional and line managers. The Audit and Risk 
Committee of the Board are then regularly appraised of 
progress on implementing the risk management systems 
and the steps that have been taken to mitigate the 
signiﬁcant business risks.
P70
For more information on 
the skills and experience 
of our Board members
P38
For more 
information on 
our operations
P56
For more 
information 
on our CR
We create value by pursuing a clear and consistent 
strategy that seeks to deliver a balance between 
exploration, appraisal and development investment 
with funding from production and portfolio activities 
and debt and equity ﬁnancing. 
To do this successfully and sustainably, our business 
model is supported through a meticulous planning 
and ﬁnancial management process which focuses on 
execution and delivery of our project milestones and 
ensures at all times that we adhere to high standards 
of governance, corporate and social responsibility.
P04
For more information 
our key business areas Business review
20
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
A strategy delivering 
long-term value
Our vision to be the leading independent 
upstream Exploration and Production (E&P) 
company in each of the areas in which we 
operate is underpinned by a clear and consistent 
strategy – one that is designed to provide a 
framework for sustainable long-term growth 
across the E&P value chain through balanced 
funding, exploration and production in our core 
areas of operation – Nigeria and other West 
Africa, Afren East Africa Exploration and the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq. 
In order to fulﬁl our strategy, we have identiﬁed ﬁve 
clear strategic priorities focused on running our business 
and delivering efﬁcient growth in a responsible way.
Corporate 
responsibility
Operational efﬁciency 
and ﬁnancial discipline
Organic reserves 
growth
Production 
growth
Strategy
To acquire and 
develop a balanced 
and diversiﬁed 
portfolio of quality 
assets across 
the Exploration 
and Production 
value chain
 Objective 
To maximise 
shareholder value
Vision
To be a 
leading 
independent 
upstream 
Exploration 
and Production 
company
Pursue materially 
accretive acquisitions
1
2
3
4
5 Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
21
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Exploration and Appraisal (E&A) success are integral to creating 
value for our shareholders. Our dedicated E&A team have 
responsibility for identifying exploration ideas, prioritising our 
prospect inventory and ensuring efﬁcient deployment of capital 
and execution of our exploration and drilling activities. Our 
exploration strategy is play led and balanced across key themes:
– Exploration in proven areas, which are low risk and quick 
to monetise
– Proven play concepts that offer signiﬁcant upside, with 
moderate risk
– Higher risk frontier areas with play opening possibilities 
and potential large rewards.
Our 2012 exploration campaign was very successful with 
world-class discoveries announced at the Okoro Field Extension 
and Ebok North Fault Block, offshore Nigeria and at the 
Simrit-2 discovery located on the Ain Sifni PSC, Kurdistan 
region of Iraq. We achieved an E&A success ratio of 88%, 
increasing net 2P reserves to 210 mmboe (excluding Ain Sifni). 
In 2013, we have identiﬁed high-impact opportunities across 
our three business units targeting net Pmean resources in 
excess of 650 mmboe.
Having in place effective operational and ﬁnancial management 
processes which place emphasis on delivery, safety and efﬁcient 
allocation of capital are key areas of focus for Afren. As an agile 
independent, we utilise a range of funding sources including 
debt, equity, operating cash ﬂow and portfolio management.
At 31 December 2012, we had US$525 million of cash 
and net debt (excluding ﬁnance leases) of US$488 million. 
We have a clear debt reduction schedule, with the majority 
of debt due in 2016 or later. Following our successful entry 
and participation to the Bond market in 2011, our capital 
structure was strengthened in the period by the completion 
of a second secured Bond issue, with proceeds before issue 
costs of US$300 million, in Q1 2012.
Corporate responsibility (CR) continues to be a critical 
focus area. We are committed to ensuring that Afren 
is recognised as a responsible organisation with high 
standards of CR performance.
Maintaining these standards will ensure that the business 
grows successfully for the beneﬁt of all stakeholders, whose 
concerns and aspirations we must understand if we are to 
develop long-standing, successful relationships.
P58
P32 
P1 6
Read more: 
Our most 
active 
exploration 
period
Read more: 
Robust capital 
structure
Read more: 
Our CR 
schemes
Growing our production proﬁle helps to generate strong 
predictable cash ﬂows for the Group and improves our ﬁnancial 
ﬂexibility to execute and develop our forward work programme. 
We have a proven track record as an Operator and have 
successfully delivered oil in record time at the Okoro and Ebok 
ﬁelds, offshore Nigeria. We have successfully leveraged this skill 
set into the Kurdistan region of Iraq where we initiated production 
operations at the Barda Rash PSC in 2012, just over one year 
from entry.
During the year, we delivered record production of 43,059 
boepd (including OML 26) net to Afren (representing a more 
than two-fold increase from the previous year). In 2013, we are 
targeting full year net working interest production of between 
40,000 to 47,000 boepd (excluding Barda Rash).
With a net 2P & 2C recoverable reserves and resources total 
of over a billion barrels of which only 5% has so far been 
developed we have a sustainable platform for long-term growth. 
P42
P40 
Read more: 
Okoro
Read more: 
Ebok
P22
We measure our progress through 
ﬁve KPIs that are closely aligned 
with delivering our strategy.
See how we measure our 
progress overleaf.
Delivering against our strategy
Throughout the Business review, you can 
ﬁnd a number of examples demonstrating 
how our strategic priorities have been 
applied. These are annoted by the use of 
the numbered icons:
1 2 3 4 5
A hallmark of our growth to date has been seizing the 
“early mover” advantage when the opportunity merits it. 
We have been successful in achieving low-entry acquisition 
costs by focusing on areas where we are strategically and 
competitively advantaged.
These include areas where:
– There are proven working hydrocarbon systems
– Opportunities have been overlooked, under-developed 
or may be out of reach to much larger companies
– We have an in-depth understanding of the subsurface, 
key relationships or a local structure we can leverage.
P54 
Read more: 
Kurdistan 
region of Iraq Business review
22
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
KPIs
( Key Performance 
Indicators)
How we measure 
our progress
We measure our progress 
through ﬁve KPIs that are 
closely aligned with delivering 
our strategy.
2010 2011 2012 2009
22, 100
14,333
19,284
43,059
+1 2 3%
Net effective working 
interest production
(boepd)
2010 2011 2012 2009
900%
372%
847%
464%
Reserves replacement ratio
(%)
Measure and performance
464%
*
(2011: 847%)
*3 year average, 2P reserves only
Delivering on our strategy
1 2 3 4 5
Deﬁnition
The ratio of the number of barrels of oil equivalent 
discovered compared to the number produced over 
a three year period.
Relevance
An indicator of our ability to replenish reserves 
through both the success of our E&A programme 
and through acquisitions.
Progress
Reserves increases have again been strong driven by the 
discoveries at the Okoro Field Extension and Ebok NFB, 
offshore Nigeria. These have added net 2P reserves of 
39 mmbbls in the period. The signiﬁcant E&A campaign 
for 2013 has the potential to realise a further high 
reserves replacement ratio.
Outlook
Our successful E&A campaign at Okwok, offshore 
Nigeria, and at the Ain Sifni PSC, Kurdistan region of 
Iraq, are expected to further grow our reserves and 
resources base in 2013. 
Risk management
Exploration risks are managed through our wide 
portfolio of assets, with each asset being subject to 
rigorous peer review and detailed evaluation of 
prospects. In addition, the Directors will continue to 
consider materially accretive acquisitions to supplement 
organic reserves growth, if deemed appropriate.
Measure and performance
43,05 9boepd
*
(2011: 19,284 boepd*)
+23,775 boepd (123%) year-on-year increase
*including OML 26
Delivering on our strategy
1 2 3 4 5
Deﬁnition
Our share of oil and gas production during the year.
Relevance
An indicator of our production growth from existing 
assets, and the impact of organic and acquired reserves 
growth on production in the year.
Progress
Net production has increased signiﬁcantly during the 
year driven by a full year of production from the Ebok 
ﬁeld and continued outperformance at the Okoro ﬁeld. 
In addition, the Group successfully fast tracked 
production at the Okoro Field Extension and initiated 
production operations at the Barda Rash PSC. 
Production from Côte d’Ivoire continues in line 
with expectations. 
Outlook
The Group has established a strong platform of 
production from Nigeria and West Africa which is 
expected to continue to produce strong production in 
2013, whilst continuing the development of the Ebok, 
Okoro and Barda Rash assets.
Risk management
Close monitoring and planning of production 
performance helps us to mitigate unplanned 
interruptions and to maximise production.
P20
For more on our 
strategy
1
2
3
4
5
Pursue materially accretive acquisitions
Organic reserves growth
Production growth
Operational efﬁ ciency and ﬁ nancial discipline 
Corporate responsibility
Strategic priorities  Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
23
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
2010 2011 2012 2009
278
209
338
935
+1 7 7 %
2010 2011 2012 2009
11 . 6
18. 1
17 . 9
15.0
-1 6%
2010 2011 2012
TRIR
2009 2010 2011 2012
LTIF
2009
2.45
9.33
1.96
1.4 7
1.63
2.4 1
0.22
0.53
-0.49TRIR
+0.31 LTIF
Operating cash ﬂow
(US$ million)
Normalised operating cost per barrel
(US$/boe)
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 
and Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF)
Measure and performance
US$93 5m
(2011: US$338 million)
+US$597 million (177%) year-on-year increase
Delivering on our strategy
1 2 3 4 5
Deﬁnition
Cash ﬂow in the year before taking into account capital 
expenditure and other investments in our exploration and 
evaluation, production assets, and ﬁnancing activities. 
Relevance
An indicator of our efﬁciency in generating cash from 
the operating proﬁts of the business.
Progress
Driven by material production growth from Afren’s 
greenﬁeld developments and high but stable oil price 
levels, the Group recorded strong operating cash ﬂows 
and proﬁts during the year.
Outlook
The current production platform and strong realised oil 
prices are expected to lead to stable operating cash 
ﬂows in 2013.
Risk management
Tight controls over expenditure and detailed monitoring 
of cash ﬂows enable us to ensure expected cash 
generation from our operating activities.
Measure and performance
US$ 15 . 0/boe
(2011: US$17.9/boe)
-US$2.9/boe (16%) year-on-year decrease
Delivering on our strategy
1 2 3 4 5
Deﬁnition
The normalised operating cost divided by the total boe 
produced in the period.
Normalised cost per barrel includes costs and production 
from the point at which uninterrupted levels of 
production have been achieved from an asset (Q4 2011 
for Ebok; all other costs included on an annualised basis).
Relevance
An indicator of the efﬁciency of our production in 
the period.
Progress
The decrease reﬂects the efﬁciencies achieved from 
a full period of production from the Ebok ﬁeld, and 
stability in operating costs across the business. 
Outlook
Whilst we expect a certain level of operating cost 
increases year-on-year, our production output is 
expected to enable us to maintain a consistent cost 
per unit in 2013. 
Risk management
Our operations team are challenged to identify and 
implement areas of efﬁciency in the production process.
Budgets are set on an annual basis and these are 
continually monitored throughout the year to identify 
and eliminate the cause of potential cost over-runs.
Measure and performance
1. 4 7 TRIR 0. 5 3 LTIF
(2011: 1.96 TRIR, 0.22 LTIF)
Delivering on our strategy
1 2 3 4 5
Deﬁnition
The number of lost time or recordable incidents (the 
total of fatalities, lost time, restricted workcase, and 
medical treatment cases) per million man hours worked.
Relevance
Both KPIs are a direct measure of safety performance 
and have well-established benchmarks within the oil and 
gas industry, in particular as published annually by the Oil 
and Gas Producers Association (OGP).
Progress
Our safety performance in 2012 proved to be below 
expectations as we recorded our ﬁrst fatality in Block 1, 
onshore Kenya, involving one of our seismic contractors. 
Following a full and thorough investigation into the 
incident, we have further strengthened measures in 
place with our contractors to ensure that the required 
standards of driver training and vehicle safety are met 
across all of our operations. 
Outlook
To demonstrate our commitment and to set visible 
benchmarks for our stakeholders, we intend to expand 
our Corporate responsibility reporting during 2013 using 
the Guidelines on Sustainability Reporting developed 
by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental 
Conservation Association (IPIECA) as the framework.
Risk management
The IPIECA guidelines offer comprehensive analysis and 
advice on current best practice on sustainability reporting 
that will complement the approach to reporting that 
we have adopted to date. It will allow us to develop our 
corporate reporting in subsequent years by providing 
detailed principles and performance indicators such that 
we can address the main sustainability issues affecting 
our business and demonstrate our strong environmental, 
Health and Safety and social performance. Business review
24
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Performance 
metrics
We also use a number of 
performance metrics to help 
us monitor our progress.
2010 2011 2012 2009
51
62
12 5
244
+95%
2010 2011 2012 2009
198
437
561
523
Normalised proﬁt after tax
(US$ million)
Capital expenditure
(US$ million)
P20
For more on our 
strategy
Measure and performance
US$244m
(2011: US$125 million)
+US$119 million (95%) year-on-year increase
Measure and performance
US$523m
(2011: US$561million)
Delivering on our strategy
1 2 3 4 5
Delivering on our strategy
1 2 3 4 5
Deﬁnition
Proﬁt for the year adjusted to remove costs in respect 
of one-off and non-trading related items.
Refer to note 2.4 of the ﬁnancial statements for a 
reconciliation between normalised proﬁt after tax and 
the proﬁt after tax reported under an IFRS basis.
Deﬁnition
Capital expenditure in the year, excluding acquisitions 
and ﬁnance leases but including capitalised 
interest costs.
Relevance
An indicator of operational and ﬁnancial performance 
in the year, with one-off and non-cash items removed.
Relevance
An indicator of our investment in exploration, appraisal 
and development.
Progress
Normalised proﬁt after tax has signiﬁcantly increased 
year-on-year due to record production and continued 
strength in oil prices.
Progress
We have continued the development of the Ebok and 
Okoro ﬁelds as well as investing in the development 
of Barda Rash PSC.
The Company has also maintained its ongoing 
investment in exploration and appraisal activities across 
its business units.
Outlook
Assuming oil prices remain at their current level, 
our production outlook is expected to enable the 
Group to remain proﬁtable.
Outlook
We will continue to invest in exploration, appraisal and 
development in 2013 across our core areas of operation.
Risk management
Continued proﬁtability can be achieved through the 
effective implementation and execution of Afren’s 
strategy and business plan.
The business is well placed to achieve further growth 
in proﬁtability in 2013.
Risk management
Project ﬁnances are closely monitored against carefully 
planned capex budgets to ensure that expenditure 
is focused on value-adding projects and that overruns 
are minimised.
Strategic priorities 
1
2
3
4
5
Pursue materially accretive acquisitions
Organic reserves growth
Production growth
Operational efﬁ ciency and ﬁ nancial discipline 
Corporate responsibility Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
25
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
2010 2011 2012 2009
59
80
109
107
293
531
189
158
89
179
0
0
682
Due within 
one year
Due within
2-5 years
Due after
5 years
2010 2011 2012 2009
0.6
1.3
3.0
4.6
+1 . 6%
Realised oil price
(US$/bbl)
Debt maturity
(US$ million)
Staff turnover
(%)
December 2010
December 2011
December 2012
Measure and performance
US$ 10 7 /bbl
(2011: US$109/bbl)
Measure and performance
4.6%
(2011: 3.0%)
+1.6 ppts year-on-year increase
Measure and performance
81 %
December 2012: 81% of debt due after more than one year
December 201 1: 81% of debt due after more than one year
December 2010: 67% of debt due after more than one year
Delivering on our strategy
1 2 3 4 5
Delivering on our strategy
1 2 3 4 5
Delivering on our strategy
1 2 3 4 5
Deﬁnition
The average price achieved, per bbl, through sales 
of oil made during the period.
Deﬁnition
The rate at which staff choose to leave Afren voluntarily.
Deﬁnition
The maturity of our borrowings and other debt facilities.
Relevance
Strongly linked to ﬁnancial performance, in particular 
our revenue earned.
Relevance
Can result in shortage of key skills, loss of knowledge, 
high recruitment and transition costs.
Relevance
An indicator of the maturity of our capital structure, 
future commitments and ﬁnancial ﬂexibility.
Progress
The hedging policy of the Group is to protect its 
minimum cash ﬂow requirement in a period of a 
sustained downturn in oil prices.
Oil prices held at a broadly similar level to those observed 
during 2011. During the year, the Company realised an 
average oil price of US$107/bbl. 
Progress
Voluntary turnover is still low in comparison to our 
peer group indicating that Afren remains an employer 
of choice.
Progress
The high-yield Bond issue in March 2012, which was 
used to repay and cancel the Group’s US$200 million 
facility taken out in relation to the acquisitions of our 
interests in Barda Rash and Ain Sifni, has further 
extended our debt maturity and provided the base for 
further growth and development going forward.
Outlook
The key driver to the realised oil price is the underlying 
Brent price, which is subject to volatility.
To date, oil prices in 2013 have remained above the 
average price achieved in 2012.
Outlook
The industry continues to face skills shortages and ﬁerce 
competition for talented staff. Retention is a key issue.
Outlook
We will continue to review our capital structure to 
further optimise our sources of funding and to fund 
future growth, which already includes the reﬁnancing 
of the Ebok Reserve Based Lending facility in March 2013.
Risk management
We will continue to manage exposure to oil price 
volatility through the use of hedging instruments to 
protect against downside.
Risk management
Monitoring industry reward levels. Implementation 
of creative reward initiatives to aid retention of 
high-performing employees.
Risk management
Future cash requirements are monitored against the 
production curve and operational and capital 
expenditure needs. Business review
26
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Risk management 
process
Risk overview 
We have continued to develop our approach 
to business risk management during the course 
of 2012, focusing in particular on ensuring that 
the key risks are fully deﬁned and that effective 
controls are in place for each component. For 
example, one of our signiﬁcant risks is in the 
area of ﬁeld delivery, however this manifests 
itself in several different ways all of which 
require different mitigation; drilling risks, project 
risks and production risks each have their 
speciﬁc characteristics and unique mitigation 
measures that need to be implemented. This 
move to increased granularity builds on the 
close working relationship established between 
the risk management and business functions. 
We have also striven to ensure that basic 
risk management is integrated into normal 
business processes such that it is being 
performed at all levels in the organisation. 
In this way there is early identiﬁcation and 
mitigation of potential risks before they 
escalate and pose corporate risk. 
In 2012 a major focus for the risk management 
programme was the development of the 
newly acquired assets in the Kurdistan region 
of Iraq and on the execution of the exploration 
seismic surveys in East Africa.
Finally, the reporting of risks to the Audit 
and Risk Committee was reviewed towards 
the end of 2012 to ensure that the 
Committee remains effective in discharging 
its responsibility to the Board. 
On the corporate risk register we have 
regularly reassessed the risks in the light of 
changes to the Group and the external 
environment. As a consequence the risks 
associated with the management of growth 
and the loss of key employees have been 
down-graded reﬂecting the growing 
maturity and size of the Group. 
“ Afren’s approach to business 
risk management has 
continued to evolve during 
2012 in response to changes 
in the business and operating 
environment. ” 
Peter Bingham, Chairman of Audit 
and Risk Committee
Process for ongoing risk management 
Strategy cascaded to 
projects/assets
Strategy cascaded to 
business units
Corporate strategy
Mitigating actions
Monitoring and reporting by line management
Summary of key risks and mitigation to Audit and Risk Committee and Board
Project and asset risk 
registers (operated)
Ebok
Okoro
CI-11/CI-01
Barda Rash
Covers key business 
functions
Review risks 
to delivery
Country risk registers
Nigeria
Côte d’Ivoire
Kurdistan region of Iraq
East Africa
Business unit plans
Project and asset plans 
(operated)
Corporate risk register Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
27
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Key activities during 2012 2013 outlook
2012 was a busy year with respect to operations starting up in new locations. 
This was particularly true in East Africa where we saw onshore seismic surveys in Block 1 
and Blocks L17 & L18 in Kenya and in Madagascar, and offshore surveys in Kenya, 
Tanzania and the Seychelles. In addition activities in the Barda Rash ﬁeld in Kurdistan 
expanded with a seismic survey, workover work on the existing wells and the start 
of construction on the early production facility. Substantial work was involved in 
conducting pre-start-up risk assessments on these projects to ensure that the required 
mitigations were implemented ahead of operations. These risk assessments covered all 
aspects of operations including speciﬁc consideration of community and security risks.
In East Africa, 2013 will continue to present new challenges as we move from seismic 
to drilling operations. We have already begun to address the long lead time 
requirements of these projects and in particular the need for environmental impact 
assessments. As we move nearer to operations and ﬁrm up our plans we will carry out 
more detailed risk assessments to ensure that project delays are minimised and that all 
contingencies have been considered.
In Nigeria we will be developing new production facilities and this will be a key feature of 
the 2013 ﬁeld delivery risk. A programme of detailed project reviews will accompany these 
developments to ensure that the projects are delivered on budget and on schedule.
At the corporate level work continued with the Audit and Risk Committee to 
review the overall process of business risk management and to validate the risk 
register. This review focused on the highest risks, particularly that of ﬁeld delivery, 
and considered in detail the different components of the risk and the mitigating 
measures that are in place.
During 2013 we will continue with our programme of cascading the risk management 
process down to business units to ensure that there is greater line-of-sight between 
the corporate strategic objectives and activities on the ground. 
During 2012 the other key area for risk management was that of production 
planning and forecasting. This is one of the issues that contributes to the ﬁeld 
delivery risk and with production ramping up from Ebok the forecasting of 
production rates and the operational planning behind this has become crucial.
The business risk management programme within Afren continues to evolve to meet 
the needs of a growing and dynamic organisation. The basic principles are well 
embedded and there is a wide recognition of the need to identify and mitigate risks 
at all levels of the organisation. 
P22
For more information on our 
Key Performance Indicators
Low High
Field delivery
Security 
incidents
Treasury 
management
Exploration 
failure
Geo-
political risk
Oil price 
volatility
Loss of key 
employees
Management 
of growth
Bribery and 
corruption
Taxation 
and other 
legislation 
changes
Host 
community 
action
Unfulﬁlled 
PSC work 
obligations
What are our key risks?
Likelihood of occurrence
Magnitude of impact High
Environmental
/safety  
incidents Business review
28
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Principal risks 
and uncertainties
The following principal risks and 
uncertainties in relation to the Group’s 
ﬁnancial and operational performance 
have been monitored and reviewed 
during 2012.
Field delivery risk – Field delivery risk applies to all phases of the E&P cycle from seismic 
acquisition through to production operations. At each phase the 
mitigating measures will be different, however failure to control risks 
will manifest itself as project delays, cost overruns, high production 
costs, early ﬁeld decommissioning and ultimately lower than 
expected reserves. 
– 2012 saw an increase in seismic operations, with extensive surveys 
being undertaken in East Africa, and increased investment in the 
development of our assets in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, thereby 
increasing the potential impact on Afren of a failure to appropriately 
manage this risk.
– There are risks associated with monetising our reserves in the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq, while ongoing discussions between the 
Kurdistan Regional Government and the Federal Government of Iraq 
continue. We will continue to monitor this situation in order to 
manage our risk proﬁle accordingly.
– All operations are subject to risk reviews to identify as early 
as possible potential risks to delivery. Risk assessments were 
conducted for all new seismic programmes in East Africa.
– Our engineers analyse results from appraisal and development wells 
and determine the appropriate course of action in terms of drilling 
programme and facility design.
– All projects are closely monitored to ensure the project delivers 
against plan and to enable actions to be taken to maintain progress.
– Project ﬁnances are monitored against budget to minimise overruns.
– Production operations are closely monitored to ensure that 
unplanned downtime is minimised and that operating costs are 
tightly controlled.
– Actual production is regularly checked against the annual 
production forecast.
Geo-political risk – The countries in which Afren operates face political, socio-economic 
and legal uncertainties.
– 2012 has seen political tensions in all of the areas in which we operate 
and these continue to be closely monitored to minimise the impact on 
our operations.
– Ongoing monitoring and close liaison on the ground to monitor the 
situation from an Afren safety and security perspective.
– Contingency plans in place and regularly tested.
Security incidents – Afren continues to operate in regions where kidnapping, piracy and 
criminal attacks occur.
– Dedicated security teams in each area of operation.
– Robust security management programme.
– Security risk assessments for each asset and operation.
Host community 
action
– Our operations both on and offshore have the potential for interruption 
by our host communities if relationships are not well established.
– Afren has a tried and tested system for managing community affairs, 
which is applied to all operations.
– Dedicated community affairs teams are in place where required.
– Contingency plans in place and regularly tested.
Oil price volatility – Oil prices can ﬂuctuate signiﬁcantly. – The policy of the Group is to protect its minimum cash ﬂow 
requirements in the context of a sustained downturn in oil prices.
– The Group strategy to manage oil price risk is to hedge between 
20-30% of the production curve by using ﬁnancial instruments 
that allow the Group to protect the downside risk.
Key risk Description and impact How do we manage it?
Operational risk
External risk
Exploration failure – Exploration activities can be capital intensive and may involve a high 
degree of risk. Sustained exploration failure will impact the growth 
and upside potential of the Group.
– Exploration assets are subject to a rigorous peer review process.
– Exploration risk is evaluated for each prospect by looking in detail 
at how to de-risk the key elements of the subsurface data, source 
rock, reservoir, trapping and seal mechanisms, etc. Prospects are 
subsequently ranked and budgets approved.
Environmental/safety 
incidents
– As Afren’s activities continue to expand there is a continuing focus 
on preventing major pollution and/or loss of life due to systems or 
equipment failure. We have implemented EHSS management systems 
based on best industry practice at both the corporate and country level.
– Afren has a comprehensive EHSS management system with an annual 
independent audit programme to ensure effective implementation.
– Dedicated EHSS teams in each area of operation.
– Contingency plans in place and regularly tested.
Unfulﬁlled work/PSC 
obligations
– Loss of production interest or exploration licence due to incomplete 
fulﬁlment of work or PSC obligations.
– The operations, ﬁnance and legal teams jointly monitor compliance 
with licence obligations.
– Maintenance of good, open working relationships with local 
governments in the countries of operation. Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
29
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Strategic priorities 
P20 
Net effective working interest 
production
Capital expenditure 
Operating cost per barrel
1 2 3 4 5
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Operations 
review 
High High
Civil/political unrest
1 2 3 4 5
Country MDs Operations 
review
High
Security incidents
1 2 3 4 5
Head of EHSS Corporate 
responsibility
High
Host communities incidents
CR spend
Head of EHSS Corporate 
responsibility
High
Realised oil price
1 2 3 4 5
Group Finance Director Finance review
Medium
KPI/Performance metric Strategic priorities Responsibility See also Assessment Change
Reserves replacement ratio
F&D cost
1 2 3 4 5
Technical Director Operations 
review
Medium
LTIF
TRIR
Number and volume of spills
1 2 3 4 5
Head of EHSS Corporate 
responsibility
High
Work plan and budget
1 2 3 4 5
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Operations 
review
High
1
2
3
4
5
Pursue materially accretive acquisitions
Organic reserves growth
Production growth
Operational efﬁ ciency and ﬁ nancial discipline 
Corporate responsibility Business review
30
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Principal risks and uncertainties
Continued
Key risk Description and impact How do we manage it?
Bribery and corruption – As an oil and gas operator working in Africa, bribery and corruption 
represent an ongoing risk to our business.
– Afren has implemented a Code of Business Conduct across 
all its operations.
– An independent whistle-blowing hotline has been established to enable 
concerns about poor practice to be voiced without the fear of reprisal.
– Speciﬁc Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy and procedures are 
reviewed and updated annually and quarterly respectively to meet 
stringent requirements of the UK Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
legistation as well as the UK Ministry of Justice Guidance.
– All new starters and existing employees are given speciﬁc training 
regarding Anti-Bribery and Corruption as part of the induction 
process and as an ongoing programme.
– Quarterly updates are provided to the Audit and Risk Committee 
regarding Anti-Bribery and Corruption including any whistle-blowing 
reports and their subsequent resolution.
– Audit and Risk Committee in place to review governance 
and internal controls.
– Risk management function working with key functions 
in the business.
Loss of key employees – Loss of knowledge and skills to the Group in particular in countries 
of operation.
– Intensiﬁed competition for human talent in Africa and the Middle East.
– As the Company has expanded so has the strength and depth of 
senior management. Loss of key personnel reduces as a risk as Afren 
continues to grow, and is also mitigated by our remuneration policies.
– Succession planning is considered on a Group-wide basis, taking into 
account the development of the executive and senior management.
– Remuneration policies are designed to incentivise, motivate and 
retain key employees including Directors.
– Salaries and reward of senior executives, including Directors, 
set at competitive levels using third-party benchmarks.
Management 
of growth
– Afren has grown steadily through 2012 and has established systems 
and processes appropriate for a larger organisation. Management of 
growth is now considered a reducing risk.
– All acquisitions are subject to thorough due diligence in order 
to deliver an attractive integration plan.
– Remuneration policies are designed to incentivise, motivate and 
retain key employees as well as to attract new personnel as and 
when required.
Strategic risk
Taxation and other 
legislation changes
– There is a risk that future changes impact our proﬁtability. – Our ﬁnancial and legal teams monitor current legislation and 
proposed changes and incorporate these into our working practices.
– Maintenance of good, open working relationships with local 
authorities in the countries of operation.
Treasury management – The availability of ﬁnancing to maintain the ongoing operations of the 
business is key.
– The Group continued to optimise its capital structure during 2012 
to provide further ﬁnancial ﬂexibility to fund the Group’s 
operational requirements.
– The Group continues to manage its expenditure and monitor 
cash ﬂows to ensure that future cash requirements are 
appropriately controlled.
Financial risk Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
31
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
KPI/Performance metric Strategic priorities Responsibility See also Assessment Change
Number of whistle-blowing incidents
1 2 3 4 5
Group General Counsel Business ethics
Medium
Staff turnover
1 2 3 4 5
Head of HR Human 
Resources, 
Directors’ 
remuneration 
report
Medium
Staff turnover
Inability to recruit for key positions
1 2 3 4 5
Chief Executive Human Resources
Low
Effective tax rate
1 2 3 4 5
Group Finance Director Financial review
Medium
Liquidity
1 2 3 4 5
Group Finance Director Financial review
Low
Strategic priorities 
P20 
1
2
3
4
5
Pursue materially accretive acquisitions
Organic reserves growth
Production growth
Operational efﬁ ciency and ﬁ nancial discipline 
Corporate responsibility Business review
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 32
Financial review
“ Our ﬁnancing strategy reﬂects the 
resource requirements to execute 
our business model. The aim is to 
achieve a balance of operational 
cash ﬂow with longer-term 
ﬁnancing to fund capital expenditure. 
This cyclical cash generation and 
investment allows sustained growth 
of the business for longer-term 
value creation.”
Darra Comyn, 
Group Finance Director Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
33
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial highlights
* Refer to note 2.4 of the ﬁnancial statements for reconciliation to statutory proﬁt after tax. 
Turnover 
US$1,499 million
+1 5 1 %
(2011: US$597 million)
1 2 3 4 5
Cash ﬂow from operations 
US$937 million
+1 7 7 %
(2011: US$338 million)
1 2 3 4 5
Oil and gas additions in the year 
US$574 million
(2011: US$576 million)
(excluding ﬁnance leases and the acquisition of 
the interests in Barda Rash and Ain Sifni in 2011; 
including capitalised interest)
1 2 3 4 5
Debt repayments 
US$246 million
Outstanding principal 
US$1,036 million
(excluding amortised issue costs) 
(2011: repayments of US$182 million; outstanding 
principal of US$868 million)
1 2 3 4 5
Cash position 
US$525 million
Net debt 
(excluding ﬁnance leases) 
US$488 million
(2011: cash of US$292 million; net debt 
of US$548 million)
1 2 3 4 5
86 %
debt due for repayment 
after more than one year
(2011: 76%)
1 2 3 4 5
Proﬁt after tax for the year 
from continuing operations 
US$203 million
+62 %
(2011: US$125 million)
1 2 3 4 5
Normalised proﬁt after tax* 
US$244 million
+95 %
(2011: US$125 million)
1 2 3 4 5
Realised oil price 
US$107 per barrel 
Realised gas price 
US$6.3 per mcf
(2011: US$109.0 per barrel and US$8.8 per mcf)
1 2 3 4 5
Gross proﬁt for the year of 
US$756 million
+1 5 0 %
(2011: US$302 million)
1 2 3 4 5
Performance
Cash ﬂow
Financial position
Gearing at 31 December 2012 
34 %
(2011: 45%)
1 2 3 4 5
Strategic priorities 
P20 
1
2
3
4
5
Pursue materially accretive acquisitions
Organic reserves growth
Production growth
Operational efﬁ ciency and ﬁ nancial discipline 
Corporate responsibility Business review
34
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial review
Continued
In addition, the Group pays other taxes, in 
the form of royalties, withholding taxes and 
non-recoverable VAT locally in the areas in 
which it operates. In 2012, these amounted 
to US$166 million (2011: US$167 million).
Finance charges and ﬁnancial instruments
Finance costs for 2012 were US$73 million 
(2011: US$57 million). The increase in ﬁnance 
charges relates to issue costs on the Group’s 
second Bond issue in March 2012, as well 
as the increased interest charge arising 
from this new issue. The Group capitalised 
US$59 million of ﬁnance charges in the year, 
largely relating to the development of the 
Barda Rash ﬁeld which has been ﬁnanced 
using part of the Group’s Bond proceeds 
(2011: US$47 million, largely as part of the 
ﬁnancing for the Ebok project).
During the year the Group recognised a loss 
from derivative ﬁnancial instruments of 
US$31 million (2011: US$13 million) relating 
to crude oil hedging contracts. This reﬂects a 
realised loss of US$25 million (2011: realised 
loss of US$9 million) relating to the premiums 
paid on the hedging instruments. A further 
mark to market loss of US$7 million was 
recorded, relating to the unrealised position 
on these hedging instruments compared 
with the oil price as at 31 December 2012 
(2011: unrealised loss of US$3 million), 
reﬂecting higher expectations of future oil 
prices than the current hedged position.
The DD&A charge for oil and gas assets was 
US$371 million, an increase of 140% on the 
prior year (201 1: US$155 million). The increased 
charge reﬂects the higher production achieved 
by the Group in the year.
The timing of liftings led to a decrease in crude 
oil stock at the year end, therefore resulting in 
a charge for stock adjustment of US$6 million, 
compared with a credit of US$25 million at 
31 December 201 1.
The Group achieved a normalised operating 
cost of US$15.0/boe. The decrease from 
2011 (US$17.9/boe) reﬂects efﬁciencies 
generated from a full year of production at 
Ebok. Normalised cost per barrel includes 
costs and production from the Ebok ﬁeld 
from Q4 2011 onwards. All other ﬁeld costs 
are included on an annualised basis.
Tax
The income tax charge for the year was 
US$391 million (201 1: US$96 million). 
The increase reﬂects the increased proﬁtability 
of the Group during 2012 and the utilisation 
of the Group’s accumulated tax losses during 
201 1 to offset tax charges. Of this charge, 
US$12 million (201 1: US$8 million) has been 
paid in Nigeria. The balance of current tax will 
be paid in future periods, and the deferred 
tax liability of US$384 million spread over the 
life of the Group’s assets.
1 2 3 4 5
1. Result for the year
Revenues
Revenue for 2012 was US$1,499 million, 
an increase of 151% from 201 1 (201 1: US$ 
597 million). The increase arises from a full 
year of production from the Ebok ﬁeld, which 
contributed US$1,154 million compared to 
US$272 million in 201 1. 
Working interest production for the year, 
including OML 26, was approximately 
43,059 boepd, compared to 19,284 boepd 
in 201 1, principally driven by the year-on-year 
increase in net production from the Ebok 
and Okoro ﬁelds. During the year, 
production commenced from the Okoro 
Field Extension.
In 2012, the Group realised an average oil 
price of US$107/bbl and an average gas price 
of US$6.3/mcf (2011: US$109.0 per barrel 
and US$8.8 per mcf), before all royalties. 
The average Brent price for the period was 
US$110/bbl (2011: US$109/bbl).
Gross proﬁt
Gross proﬁt for the year was US$756 million, 
an increase of 150% on the prior year 
(2011: US$302 million), the increase arising 
from the full year of production at Ebok and 
increased production from the Okoro ﬁeld. 
Turnover
(US$ million)
2011 2012 2010
31 9
597
1,499
+1 5 1 %
Proﬁt after tax from 
continuing operations
(US$ million)
2011 2012 2010
46
12 5
203
+62 % Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
35
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Proﬁt for the year
Proﬁt after tax from continuing activities 
for the year ended 31 December 2012 
was US$203 million (2011: US$125 million). 
Normalised proﬁt after tax was US$244 
million (2011: US$125 million). Normalised 
proﬁt after tax is reconciled to statutory 
proﬁt after tax in note 8 of the attached 
ﬁnancial information.
The impairment charge on oil and gas assets 
of US$20 million (2011: US$1 million) mainly 
relates to the write-off of costs of the Nunya 
well on the Keta Block, offshore Ghana.
Afren’s share of losses from its associate 
investment in FHN was US$7 million in 2012 
(201 1: US$14 million). FHN reported a loss 
during the year mainly due to losses arising 
from crude oil hedging contracts in respect of 
its share of production from the OML 26 ﬁeld 
in Nigeria. This share of losses is offset partly 
by income received from FHN of US$5 million 
(201 1: US$6 million) in relation to various 
management and support services provided 
by Afren to FHN during the year.
1 2 3 4 5
2. Financing and capital structure
Operating cash ﬂow
Operating cash ﬂow before movements 
in working capital was US$1,094 million 
(201 1: US$440 million). After movements in 
working capital, which included advances 
and payments to partners of US$100 million 
relating to ﬁeld development, and tax 
payments of US$12 million, net cash 
generated by operating activities totalled 
US$935 million (2011: US$338 million, 
from continuing activities). 
The Group’s strong operating cash ﬂow 
is driven by annual production from Ebok, 
Okoro and Côte d’Ivoire. This cash has 
principally been used to fund the Group’s 
continued investment in its development, 
exploration and appraisal activities. 
Financing
In March 2012, the Group completed a 
second Bond issue, proceeds of which were 
US$300 million before issue costs. The 
coupon on the bonds is 10.25%, a lower rate 
than on the January 201 1 Bond, and they are 
listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. 
The proceeds from the issue of the new 
Bond have been used to repay and cancel 
the Group’s US$200 million VTB/BNPP facility 
which was issued in connection with the 
acquisition of the Group’s interests in the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq, to fund payments 
made in December 201 1 and March 2012.
Including the March 2012 Bond issue, as 
well as the January 2011 Bond, the Ebok 
reserve-based lending facility, and other 
corporate facilities, gross debt at 31 December 
2012 was US$1,013 million, excluding 
ﬁnance leases (2011: US$840 million). 
Loan repayments in the period, excluding 
payments in respect of ﬁnance leases, were 
US$246 million reﬂecting early settlement of 
the US$200 million VTB/BNPP facility using 
the proceeds of the Bond issue in March 
2012 and periodic payments due under the 
Ebok facility. Cash at bank at 31 December 
2012 was US$525 million, resulting in net 
debt (excluding ﬁnance leases) of US$488 
million (2011: cash of US$292 million; net 
debt of US$548 million). 
Financing outlook
On 22 March 2013, the Group signed the 
reﬁnancing of its Ebok Reserve Based 
Lending facility, reﬂecting the change in 
status of the project from development into 
production. The new US$300 million facility, 
at Libor plus 4-4.8%, increases the amount 
of capital available and extends the maturity 
of the Group’s outstanding debt. 
Repayments of the new facility begin 
in January 2015.
The Group is due to repay its US$50 million 
unsecured facility during 2013.
* Debt excluding ﬁnance leases.
December 2011 debt proﬁle
*
December 2012 debt proﬁle
*
* Debt excluding ﬁnance leases.
%
2016 Loan Notes 58
Other facilities 25
Ebok Reserve Based Lending facility 17
%
2016 Loan Notes 48
2019 Loan Notes 29
Ebok Reserve Based Lending facility 18
Other facilities 5
Strategic priorities 
P20 
1
2
3
4
5
Pursue materially accretive acquisitions
Organic reserves growth
Production growth
Operational efﬁ ciency and ﬁ nancial discipline 
Corporate responsibility
2010 2011 2012 2009
278
209
338
935
+1 7 7 %
Operating cash ﬂow
(US$ million)
58 48
29
18
5
25
17 Business review
36
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial review
Continued
As noted previously, write-offs in respect of 
unsuccessful exploration costs were incurred 
in respect of only one well in 2012, being 
the Nunya well on the Keta Block, Ghana 
(charge of US$15 million).
Development expenditure
Expenditure on oil and gas assets was 
US$273 million (2011: US$469 million), 
comprising the continuing development of 
the Ebok and Okoro ﬁelds and US$63 million 
on Barda Rash. In addition, $68 million of 
costs relating to the Okoro Field Extension 
were transferred from intangible exploration 
and evaluation assets to development assets 
during 2012.
1 2 3 4 5
4. Our commitments
The Group has operating and capital 
commitments as at 31 December 2012 of 
US$822 million (2011: US$538 million), 
largely in respect of rig and ﬁeld equipment 
leases, and the Group’s ongoing exploration 
and evaluation programmes. 
In 201 1, the Group recognised a ﬁnance 
lease in respect of the arrangements with 
Mercator Offshore Nigeria (Pte) Limited for 
the production facilities on the Ebok ﬁeld. 
At 31 December 2012, the Group’s liability in 
respect of this ﬁnance lease is US$1 17 million 
(201 1: US$136 million), which is being settled 
in monthly payments of US$2.4 million 
(including interest) over a seven-year period.
1 2 3 4 5
3. Development, appraisal and 
exploration activities
Exploration and appraisal
The Company’s investment in exploration and 
appraisal activities has continued during 2012, 
with expenditure of US$189 million in the 
period, excluding amounts relating to the 
Okoro Field Extension which were transferred 
to developments assets in the year (201 1: 
US$107 million, excluding the acquisition of 
the Group’s interest in the Ain Sifni PSC). 
As shown in the chart below, the main areas 
of expenditure were East Africa (mainly 
US$54 million on Kenya Blocks 1, 10A and 
L17 & 1 8, as well as US$16 million on the Tanga 
Block in Tanzania), and Ain Sifni in the Kurdistan 
region of Iraq (US$25 million). Exploration 
outside of these areas largely related to the 
Keta Block in Ghana (US$23 million).
Capex expenditure by area
(%)
%
Ebok 39
Okoro 12
Barda Rash 14
Afren East Africa Exploration 16
Kurdistan region of Iraq exploration 5
Other exploration 14
39
12
14
14
16
5 Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
37
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
1 2 3 4 5
6. Outlook
The performance of the Ebok and Okoro 
ﬁelds, which has contributed to strong 
ﬁnancial results and operating cash ﬂows 
achieved by the Group in 2012, is expected 
to continue throughout 2013. 
The Group will continue to look to fund its 
exploration and appraisal activities through 
its operational cash ﬂows, whilst also seeking 
opportunities to increase its capital strength. 
In 2013, this includes the reﬁnancing of the 
Ebok Reserve Based Lending facility.
1 2 3 4 5
5. Review of our hedging 
arrangements
The Group’s current hedging strategy was 
put in place in the context of volatile oil 
prices during early 2011. The Group holds 
put options which provide minimum ﬂoor 
prices whilst allowing the Group to beneﬁt 
from most of the upside in oil price 
movements. The premiums on the options 
are deferred until maturity.
At 31 December 2012, the Group holds 
hedges covering approximately 5.0 million 
barrels of production between the period 
1 January 2013 and 30 June 2014, with 
minimum ﬂoor prices on these volumes 
of between US$80 and US$90/bbl 
before premiums.
The policy of the Group is to protect its 
minimum cash ﬂow requirement in a period 
of a sustained downturn in oil prices. As such 
the minimum amount of our working 
interest we would seek to protect with these 
arrangements is between 20-30% of 
estimated production for a rolling period 
of 18 to 24 months forward. Based on our 
current outlook, the hedges above cover 
approximately 30% of production for 2013 
and the ﬁrst half of 2014.
Strategic priorities 
P20 
1
2
3
4
5
Pursue materially accretive acquisitions
Organic reserves growth
Production growth
Operational efﬁ ciency and ﬁ nancial discipline 
Corporate responsibility 38
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Net production at the Group’s assets averaged 43,059 boepd (including OML 26) 
in 2012, driven by strong production performance from the Ebok and Okoro ﬁelds, 
located offshore Nigeria. Notably during the period, the Group commenced 
production from the Okoro Field Extension offshore Nigeria within ten months of 
announcing the discovery and initiated production operations at the Barda Rash PSC, 
Kurdistan region of Iraq.
Operations 
review
FY 2012 (boepd)
Effective working 
interest
Average gross 
production
Average net 
production
Okoro 50% 16,858 8,606
Ebok 100%/50%* 30,047 30,047
CI-11 & LGP 47.96%/100% 5,728 3,158
Barda Rash 60% 52 31
Total 52,68541,842
Associate company production 45%** 6,010 1,217
Total including associate company volumes 58,695 43,059
* Pre/post cost recovery 
** Afren is a 46.7% shareholder in First Hydrocarbon Nigeria Limited (FHN) which owns a 45% interest in OML 26
Note: All production data remains subject to reconciliation
Asset production overview 39
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
Image: The Ebok ﬁeld development, offshore Nigeria, 
produced 30,047 boepd in 2012.
Nigeria
Okoro Setu 40
Ebok 43
Okwok 44
OML 115 45
OML 26 46
OPL 310 47
OPL 907 & 917 47
Nigeria Sào Tomé   
and Príncipe
JDZ Block 1 47
Côte d’Ivoire
CI-11 48
Lion Gas Plant 48
Cl-01 48
Ghana
Keta Block 49
Congo Brazzaville
La Noumbi 49
South Africa
Block 2B 49
Kenya
Block 1 50
Block 10A 51
Block L17 & L18 51
Tanzania
Tanga Block 52
Seychelles
Areas A & B 52
Madagascar
Block 1101 53
Ethiopia
Blocks 7 & 8 53
Kurdistan region of Iraq
Barda Rash 54
Ain Sifni PSC 55
Kurdistan region 
of Iraq
Afren East Africa 
Exploration
Nigeria and other 
West Africa
Exploration
Appraisal and Development
Production
Business model key Operations review
40
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Nigeria and other 
West Africa
In July 2012, Afren and Partner Amni 
commenced early development drilling at the 
Okoro Field Extension, just six months from 
discovery. The Okoro-14 (Okoro Field Extension) 
development well was drilled by Afren and 
Amni from the existing wellhead platform 
(WHP) and delivered rates in excess of 
6,000 bopd on production test from the 
new reservoirs. The well was subsequently 
completed and brought onstream via the 
existing Okoro Floating Production Storage 
Ofﬂoading vessel (FPSO) at a stabilised rate 
of 5,000 bopd of 38° API oil on 31 October 
2012. The Partners are ﬁrstly utilising the 
available wellhead slots on the existing Okoro 
platform to gain early production information 
that will allow optimal design of the full ﬁeld 
development conﬁguration, which could 
potentially involve up to a further ten 
production wells.
As part of the Partners’ ongoing reservoir 
management and production optimisation 
work at the main Okoro ﬁeld, Afren and 
Amni successfully side-tracked the existing 
Okoro-5 production well during Q2 2012. 
The objective of the side-track well was to 
access additional oil volumes in a previously 
unswept area of the reservoir within the 
Okoro main ﬁeld area. The Okoro-5 well was 
re-entered and side-tracked at a measured 
depth of 4,481 ft, and the side-track 
subsequently drilled to a total measured 
depth of 9,800 ft. The side-track successfully 
encountered oil pay in the target reservoir, 
in line with prognosis, and a 2,500 ft lateral 
drainage section within this pay zone was 
brought onstream at a stabilised rate of 
2,000 bopd. 
In 2012, the Okoro ﬁeld had produced 
6.2 mmbbls of oil representing a gross 
average daily rate of 16,858 bopd and a 
process uptime of 95.6%. Since production 
start-up in 2008, the ﬁeld has continued to 
perform ahead of expectations, delivering 
aggregate gross production volumes to end 
December 2012 of c.26.0 mmbbls, well 
above the original 2P scenario. 
2013 outlook
In 2013, the Partners intend to drill one 
inﬁll production well/side-track in order 
to maximise sweep efﬁciency of the main 
ﬁeld reservoirs and also plan to commence 
fabrication of a new wellhead platform 
required for the full development of the 
Okoro Field Extension. 
Nigeria 
Okoro Setu
Working interest 50%*
Owner and local partner Amni International Petroleum Development Ltd.
Gross 2P certiﬁed reserves** 63 mmbbls**
2012 Gross production 16,858 bopd
Work programme Production and development
* Working interest post cost recovery.
** Source: NSAI. Reserves remaining as at 31 December 2012.
New oil discovery at the Okoro 
Field Extension
The Okoro-13 well encountered net pay of 
549 ft, and test data conﬁrmed the oil to be 
light and of good quality (38° to 40° API) 
in excellent reservoir sands with multi-Darcy 
permeabilities and average porosity of 
between 30% to 35%. The exploration well 
was drilled on time and to budget. This 
discovery at the Okoro Field Extension added 
c.52 mmbbls of gross 2P volumes to 201 1 
year-end 2P reserves on the Okoro main 
ﬁeld. The discovery is 206% larger than the 
original Okoro discovery and represents a 
2P Okoro reserves replacement ratio in the 
year of 847%.
Afren is currently producing from its assets offshore Nigeria 
and Côte d’Ivoire. The portfolio spans the full-cycle E&P value 
chain of exploration, appraisal, development through to 
production and is located in several of the world’s most proliﬁc 
and fast-emerging hydrocarbon basins.
Strategic priorities 
P20 
1
2
3
4
5
Pursue materially accretive acquisitions
Organic reserves growth
Production growth
Operational efﬁ ciency and ﬁ nancial discipline 
Corporate responsibility
Image: The FPSO Vessel at the Okoro ﬁeld processes production 
from both the Okoro main ﬁeld and the Okoro Field Extension. 41
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
“With a net 2P & 2C recoverable reserves and resources total 
of over a billion barrels of which only 5% has so far been 
developed, Afren has in place a solid platform for revenue 
growth and future cash ﬂow generation. ”
Iain Wright, 
Technical Director
 52 mmbbls
Gross 2P reserves addition
 16,858 bopd
Gross production 42
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operations review
Strong production performance 
and new oil discovery at Ebok 
North Fault Block
In 2012, the Ebok ﬁeld produced 14.1 mmbbls 
of oil, representing a gross average daily rate 
of 30,047 bopd and a process uptime of 
98.2%, in line with expectations. During 
early 2012, Afren and its Partner Oriental 
Energy Resources completed the drilling of 
two additional producers and one water 
injection well at the West Fault Block. 
The discovery at the Ebok North Fault Block 
(Ebok NFB) in 2012 has added c.25 mmbbls 
of gross 2P reserves to 201 1 year end 
volumes, representing a 2012 replacement 
ratio of 1 14%. The Ebok NFB well had 
successfully encountered 370 ft (TVT) of good 
quality oil in the same Tertiary reservoir sands 
equivalent to those that have been developed 
and are in production at the main Ebok ﬁeld 
development. The well reached a total depth 
of 4,230 ft and was targeting a separate fault 
block structure located approximately 2 km to 
the north of the main Ebok ﬁeld. 
Post period end, on 21 January 2013, Afren 
and its Partner Oriental Energy Resources, 
announced that the Ebok NFB early production 
well had been successfully drilled, tested and 
was producing. Performance data from this 
well will provide important information 
ahead of implementing an optimal full ﬁeld 
development solution. 
Creating a production hub offshore 
south-east Nigeria
Our development strategy is to systematically 
bring each proven area of the Ebok ﬁeld 
onstream and, through ongoing drilling, 
continue to increase the reserves base from 
the ﬁeld over the coming months and years. 
We plan for the MOPU and FSO to become 
a central facility, not just for the immediately 
surrounding Ebok structure, but also for 
the broader Ebok/Okwok/OML 115 area. 
This will facilitate the economical and rapid 
tie-back of production from potential future 
developments on the acreage.
2013 outlook
In 2013 the Partners intend to drill three new 
production wells and a water injection well 
at the ﬁeld and to begin installation of the 
Central Fault Block extension.
Image: The Ebok MOPU and FSO are expected to play a key role in processing 
and storing production from the broader Ebok/Okwok/OML 115 area.
Nigeria and other West Africa
Continued
Nigeria 
Ebok
Working interest 100%/50%*
JV partner Oriental Energy Resources Ltd.
Gross 2P certiﬁed reserves** 116 mmbbls**
2012 gross production 30,047 bopd
Work programme Production and development
* Working interest pre/post cost recovery.
** Source: NSAI. Reserves remaining as at 31 December 2012. 43
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
“ 2013 is set to be a strong year of consolidation 
and growth in Nigeria following our successful 
E&A campaign in 2012.”
Adebayo Ayorinde, 
Managing Director, Afren Nigeria
 116 mmbbls
Gross 2P certiﬁed reserves
 30,047 bopd
Gross production Operations review
44
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Nigeria and other West Africa
Continued
Nigeria
Okwok
Working interest 70%/56%*
JV partner Oriental Energy 
Resources Ltd.
Addax Petroleum 
(Nigeria Offshore) Ltd.
Gross contingent 
resources
51.8 mmbbls**
Work programme Seismic interpretation, 
appraisal drilling and 
development planning
* 70% pre-cost recovery effective working interest; 56% 
post-cost recovery effective working interest (subject to gross 
volumes lifted). Once hurdle point is achieved, Afren effective 
working interest becomes 35%. Hurdle point is achieved 
when post-royalty revenue lifted by the parties outside 
of any cost recovery period is greater than US$1.2 billion.
** Source: NSAI. Reserves and resources remaining as at 
31 December 2012.
Image: Afren staff inspecting equipment at the Ebok ﬁeld development.
Overview
Okwok is an undeveloped oil ﬁeld located 
in OML 67, 50 km offshore in 132 ft of 
water and in close proximity to the 
Afren/Oriental owned Ebok development. 
Appraisal success at Okwok-10
During the year, the Group completed 
processing of the 348 km
2
 Ocean Bottom 
Cable 3D seismic survey that was acquired 
over the whole Ebok/Okwok/OML 115 
area in late 2011, and the results have 
been integrated into the existing data set. 
The new data is assisting with an appraisal 
programme to determine the optimal 
development plan for the ﬁeld. On 
24 November 2012, Afren and Partners 
Oriental and Addax Petroleum spudded the 
Okwok-10 appraisal well in order to assess 
additional oil potential within a previously 
undrilled fault block. The well reached a total 
measured depth of 4,117 ft and successfully 
encountered 72 ft of net oil pay in the ‘D’ 
Series reservoirs that have proved to be oil 
bearing elsewhere on the Okwok ﬁeld and 
are in production at the nearby Ebok ﬁeld. 
The Partners subsequently drilled a planned 
side-track well and encountered a further 
89 ft of net oil pay.
2013 outlook
Drilling on the Okwok-11 side-track well 
commenced in Q1 2013. The well was drilled 
to a total measured depth of 3,997 ft and 
successfully encountered 95 ft of net oil pay 
in the ‘D2’ reservoir. The well will now be 
plugged back and a short section redrilled 
to enable the reservoir to be fully cored, 
logged and tested. The newly acquired data 
together with the results of the Okwok-10 
and Okwok-10 side-track wells will be 
integrated into the ﬁeld model and used to 
update the volumetric and optimised Field 
Development Plan (FDP) prior to submission 
to the Nigerian authorities.
The most likely development scenario for 
Okwok comprises the installation of a 
separate dedicated production processing 
platform tied back to, and sharing, the Ebok 
Floating Storage Ofﬂoading vessel (FSO) 
located approximately 13 km to the west. Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
45
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Nigeria
OML 1 15
Working interest 100%/50%*
JV partner Oriental Energy 
Resources Ltd.
Work programme Exploration drilling
* 100% pre-cost recovery effective working interest; 
50% post-cost recovery effective working interest.
Overview
OML 115 surrounds the Ebok and Okwok 
development area, where Afren is also 
partnered with Oriental, and is close to the 
giant Zaﬁro Complex in Equatorial Guinea. 
The block offers us an attractive opportunity 
to further capitalise on our extensive 
knowledge of the area, exploring the same 
reservoirs that have already been proved 
as oil bearing and productive at Ebok and 
Okwok. The southern portion of the 
Okwok structure (Okwok South) extends 
into OML 115 and additional prospectivity 
has already been deﬁned within the deeper 
Qua Iboe, Biafra and Isongo formations. 
With production processing, storage and 
export infrastructure in place at the Ebok ﬁeld, 
we have a readily available export route for 
any potential future development in the 
area. At the same time, we will be able to 
beneﬁt from cost synergies, lowering the 
economic threshold for new barrels.
2013 outlook
Afren and Partner Oriental plan to spud the 
ﬁrst exploration well on the block using the 
GSF Monitor rig. The Ufon structure remains 
the most likely target, and is structurally and 
geologically analogous to the nearby Ebok 
and Okwok ﬁelds but with signiﬁcant 
deeper exploration potential. The Partners 
expect to commence drilling in the second 
quarter of 2013. 
Image: Afren employee on board the MOPU at the Ebok ﬁeld monitoring production operations. Operations review
46
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Nigeria and other West Africa
Continued
Nigeria 
OML 26 
Working interest 45%*
JV partner FHN/NPDC
Gross 2P certiﬁed 
reserves
134.6 mmbbls**
Gross contingent 
resources
68.0 mmbbls**
2012 gross production 6,010 bopd
Work programme Production
* Held through FHN in which Afren has a 46.7% holding, 
giving effective interest of 21%.
** Source: NSAI. Reserves and resources remaining 
as at 31 December 2012.
A major redevelopment opportunity 
with substantial upside
On 1 December 2011, First Hydrocarbon 
Nigeria (FHN), an Afren associate, announced 
that it had completed the acquisition 
of a 45% interest in the OML 26 licence, 
onshore Nigeria, from the Shell Petroleum 
Development Company of Nigeria Ltd. 
(SPDC), Total E&P Nigeria Ltd. (Total) and 
Nigeria Agip Oil Company (Agip), together 
the “SPDC Joint Venture”. FHN also 
announced that it had reached completion 
on ﬁnancing facilities totalling US$280 million 
enabling it to fully fund the acquisition cost 
and its share of future capital requirements 
associated with the initial development of 
the block. FHN is Partnered with Nigerian 
Petroleum Development Company (NPDC), 
the oil and gas exploration and production 
subsidiary of Nigerian National Petroleum 
Company (NNPC), in the re-development 
of the block.
During the period, gross average production 
from the Ogini and Isoko ﬁeld totalled 
6,010 bopd. Production came in below 
expectations during the period owing to 
gaslift compressor outage and maintenance 
and repair work on the SPDC operated 
Trans Forcados Trunkline during the ﬁrst half 
of 2012. Full gas compression was restored 
by the end of June 2012, following which 
production rates of c.10,500 bopd were 
achieved. In order to optimise production 
from currently active wells, a new 5.2 mmcfd 
gaslift compressor unit was procured 
in October 2012 and has been installed, 
with plans also in progress to install a 
Lease Automatic Custody Transfer (LACT) 
unit at the Eriemu manifold. Furthermore, 
sub-surface and facilities studies are in 
progress and it is the Partners’ intention 
to ﬁnalise the full Ogini FDP by May 2013 
and the full Isoko FDP in Q2 2013. 
Signiﬁcant reserves upgrade 
An independent assessment of the reserve 
and contingent resource potential of the 
Ogini and Isoko ﬁelds for FHN in March 2013, 
has estimated the gross remaining 2P oil 
reserves at the ﬁelds at 134.6 million barrels 
and gross contingent resources at 68.0 million 
barrels (gross 2P & 2C reserves and resources 
202.6 million barrels; 91.2 million barrels net 
to FHN). This represents a 231% increase on 
2P reserves previously carried by FHN and a 
10% increase on previously carried 2P & 2C 
volumes as at 31 December 201 1. In addition, 
signiﬁcant upside potential of 144 mmboe 
also exists within the undeveloped Aboh, 
Ovo and Ozoro discoveries, together with 
an estimated 615 mmboe gross unrisked 
prospective resources deﬁned across multiple 
prospects that will continue to be worked 
up in parallel to, and integrated with, future 
development plans.
2013 outlook
The proposed forward work programme 
consists of the drilling of new horizontal 
wells in 2013.
On 25 March 2013, Afren announced the 
proposed consolidation of its interest in FHN, 
subject to shareholder approval, following 
the exercise by a third party of a put option 
over 10.4% of FHN’s shares. This will give 
Afren a 54.8% beneﬁcial interest in FHN. 
Post accounting consolidation pro-forma net 
2P reserves of the Group are expected to be 
approximately 270 mmboe.
Image: FHN and NNPDC workers carry out routine maintenance at the OML 26 ﬁeld compressor. Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
47
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Nigeria
OPL 907 
& 91 7
OPL 907 OPL 917
Working interest 41* 42%*
Operator AGER AGER
Work programme Seismic 
reprocessing 
Seismic 
reprocessing 
* AGER effective working interest; AGER is owned 
50% by Afren, 50% by Global Energy Company (GEC).
Nigeria
OPL 310
Working interest 91%/70%*
Operator Optimum Petroleum 
Development Ltd.
Work programme Seismic acquisition and 
exploration drilling
* 91% pre-cost recovery effective working interest; 70% 
post-cost recovery effective working interest. Afren’s effective 
working interest is 21% for a short period during Optimum’s 
cost recovery phase.
Nigeria 
São T omé 
and Príncipe
JDZ Block 1
Working interest 4.4%
Operator Total
Gross contingent resources 43 mmbbls*
Work programme Exploration and 
appraisal drilling
* Source: NSAI. Resources remaining as at 31 December 2012.
Overview
OPL 310 is located in the Upper Cretaceous 
fairway that runs along the West African 
Transform Margin and lies next to the Aje 
ﬁeld, which has been declared commercial. 
Extending from the shallow water continental 
shelf to deep water, the block represents an 
exploration opportunity in an under-explored 
basin with a proven working hydrocarbon 
system. It is also in close proximity to the 
recently completed West African Gas Pipeline 
(WAGP) which allows future gas discoveries 
to be readily developed. 
Afren has identiﬁed several prospects that 
lie in the same Cenomanian, Turonian and 
Albian sandstone intervals that have yielded 
signiﬁcant discoveries along the West African 
Transform Margin in Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire. 
2013 outlook
Detailed technical work and well planning 
continues in preparation for an exploration 
well in the ﬁrst half of 2013.
Overview
OPL 907 & 917 offer potentially attractive 
Cretaceous opportunities. The main 
hydrocarbon play consists of late Cretaceous 
deltaic to shallow marine clastics in fault-
related traps. 
2013 outlook
We are actively considering our 
strategic options.
Overview
The JDZ Block 1 extends over approximately 
700 km
2
 in water depths ranging from 5,249 
to 5,905 ft. In 2006, the Obo-1 exploration 
well encountered 150 ft of net pay and 
importantly proved a working hydrocarbon 
system in the JDZ. The proximity of Total’s 
operated licences and production facilities 
in Nigeria creates strong synergies and will 
enable cost reductions in any potential future 
development of the licence’s resources.
During the ﬁrst half of 2012, Total 
commissioned and completed the drilling 
of two appraisal wells on the block, the 
Obo-2 well and the Enitimi-1 well, both 
encountering oil and gas pay. 
2013 outlook
The operator on the block continues to 
evaluate the results and commercial viability 
of appraisal drilling undertaken in 2012 
on the Obo-2 and Enitimi-1 wells, and 
possibilities for development. Operations review
48
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Image: Afren is the sole owner of the Lion Gas Plant (LGP), which processes gas from the CI-11 and adjacent CI-26 and CI-40 blocks.
Nigeria and other West Africa
Continued
Côte 
d’Ivoire 
Lion Gas Plant
Working interest 100%
Operator Afren
Gross production 795 boepd
Work programme Production*
* Butane extracted from gas stream at a rate of 12 bbls/mcf; 
gasoline extracted from gas stream at a rate of 9 bbls/mcf.
Côte 
d’Ivoire 
CI-01
Working interest 65%*
Operator Afren
Gross contingent 
resources
37 mmboe**
Work programme Seismic acquisition
* With rights over an additional 15%.
** Source: NSAI. Resources as at 31 December 2012.
Overview
CI-01 has a proven petroleum system in 
multiple reservoirs within the Cretaceous. 
Both oil and gas have been found and tested 
in the Ibex and Kudu ﬁelds, while only gas 
has been found in the Eland ﬁeld. Most of 
the oil and gas encountered is in reservoirs 
that are younger than the Albian structural 
closures targeted in the past. There are 
3D seismic surveys covering Ibex, Kudu and 
Eland, and a sparse 2D seismic grid covers 
the rest of the block. CI-01 borders the 
maritime boundary with Ghana, and lies 
adjacent to the major Jubilee and Tweneboa 
oil and gas discoveries made in recent years.
By applying the latest understanding of 
Cretaceous depositional systems to the 
existing well and seismic dataset, to redeﬁne 
the distribution of oil and gas in existing 
discoveries on the block, we believe that the 
potential exists for these accumulations to be 
signiﬁcantly larger than originally mapped.
2013 outlook
Progress is being made to advance the 
ﬁeld development plan and agree an 
associated work programme with Petroci 
and the Côte d’Ivoire Government. 3D 
seismic to augment the existing well and 
seismic dataset is expected to be part of 
this programme and it is believed that this 
new data will enhance the prospectivity 
of this block.
Côte 
d’Ivoire 
CI- 1 1
Working interest 47.96%
Operator Afren
Gross 2P certiﬁed reserves 3.9 mmboe*
2012 gross production 4,933 boepd
Work programme Production
* Source: NSAI. Reserves remaining as at 31 December 2012.
Overview
Afren is the sole owner of the Lion Gas Plant 
(LGP), which processes gas from the CI-1 1 
and adjacent CI-26 and CI-40 blocks operated 
by Canadian Natural Resources. The plant 
has an inlet capacity of 75 mmcfd and strips 
gasoline and butane from the rich gas stream 
it receives. The butane is sold into the local 
market (meeting approximately 35% of 
domestic butane demand) and gasoline is 
spiked into the CI-11 crude stream and sold 
on the international market. The LGP plant 
beneﬁts from tax-exempt status and delivered 
795 boepd average Natural Gas Liquids (NGL) 
production in 2012, in line with expectations. 
Production operations continue uninterrupted 
at the Group’s assets in Côte d’Ivoire. 
2013 outlook
We continue to evaluate our strategic and 
operational options.
Production at Block CI-11
Full year 2012 production at Block CI-11 
was approximately 4,933 boepd, 
comprising an oil rate of 807 bopd and 
natural gas rate of 23.9 mmcfd, in line 
with expectations. 
2013 outlook
We continue to evaluate our strategic 
and operational options. Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
49
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
South 
Africa
Block 2B 
Working interest 25%*
Operator Thombo
Work programme Seismic acquisition
* Working interest increases to 50% and operatorship transferred 
to Afren if Afren exercises its option to drill an exploration well.
Ghana
Keta 
Block
Working interest 35%
Operator Eni
Work programme Seismic acquisition and 
exploration drilling 
Congo 
Brazzaville
La Noumbi
Working interest 14%
Operator Maurel et Prom
Work programme Exploration drilling 
Overview
The La Noumbi permit is located onshore 
Congo Brazzaville, to the north and on 
trend with the large producing M’Boundi 
oil ﬁeld. The Partners have entered the next 
exploration phase of the Block.
2013 outlook
Following interpretation of depth processed 
2D data on the block, the operator has 
identiﬁed two prospects for exploration 
drilling, Kolo-1 and Kolo-2. The Kolo-1 
well spudded in late February 2013 and is 
currently drilling ahead. Drilling on Kolo-2 
is expected to commence once drilling 
operations on Kolo-1 have completed.
Overview
The Keta Block is located in the Volta River 
Basin in Eastern Ghana, next to the maritime 
boundary with Togo. The block has both 
Tertiary and Cretaceous prospectivity, with 
the principal exploration focus being the 
Cretaceous Albian to Campanian sections. 
The block offers multiple prospects and leads, 
with a variety of trapping and depositional 
settings. A number of these show potential 
for signiﬁcant stratigraphic trapping and giant 
ﬁeld potential.
On 6 February 2012, Afren announced that 
Eni had commenced drilling of the Nunya-1x 
(formerly named Cuda-2) exploration well, 
located in the Keta Block with the Marianas 
semi-submersible drilling rig. The objective of 
the Nunya-1x exploration well was to explore 
a large four-way dip closed Upper Cretaceous 
structure. On 25 April 2012, Afren announced 
that the well intersected 502 ft of very good 
quality sandstone reservoirs, however they were 
interpreted as water bearing. The well which 
was drilled to a total depth of 14,928 ft in a 
water depth of 5,535 ft has provided important 
information with which to calibrate and further 
enhance the Group’s understanding of this 
under-explored block in what remains a 
high-potential basin. The Partners have since 
progressed into the next two-year exploration 
phase. As part of the current work programme, 
the Partners completed the acquisition of 
new 3D seismic data during Q4 2012.
2013 outlook
The results of the recently acquired 3D seismic 
survey are being interpreted ahead of the 
expected drilling of one exploration well in 2014.
Overview
Block 2B is located in the Orange River 
Basin, an offshore shallow water area lying 
between the Ibhubesi gas ﬁeld and the 
Namaqualand coast. The block covers an 
area of approximately 5,000 km
2
 with water 
depths ranging from shore line to 820 ft. 
The main reservoir objectives are the ﬂuvial 
and lacustrine sands of Lower Cretaceous 
age, which occur in three sequences. 
The A-J1 exploration well, drilled in 1989, 
successfully encountered oil in these 
sequences and tested good quality 36º API 
oil. Reprocessing of 2D seismic data has 
since deﬁned several other Lower Cretaceous 
rift graben prospects, genetically analogous 
to the proliﬁc Lake Albert play in Uganda. 
Further prospectivity has also been identiﬁed 
within a fractured basement (analogous to 
Yemen), which could form a secondary 
exploration play on the acreage.
2013 outlook
In February 2013, the Partners successfully 
completed the acquisition of 686 km
2
of 3D seismic data, which is currently 
being processed. Operations review
50
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Afren East Africa 
Exploration
Overview
Block 1 is located on the western margin 
of the Mandera-Lugh basin in north-eastern 
Kenya bordering both Somalia and Ethiopia, 
where it is connected to the Ogaden basin. 
The Upper Triassic and Jurassic formations 
that have been identiﬁed are considered to 
be the primary zones of oil prospectivity. 
An oil seep close to the Tarbaj-1 well in the 
south-west corner of the block conﬁrms the 
presence of hydrocarbons. Analogous data 
with the Ogaden basin also suggests there 
may be other potential source rocks and 
reservoirs. The Bur Mayo and the Kalicha-
Seir formations in the Mandera-Lugh basin 
appear comparable to the Lower and Upper 
Hamanlei (Jurassic) formations in the Ogaden 
basin. If analogous, these formations should 
have high total organic content (TOC) source 
rocks and good quality reservoirs.
Several major structures have already been 
mapped on the block with the 850 km of 
existing 2D seismic coverage. On 5 April 
2012, Afren exercised its option to increase 
its participating interest on the block from 
50% to 80% and during the year the 
Partners commenced and completed the 
acquisition of 1,900 km of 2D seismic data 
to ﬁrm up the mapped structures and 
augment the results of airborne gravity 
and magnetic data acquired in 2011.
Unfortunately, during the seismic acquisition 
process we recorded our ﬁrst fatality from 
a road trafﬁc accident involving one of 
our seismic contractors. We deeply regret 
the loss of this life and are very saddened by 
the effect this tragedy has had on the family 
involved. Following a full and thorough 
investigation into the incident, we have 
further strengthened measures in place to 
ensure that the required standards of driver 
training and vehicle safety are met by our 
contractors across all operations.
2013 outlook
The completion of recently acquired seismic 
data is expected to further enhance Afren’s 
understanding of the existing prospectivity 
and facilitate prospect selection ahead of 
planned exploration drilling in 2014.
Kenya
Block 1
Working interest 80%
Operator Afren EAX*
Work programme Seismic acquisition 
* EAX is a wholly owned subsidiary of Afren plc.
Our portfolio of East African 
assets cover an extensive surface 
area of 100,221 km
2
 on a gross 
basis, and are all located in 
basins with strong evidence of 
working hydrocarbon systems 
being present. We are focused 
on Cretaceous, Jurassic and 
Tertiary rift basins which are 
geological settings that have 
yielded signiﬁcant discoveries 
in Uganda, Sudan, Tanzania, 
Madagascar, Mozambique and 
most recently in Kenya. 
Following the completion of the 
Black Marlin acquisition in 
October 2010, and the ongoing 
maturing of the portfolio through 
seismic data acquisition, mean net 
prospective resources have been 
upgraded for the East Africa portfolio 
during the year from 2,1 13 mmboe 
to 5,838 mmboe. In addition, new 
plays have been identiﬁed offshore 
Kenya and Tanzania. 
During the period we successfully 
acquired 3,483 km 2D seismic, 
2,262 km
2
 3D seismic and 1,193 km 
gravity and magnetic data.
Strategic priorities 
P20 
1
2
3
4
5
Pursue materially accretive acquisitions
Organic reserves growth
Production growth
Operational efﬁ ciency and ﬁ nancial discipline 
Corporate responsibility Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
51
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Block 10A is located in the Anza Basin 
onshore northern Kenya, which is part of 
the Central African Mesozoic rift system that 
includes the Muglad Graben in Southern 
Sudan, and the Lamu Graben in Kenya. The 
block covers a total of 14,747 km
2
. Three 
exploration wells were drilled by Amoco in 
Block 10A (Sirius-1, Bellatrix-1 and Chalbi-3) 
throughout 1988 and 1989, in the southern 
part of the block. The presence of oil and 
gas shows and the high maturity level of 
organic rocks in wells Bellatrix-1 and Sirius-1 
are evidence of a working hydrocarbon 
system on the block. The latter well notably 
established the presence of an Upper 
Cretaceous lacustrine source rock that may 
have generated low-sulphur/parafﬁnic oil.
Having satisﬁed all seismic work 
commitments with the acquisition of 750 km 
of 2D seismic over the block in 2011, the 
operator commenced exploration drilling at 
the Paipai prospect in September 2012.
2013 outlook
On 1 March 2013, the operator, Tullow Oil 
announced the temporary suspension of 
the Paipai-1 exploration well. The well which 
was drilled to a total depth of 13,960 ft 
encountered light hydrocarbon shows across 
a 180 ft thick gross sandstone interval. This 
sandstone is overlain by a 656 ft thick source 
rock which forms an effective regional top 
seal. Attempts to sample the initial reservoir 
ﬂuids were unsuccessful and the hydrocarbons 
encountered whilst drilling were not recovered 
to surface. The well has been temporarily 
suspended pending agreement on future 
evaluation options.
Kenya
Block 10A
Working interest 20%
Operator Tullow Oil
Work programme Ongoing evaluation 
and interpretation
Overview
Blocks L17 & L18 are located in the Lamu 
Coastal Basin, offshore south-east Kenya, 
covering an area of approximately 1,259 km
2
and 3,583 km
2
 respectively. They are situated 
in water depths varying from a few feet 
along the shoreline to up to around 2,625 ft 
in the Pemba Channel.
There are several potential source rocks 
for the Tertiary and Cretaceous plays in the 
southern areas of the basin including the 
Premo-Triassic Karoo interval sections within 
the Lower to Middle Jurassic and high Total 
Organic Counts (TOCs) are recorded within 
the Eocene section in the Pemba-5 well. 
There are oil seeps in the Lamu Basin and 
Pemba Island linked to a Jurassic source 
which implies that the structures in Blocks 
L17 & L18 are most likely oil bearing. The 
hydrocarbons are expected to have been 
generated in the deep Pemba trough south 
of Block L18 and in the Tembo Trough to 
the east.
Kenya
Block L 1 7 & L 18
Working interest 100%
Operator Afren EAX*
Work programme Seismic acquisition and exploration drilling
* EAX is a wholly owned subsidiary of Afren plc.
In January 2012, Afren completed the 
acquisition of 1,207 km of additional 
2D seismic data targeting the deeper water 
portion of the blocks. Interpretation of 
the data has identiﬁed four new highly 
encouraging prospects, in addition to the 
previously mapped prospects in the shallow 
water. These prospects represent a major 
new play with lower risk and greater 
materiality than the shallow water play, and 
together have increased mean prospective 
resources on the blocks, from 94 mmboe 
to 1,088 mmboe, since the Black Marlin 
acquisition. As a result, Afren, in close 
consultation with the Ministry of Energy, 
completed the acquisition of 1,006 km
2
  
3D seismic during December 2012, in lieu 
of the well commitment, in order to better 
understand the deep water prospectivity, 
prior to exploration drilling. In addition, 
an onshore 2D seismic survey of 120 km 
was commissioned in September 2012 
to simultaneously continue maturation of 
the shallow water/onshore play; this survey 
was completed in December 2012. 
2013 outlook
The recently acquired 3D and 2D seismic 
data will be processed and interpreted to 
further reﬁne the prospect inventory in 
anticipation of a 2014 drilling programme.
“Following our entry into the region we have been investing heavily 
in the acquisition of new geological data and have now entered the 
phase where our investment will be focused on drilling multiple 
exploration wells in order to fully realise the potential of our acreage.”
Galib Virani, 
Director, Afren EAX Ltd Operations review
52
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Afren East Africa Exploration
Continued
Overview
The Tanga Block is located offshore and 
onshore north-east Tanzania. The block lies 
south of, and is contiguous with, Afren’s 
100% owned and operated Blocks L17 & L18 
in Kenya. It contains a southerly extension 
of the same coastal high and basin trough 
plays allowing us to leverage our regional 
expertise and knowledge.
Interpretation of previously acquired 900 km 
2D seismic data reinforced the Partners’ views 
that the prospectivity in the deeper water 
parts of the acreage represents a potentially 
lower geological risk exploration opportunity. 
2013 outlook
A 620 km
2
 3D seismic survey was completed 
in January 2013 and processing is being fast 
tracked in order to bring the deeper water 
prospectivity to equal technical maturity as 
the shallow water prospects and allow the 
Group to optimise the prospect selection 
ahead of exploration drilling. Mean 
prospective resources on the block were 
upgraded in the period from 1,026 mmboe 
to 1,244 mmboe.
Overview
In 2012, the Company elected to relinquish 
Area C in order to focus on high-priority 
plays in Areas A & B. 
Areas A & B are located in the Seychelles 
micro-continent in shallow to deep water in 
the northern half of the Seychelles plateau 
and cover a combined area of approximately 
14,319 km
2
.
The main exploration targets are the 
Permo-Triassic Karoo interval, which 
comprises non-marine sands inter-bedded 
with shales and a Cretaceous marine rift 
basin underlain by Jurassic platform source 
rocks. The Karoo formation contains both 
the source rock and the reservoir. Over 1980 
to 1981, three exploration wells were drilled, 
all of which encountered oil shows and 
conﬁrmed the presence of a working 
hydrocarbon system. 
Seismic data previously acquired by the 
Partners revealed the presence of several 
large-scale structures in the two licence areas 
that are located in shallow to deep water in 
the northern half of the Seychelles plateau. 
A major new 2D survey in Q4 201 1 (3,733 km) 
focused on these areas to better deﬁne the 
areas’ true prospectivity. 
2013 outlook
In Q1 2013, Afren completed a major 3D 
seismic programme, the ﬁrst 3D survey to be 
conducted in the Seychelles. The programme 
consisted of two surveys in Afren’s licence 
areas. The ﬁrst 3D survey was conducted in 
the southern portion of the licence over the 
Bonit prospect and covered 600 km
2
. The 
second survey was in the northern section 
of the licence area and covered an area of 
2,775 km
2
. The new 3D seismic combined 
with existing 2D data are being processed by 
the Partners to assess in detail the Tertiary, 
Cretaceous and Jurassic prospectivity.
Gross un-risked prospective resources for the 
two areas are estimated at 2,800 mmboe.
Seychelles
Areas A & B
Working interest 75%
Operator Afren EAX*
Work programme Seismic acquisition
* EAX is a wholly owned subsidiary of Afren plc.
T anzania
Tanga 
Block 
Working interest 74%
Operator Afren
Work programme Seismic acquisition and 
exploration drilling Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
53
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Block 1 101 is located on the eastern ﬂank 
of the Ambilobe Basin, onshore northern 
Madagascar. The block encompasses 
an area of approximately 14,900 km
2
.  
The main exploration targets are sands 
of the Isalo formation. There are proven 
heavy oil accumulations in the Isalo 
formation in Central Madagascar such as 
Bemolanga and Tsimiroro, indicating good 
reservoir conditions.
During the year, the Partners continued 
to make good progress in meeting the 
requirements of the expanded work 
programme as agreed with state oil and gas 
agency OMNIS in 2011. An airborne gravity 
and magnetic survey was completed in 
January 2012, and in June 2012 the Partners 
conducted geological ﬁeldwork on the 
block. Acquisition of 230 km of 2D seismic 
was completed during Q4 2012 and will 
be used to augment the interpretation of 
approximately 220 km of previously acquired 
2D seismic.
2013 outlook
The expanded work programme combines 
the ﬁrst two exploration phases on the block 
and requires the drilling of one exploration 
well expected to be drilled in 2013.
Madagascar
Block 1 101
Working interest 90%
Operator Afren EAX*
Work programme Exploration drilling
* EAX is a wholly owned subsidiary of Afren plc.
Overview
In 2012, Afren and its Partners decided to 
relinquish Blocks 2 & 6 in order to focus 
future exploration activities on Blocks 7 & 8.
Blocks 7 & 8 are located in the Ogaden 
Basin and are both part of the same PSC 
covering an overall area of 23,162 km
2
.
Exploration in the Ethiopia area began in the 
1970s with Tenneco discovering the Calub 
and Hilal gas ﬁelds approximately 200 km 
to the east of Block 6. Exploration continued 
throughout the 1980s. Three wells, 
El-Kuran-1, El Kuran-2 and Bodle-1, have 
been drilled on the blocks. Both of the El Kuran 
wells encountered hydrocarbons and oil 
was recovered from the Jurassic Hamanlei 
formation. The main potential reservoirs are 
in the basin and clastic sediments of the 
Carboniferous age Calub formation and the 
Triassic age Adigrat formation. In addition, 
some permeable Jurassic carbonate rocks in 
the Hamanlei formation can be considered 
potential reservoirs.
2013 outlook
Work is ongoing to further interpret the 
prospectivity of Blocks 7 & 8 ahead of 
expected drilling by the new operator 
New Age in the ﬁrst half of 2013. 
Ethiopia
Blocks 
7 & 8
Working interest 30%
Operator New Age
Work programme Exploration drilling Operations review
54
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Kurdistan 
region of Iraq
Kurdistan region of Iraq 
Barda Rash
Working interest 60%
Operator Afren
Gross 2P certiﬁed reserves 190 mmbbls*
Gross contingent resources 1,243 mmbbls*
Gross production 50 bopd
Work programme Production and development
* Source: RPS Energy. Reserves and Resources remaining as at 26 March 2012.
Strategic priorities 
P20 
1
2
3
4
5
Pursue materially accretive acquisitions
Organic reserves growth
Production growth
Operational efﬁ ciency and ﬁ nancial discipline 
Corporate responsibility
A world-class development project
The Barda Rash PSC is located 55 km 
north-west of Erbil, and holds the 
14,015 mmbbls STOIIP/1,433 mmbbls gross 
recoverable Barda Rash oil ﬁeld. The ﬁeld 
is deﬁned as an elongated anticline with 
surface expression of 20 km length and up 
to 7 km width. The reservoirs are fractured 
carbonates of various depositional settings.
In 2009, the BR-1 discovery well was drilled 
to 5,535 ft and successfully encountered oil 
in Cretaceous to Jurassic reservoirs. Well tests 
were carried out on the Jurassic Mus and 
Adaiyah formations, each yielding rates 
of around 3,200 bopd, with a subsequent 
extended test of the BR-1 well producing 
440,000 barrels of 30° to 32° API oil over 
a three-month period. During this time, oil 
was trucked from onsite storage and sent 
to local reﬁneries. 
Image: The Barda Rash ﬁeld in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
55
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Kurdistan region of Iraq 
Ain Sifni
Working interest 20%
Operator Hunt Oil Middle East Ltd.
Gross contingent resources 42 mmbbls*
Work programme Exploration drilling
*Source: RPS Energy. Resources remaining as at 9 June 2011.
Overview
The Ain Sifni PSC is located 70 km north-west 
of Erbil, and operated by Hunt Oil Middle East. 
Drilled on the crest of the Simrit anticline in 
2010, the JS-1 discovery well logged 
continuous oil pay from 3,642 ft to 10,072 ft 
in Cretaceous and Jurassic reservoirs. Triassic 
reservoir targets were not penetrated by the 
well and no oil water contact was established.
The PSC has substantial upside over and 
above the volumes discovered to date at the 
Simrit structure, with prospective resources 
independently estimated at 7,493 mmbbls 
STOIIP and 917 mmbbls recoverable on a 
gross unrisked basis. 
On 17 April 2012, the Group announced that 
the Simrit-2 exploration well had successfully 
encountered an estimated 1,342 ft of net oil 
pay in Cretaceous, Jurassic and Triassic age 
reservoirs. The well was initially drilled to its 
prognosed total measured depth of 12,139 ft 
but was subsequently deepened to a revised 
total depth of 12,467 ft to test additional zones 
of prospectivity. The Partners completed drilling 
on the Simrit-2 exploration well in July 2012. 
The objective of the well was to test the 
western extent of the Simrit anticline, a 
large-scale east to west trending structure 
located on the northern part of the Ain Sifni 
PSC. Analysis of data collected over the 
deepened section of well indicated the 
continual presence of light oil shows, and 
extended the estimated net oil pay encountered 
by the well to 1,509 ft throughout Cretaceous, 
Jurassic and Triassic age reservoirs. 
Following the conclusion of drilling operations 
at Simrit-2, a comprehensive well test 
programme was undertaken. 
“ As the region develops politically, we are one of the best-placed 
resource companies to beneﬁt from signiﬁcant reserves growth, 
de-risking of the geopolitical landscape and a consequent 
realisation of sustained oil export revenues.”
David Kennedy,
Regional Managing Director
The Partners intend to undertake up to 12 
separate drill stem tests (DSTs) in total, and 
announced on 26 July 2012 that the ﬁrst 
batch of three DSTs in the Triassic age Kurra 
Chine formation had yielded an aggregate 
ﬂow rate of 13,584 bopd of 39° API oil. On 
13 March 2013, the Partners announced the 
successful completion of a further three DSTs 
at the Simrit-2 well in the Jurassic Mus, 
Adiayah and Butmah formations yielding an 
aggregate ﬂow rate of 5,368 bopd and 21° 
API oil using the Hitech-3 rig. The Partners 
have now achieved aggregate ﬂow rates of 
18,952 bopd to date. The remaining testing 
operations at Simrit-2 will focus on Upper 
Jurassic and Cretaceous reservoirs.
Of signiﬁcance, on 12 September 2012, 
Afren announced that exploration drilling 
had commenced at the East Simrit prospect 
(Simrit-3 well). The Simrit-3 well is located 
approximately 10 km east of the successful 
Simrit-2 discovery well, and is exploring 
the eastern extent of the large-scale Simrit 
anticline. The well is currently operating 
at 11,483 ft having drilled and logged 
hydrocarbon bearing intervals in the 
Cretaceous, Jurassic, and Triassic reservoirs. 
A multi-zone testing programme is being 
prepared when drilling operations conclude.
2013 outlook
The Simrit-2 testing programme is ongoing 
and Simrit-3 testing programme will 
commence shortly. The operator Hunt Oil is 
also planning to drill a further two exploration 
wells in 2013 testing the Cretaceous, Jurassic 
and Triassic reservoirs in the Maqlub structure 
(Maqlub-1 and Maqlub-2) and a contingent 
well on Simrit (Simrit-4).
Export pipeline infrastructure is located 
approximately 55 km from the ﬁeld location 
and has capacity available. Two further wells 
were drilled at the ﬁeld in 2010, BR-2 and 
BR-3, both encountering oil full-to-base in 
all reservoirs. The ﬁeld is deﬁned by 330 km 
of good-quality 2D seismic data.
In 2012 Afren commenced the phased 
development of the ﬁeld that is initially 
targeting the development of light oil 
reserves, the ﬁrst stage of which comprises 
of re-entering the three existing wells 
that have been drilled to date at the ﬁeld, 
completing them as production wells 
and commissioning a modular early 
production system. 
Having commenced an extensive testing 
programme at the BR-1 well in July 2012 and 
establishing oil rates in excess of 6,000 bopd 
of 28° to 32° API oil, as well as obtaining 
valuable information on the production 
characteristics of the Mus/Adiayah reservoir, 
Afren initiated production operations in 
August 2012 and has produced its ﬁrst 
cargo of sales speciﬁcation oil to tank. 
Initial storage capacity limits during the early 
phases of start-up at the ﬁeld led the Group 
to restrict ﬂow-to-tank from the well. At year 
end, approximately 18,800 barrels was held 
in storage at the ﬁeld. The work-over and 
testing operations on the existing Barda Rash 
well-stock is continuing. The Viking I-10 rig 
has also been contracted to commence the 
ﬁrst of the new Phase 2 wells to be drilled 
on the block by Afren.
2013 outlook
Afren has commenced Phase 2 operations 
on the ﬁeld which will involve new wells 
to increase production capacity, evaluate 
new ﬁeld areas and acquire modern log and 
core data to better understand and delineate 
the ﬁeld. 56
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate 
responsibility
Corporate responsibility is an integral part of Afren’s culture, permeating all aspects 
of our business. We are committed to conducting operations safely and in an 
ethically, socially and environmentally responsible manner. This commitment is put 
into practice on a day-to-day basis and is regularly monitored through both our 
management and assurance systems. 57
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
The Afren approach 58
Environment 61
Health and Safety 62
Social 63
Business ethics 64
Human Resources 65 Corporate responsibility
58
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
We are increasingly adopting 
targets and metrics to measure 
our performance, providing our 
stakeholders with a consistent 
and transparent overview 
of our Corporate responsibility 
performance. Our key focus 
is continuous improvement, 
which means learning from 
both our successes and 
challenges, and using these 
insights to enhance our 
future performance. 
To further demonstrate our commitment and 
to set visible benchmarks for our stakeholders, 
we intend to expand our reporting on these 
issues using the Guidelines on Sustainability 
Reporting developed by the International 
Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation 
Association (IPIECA) as the framework. These 
guidelines offer comprehensive analysis and 
advice on current best practice on sustainability 
reporting that will complement the approach 
to reporting that we have adopted to date. 
It will allow us to develop our corporate 
reporting in subsequent years by providing 
detailed principles and performance indicators 
such that we can demonstrate our strong 
Environmental, Health and Safety and Social 
(EHSS) performance. Figure 1 below illustrates 
how we intend to build our reporting around 
the ﬁve main branches of our Corporate 
responsibility policy covering the environment, 
Health and Safety, social and community, 
Human Resources and business ethics.
The Afren approach to 
Corporate responsibility
Figure 1. Framework for Corporate responsibility and sustainability reporting
Health 
and Safety
– Workforce participation
– Workforce health
– Occupational injury and illness incidents
– Product stewardship
– Process safety
– Local community impacts 
and engagements
– Indigenous peoples
– Involuntary resettlement
– Social investment
– Local content practices
– Local hiring practices
– Local procurement and 
supplier development
– Human rights due diligence
– Human rights and suppliers
– Security and human rights
– Workforce diversity and inclusion
– Workforce engagement
– Workforce training and development
– Non-retaliation and grievance system
– Preventing corruption
– Preventing corruption 
involving business partners
– Transparency of payments 
to host governments
– Public advocacy and 
lobbying
– Greenhouse gas emissions
– Energy use
– Alternative energy sources
– Flared gas
– Biodiversity and ecosystem services
– Fresh water
– Other air emissions
– Spills to the environment
– Discharges to water
– Waste
Social
Human 
Resources
Business 
ethics
Environment
Clearly the IPIECA guidance is generic in nature 
and we have therefore evaluated all of the 
sustainability issues identiﬁed by the IPIECA 
guidance on their materiality to Afren (how 
pertinent to our current operations is the issue 
and how much could it impact the business 
if it were mismanaged) and have ranked 
them accordingly. This will set our priorities for 
agreeing the strategy to deal with each issue, 
for developing appropriate management 
systems and for measuring and reporting on 
performance. These priorities may change as 
the business develops and as we receive 
feedback from our stakeholders and we will 
therefore review materiality on a regular basis.
For those issues identiﬁed as having a high 
materiality we have either already developed 
strategies and have controls in place and 
are reporting on performance, or we are 
developing more detailed strategies within our 
existing systems to focus on speciﬁc aspects. 
Once we have established and agreed a 
strategy we will then implement additional 
management controls if required, set targets 
and measure appropriate performance metrics. 
This will then demonstrate the effectiveness 
of both the strategy and the controls. By 
monitoring our performance in this way we 
will also get valuable feedback which we can 
use to continuously improve our policies, 
processes and procedures. 
The ﬁnal piece of the puzzle is the role of 
stakeholder engagement. We currently hold 
dialogue with all of our major stakeholders 
as well as listening to the smaller or minority 
opinions. We hope to encourage this process 
still further through clear and objective 
reporting of the key issues. The overall 
process is illustrated in Figure 2.
In reporting on our 2012 performance 
the starting point is the objectives we set 
ourselves at the end of 201 1. These objectives 
encompassed consolidating our EHSS 
management systems, extending the 
programme to include our operations in the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq, and achieving basic 
EHSS targets of zero lost time incidents, 
zero fatalities, and zero oil spills. We have 
had mixed success in meeting these objectives 
and this will be described in detail in the 
following pages.  Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
59
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Strategic priorities 
P20
“We remain committed to running our 
business in a safe and responsible manner. ”
Shahid Ullah, 
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Figure 2. Process for developing and implementing sustainability strategies 
2012 Performance
IPIECA 
Sustainability 
issues
Policy
Commitments
Process and procedures
Implementation
Monitoring and reporting
Strategies
Stakeholder engagement and feedback
2013 Targets
Issue 2013 targets
Sustainability issues
Greenhouse gas 
emissions
– Record and report all fuel use and other sources 
of GHG emissions.
Energy use – Record and report total energy use in GWh.
Flared gas – Record and report the quantities of ﬂared gas.
Biodiversity – Conduct EIAs ahead of all 2013 activities.
Spills to the 
environment
– Record and report number and volume of spills > 1 bbl.
– 2013 target less than ﬁve spills.
Discharges to water – Record and report the ppm and total tonnage of oil in 
produced water.
– Record and report tonnages of cuttings and muds discharged.
Waste – Record and report tonnages of hazardous and non-
hazardous wastes.
– Record and report tonnages of wastes that are recycled.
Local community 
impact
– Conduct SIAs ahead of all 2013 activities.
Social investment – Record and report social investment spend – US$ value.
– Evaluate effectiveness of investment projects over US$150k.
Preventing 
corruption
– Provide company-wide refresher training on Code of 
Business Conduct.
– Monitor compliance with the gifts register on a quarterly basis.
– Record, investigate and report all cases of whistle-blowing.
– Include reference to Afren’s Code of Business Conduct in 
all contracts.
Occupational injury – Target 2013 LTIF < 0.43 and TRIR < 1.76.
– Record, investigate and report all motor vehicle accidents.
Process safety – Record, investigate and report all breaches of process integrity.
– Implement a corporate Operations Integrity Maintenance 
System (OIMS).
Issue 2013 targets
Management system issues
Asset integrity – Establish a gate process for design of new facilities.
Safe systems 
of work
– Conduct EHSS and security risk assessments ahead 
of all projects.
EHSS culture – Establish EHSS/Security Network meetings.
Crisis management – Roll out the new incident notiﬁcation system to all business 
units.
– Revise and issue the corporate Crisis Management Plan.
– Provide training and exercising on the Crisis Management Plan.
– Review the corporate Incident Reporting and Investigation 
procedure.
Contractor 
management
– Incorporate contractor EHSS/Security requirements into 
all contracts.
Environment – Roll out corporate Environmental Management procedure.
– Establish programme of corporate environmental audits.
Security – Ensure security risk assessments are conducted for 
all operations.
– Establish a system for quality assurance of security measures.
– Conduct security reviews for all new facility designs.
Audits – Complete proposed 2013 audit/exercise/inspection schedule.
Framework for 2013 EHSS Targets
Impact on operations
Afren materiality index
Relevance to operations
1
2
3
4
5
Pursue materially accretive acquisitions
Organic reserves growth
Production growth
Operational efﬁ ciency and ﬁ nancial discipline 
Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility
60
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Case study 
Afren’s EHSS programmes in the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq
Afren’s commitment to high standards of 
EHSS performance operates from the ﬁrst 
moment that a business opportunity is 
considered. In the case of our assets in 
the Kurdistan region of Iraq, the EHSS risks 
were evaluated alongside the technical 
and commercial risks and the assets were 
subject to a detailed due diligence visit 
prior to completion of the transaction.
As soon as Afren took over as operator 
of the Barda Rash ﬁeld we began the 
implementation of a comprehensive EHSS 
management system consistent with our 
corporate standard and analogous to the 
systems we have successfully established 
in our other operations. Supporting the 
implementation of the system we have 
recruited a dedicated team of EHSS 
professionals who work closely with our own 
management as well as our key contractors 
to reinforce our performance standards by 
providing training and advice as well as 
conducting audits and inspections.
During 2012 we conducted a signiﬁcant 
number of activities in Barda Rash including 
completing a 350 km
2
 3D seismic survey, 
carrying out workover operations on the 
three existing wells and commencing the 
construction of early production facilities. 
In all, 616,524 man hours were worked 
in these operations with no lost time injuries. 
We consider this to be a major achievement 
as we have employed and trained large 
numbers of local workers as part of our 
wider commitment to local capacity building. 
One of the signiﬁcant EHSS risks Barda Rash 
has in common with many other ﬁelds 
in the area is the potential for toxic gases 
in the form of hydrogen sulphide or, once 
this is burnt, sulphur dioxide. We have 
established a comprehensive monitoring and 
alarm system surrounding our operations to 
detect even the smallest concentrations of 
these gases to protect the local population. 
We have worked closely with the local 
authorities to explain to the community 
the risks and the actions to take if odours 
are detected and we have a dedicated 
telephone number that can be called if 
there are any concerns. Environmental 
responsibility is a guiding principle to our 
operating philosophy; with the construction 
of a sour gas treating facility we will aim to 
minimise any potential hydrogen sulphide 
and sulphur dioxide exposure to our 
surrounding communities.
We recognised at the outset the importance 
of strong community relations for our 
successful operations at Barda Rash and 
we have therefore established a network 
for consultation and engagement with our 
host communities. 
We have a dedicated Community Liaison 
Ofﬁcer who is from the community and 
we hold regular meetings with all levels 
of the population. Our community 
investment programme for the Kurdistan 
region of Iraq is already well-established 
with projects including:
– Education hall refurbishment: Afren 
renovated, furnished and equipped one 
of the two main halls used by the local 
community and students.
– Crop compensation: Afren provided 
compensation payments to 24 villages for 
any adverse effects resulting from seismic 
work performed in the area. Afren is one 
of the only foreign oil companies to do 
this for the surrounding communities and 
it has been widely acknowledged. 
Review and consolidation of EHSS management systems
Afren’s EHSS policies and procedures have been in place for several years and have 
remained largely unchanged during this time. As the Group has grown and as we have 
gained experience and feedback from audits we have recognised the need to update 
and re-vitalise the management system. Towards the end of 2012 we embarked on a 
programme of reviewing and revising the key components of our management system 
and this will be continued during the course of 2013. Once we have reviewed and 
updated our procedures we will roll these out through the organisation to ensure that all 
key personnel are aware of the changes and that they are incorporated into the local 
management systems in each of our operations. We will be starting with the high-level 
policy documents and ensuring that these reference the key sustainability issues 
identiﬁed in the IPIECA guidelines on Sustainability Reporting.
The Afren approach 
to Corporate responsibility
Continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
61
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
During 2012 we issued additional detailed 
guidance on environmental management 
in line with best industry practice. We have 
been following this up with a programme 
of speciﬁc environmental audits to verify 
compliance and to benchmark our 
performance against the international 
environmental management standard, 
ISO14001. These environmental audits 
complement the Health and Safety audits 
that have been responsible for year-on-year 
improvements in safety performance. 
We have completed audits of our ﬂagship 
Nigerian projects at Okoro and Ebok and will 
be conducting similar audits in Côte d’Ivoire 
and Kurdistan. The audits in Nigeria showed 
a good level of adherence with the principles 
of the ISO standard and demonstrated that 
our operations are legally compliant and 
meeting our own stringent requirements. 
There were of course areas for improvement 
and we will be focusing our attention in 2013 
on addressing the main areas of non-
conformity identiﬁed by the audits. This will 
mean setting increased corporate direction 
and ensuring more effective implementation 
in our operations by raising the level of 
awareness of environmental issues. 
For the second year we have collated data 
on greenhouse gas emissions from our 
operations including activities in the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq and East Africa by 
location and activity as illustrated below. 
We will continue to monitor these emissions 
whilst at all times striving to use energy as 
efﬁciently as possible in our exploration for 
and production of hydrocarbons.
2012 witnessed three hydrocarbon spills to 
the environment, with an estimated total 
volume of 5 bbls. These spill incidents were 
thoroughly investigated and action was 
taken to prevent recurrence.
15
20
25
Dec Nov Oct Sep Aug Jul June
2012
May Apr Mar Feb Jan
DPR Limit
Independent
3rd party
Proﬁle of Okoro ﬁeld oil-in-water content
Oil-in-water Conc (ppm)
A commitment to high 
standards of environmental 
performance has always been 
at the heart of our operating 
philosophy. We monitor our 
performance regularly to 
ensure that this commitment 
is met and that our impact on 
the environment is minimised. 
As our operations have 
expanded so we have seen 
the need to strengthen our 
environmental controls. 
Environment
Emissions by location 2012
(Percentage of total 805,068 tonnes of CO
2
 equivalent)
%
Ebok 36
Okoro 35
Côte d’Ivoire 17
East Africa 10
Kurdistan 1
Okwok 1
Emissions by activity 2012
(Percentage of total 805,068 tonnes of CO
2
 equivalent)
%
Flaring 52
Production 32
Seismic 10
Drilling 6
35
17
10
11
36
52
32
10
6 Corporate responsibility
62
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our Health and Safety 
performance came in below 
expectations in 2012 as we 
recorded our ﬁrst fatality in 
Block 1, Kenya. This arose from 
a road trafﬁc accident involving 
one of our seismic contractors. 
We deeply regret the loss of 
this life and are very saddened 
by the effect this tragedy has 
had on the family involved.
This incident had major ramiﬁcations for the 
organisation and resulted in the immediate 
cessation of the 2D seismic project whilst 
the causes of the accident were investigated 
and steps were taken to reinforce road 
safety in this difﬁcult driving environment. 
Following a full and thorough investigation 
into the incident, we have further 
strengthened measures in place to ensure 
that the required standards of driver training 
and vehicle safety are met across all of 
our operations.
Our Lost Time Injury Frequency rate (LTIF) 
rose slightly during 2012 when compared to 
2011 performance, 0.53 in 2012 compared 
with 0.22 in 2011. The Total Recordable 
Incident Rate for 2012 of 1.47 showed an 
improvement over the 2011 ﬁgure of 1.96 
(see adjacent graphs).
These results reﬂect in part the wide range 
of operations in which Afren was involved 
during the course of 2012 and in particular 
the signiﬁcant increase in exploration activity 
in East Africa. Working with contractors to 
reduce the numbers of injuries sustained in 
Afren’s operations will continue to be a 
focus of the safety programme during 2013.
Health and Safety
A highlight of the year was the achievement 
of the British Safety Council (BSC) Sword 
of Honour for the operations in Côte d’Ivoire. 
This represents the culmination of several 
years’ work to establish a robust safety 
management system in the Côte d’Ivoire 
operations following the acquisition of the 
assets, and the award of Five Stars in the 
BSC Health and Safety audit at the end of 
201 1. Afren is continuing with the BSC Five 
Star Audit system for operations in both 
Côte d’Ivoire and Nigeria and will commence 
auditing in Kurdistan during the course 
of 2013.
2010 2011 2012
TRIR
2009 2010 2011 2012
LTIF
2009
2.45
9.33
1.96
1.4 7
1.63
2.4 1
0.22
0.53
-0.49TRIR
+0.31 LTIF
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 
and Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF)
Côte d’Ivoire safety award
Image: Routine site inspection at the Lion Gas Plant. Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
63
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Afren has continued to 
make considerable strategic 
community investments at both 
the corporate and country level, 
and each serves different needs. 
Our corporate activities focus 
on three global issues: health, 
employment and education.
Our country level community investments, 
managed locally, represent a key aspect 
of our local content strategy. We focus local 
investments on many of the social and 
economic challenges identiﬁed through 
social impact assessments, executed at the 
beginning of each project phase. Across our 
operations, country-speciﬁc investments 
address needs ranging from providing 
supplies to local orphanages to inoculations 
against disease and addressing community 
water needs.
Whether it be at the corporate or country 
level Afren addresses local and regional 
issues, risks and impacts in consultation with 
communities, NGOs, industry partners and 
other key stakeholders. Our objectives 
include ensuring local capabilities are in 
place to sustain social programmes beyond 
our initial investment and involvement.
Nigeria and other West Africa
The University of Uyo Project (Nigeria): 
As part of a multi-year project, Afren equipped 
the Chemical and Petroleum Engineering 
Department’s lab and helped the school 
re-attain accreditation. Our goal is to transform 
this department into the number one 
programme for the future oil and gas leaders.
Okoro Jetties (Nigeria):
Afren constructed three jetties in Ikonta, 
Amadaka and Emeroke within the Eastern 
Obolo communities. The jetties will open 
up these isolated communities and allow 
them to expand their businesses. 
Save the Children WASH Abidjan (Côte d’Ivoire):
Save the Children completed a Sanitation 
and Rehabilitation initiative at ﬁve schools 
in Abidjan, fully funded by Afren. Together, 
we helped provide a child-friendly and safe 
environment for children to learn.
Afren East Africa Exploration
Pangea Network (Kenya):
We are in our third year of a business 
skills and micro-credit scheme which 
provides six months of business training 
to three women’s cooperatives in Shimoni 
and Mtwapa. They then receive one 
year revolving loans to start or enhance 
their businesses.
Regional Host Community Assistance (Kenya):
Afren awarded scholarships for borehole 
maintenance training, renovated and 
equipped several schools, and provided 
drought intervention for livestock via a 
veterinary assistance organisation.
Kurdistan region of Iraq
Top Student Recognition Awards:
Afren held a ceremony with the mayor, 
local leaders, government leaders and Afren 
management to recognise the top 34 high 
school and middle school students in Barda 
Rash. Our goal is to recognise these students 
for their achievements and in turn encourage 
their peers. 
Community and Youth Centre: 
We provided recreational and IT equipment 
to the Barda Rash Community and Youth 
Centre. This centre provides an important area 
for the local community to congregate, and 
participate in social and educational classes.
Social
“ At each of our locations we have dedicated community 
affairs teams that are responsible for working with local 
communities in identifying, implementing and completing 
bespoke projects that make a positive and lasting 
contribution to economic and social development.” 
David Capra,
Group Head of EHSS
Community investment projects
Image: Pangea – Mtwapa women’s group proudly holding 
their graduation certiﬁcates.
Image: University of Uyo – setting up the new lab equipment. Image: Barda Rash ribbon cutting ceremony at new Community 
Youth Centre. Corporate responsibility
64
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business 
ethics
Afren’s Core Values
The Afren Code of Business 
Conduct articulates and formalises 
Afren’s commitment to high 
ethical standards and our core 
corporate values. Our values 
represent our key priorities and 
drive the intent and direction of 
our strategic planning. These core 
values underpin the Afren 
culture and consist of:
A passion for our host countries
We believe in creating sustainable 
long-term value not only for our 
stakeholders but also within the 
countries in which we operate.
Performance driven by self-belief
We believe that our shared abilities are a 
resource that can enable us to succeed in 
a challenging and dynamic environment.
Unconventional and innovative
At Afren we are encouraged to take up 
new challenges and pursue innovative 
ideas. We thrive on being progressive in 
all areas of our operations and reward 
dynamism at any level in the organisation.
Trust through open communication
We recognise that our success is dependent 
on fostering relationships built on trust 
and respect between our employees, 
business partners and shareholders.
Commitment to continuous development 
We believe that if we are to succeed 
and promote sustainable growth and 
development, it will mean learning from 
our past experiences, not denying them 
and not ignoring them.
Compliance with a strong 
code of business ethics is 
critically important for an 
oil and gas company with 
operations in Africa and the 
Middle East. Everyone in 
Afren, including our partners, 
contractors and suppliers, 
has an obligation to uphold 
and maintain high ethical 
standards. This is fundamental 
to the way we operate.
During the course of 2012 we continued to 
implement the requirements of the corporate 
Code of Business Conduct. The Anti-Bribery 
and Corruption policy and procedures were 
reviewed and refreshed to provide further 
guidance and maintain compliance with 
the UK Bribery Act and the Ministry of 
Justice Guidelines on Adequate Procedures. 
All new starters attended training in relation 
to the Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy 
and the Gifts, Entertainment, Hospitality and 
Charitable Donations register and signed 
a compliance register indicating their 
commitment to adhere to the values-based 
approach that governs our business decisions. 
We also provided all new employees with the 
Code of Business Conduct as part of their 
induction process which they were required to 
read and conﬁrm that they understood it and 
agreed to abide by its requirements. All new 
contracts with suppliers and contractors have 
also been amended to include Anti-Bribery 
and Corruption provisions and the Code of 
Business Conduct has also been appended 
to these contracts.
An Anti-Bribery and Corruption Review 
Committee (the Compliance Committee) 
was set up to conduct quarterly reviews 
of the entries in the Gifts, Entertainment, 
Hospitality and Charitable Donations register 
and to monitor compliance with the 
Code of Business Conduct. The Compliance 
Committee conducted sample testing by 
matching entries in the Gifts, Entertainment, 
Hospitality and Charitable Donations register 
with expense reports and entries in the 
relevant asset accounts. Results of the 
quarterly reviews and regular updates are 
provided by the head of the Compliance 
Committee to the Audit and Risk Committee. 
We have investigated all cases that have 
been raised through the whistle-blowing 
hotline, which is operated by Safecall, an 
independent, offsite agent. During 2012 
there was a single instance of whistle-
blowing recorded, which was investigated 
and resolved by the Group General Counsel 
and Company Secretary and the Senior 
Independent Director.
During the course of 2013 we intend to 
update the Code of Business Conduct 
to align the Afren Group with new external 
requirements and revise its contents in 
the light of our experiences to date. Upon 
completion, we will widen the current 
compliance training programme to cover 
all aspects of the Code, over and above the 
provisions on anti-bribery and corruption. 
Refresher sessions will be held to assist 
employees in applying the code requirements 
and its principles to their work and everyday 
business practices.
 P66
For more information 
on governance 
“ The speciﬁc requirements for ensuring that our operations are 
ethical are embedded in our Code of Business Conduct and the 
culture of the organisation. Given the jurisdictions in which we 
operate, we continue to be vigilant and work seamlessly with our 
stakeholders to ensure that our policies, procedures, systems and 
controls address the ever-changing challenges that we face. ”
Shirin Johri, 
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
65
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Afren’s people are responsible 
for delivering our success story.
We are totally committed to 
making Afren the employer of 
choice in the areas we operate 
and to ensure that we are able 
to attract, retain and support 
the development of the most 
talented and skilled employees 
available. Our ability to operate 
is built not just on physical 
assets but on our people. 
They determine how effectively 
we uphold our values and 
reputation and how successful 
we are.
With our expansion into East Africa and 
Kurdistan, we have grown our organisation 
to over 460 employees and contractors, which 
is an increase of 28% on 201 1 numbers.
We have reviewed our HR practices against 
the IPIECA sustainability reporting guidelines 
and consider the key issues to be proactively 
and effectively managed as described below.
Diversity and inclusion
The international nature of our business 
is reﬂected in our workforce. We employ 
people from local communities and 
countries where we operate, offering 
excellent career opportunities regardless 
of ethnicity, gender, age, religion or 
disability. We are extremely proud that 
over 94% of permanent employees in 
our overseas locations are local nationals. 
We are sponsoring four Master’s Degree 
students from Nigeria in top universities and 
have continued with our intern programmes 
in London, Houston, Lagos and Abidjan 
where we have offered valuable technical and 
professional experience to over 41 graduates.
Training and development
In 2012 we invested over US$1.1 million 
in employee training and development 
programmes and initiatives. We have also 
continued with state-of-the-art online 
learning for both soft skills and technical/ 
professional courses. 
We are developing an Afren Leadership 
Programme, a bespoke modular programme 
for senior managers which will signiﬁcantly 
enhance our leadership and management 
capability and, we believe, our overall 
business performance. 
We have also introduced a new Technical 
Development Programme which focuses on 
early-career development for our technical 
employees and will also be enhancing our 
employee induction programme during 2013.
Engagement
We want our employees to feel valued and 
engaged and we provide an excellent physical 
environment with state-of-the-art new ofﬁces 
in Erbil, Kurdistan region of Iraq and planned 
new ofﬁces for Nairobi, Kenya; competitive 
rewards programmes including a consistently 
applied bonus based on performance; and 
challenging and interesting work and projects. 
Our voluntary staff turnover ﬁgure rose to 
4.6% during 2012, but this is still below the 
industry standard and our own target of 5%.
Human 
Resources
Case study
Early-career development programme
Afren recognises that the ﬁrst several years after graduation 
are a critical time for engineers and geoscientists. Early-career 
employees at Afren are in an enviable position to apply their 
education to impactful and interesting projects and are 
accountable for contributing actively to fast-paced ﬁeld 
development plans and operations.
In order to fast-track technical development to ensure early-career 
employees reach their potential, in 2012 Afren management 
focused on a more structured technical skills assessment process, 
personal development plans and mentoring.
Employees and managers have started to construct 12- to 
18-month development plans which focus on their most pressing 
technical skills gaps and address the development of these skills 
through a mix of training, on-the-job practical experiences and 
mentoring and coaching from more senior staff. 
+2 8 %
Afren now has 460 employees and contractors, 
which is an increase of 28% on 2011 numbers 66
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate governance Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
67
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s overview 68
Afren’s Board of Directors 70
Directors’ report 72
Corporate governance statement 74
Nomination Committee 80
Audit and Risk Committee 81
Directors’ remuneration report 85 Corporate governance
68
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s 
overview
Dear Shareholder
Good governance is central to our business, 
and I believe that it is core to the Group’s 
ongoing development and strategy. As 
Chairman I believe that good governance 
is much more than a matter of compliance 
and I acknowledge and welcome the 
Board’s critical responsibility and obligation 
to ensure that the Group has the right 
people, culture and structures in place to 
make the right decisions for our business 
and for our shareholders. Our governance 
framework is designed to be ﬂexible and 
efﬁcient in delivering growth in shareholder 
value in a manner which is sustainable in 
the long term.
The Board plays an important role in working 
with management to ensure our business 
is one that is well governed, that any risks 
identiﬁed are mitigated, that it is ﬁnancially 
strong, and that an appropriate balance 
between promoting long-term growth and 
delivering short-term objectives is achieved. 
It is our commitment as a Board to maintain 
a culture which expresses our core principles 
of respect, honesty and transparency. This 
is based on the recognition that good 
governance is fundamental to achieving our 
goal to create and protect value on behalf 
of the Company’s shareholders. We strive to 
demonstrate ethical leadership and promote 
the collective vision of the Group’s purpose, 
values, culture and behaviours. Good 
corporate governance is vital to achieving our 
objectives. We have formalised our focus on 
maintaining high ethical standards and strong 
personal integrity in our Group Code of 
Business Conduct, which is implemented 
across the business and clearly sets out 
expectations of how our employees and 
those who work for or on behalf of Afren 
should behave. The Board sets the “tone 
from the top” for the organisation and works 
with management to embed the values of 
the Group.
I recognise that, as Chairman, it is my role 
to provide the leadership to the Board to 
enable it to discharge its role effectively. 
The Board takes seriously its responsibility 
for promoting the Group’s values. We have 
made it clear that it is unacceptable for our 
companies and employees to be involved 
or implicated in any way in corrupt practices, 
and we continue to keep our anti-corruption 
policies and practices under review to ensure 
that they fully reﬂect this approach.
Following the publication of revised 
guidance by the Financial Reporting Council, 
we have taken the opportunity to review 
our arrangements for ensuring the 
continued independence and objectivity of 
our external auditors. We consider that our 
relationship with Deloitte LLP is satisfactory 
but have updated our policy on auditor 
independence in line with the 
recommendations of the 2012 revision of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
Code) and will put the external audit 
contract out to tender at least every ten 
years. The timing of the next tender will be 
aligned with the cycle for rotating the audit 
engagement partner.
Board composition
As at the date of this Annual Report, 
the Company has a Board of nine Directors
Board structure
Introduction from 
the Chairman 
Mr Egbert Imomoh
Mr Egbert Imomoh 
Non-Executive Chairman
Dr Osman Shahenshah 
Chief Executive
Mr Shahid Ullah 
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer
Mr Darra Comyn 
Group Finance Director
Mr Peter Bingham 
Non-Executive Director
Mr John St. John 
Non-Executive Director
Mr Ennio Sganzerla 
Non-Executive Director
Mr Toby Hayward 
Non-Executive Director
Mr Patrick Obath* 
Non-Executive Director
Board of 
Directors
Audit 
and Risk 
Committee
Executive 
Directors
Remuneration 
Committee
Disclosure 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
The Chairman
Executive 
Committee
* Patrick Obath joined the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director on 2 February 2012. Biographical and related 
information about the Directors, including details of 
relevant skills and experience, is given on pages 70 to 71. Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
69
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
This year’s evaluation of the Board, which 
for the second year running was facilitated 
externally, conﬁrmed that the Board continues 
to meet these obligations. Following the 
annual performance evaluation process, I am 
pleased to conﬁrm that each of the Directors’, 
particularly the Non-Executive Directors’, 
performance and contribution continues to be 
objective, timely, thoughtful, challenging and 
relevant. In addition, each Director has 
demonstrated, and continues to demonstrate, 
excellent commitment to the role, ensuring 
sufﬁcient time is available for meeting 
preparation and non-scheduled meetings.
At our AGM in June 2013, we will put 
all of our Directors up for re-election 
in compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and anticipate continuing 
to put all Directors up for re-election 
annually. The Board has proposed a special 
resolution to adopt New Articles to the 
AGM. The New Articles incorporate 
amendments to the current Articles of 
Association (the Current Articles) to entrench 
the recommendation for all Directors to 
submit themselves for re-election every year 
and includes an update to reﬂect current 
market practice.
This section of the Afren Annual Report 
describes how the Company has applied 
the main principles and complied with the 
provisions of the Code throughout the year.
In this report we discuss the key features of 
the governance structures, processes and 
people we have set up to achieve our 
objectives. We have also outlined key 
elements of the activities of the Board and 
its committees during the year. We continue 
to embrace the provisions and principles of 
the Code and the Board will continue to 
attach the highest priority to its compliance 
with the Code’s principles. Our statement 
below explains how we have applied those 
principles in 2012 and, where speciﬁc 
provisions may not appear to have been 
met, provides a detailed explanation.
I am proud of Afren’s commitment to doing 
the right thing by our staff, shareholders and 
the wider community and of the efforts 
taken by our Directors and staff during 2012 
to adopt the spirit of good corporate 
governance. If any shareholder wishes to 
contact me in relation to any of the content 
in this section of the Annual Report, please 
contact me at the Company’s address via the 
Company Secretary.
Egbert Imomoh 
Chairman
P80
Nomination 
Committee 
P85
Remuneration 
Committee 
Non-Executive Directors 5
Executive Directors 3
Chairman 1
Afren governance framework
The Board is collectively responsible to the 
Company’s shareholders for the long-term 
success of the Group and for its overall 
strategic direction, its values and its 
governance. It provides the leadership 
necessary for the Group to meet its business 
objectives within the framework of its 
internal controls, while also discharging the 
Company’s obligations to its shareholders.
The Board’s principal responsibilities include:
– Approving the Group’s business strategy 
and ensuring that an effective 
management team and the necessary 
ﬁnancial and human resources are in place 
for the Group to meet its objectives
– Agreeing the Group budget
– Approving the Company’s Annual Report 
and reviewing its periodic ﬁnancial reports
– Where appropriate, declaring an interim 
dividend and recommending a ﬁnal dividend
– Agreeing the agenda for the Annual 
General Meeting
– Agreeing Board succession plans and 
considering the evaluation of the Board’s 
performance over the preceding year
– Reviewing the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems
– Agreeing the Group’s governance 
framework and approving the Standards 
of Business Conduct and other 
Group policies
Composition
Experience
3
1
5
0-3 years 1
4-5 years 2
6-10 years 2
Tenure of Non-Executive Directors
1
2
2
Oil and Gas Industry 6
Engineering 4
Finance 4
Capital Markets 4
Accountancy 2
6
4 4
4
2
P81
Audit and Risk 
Committee Corporate governance
70
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Board of Directors
Name and Title
Mr Egbert Imomoh
Non-Executive 
Chairman
Dr Osman Shahenshah
Chief Executive
Mr Shahid Ullah
Chief Operating 
Ofﬁcer
Mr Darra Comyn
Group Finance 
Director
Mr Peter Bingham
Non-Executive 
Director
Biography
Mr Imomoh, a founder 
of Afren, was previously 
Managing Director and 
Executive Chairman of 
Afren Energy Resources 
Limited. He successfully 
led the growth of Afren’s 
Nigerian asset base, 
established a number 
of successful indigenous 
partnerships and achieved 
the First Oil milestone at 
the Okoro Setu project. 
The Society of Petroleum 
Engineers has named 
Mr Imomoh as its 2013 
President, and he has 
served on its board 
as Regional Director 
for Africa.
Dr Shahenshah is a founder 
of Afren and has over 20 
years’ experience in oil 
and gas ﬁnance. His 
international career began 
with Credit Suisse First 
Boston and has included 
senior positions in the oil 
and gas ﬁnance groups of 
the International Finance 
Corporation (the private 
sector arm of the World 
Bank), and the investment 
banking divisions of 
Dresdner Kleinwort 
Wasserstein and 
Mediocredito Centrale. 
He holds a PhD from the 
University of Pennsylvania, 
a Master’s Degree from 
Columbia University and 
a Bachelor’s Degree from 
Brown University.
Mr Ullah brings extensive 
technical and commercial 
knowledge of the African 
petroleum industry to 
Afren. Mr Ullah holds a 
degree in Petroleum 
Engineering from 
the University of Texas 
and received executive 
development training at 
Oxford University and the 
London Business School. 
He is a member of the 
Engineering Advisory Board 
at the University of Texas.
Mr Comyn was previously 
the Group Finance Director 
for ITE Group plc and 
Expomedia Group plc 
(both international groups 
focused on emerging 
markets); and in the oil 
industry with Chevron Oil 
UK and Dragon Oil where 
he was Group Financial 
Controller and Company 
Secretary. Mr Comyn is a 
Chartered Accountant with 
a degree in Economics from 
Trinity College, University 
of Dublin.
Mr Bingham is a 
Non-Executive Director of 
Afren appointed in 2005. 
Mr Bingham began his 
career at Barclays Bank 
group. He subsequently 
held a succession of 
Directorships, ﬁrst in 
London at branch level, 
then in Barclays merchant 
banking division and BZW 
(now known as Barclays 
Capital). There he set up 
the credit risk management 
team, before becoming 
Head of Banking at BZW 
and serving as a member of 
the central Barclays Group 
Credit Committee.
Year Appointed 2005 2004 2008 2010 2005
Meetings Attended 5/5 5/5 5/5 5/5 5/5
Experience
Mr Imomoh brings a 
wealth of knowledge of 
the oil and gas industry 
in Nigeria and Africa, 
acquired through many 
years of industry 
experience including 
serving as Deputy 
Managing Director of Shell 
Petroleum Development 
Company (Nigeria) prior 
to establishing Afren’s 
Nigerian subsidiary.
Dr Shahenshah has been 
actively involved in the 
African oil and gas industry 
for more than 15 years, 
working with companies 
including Shell, Chevron, 
Total, Eni, and the Nigerian 
National Petroleum 
Corporation.
Dr Shahenshah also brings 
to Afren his extensive 
experience of the 
international capital markets 
and of oil and gas ﬁnance.
Through the senior 
management positions held 
by Mr Ullah prior to joining 
Afren, at Western Atlas 
and Baker Hughes where 
he was responsible for 
managing signiﬁcant 
petroleum interests and 
assets, he has considerable 
experience in the oil and 
gas industry.
Mr Comyn has extensive 
ﬁnancial, accounting and 
capital markets experience 
in both the emerging 
markets and the oil and 
gas industry.
With over 40 years’ 
experience, Mr Bingham 
brings considerable 
knowledge in international 
ﬁnancial markets.
Committee 
Membership 
Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee
Remuneration Committee
Independent
Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Yes
Afren’s Board 
of Directors Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
71
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Associate Directors
Mr John St. John
Non-Executive 
Director
Mr Ennio Sganzerla
Non-Executive 
Director
Mr Toby Hayward
Non-Executive 
Director
Mr Patrick Obath
Non-Executive 
Director
Iain Wright
Associate Director
Galib Virani
Associate Director
Mr St. John was appointed 
to the Board of Afren in 
November 2006. He has 
acted as an adviser on over 
US$100 billion of equity 
and equity-linked issuance 
in all major markets 
worldwide. He was 
formerly Global Head of 
Equity Capital Markets at 
Dresdner Kleinwort, 
Commerzbank and Lehman 
Brothers and European 
Head of Equity Capital 
Markets at Citigroup, 
formerly Salomon Brothers. 
He was also until recently 
the Chairman of Equity 
Capital Markets at 
Nomura International plc. 
Mr St. John is a founding 
Partner of STJ Advisers.
Mr Sganzerla is a senior oil 
industry practitioner with a 
wealth of African upstream 
experience. He was 
previously Senior Vice 
President (E&P) at Eni, 
having joined the group in 
1971. From 1997, he was 
responsible for Eni’s largest 
business unit encompassing 
the North Sea, America, 
Australasia and Russia, 
with production in excess 
of 500,000 boepd.
A qualiﬁed chartered 
accountant, Mr Hayward 
has held a number of senior 
equity capital market 
positions in London. He 
was Head of Oil and Gas 
Equity Capital Markets 
at Canaccord Adams, 
before joining Jefferies 
International Limited as 
Managing Director and 
Head of Corporate Broking, 
where he was responsible 
for all international equity 
and equity linked 
transactions together with 
corporate broking and 
Nomad responsibilities.
Mr Obath, an East African 
national, was appointed 
to the Board in 2012. Mr 
Obath currently also serves 
as Chairman of PZ Cussons 
EA Limited and is a 
Non-Executive Director at 
Standard Chartered Bank 
Kenya Limited and Kenya 
Power and Lighting 
Company Limited. He is 
Chairman of the Kenya 
Private Sector Alliance and 
has received a number of 
East African Honorary 
recognitions, including the 
Order of the Grand Warrior 
(OGW) by H.E. the President 
of the Republic of Kenya, 
the National Peace Award, 
Kenya, and the Order of the 
Moran of the Burning Spear 
(MBS) by H.E. the President 
of the Republic of Kenya.
Mr Wright has over 
25 years of industry 
experience, having held 
senior positions at Randall 
& Dewey, Baker Hughes, 
Qatar Petroleum, Conoco 
(UK) and Anadrill 
Schlumberger prior to 
joining Afren in 2008.
Mr Wright is a Certiﬁed 
Petroleum Geologist with 
the AAPG, and a fellow 
of the Geological Society, 
SPE, and PESGB.
Mr Virani joined Afren in 
2006 following a career 
in the City of London in 
corporate ﬁnance and 
mergers and acquisitions 
predominantly covering 
the energy sector.
He is a Fellow of the 
Securities Institute, and 
has a Master of Finance 
& Investment (with 
Distinction) and a Master 
of Philosophy in Emerging 
Market Finance.
2007 2009 2009 2012 2010 2010
5/5 5/5 5/5 5/5 5/5 5/5
Mr St. John’s signiﬁcant 
experience provides 
considerable insight into the 
international capital and 
ﬁnancial markets.
Over the course of his 
wide-ranging career at Eni, 
Mr Sganzerla has acquired 
signiﬁcant experience in 
establishing and developing 
oil and gas assets in West 
Africa (including Nigeria, 
Gabon and Congo) and 
in leading merger and 
acquisitions activities in 
the oil and gas industry, 
including the acquisition 
of Lasmo plc and British 
Borneo.
Mr Hayward has extensive 
expertise in the equity 
capital markets, as well as 
bringing ﬁnancial and 
accountancy experience 
to the Board.
With over 36 years of 
industry experience, 
including 20 years in 
various positions at Shell, 
Mr Obath has a wealth of 
experience as a senior oil 
and gas industry 
practitioner.
Mr Wright brings extensive 
geosciences experience to 
Afren, having served in 
both development and 
exploration geology roles.
Mr Virani contributes a 
wealth of corporate 
ﬁnance experience to 
Afren, and has played a 
key role in the inorganic 
growth of the Group’s 
asset portfolio. Mr Virani 
is an East African national 
and oversees the regional 
aspects of Afren’s 
activities in East Africa.
Audit and Risk Committee*
Remuneration Committee*
Audit and Risk Committee
Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Audit and Risk Committee
Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee*
Audit and Risk Committee*
Remuneration Committee**
Not applicable Not applicable
Yes Yes Yes Yes Not applicable Not applicable
*Stepped down 
6 June 2012
* Joined 6 June 2012 * Joined 6 June 2012
** Appointment effective 
from 2013 onwards Corporate governance
72
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ 
report
Principal activities
The Group’s principal activities are oil and gas exploration, 
development and production in Africa and the Kurdistan region of 
Iraq. The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting 
the proﬁts or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in notes 
4.7 and 6.2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Business review
The Company is required by the Companies Act to include a business 
review in this report. The information that fulﬁls the review’s 
requirements is set out within the Chairman’s statement and Chief 
Executive’s review, Operations review and the Financial review, 
which are incorporated into this report by reference. These sections also 
include details of expected future developments in the Group’s business 
and details of the Key Performance Indicators used by management. 
Information about the use of ﬁnancial instruments by the Company 
and its subsidiaries is given in note 3.3 to the ﬁnancial statements.
Details of signiﬁcant events affecting the Company and the Group 
since the balance sheet date are contained in note 6.15 to the 
ﬁnancial statements.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out 
in the Operations review. The ﬁnancial position of the Group at the 
year end, its cash ﬂows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the Financial review on pages 32 to 37. In addition, 
section 3 of the ﬁnancial statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for managing its capital, its ﬁnancial risk 
management objectives and details of its ﬁnancial instruments and 
hedging activities. Note 5.4 describes its exposures to credit risk and 
liquidity risk.
Afren’s production outlook for 2013 and beyond, together with its 
funding facilities, provides conﬁdence that the Group will continue 
to generate sufﬁcient working capital for the foreseeable future to 
enable it to fund its ongoing exploration and development activities.
On the basis of the above, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. They 
therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting 
in preparing the annual ﬁnancial statements.
Results and dividends
The Group’s proﬁt for the year was US$203.4 million (2011: 
US$125.4 million). The Directors have not recommended the 
payment of a dividend (2011: US$nil).
The Directors and their interests
The Directors who served during the year and subsequently, together 
with their and their families’ beneﬁcial interests in shares in the 
Company, were as shown below. Details of Directors’ share options 
are provided in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 85 to 96.
Supplier payment policy
The Company’s policy, which is also applied by the Group, is to settle 
terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each 
transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of 
the payment, and abide by the terms of the payment. Trade creditors 
of the Group at 31 December 2012 were equivalent to 30 days’ 
purchases (2011: 30 days), based on the actual year end balance.
Charitable and political donations
During the year, the Group made charitable donations of US$6.6 
million, the majority of which related to African- and Kurdistan-
focused charities and institutions (2011: US$1.7 million).
No political donations were made in either 2012 or 2011.
Capital structure
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details 
of the movements in the Company’s issued share capital during the 
year, are shown in note 3.5. The Company has one class of ordinary 
shares, which carries no right to ﬁxed income. Each share carries the 
right to one vote at general meetings of the Company. The ordinary 
shares reﬂect 100% of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
Directors and their interests
Committees Ordinary shares of £0.01 each
Name Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration At 22 March 2013 At 31 December 2012* At 31 December 2011**
Egbert Imomoh, Chairman •
†
3,972,246 3,972,246 3,972,246
Osman Shahenshah, Chief Executive 4,895,856 4,895,856 4,181,515
Shahid Ullah, Chief Operating Ofﬁcer 4,360,106 4,360,106 3,268,961
Darra Comyn, Group Finance Director – – –
Peter Bingham, Non-Executive Director •
†
•–––
Toby Hayward, Senior Non-Executive Director • • •
†
205,000 205,000 205,000
Ennio Sganzerla, Non-Executive Director • • • 24,000 24,000 24,000
John St. John, Non-Executive Director 177,823 177,823 175,922
Patrick Obath, Non-Executive Director • •–––
* Or resignation, if earlier. ** Or on appointment, if later. † Chairman of Committee.
The Directors submit their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group 
together with the ﬁnancial statements and audit report of Afren plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2012. The Corporate governance 
statement on pages 68 to 84 forms part of this Directors’ report. 
Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and brought 
to the attention of the Board during the year into account, we are 
satisﬁed that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and reasonable. Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
73
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
There are no speciﬁc restrictions on the size of a holding nor on 
the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general 
provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. 
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders 
of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 5.9.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s 
share capital, and all issued shares are fully paid. Details of signiﬁcant 
shareholdings are set out below.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, 
the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related legislation. 
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the 
shareholders. The powers of Directors are described in the Main 
Board Terms of Reference, copies of which are available on request, 
and the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 68 to 84.
In respect of the Group’s assets in Ghana, Block 10A in Kenya, the 
Seychelles and Ethiopia, our partners may have a right of ﬁrst refusal to 
acquire the Company’s interest should a competitor directly or indirectly 
take control of the Company. In relation to the Ebok asset, our partner 
Oriental would have a similar right of ﬁrst refusal to acquire our interest 
upon a direct or indirect change of control. In addition, under the 
terms on which the Senior Secured Notes of US$500 million and 
US$300 million were issued, upon a change of control, each holder 
of the notes has the right to require Afren to repurchase all or any 
part of its holding. 
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate 
upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial 
contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and 
employee share plans. None of these is considered to be signiﬁcant in 
terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole. 
Furthermore, there are no agreements between the Company and 
its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss 
of ofﬁce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Substantial shareholdings
As of 22 March 2013 (being the latest practicable date prior to 
publication of the Annual Report), interests notiﬁed to the Company 
in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules comprised:
Vidacos Nominees (Standard Life) 8.00%
BlackRock, Inc. 5.01%
SKAGEN Global 5.01%
Van Eck Associates Corporation 4.97%
AllianceBerstein LP 4.94%
Investec Asset Management Ltd 4.49%
HSBC Client Holdings UK Limited 4.93%
GLG Partners LP 3.60%
Legal & General Group Plc 3.01%
Deutsche Bank AG 3.01%
Percentages are based on the issued share capital at the date of notiﬁcation.
Acquisition of the Company’s own shares
At the end of the year the Directors had authority, under the 
shareholders’ resolutions of 6 June 2012, to purchase through the 
market 97,832,886 of the Company’s ordinary shares at prices, per 
share, ranging between one penny and the higher of (i) the amount 
equal to 105% of the average of the closing middle market quotations 
for an ordinary share (as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily 
Ofﬁcial List) for the ﬁve business days immediately preceding the day on 
which the ordinary share is purchased and (ii) the amount stipulated by 
article 5(1) of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulations 2003 (in each 
case exclusive of expenses). This authority expires on 30 June 2013.
Auditors
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this 
Annual Report conﬁrms that:
– so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
– the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken 
as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.
This conﬁrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofﬁce as 
auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Company intends to follow the provisions of the 2012 UK 
Corporate Governance Code and put the external audit contract out 
to tender at least every ten years. The timing of the next tender will 
be aligned with the cycle for rotating the audit engagement partner.
Annual General Meeting
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company, resolutions will be 
proposed to receive these accounts and the Directors’ and auditors’ 
reports and to re-elect all Directors at the Annual General Meeting, 
in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and the 
UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Resolutions will also be proposed to: 
– reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Company’s auditors
– authorise the Directors to ﬁx Deloitte LLP’s remuneration as auditors
– grant the Directors’ authority to allot ordinary shares
– buy back the Company’s ordinary shares 
– allow a general meeting to be held at not less than 14 days’ notice.
For a more detailed explanation of these and other amendments, 
please refer to the Notes on Resolutions set out in the Notice of 
Annual General Meeting. 
On behalf of the Board
Osman Shahenshah 
Chief Executive 25 March 2013 Corporate governance
74
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman and Chief Executive
The Board is responsible for providing leadership, setting the Group’s 
strategic objectives and key policies, ensuring that appropriate 
resources are in place to enable the Group to meet its objectives, 
reviewing the Group’s performance and overseeing the Group’s 
internal control systems and is responsible to shareholders for the 
proper management of the Group. At the end of the period of this 
report, the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, three 
Executive Directors and ﬁve Non-Executive Directors. 
Afren beneﬁts from an experienced Board with extensive African 
experience and relationships plus a broad range of commercial, 
ﬁnancial and other relevant expertise. Brief biographies are included 
on pages 70 to 71. The Nomination Committee periodically reviews 
the composition of the Board including the balance between 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors and considers succession 
planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the 
Group’s senior management. It is also responsible for the process for 
new Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board 
on the appointment of new Directors and is responsible for ensuring 
that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria. 
In making appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee 
considers the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing 
Directors and assesses which of the potential candidates would bring 
the most beneﬁt to the Board. It considers the potential candidate’s 
knowledge and experience of the territories in which we operate, 
the oil and gas industry, capital markets and the regulatory 
environment, and that, in the case of Non-Executive Director 
appointments, they have sufﬁcient time to devote to the role. The 
Chairman ensures that any new Directors are provided with a full 
induction on joining the Board. Non-Executive Directors are 
appointed for an initial term of three years, which may be extended 
by mutual agreement subject to satisfactory performance. The letters 
of appointment of each Non-Executive Director are available for 
inspection at the registered ofﬁce of the Company.
Non-Executive Directors
Our Non-Executive Directors contribute international operational 
know-how and were chosen for their wide range of skills and 
experience. They understand the sectors in which we operate 
and have valuable knowledge of international capital markets. 
In addition they bring in-depth understanding of the health, safety, 
environmental, political and community challenges we face. 
Each Non-Executive Director is appointed for a three-year ﬁxed term, 
renewable by mutual agreement. All Non-Executive Directors’ 
appointment letters are available for inspection at the registered 
address of the Company. 
The Non-Executive Directors: 
– scrutinise, measure and review the performance of management 
– assist in strategy development
– review the Group’s ﬁnancial information 
– ensure appropriate and effective systems of internal control and 
risk management
– review the relationship with the external auditors through the 
Audit and Risk Committee 
– review the remuneration of and succession planning for the Board. 
Senior Independent Director
Mr Toby Hayward is the Senior Independent Director. Mr Hayward 
was selected for the role because of his experience and expertise. 
In his role as Senior Independent Director, Mr Hayward is available 
to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed 
through normal channels. 
Independence of Non-Executive Directors
The independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors is 
considered upon appointment, annually and at any other time 
a Director’s circumstances change in a way that warrants 
reconsideration. Following a review of Board composition, the 
Company has reassessed the independence of all its Non-Executive 
Directors. It regards all as “independent” within the meaning of the 
term as deﬁned in the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The Board has a policy that it uses to determine the independence 
of its Directors. This policy provides that the test of independence 
is whether the Director is independent of management and any 
business or other relationship that could materially interfere with 
the exercise of objective and unfettered or independent judgement 
by the Director or the Director’s ability to act in the best interests 
of the shareholders. 
Corporate governance
statement Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
75
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Where a Director is considered by the Board to be independent, but 
is affected by circumstances that may give rise to a perception that 
the Director is not independent, the Board has undertaken to explain 
the reasons why it has reached its conclusion. The Board considers 
relationships with management, major shareholders, associated 
companies and other parties with whom the Group transacts 
business against predetermined materiality thresholds, all of which 
are set out in the policy.
Tested against this policy, the Board considers that each of the 
Non-Executive Directors has retained independence of character and 
judgement and has not formed associations with management or 
others that might compromise their ability to exercise independent 
judgement or act in the best interests of the Company. The 
Chairman is not eligible to be independent under the Code, and is 
therefore excluded from consideration.
The Board gave particular consideration to the independence of 
Mr Peter Bingham and Mr John St. John. This is because, historically, 
Non-Executive Directors were eligible for share option awards prior 
to the Company’s admission to the Ofﬁcial List of the United 
Kingdom Listing Authority in December 2009. Mr Bingham and 
Mr St. John are the only independent Non-Executive Directors who 
still have unexercised options. The Share Option Scheme Rules were 
amended in November 2009 to prohibit the award of share options 
to Non-Executive Directors. Since Afren’s admission to the Ofﬁcial 
List, no share options have been granted to any Non-Executive 
Director. We take the view that this does not impact the 
independence of the Non-Executive Directors. For more information 
see the Directors’ remuneration report.
Some of the Directors hold, or previously held, positions in 
companies with which we have commercial relationships. The Board 
has assessed all of the relationships between the Company and 
companies in which the Directors hold or held positions. It has 
concluded that, in all cases, the relationships do not interfere with 
the Directors’ exercise of objective, unfettered or independent 
judgement or their ability to act in the best interests of our business.
In the case of Mr St. John, the Board has considered the fact that he 
is a shareholder in St. John Advisors Ltd and a partner in STJ Advisors 
LLP , two companies in the ﬁnancial advisory sector with which Afren 
has had commercial dealings. It is Mr St. John’s breadth of expertise, 
experience, knowledge and connections gained while providing 
capital markets advice to companies that brings signiﬁcant value to 
the Board. Prior to Mr St. John’s appointment, the Board assessed 
the relationships between Afren and St. John Advisors Ltd and STJ 
Advisors LLP. It remains satisﬁed that Mr St. John is able to apply 
objective, unfettered and independent judgement and act in the 
best interests of the Company, notwithstanding his role with 
St. John Advisors Ltd and STJ Advisors LLP. 
In addition, any commercial dealings with St. John Advisors Ltd 
and STJ Advisors LLP have been approved by the independent 
Non-Executive Directors, as they will be should they continue 
in the future. Mr St. John and the Executive Directors absent 
themselves fully from these deliberations.
Transactions during the year that amounted to related party 
transactions under the International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) are outlined in note 5.11 to the ﬁnancial statements. 
The Company does not consider the level of fees paid to St. John 
Advisors Ltd and STJ Advisors LLP to be material to either business. 
All transactions with Directors, including Mr St. John, qualify under 
the exemption for smaller related party transactions in respect of 
the Related Party Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Board composition
The Board considers that there is an appropriate balance between 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors for governing the business 
effectively and promoting shareholder interests. It also considers that 
both Executive and Non-Executive Directors have the necessary skills, 
knowledge and experience to enable them to govern the business 
effectively. The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met twice during 
the ﬁnancial year without the Executive Directors being present.
A summary of the skills and experience of the Board is shown on the 
diagram on page 69.
Succession: Board and Committee membership
Since the beginning of 2012, the following changes have taken place 
to the composition of the Board:
– Mr Patrick Obath joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director 
in February 2012
– Mr John St. John stepped down from the Audit and Risk and the 
Remuneration Committees in June 2012
– Mr Toby Hayward joined the Remuneration Committee and was 
appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in June 2012
– Mr Patrick Obath joined the Audit and Risk Committee in June 
2012 and the Remuneration Committee from 2013.
At present, no Director has held tenure for longer than nine years 
and therefore length of tenure is not considered to affect the 
independence of the Board. However, the Board is mindful of the 
need to ensure appropriate succession planning is in place and of 
the potential impairment to independence that can occur when 
a Non-Executive Director has held tenure for a signiﬁcant length 
of time, and this will be part of the Board’s agenda for 2013.
Independent 5
Non-independent 3
Chairman 1
Composition Independence
5
3
1
Non-Executive Directors 5
Executive Directors 3
Chairman 1
3
1
5 Corporate governance
76
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Meetings of the Board
The Directors have collective responsibility for the conduct of the 
Group’s business and are expected, wherever possible, to attend 
all Board meetings, relevant Committee meetings and the Annual 
General Meeting (AGM). A table detailing the Directors’ attendance 
at each of the Company’s scheduled Board and Committee 
meetings during 2012 is included below.
Board meeting attendance in 2012
During the year the Board agreed to increase the number of 
scheduled Board meetings from ﬁve to six. In addition to the ﬁve 
scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a quorate basis on 
12 occasions to address speciﬁc matters. The Board also held an 
off-site meeting, which considered the Group’s strategy.
Key activities of the Board in 2012
Performance
A summary of the Board’s key activities during 2012 is shown below. 
As well as the consideration of performance and strategic matters, 
the Board received detailed brieﬁngs on speciﬁc aspects of 
compliance and corporate governance which affect the Company 
and the Group, the Board and their respective obligations.
The Board received a brieﬁng on the Group’s anti-corruption policies 
and procedures and the recommended enhancements following an 
internal review to ensure continued alignment with best practice and 
the UK Bribery Act and its associated guidance, and will look to 
approve a revised version of the Afren Code of Business Conduct to 
take effect in 2013.
The Board reviewed succession planning in consultation with the 
Nomination Committee. It considered in detail the skills which will 
be desirable in relation to future Non-Executive appointments, and 
it kept under review the steps being undertaken to identify further 
Non-Executive appointments. The Board considered the issue of 
Board diversity, the recommendations made by Lord Davies in his 
report entitled Women on Boards and the FRC’s consultation on 
proposed consequential changes to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. It approved the Chairman’s Statement on Board Diversity 
prepared in accordance with Lord Davies’s recommendations.
The Board considers that, during 2012, an appropriate mix of its 
time was allocated between strategic and operational matters 
and governance-related issues, including remuneration strategy.
Board diversity
The Board recognises the beneﬁts of diversity in its widest sense, 
both at Board level and throughout all levels in the organisation. 
Diversity takes many forms: gender is one aspect, but other 
important attributes to consider will include, for example, nationality 
and experience.
During its search for additional Non-Executive Directors in 2012, 
culminating in the appointment of Patrick Obath, the Company 
made clear to its external search consultancies that male-only 
shortlists of candidates would not be accepted.
The Company hopes to increase the level of representation of 
females when refreshing and renewing Board membership over the 
coming years. However, this aspiration is subject to the imperative 
to ensure that appointments are made on merit and with regard 
to an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and 
knowledge required on the Board. The Board will continue to take 
into account diversity, in all its forms, when making appointments.
Corporate governance statement
Continued
Number of Board
meetings attended
Audit and 
Risk Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Executive Directors:
Dr Osman Shahenshah 5/5
Mr Shahid Ullah 5/5
Mr Darra Comyn 5/5
Non-Executive Directors:
Egbert Imomoh 5/5 3/3
Toby Hayward 5/5 3/3 3/3 3/3
Peter Bingham 5/5 3/3 3/3
John St. John 5/5 1/1
Ennio Sganzerla 5/5 3/3 3/3 3/3
Patrick Obath 5/5 2/2
Board and Committee meeting attendance in 2012 Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
77
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Board is pleased that, below Board level, there is gender 
diversity amongst the Company’s senior management positions, and 
in particular that Shirin Johri, the Group’s General Counsel, and Jane 
Barker, Group Head of Human Resources, are regular attendees of 
Board meetings in an advisory capacity. 
As a London-listed, Africa and Middle East-focused company, it is 
important that the Board reﬂects the geographical diversity of the 
business. The Board consists of nationals from the United Kingdom, 
Africa and beyond and is satisﬁed that this representation provides 
a strong mix of views and experience to support its decision-making 
process and leadership activities. 
Conﬂicts of interest
The Board has formal procedures for managing compliance with 
the conﬂicts of interest provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
The Company’s Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise 
situational conﬂicts. The Company established procedures for the 
disclosure and review of any conﬂicts of interest, actual or potential, 
which the Directors may have and for the authorisation of such 
conﬂict matters by the Board. 
Directors are required to give advance notice of any conﬂict issues to 
the Company Secretary, and these are considered at the next Board 
meeting. The Board conducts an annual review of all previously 
authorised situational conﬂicts, considering each one afresh. 
Directors are excluded from the quorum and the vote in respect 
of any matters in which they have an interest. The Board may review 
the authorisation of a conﬂict matter, and the terms of authorisation, 
at any time.
In deciding whether to authorise a conﬂict or potential conﬂict, 
the Directors must have regard to their general duties under 
the Companies Act 2006. The procedure operates to ensure the 
disclosure of conﬂicts, and for the consideration and, if appropriate, 
their authorisation by non-conﬂicted Directors. The Nomination 
Committee supports the Board in this process, both by reviewing 
requests from Directors for authorisations of situations of actual 
or potential conﬂict and making recommendations to the Board. 
It can also review any situations of actual or potential conﬂict that 
the Board has previously authorised, and make recommendations 
as to whether the authorisation remains appropriate.
Information and professional development
All Directors receive a personalised induction on joining the Board 
which is tailored to their experience, background and particular 
areas of focus, and is designed to develop their knowledge and 
understanding of the Group. Non-Executive Directors also receive 
a full programme of brieﬁngs on all areas of the Company’s business 
from the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and other 
senior executives, and they may request such further information 
as they consider necessary. The Chairman agrees the personalised 
induction plan for each new Director and ensures that it is 
appropriately tailored. In the last year the Board received training 
focusing on recent corporate governance developments. The Board 
held one of the scheduled meetings in the Houston ofﬁce, to 
facilitate the Directors’ understanding of the Group’s international 
operations. All Directors receive brieﬁngs designed to update their 
skills and knowledge on a regular basis, for example in relation to 
the business and on legal and regulatory requirements.
Board activities 2012
0-3 years 1
4-5 years 2
6-10 years 2
Tenure of Non-Executive Directors
%
Strategic and operational matters 41
Governance – related issues 41
Board oversight 12
Other matters 6
Oil and gas industry 6
Engineering 4
Finance 4
Capital markets 4
Accountancy 2
Board experience
2
2
1
6
4 4
41
41
12
6
4
2 Corporate governance
78
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Following his appointment to the Board as a Non-Executive Director, 
Patrick Obath attended induction brieﬁngs covering the Group’s 
strategy, its organisational structure and its business functions 
and activities, including its statutory reporting cycle and ﬁnancing 
principles, operational activities, information technology strategy 
and legal and regulatory issues. He also attended sessions addressing 
corporate governance, and Premium Listing regime compliance.
The full Board received brieﬁngs on a number of legal and regulatory 
developments, including the outcome of Lord Davies’s review of 
gender equality on the boards of UK listed companies, an update 
on the UK Corporate Governance, an update on the Premium Listing 
regime (delivered by an external presenter) and developments in 
relation to the Bribery Act 2010.
Evaluation of Board performance
The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous review of its 
performance and that of its committees each ﬁnancial year. In the 
winter of 2012, Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP conducted a Board 
review which took the form of a facilitated self-evaluation by the 
Board. The review included the completion of conﬁdential, 
unattributable questionnaires, with each Board member, the Head 
of HR and Company Secretary, which covered corporate governance, 
Board effectiveness, strategy development, risk management and 
Board and committee organisation, composition, operation and 
dynamics. Each Director assessed themself, and all the other 
Directors against a number of personal effectiveness criteria, 
including awareness of the Group strategy, ability to think 
strategically and challenge constructively, level of commitment and 
preparedness, communication and listening skills, and contribution 
to decision-making. The Chairman was also assessed on his ability 
to create the conditions for overall Board effectiveness and for 
setting the tone at the top.
The facilitators collated and analysed the results from each element 
of the evaluation and prepared separate reports, summarising key 
points and including non-attributable comments given in individual 
responses. The Board and Director Reports were initially discussed 
with the Chairman.
The Board report was then presented by Armstrong Bonham Carter 
LLP at a Board meeting. Each Director received a copy of the report 
on his or her own effectiveness and those reports on individual 
performances were discussed by the Chairman with each Director 
as appropriate. The Chairman’s performance was discussed initially 
with the Senior Independent Director before he provided feedback 
to the Chairman.
Key conclusions of the 2012 evaluation
The Board has made considerable progress since the last review and 
overall was considered to be effective. The review suggested further 
improvement in the development of strategy, Board composition 
in relation to diversity, succession planning, how operations are 
monitored and stakeholder management. 
The externally facilitated review also reported that the Board’s 
Committees had improved their effectiveness.
Shareholder engagement
The Board maintains a dialogue with investors directed towards 
ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives. Its primary contact 
is through the Executive Directors, but the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive also contact major shareholders periodically and in 
advance of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) each year in order 
to understand their views on the Company and to ensure that their 
views are communicated to the Board as a whole. In addition, the 
Senior Independent Director and the other Non-Executive Directors 
are available to meet with major shareholders in order to understand 
their views and any concerns which they may have. 
At least twice a year, the Acquisitions and Investor Relations Director 
presents a report to the Board on investor relations generally, identifying 
the key issues raised by institutional shareholders. In addition, the Board 
receives a report at each of its meetings on any changes to the holdings 
of the Company’s main institutional shareholders. Speciﬁc issues raised 
by individual institutions are also reported to the Board, as appropriate.
Communications with shareholders regarding business strategy and 
ﬁnancial performance are co-ordinated by a dedicated Investor 
Relations department that reports to the Acquisitions and Investor 
Relations Director. Communications regarding the general 
administration of shareholdings are co-ordinated by the Deputy 
Company Secretary, reporting to the Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary.
The Group conducts a dedicated investor relations programme 
with institutional investors, analysts and the media which includes 
presentations and roadshows, as well as a regular series of one-to-
one and group meetings and a bi-annual “Investor event” involving 
detailed presentations on the Company’s strategy and performance. 
Investor presentations are published on www.afren.com and results 
presentations are available by webcast during the year. Additionally, 
this Annual Report and our Half Year Results Announcement, which 
are sent to all registered shareholders, contain extensive information 
about the Group’s activities.
The Board welcomes enquiries from individual shareholders, both on 
matters relating to their shareholdings and the business of the Group. 
It also encourages shareholders to attend the AGM to discuss the 
Group’s progress, make their views known and to raise any matters 
of concern directly. The Company reports formally to shareholders 
twice a year with its half-year and full-year results. 
Corporate governance statement
Continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
79
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Annual General Meeting
Company Secretaries
Ms Shirin Johri is the Group Company Secretary and has been called 
to the New York Bar. Ms Johri is supported by Mr Elekwachi Ukwu, 
who is the Joint Company Secretary. An England & Wales solicitor, 
Mr Ukwu has also been called to the Nigerian Bar. The Company 
Secretaries are responsible for developing and maintaining the 
information systems and processes that enable the Board to fulﬁl its 
role. They are also responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board 
procedures are complied with and for advising on governance 
matters. All Directors have access to the Company Secretaries, 
whom the Board has the power to appoint and remove. 
Insurance cover
The Company maintains Directors’ and Ofﬁcers’ liability insurance 
cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
Election and re-election
The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board 
membership. All new Directors are required by the Company’s 
Articles of Association to be elected by shareholders at the ﬁrst 
AGM after their appointment. Subsequently, Directors are subject 
to re-election by shareholders every three years. In accordance with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have complied 
with the Corporate Governance Code recommendation to submit 
themselves for re-election every year if they wish to continue 
serving and are considered by the Board to be eligible. The Board has 
proposed a special resolution, to incorporate this recommendation 
into the Company’s Articles of Association. The New Articles 
incorporate amendments to the current Articles of Association 
(the Current Articles) to reﬂect the recommendations of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code including the recommendation for 
Directors to submit themselves for re-election every year. An 
explanation of the main changes between the New Articles and the 
Current Articles is set out in the Appendix of the Notice of the AGM.
Share Dealing Code
The Company has a Share Dealing Code which covers dealings by 
Directors, Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities (PDMR), 
and relevant employees. The Code complies with the provisions set 
out in the Model Code contained in Annex 1 to Listing Rule 9 of the 
UK Listing Authority Rules. It restricts dealings in shares and other 
relevant securities by PDMRs and employees during designated 
prohibited periods and at any time when they are in possession 
of unpublished, price-sensitive information.
Market disclosure
We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of 
disclosure. These ensure that all investors and potential investors 
have the same timely access to relevant information, to assist them 
in making informed decisions. We publish copies of announcements 
to the market, investor presentations, the Annual Report and other 
relevant information on our website.
Board Committees
The Board has established four principal Board Committees, to which 
it has delegated certain of its responsibilities. They are the Audit and 
Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each of which has 
deﬁned terms of reference that are summarised below and available in 
full on the Company website. The Board is kept fully informed of the 
work of these Committees. A summary of the operations of these 
Committees is also set out below. 
Each Committee and Director has the authority to seek independent 
professional advice where necessary, at Afren’s expense, to discharge 
their respective duties. In addition, each Director and Committee has 
access to the advice of the Company Secretaries, Ms Shirin Johri and 
Mr Elekwachi Ukwu. Corporate governance
80
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Nomination Committee
Introduction
The Nomination Committee meets at least once a year and is 
responsible for reviewing and recommending to the Board suitable 
candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company. It regularly 
reviews the structure, size and composition (including the skills, 
knowledge and experience) required on the Board. There is a formal, 
rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new 
Board Directors, based on merit and against objective criteria. 
The Nomination Committee met three times during the year to deal 
with the recruitment of additional Non-Executive Directors and consider 
the composition of the Board. The searches for Non-Executive Directors 
involved the use of independent recruitment consultants.
Who is on the Nomination Committee?
The Nomination Committee currently comprises Mr Egbert Imomoh 
(Chairman), Mr Ennio Sganzerla and Mr Toby Hayward. 
Member No. of meetings
Mr Egbert Imomoh (Chairman) 3/3
Mr Ennio Sganzerla 3/3
Mr Toby Hayward 3/3
Egbert Imomoh, 
Chairman of Nomination Committee
Dear Shareholder
This year proved to be another busy one for the Nomination 
Committee. Mr Patrick Obath joined the Board in February 2012 
and Mr Toby Hayward took over the role of Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee after the AGM in June 2012. Following 
the decision by the Board to appoint a further Non-Executive 
Director, the Committee initiated an extensive selection process 
to identify suitable candidates to join the Board.
With the assistance of specialist recruitment consultants, Odgers 
Berndtson, a planned recruitment exercise was undertaken, 
involving a “mapping phase” against agreed key criteria for the 
role. A long list of candidates was initially identiﬁed from which six 
candidates were shortlisted. Each of the Committee members met 
with the ﬁnal candidates and following this rigorous process, 
Patrick Obath’s appointment as Non-Executive Director was 
recommended to the Board by the Committee. 
We regularly review the composition and balance of the Board 
to ensure that we have the right structure, skills, knowledge and 
experience in place to deliver our strategy in an organisation which 
continues to grow and expand. Notwithstanding that our two 
most recent appointments to the Board have been male, we 
remain committed to our aspiration that a signiﬁcant proportion 
of our Board should be female by 2015. In the case of Mr Patrick 
Obath’s appointment as Non-Executive Director in 2012, we 
requested our search consultants to ensure that female candidates 
were included on our long and short lists for the role but 
ultimately we concluded that Patrick was the best candidate. We 
are committed to appoint new Directors on merit whilst seeking 
to strengthen the diversity of the Board. 
We will continue to press our search consultants to include more 
female candidates in any future external searches. The Committee 
will continue to monitor diversity for the Group as a whole. 
Egbert Imomoh
Chairman
The Committee’s activities during 2012
Priority matter Matters discussed
Appointment of new 
Non-Executive Director
Conducted a thorough and transparent 
appointment process for the recommendation 
of a new Non-Executive Director to ensure 
the Board is appropriately supported and 
strengthened for the future
Existing Board structure Conducted a thorough review and debated 
the skills and diversity of the existing 
Board membership to ensure that the 
Board has the appropriate balance of skills 
and experience to support the future 
development of the business
Suitability of future 
Board structure
Reviewed the Board and Committee 
composition following the appointment 
of a new Non-Executive Director
Corporate governance statement
Continued
Effectiveness of the Nomination Committee Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
81
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Audit and Risk Committee 
Dear Shareholder
As Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, I see the 
Committee’s key role is in providing support and reassurance 
to the Board on the areas of risk which affect the Company and 
the tolerance and appetite of the Board and management to 
these risk areas. 
This reassurance is provided through reference to Afren’s ﬁnancial 
reporting procedures and application of accounting policies and 
judgements, its internal control and risk management frameworks 
and its demonstration of commitment to, and application of, good 
corporate governance.
The Committee is supported in this role by its interaction with 
senior management and the Company’s external auditors, and the 
Committee’s meetings are always attended by the Finance Director, 
the lead partner of our external auditors, and by individual managers 
who are responsible for speciﬁc topics, such as risk management, 
ﬁnancial control, and internal compliance procedures.
I am pleased to announce that, during 2012, the Committee 
approved the appointment of a Senior Internal Audit Manager 
who will report independently to the Committee on matters of risk 
management and internal control effectiveness. This appointment 
reﬂects the continuing development of the Company’s approach 
to managing and monitoring risk as the business develops and 
the environments in which we operate continue to expand 
and change.
Peter Bingham
Chairman
Introduction
The role of the Audit and Risk Committee is to oversee the 
accounting, ﬁnancial reporting, internal control and risk management 
processes of the Company and the robustness and quality of the 
audit process of the ﬁnancial statements of the Company and Group. 
It also ensures that the Board regularly assesses business risks, 
risk management and risk mitigation strategies. In doing so, the 
Committee places reliance on reports and input from executive 
and senior management, the external auditors and the outputs of 
internal audit reviews. The Chairman of the Company, the Finance 
Director and other members of senior management attend meetings 
of the Committee by invitation. The Company’s external auditors, 
Deloitte LLP (Deloitte), also attend meetings in part, as well as 
meeting privately with the Committee at least once a year to discuss 
any matters which the auditors may wish to raise without Executive 
Directors being present. 
The Committee met three times during 2012 and its activities, 
as well as additional attendees, are summarised below. The Board 
is kept updated and informed of the Audit and Risk Committee’s 
activities and any issues arising through verbal reports given at every 
Board meeting immediately following a Committee meeting, and 
through the circulation of the Committee’s minutes. 
Peter Bingham, 
Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee
Who is on the Audit and Risk Committee?
The members of the Audit and Risk Committee are listed below. 
The Board has determined that Mr Toby Hayward, a chartered 
accountant, has recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience through 
his previous and current roles. The other Committee members also 
have a range of ﬁnancial, commercial and other relevant experience.
Effectiveness of the Audit and Risk Committee
Member No. of meetings
Mr Peter Bingham (Chairman) 3/3
Mr Toby Hayward 3/3
Mr Ennio Sganzerla 3/3
Mr Patrick Obath 2/2
Members who left during the year
Mr John St. John 1/1 Corporate governance
82
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate governance statement
Continued
The Committee’s activities during 2012
Date of meeting Other attendees Matters discussed
22 March 
2012
Company Chairman 
Finance Director
Senior ﬁnance management
Business Process Director
Group General Counsel
Deloitte Lead Audit Partner 
and Senior Manager
Report from Deloitte on audit and accounting judgements relating to the 2011 Annual Report. 
Items of particular focus included:
– Assumptions used in assessing the carrying values of intangible assets and oil and gas assets
– The valuation methodology applied to options held in an associate company and the related 
accounting gains recorded in the year
– Assumptions relating to future tax charges and related liabilities
– The assumptions made in providing for future decommissioning liabilities
– The suitability of the going concern assumption used as a basis of preparation for the accounts
– Acquisition accounting by Afren plc for Barda Rash and Ain Sifni, and by FHN for OML 26
– The application of hedge accounting for oil price hedges
– The accounting policy and underlying assumptions applied in calculating the charge for depletion, 
depreciation and amortisation (DD&A)
The level of audit and non-audit fees paid to the external auditor during 2011 and the outlook for 2012
Afren’s risk management and risk assessment procedures, and how these mapped to the Group’s 
internal procedures and mitigating action plans
The ﬁnancial control review plan for 2012, with a focus on controls over procurement and payments, 
and monitoring external contractor compliance
A review of the internal audit process, with a recommendation to recruit an internal auditor
The Group’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) procedures and ﬁndings from recently introduced 
policies. No signiﬁcant matters of non-compliance were noted
Matters reported to the Committee via the Group’s ‘whistle-blowing’ process
16 August 
2012
Finance Director
Senior ﬁnance management
Deloitte Lead Audit Partner 
and Director
Report from Deloitte on audit and accounting judgements underlying the half-year results 
to June 2012. These included:
– The approach undertaken by Deloitte in carrying out their review of the ﬁnancial information, 
including materiality judgements
– Assumptions underlying the valuation of oil and gas and intangible assets, and liabilities for future tax 
and royalty payments and for future decommissioning liabilities
– The accounting treatment applied to arrangements with partners on the Group’s licences
– The assumptions and judgements made relating to liquidity and going concern
– Consistency of accounting policies and estimates underlying the DD&A charge incurred in the half year
Updates on ongoing control and risk assessment processes, with a particular focus on exploration 
failure risk and how to control and mitigate this
Ongoing roll-out and compliance with ABC procedures
Review of the ongoing suitability of the Committee’s Terms of Reference
4 December 
2012
Finance Director
Senior ﬁnance management
Head of Risk Management 
and Assurance
Deloitte Lead Audit Partner 
and Director
Report from Deloitte on their plan for the audit of the 2012 Annual Report, including:
– Audit scope and materiality judgements
– Areas of judgement and risk requiring particular audit focus – these are summarised in note 1.6 to 
the Financial Statements
Overview of key risks facing the Group and Company and the ongoing development of management’s 
action plans for mitigating these
Approval of the candidate proposed by management to take on the Senior Internal Audit Manager 
role – the candidate had been interviewed separately by the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman in 
advance of the meeting
Changes to the UK corporate governance framework and a summary of the technical updates received 
by the members of the Committee throughout the year Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
83
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Internal control and risk management
The Board has applied principle C.2 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code by establishing a continuous process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the signiﬁcant risks the 
Group faces. The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board 
in discharging its review responsibilities.
The Directors conduct reviews of Afren’s overall system of risk 
management and internal control through reports from management, 
the external auditors and through the ﬁndings of internal audit 
reviews, in accordance with the requirements of the revised Turnbull 
Guidance on Internal Control, published by the FRC, and the Code. 
These systems have been operating throughout 2012 and to the 
date of this report. 
The Group also maintains a Risk Register, which contains the 
key risks faced by the Group, including their likelihood and impact, 
as well as the controls and procedures implemented to mitigate 
these risks. The content of the Register is determined through 
regular discussions with senior management and is reviewed 
by the Audit and Risk Committee. These key risks are summarised 
on pages 28 to 31 of the Business review section of this 
Annual Report. 
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control 
and for the ongoing review of its effectiveness. Such a system 
is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives. It can only provide reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Internal audit procedures
At its meeting on 4 December 2012, the Audit and Risk Committee 
approved the establishment of a formal internal audit department 
for the Group and the appointment of a Senior Internal Audit 
Manager to oversee this function. This appointment reﬂects the 
increase in the size and complexity of the Group in terms of 
production and exploration activities, ﬁnancial results, geographical 
spread and staff numbers.
The Senior Internal Audit Manager joined Afren on 25 February 
2013. The internal audit and compliance responsibilities previously 
undertaken by the Group’s Director of Business Processes have been 
handed over to the Senior Internal Audit Manager.
The Senior Internal Audit Manager has direct access and 
responsibility to the Audit and Risk Committee, and his main 
responsibilities include:
– Carrying out internal audit and compliance monitoring work, 
supported by independent specialist consultants as required, 
addressing both the ﬁnancial and overall risk management 
objectives of the Group
– Evaluating and developing the Group’s overall control 
environment and its processes for risk identiﬁcation 
and management 
These responsibilities were presented to and approved by the Audit 
and Risk Committee at its meeting on 18 March 2013. Once his 
initial scoping has been completed, the Senior Internal Audit 
Manager will present a programme of work for the Group’s internal 
audit function which will be presented to and approved by the 
Audit and Risk Committee later in 2013. 
Financial management and reporting
During the year the Committee reviewed, prior to publication, 
the half-year and annual ﬁnancial statements and other major 
statements affecting the Group that concerned price sensitive 
information.
In monitoring the ﬁnancial reporting practices, the Audit and Risk 
Committee reviewed the accounting policies, areas of judgement, 
going concern assumption and compliance with accounting 
standards, the Disclosure and Transparency rules and the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. These matters were discussed with 
management and reviewed alongside analysis undertaken by the 
Group’s external auditors, with particular focus given to the key 
assumptions underlying the accounting for the valuation of oil 
and gas assets, intangible exploration and evaluation assets, 
decommissioning provisions, and liabilities in respect of taxation 
and royalties. Corporate governance
84
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
External audit
Based on management’s proposals, the Audit and Risk Committee 
has recommended to the Board that the current auditors, 
Deloitte LLP, be reappointed as external auditors. In making the 
recommendation, it has taken into consideration the independence 
matters noted below and the past service of the auditors who 
were ﬁrst appointed in 2005 following a full tender process. 
The Committee has also considered the likelihood of a withdrawal 
of the auditors from the market and noted that there are no 
contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
The Audit and Risk Committee has a policy for assessing whether 
to employ the external auditors to supply services other than audit 
services, and closely monitors the level of audit and non-audit 
services the external auditors provide to the Group. Non-audit 
services are normally limited to assignments that are closely related 
to the annual audit, or where the work is of a nature that a detailed 
understanding of the Group is necessary. 
The external auditors are speciﬁcally excluded from providing 
internal audit services, litigation support, remuneration advice and 
legal advice services. The Committee assesses every other piece 
of non-audit work separately, and places it depending on which 
professional services ﬁrm it considers best suited. In addition, any 
non-audit work with a total fee greater than 25% of the annual 
audit fee must be approved by the Chairman of the Audit and 
Risk Committee prior to the appointment being made. 
The Board is satisﬁed that this policy is conducive to the 
maintenance of auditor independence and objectivity. During the 
year external auditors performed a signiﬁcant amount of non-audit 
related work in relation to the issuance of Senior Secured Notes in 
March 2012, work that would ordinarily be performed by external 
auditors for companies involved in such projects. The Audit and Risk 
Committee is satisﬁed that the carrying out of this work has not 
impaired the independence of the external auditors.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors in respect 
of audit and non-audit work is included in note 5.2 to the 
ﬁnancial statements.
Control framework and activities
The Board has established a management structure with deﬁned lines 
of responsibility and clear delegation of authority. The various 
committees are key elements of the overall control structure. These 
include the Executive Committee, which meets at least bi-monthly 
and is responsible for all strategic and operational activities day-to-day.
The Group has developed a formal structured business planning 
process, which operates on an annual cycle. The Board approves 
the consolidated annual budget, and performance against budget 
is monitored and reported to the Board.
The Group’s risk management process is described on pages 26 
to 27. The Audit and Risk Committee and senior executives of the 
Company regularly review signiﬁcant risks, their potential impact 
on the Group’s ﬁnancial position, and actions taken to manage 
those risks during the year. 
Corporate governance statement
Continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
85
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Who is on the Remuneration Committee?
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises 
Mr Toby Hayward (Chairman), Mr Ennio Sganzerla, 
Mr Peter Bingham and Mr Patrick Obath.
Effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee
Member No. of meetings
Toby Hayward (Chairman) 3/3
Mr Ennio Sganzerla 3/3
Mr Peter Bingham 3/3
Mr Patrick Obath
*
–
Members who left during the year
Mr John St. John –
* Appointment effective from 2013 onwards.
Toby Hayward, 
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Introduction
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts & Reports) Regulations 2008. 
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board 
has applied the principles relating to Directors’ remuneration in the 
UK Combined Code of Corporate Governance.
To meet the requirements of the Act, the report is divided into 
Unaudited Information and Audited Information. The Company’s 
auditors are required to report to the Company’s members on the 
auditable part of the Directors’ remuneration report, and state 
whether in their opinion that part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Act.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve the report will be 
proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Whilst complying with the current regulations, this report goes as far 
as possible to meet the pending requirements of the new Directors’ 
Reporting Regulations, due to be issued for implementation by 
companies with year-ends from 31 October 2013. In particular the 
new regulations require a detailed statement of future policy with 
scenario-based projections of Directors’ reward, and the reporting 
of a single ﬁgure of total remuneration for each Director. This means, 
generally, that the report provides additional information alongside 
the existing requirement. The one exception is in the historical 
performance chart where the existing comparative TSR chart has 
been replaced by a new CEO remuneration vs Afren TSR chart.
Remuneration Committee
Directors’ remuneration 
report
Contents
Information not subject to audit
Introduction 86
Compliance with Corporate Governance Code 88
Remuneration Committee overview 88
Remuneration philosophy and policy 88
Future remuneration policy table 89
Scenario analysis 92
Remuneration and performance in the year 92
Historical performance graph 93
Directors’ contracts 93
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 93
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group 93
Information subject to audit
Emoluments table 94
Share options table 95
Long-term incentive plans table 96
Other information subject to audit 96 Corporate governance
86
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Dear Shareholder
This is the ﬁrst time I have the pleasure of presenting to you the 
Directors’ remuneration report on behalf of the Board, having 
been appointed Chairman of the Afren Remuneration Committee 
in June 2012. Here is the report for the year ended 31 December 
2012. We will be asking for approval of this report at our AGM 
in June 2013.
2012 was a year of extraordinary operational achievement and 
record results for Afren. The Group achieved record revenues of 
circa US$1.5 billion and operating cash ﬂow of US$935 million, 
on the back of a 123% increase in Group production to circa 
43,000 boepd. In addition, the Group achieved an E&A success 
rate of 88% and a 2P Reserves Replacement Ratio of 265%, both 
metrics well ahead of our peer group. This was achieved while 
lowering our operating cost per barrel by 16% to US$15.0 per 
barrel and with a reduction in the Total Recordable Incident Rate. 
This was the third full ﬁnancial year since the Company was 
admitted to the main London market in December 2009. In that 
period its market capitalisation has increased from £375 million to 
over £1.5 billion, on the back of exceptional success and speed in 
developing oil-bearing resources. Included in the FTSE 250 index 
since 2010, the Company is now at about the 75th percentile of 
that group in market capitalisation terms.
As we indicated in last year’s shareholders’ engagement, this growth 
has only been possible through the recruitment of specialised and 
exceptional operational, technical and ﬁnancial human talent. The 
scarcity of such talent is compounded by the fact that we operate 
in some of the most insecure and politically unstable oil and gas 
provinces in the world. The Group continues to aggressively recruit 
across its operations and the competition for such talent continues 
to intensify given the ever-increasing focus on Africa and the Middle 
East by the Majors, African National Oil Companies, Asian National 
Oil Companies, private equity groups and US independent oil 
companies. Our relative ‘peer group’ for compensation purposes 
is therefore increasingly evolving.
Our remuneration philosophy is therefore clear – we need to 
retain the most able people in a highly competitive talent market 
and we will provide exceptional rewards for exceptional 
achievement leading to long-term increase in Company value. 
This opportunity is built on a basic package which is competitive 
in the relevant executive markets.
This philosophy, coupled with the necessary transition from 
remuneration design and reporting more suited to our earlier 
listing on AIM, has given rise to some shareholder concerns, 
which we have been addressing over the past two years and 
we are continuing to address. Whilst the vote in favour of the 
report last year improved to over 70%, we realise we still have 
some way to go to meet shareholders’ expectations. In particular, 
shareholders have asked for more information explaining the 
balance of ﬁxed, short-term and long-term elements and the 
quantum of earnings available for each element of our Directors’ 
packages. They have also asked for a better understanding of 
bonus targets and payouts both for the year under review 
and going forward, especially in relation to exceptional 
performance awards. 
To help meet these concerns, we have changed the format of 
the remuneration report this year so as to present the full 
information likely to be required in the Government’s new 
Directors’ Remuneration Reporting Regulations, due to be issued 
shortly. We are doing this in advance of the legal requirement 
to comply, which will not apply to Afren until its 2013 report is 
published next year. We hope that this will meet shareholders’ 
requirements for information and demonstrate how our 
remuneration policies support Afren’s strategic objectives. 
Where we have been unable to meet shareholders’ concerns 
or the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, we 
have provided our rationale and explained how we believe we 
comply with the underlying Code principles.
Directors’ remuneration report
Continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
87
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
In 2012, the Executive Directors received no increase in salary. 
The Committee has awarded a nominal increase of less than 
3% for 2013. For the annual bonus plan in 2012, the Company 
exceeded most of the KPI stretch targets for 2011/12 and the 
Executive Directors were awarded 93.8% of the maximum 
bonus of 100% of salary. In addition to the normal bonus, the 
Committee approved an “exceptional performance award”, 
that was originally advocated by the Partner on the Okoro ﬁeld 
in recognition of exceptional technical achievements during 
the year (the Okoro Field Extension discovery, development 
and production). The total exceptional performance award was 
approximately £3.7 million, of which approximately £1.6 million 
was awarded to the three Executive Directors. This was funded 
by the project cash ﬂows.
In June 2012, the Executive Directors received grants under the 
2008 Performance Share Plan with a face value of approximately 
200% of salary, but subject to vesting conditions. Non-Executive 
Directors do not participate in any incentive plans and have not 
received grants under any share-based plan since the Main Market 
listing in 2009. The relative TSR performance benchmark for this 
grant was modiﬁed to provide a more relevant measure and a 
second underpinning measure (Reserves Replacement Ratio) was 
added, thereby increasing the performance stretch.
Whilst we believe that the latest exceptional performance award 
is fully merited and effective in motivating Executives to continue 
to achieve exceptional performance, we are aware that 
shareholders would prefer to see clear targets in place against 
which such achievement can be judged. For this reason, the 
Company is planning to introduce a revised bonus plan in 2013 
which integrates the exceptional opportunity into the main bonus 
plan and will subject it to predetermined performance standards. 
In order to better balance short- and long-term incentives and 
match the risk of Executives and shareholders, the revised plan will 
also incorporate a substantial deferment of bonus into shares with 
a clawback arrangement. At the same time we are introducing 
a personal shareholding requirement for Executive Directors.
I am grateful for the time provided to both me and my 
predecessor, John St. John, by major shareholders and shareholder 
institutions, and for your continuing support. If any shareholder 
wishes to contact me in relation to the Company’s Director and 
senior executive remuneration arrangements, please contact me 
at the Company’s address via the Company Secretary.
Toby Hayward
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
25 March 2013 Corporate governance
88
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Information not subject to audit
Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code
The Remuneration Committee believes that the Company complies 
with the Main Principles of Section D (Remuneration) of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code). In the following respects, 
remuneration policy applied in respect of 2012 remuneration departs 
from the provisions of the Code:
– The absence of speciﬁc clawback arrangements for annual bonuses.
– The absence of an upper limit for exceptional performance awards. 
In accordance with the Code and the requirements of the UK Listing 
Rules, this report explains in the relevant section below the details 
of the policy, the Committee’s reasons for adopting it and changes 
in respect of future remuneration.
Remuneration Committee
Composition
The members of the Remuneration Committee are Mr Toby 
Hayward (Chairman), Mr Peter Bingham, Mr Ennio Sganzeria 
and Mr Patrick Obath. All members are Non-Executive Directors 
and are considered by the Company to be independent.
Terms of reference and operation
The Remuneration Committee’s responsibilities have been set by the 
Board and are set out in its terms of reference which are available in the 
Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website. They include:
– Setting and managing a remuneration strategy which will attract, 
motivate and retain a top-quality Executive team ensuring 
outstanding levels of achievement;
– Determining the terms of employment and remuneration and 
beneﬁts for the Chief Executive, Executive Directors and the 
Executive Team and ensuring that they reﬂect their individual 
performance and achievement of Company and Group objectives; 
recommending to the Board the remuneration of the Chairman;
– Setting and maintaining performance parameters for 
remuneration which incorporate mechanisms to encourage 
consistent and sustainable levels of Company and Group 
performance, including growth, shareholder value, risk 
management and proﬁtability; 
– Approval of the design and targets of share incentive plans 
requiring shareholder approval;
– Reviewing the remuneration trends across the Company and 
Group, overseeing any major changes in employee beneﬁts 
structures and approving the design, targets and payments 
made in any performance-related pay schemes operated 
by the Company; and
– Giving due regard to any relevant legal requirements, the 
provisions and recommendations in the Combined Code and 
the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules and associated guidance.
No Director plays a part in any discussion about his own 
remuneration. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors 
is set by the Chairman and the remainder of the Board.
The Remuneration Committee met three times in 2012, for which 
each member was present (with the exception of Mr Obath who 
was not appointed to the Committee until 2013). The Chief 
Executive was present at three meetings, but was not involved in 
discussions relating to his own remuneration.
In addition to the scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings, 
members of the Remuneration Committee have worked extensively 
with the management of the Company during the year to meet with 
shareholders and with voting advisory bodies to address the areas 
of concern raised by the shareholders at the last AGM, and will 
continue to do so in 2013.
Advisers
During the year, the Remuneration Committee has taken advice 
internally from Jane Barker, Group Head of Human Resources, and 
Shirin Johri and Elewachi Ukwu, joint Company Secretaries. It has 
taken external advice from a number of sources to ensure it makes 
informed decisions. The Committee’s main advisers are MM&K 
Limited. MM&K were ﬁrst appointed in 2008 by the Group Head 
of Human Resources and their appointment is subject to regular 
review by the Remuneration Committee. MM&K provided services 
to Afren exclusively in connection with Directors’ and Executives’ 
remuneration, save that Higher Talent Limited, a subsidiary 
of MM&K, has assisted the Company during the year to recruit 
HR and reward professionals. 
Remuneration philosophy and policy
Remuneration philosophy
Afren’s remuneration philosophy is to provide exceptional rewards for 
exceptional achievement leading to long-term increase in shareholder 
value. This opportunity is built on a basic package which is above 
average in the relevant executive markets, but the package is designed 
to ensure that the highest level rewards are only provided for 
demonstrated exceptional performance. This philosophy applies 
equally to Executive Directors and Senior Executives across the Group.
Afren operates in a highly competitive talent market and is 
determined to recruit and retain the most able people. The Group’s 
success in this is evidenced by its track record before and after its 
main market listing in December 2009. Afren leads its peers in terms 
of share price performance and is now in the top quartile of the 
FTSE 250 in market capitalisation.
Directors’ remuneration report
Continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
89
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
In keeping with the link to long-term increase in shareholder value, 
the philosophy is to select the performance measures, timescale 
of performance measurement, cash and share reward balance 
and period of deferral/further vesting conditions so as to match 
Executive reward with the returns to shareholders and associated 
risks. The bonus plan and exceptional performance awards are 
being revised in 2013 to enhance further this match (see table 
on policy below and sections on annual bonus and exceptional 
performance awards). To provide alignment with shareholders, 
Executive Directors are required to hold shares to the value of a 
minumum of 100% of their base salary.
Executive Directors are entitled to accept appointments outside the 
Company providing that the Chairman’s permission is sought and 
fees in excess of £10,000 per annum from all such appointments 
are accounted for to the Company, except where speciﬁc approval 
is gained from the Board.
Future remuneration policy table
The following future remuneration policy table has been prepared 
in accordance with the guidance provided by the Government (BIS) 
for compliance with the new reporting regulations.
The policy has been designed in line with the remuneration 
philosophy, with three overall objectives in mind:
– To provide a package for each Executive Director which is competitive 
in the relevant talent market in which they compete in order to retain 
them and keep their commitment. The relevant markets comprise 
FTSE 250 companies and global oil exploration and production 
companies, and in view of the intense competition for executives with 
a track record of success in the industry, the Company aims to pay 
a basic package which is above market average
– To provide ﬁnancial incentives to continue to perform alongside 
the best in the industry, to implement agreed strategy and build 
long-term shareholder value
– To ensure the rewards earned are fair to the Executives and 
shareholders alike, by full performance justiﬁcation and alignment 
in terms of risk and timescales of reward and by appropriate 
differentials within the executive team.
See pages 90 and 91, overleaf, for the future remuneration policy table.
Fixed 100%
Variable 0%
Fixed 49%
Variable 51%
Fixed 29%
Variable 71%
Fixed 23%
Variable 77%
Exceptional performance Stretch target Basic target Below target
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
3,000
3,500
PSP
Deferred bonus
Cash bonus
Other beneﬁts
Pension
Salary
Total remuneration opportunity – Chief Executive
(£’000) Corporate governance
90
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ remuneration report
Continued
Element of remuneration Purpose Operation Opportunity
Executive Directors
Base salary Part of a basic competitive package 
to recruit and retain
Fixed element Reviewed annually in light of market 
comparisons. 2013 policy: 
CEO £641,875; FD £385,125; 
COO US$637 ,550 
Pension Deﬁned contribution plan for all 
Executive Directors. Director must 
contribute a minimum of 5% to 
qualify. CEO and FD in UK plan. 
COO subject to US statutory 
contribution limits
CEO receives 20% of salary, FD 15% 
of salary, COO 5% 401K and 5% 
proﬁt sharing
Other beneﬁts: private medical 
insurance, critical illness cover and 
club membership
Providing employee protection/
networking facilities in interest 
of employee and Company
Insured cover set at suitable 
protection level
Insured beneﬁts are covered by 
Group scheme
Annual bonus plan Focus attention on Group KPIs, 
incentivise outperformance of targets, 
provide a competitive total annual 
earnings opportunity and provide 
deferred element in shares to reinforce 
the impact of the Performance 
Share Plan
80% based on Group and Company 
performance and 20% on 
individual performance. 
Deferment of 50% into shares for 
three years, with clawback mechanism
CEO: maximum 200% salary per 
annum for exceptional performance; 
on target 80% of salary.
Other Executive Directors: maximum 
of 160% for exceptional performance; 
on target 80% of salary
2008 Performance Share Plan 
(predates Main Market Listing on 
3 December 2009)
Align Executives with long-term 
interests of shareholders by creating 
a substantial share-ownership 
opportunity justiﬁed by above median 
relative returns and replacement/
growth of reserves
Three-year performance vesting 
of awards of contingent share awards 
or nominal cost options. There is no 
further retention period
Face value of award 200% of salary 
per annum, with Remuneration 
Committee discretion to award 300% 
in exceptional circumstances
2005 Executive share option plan 
(introduced on original AIM listing)
Original objective was to incentivise 
long-term success in exploration and 
development in newly listed company. 
Now objective is to provide equivalent 
long-term interest and competitive 
opportunity to joiners
Straight grant at current market price, 
with exercise between three years and 
ten years from grant
No limit to grant, but grant 
to Executive Directors only made 
in exceptional circumstances such 
as recruitment
Non-Executive Directors
Annual fee Competitive fee to recruit and retain Fixed element Chairman £205,000 p.a. including 
£120,000 p.a. for ambassadorial duties 
and Nigeria-based directorships. 
Non-Executive Directors £52,000 p.a. 
plus additional fee of £10,000 for 
Senior Independent Director duties 
and Committee Chair duties
Table of future remuneration policy for Executive Directors 
Describes each element of the remuneration package for Executive Directors Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
91
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Performance metrics Changes to policy
Not applicable Salary frozen in 2012. Nominal increase 
in 2013 of less than 3%
Company contributions for CEO and 
FD increased in 2012 from 10% salary. 
No change planned in 2013
No change in 2012. No change 
planned in 2013
Company bonus elements based on 
Group KPIs: Reserves and resources 
growth against target; non-organic 
reserves growth; production growth 
against target; improvements in 
operating efﬁciency against targeted 
improvements; EHSS performance 
against deﬁned standards; project 
progress; Company ﬁnancial measures; 
exceptional achievements against 
medium-term standards
New bonus plan being introduced in 
2013. Incorporates previous 100% of 
salary normal bonus maximum and 
historical exceptional performance 
awards (up to 144% of salary) into a 
single bonus maximum of 200% salary 
– with achievement of basic target 80%. 
50% of all bonus deferred into shares 
for three years with clawback if initial 
exceptional performance (e.g. increase 
in reserves and early production) turns 
out to have been overstated
Relative TSR measure with 30% 
dependent on performance against 
FTSE 250 and 70% performance 
against a benchmark of 22 E&P 
companies
(1)
. Threshold vesting is 
30% of full grant for median with 
straight-line vesting to 100% at upper 
quartile. There is an underpinning 
requirement for vesting based on the 
Reserves Replacement Ratio over the 
three-year period
(2)
Underpinning reserves replacement 
measure introduced in 2012. In 2013 
the Company will use the 2011 EBT 
to purchase shares in the market 
to satisfy share plan commitments
Options not exercisable until share 
price has remained more than 40% 
above exercise price for three 
continuous months
No change in 2012. No change 
planned in 2013
Not applicable Figures include a nominal increase 
in 2013
Notes:
(1) The E&P TSR peer group is
Borders & Southern 
Petroleum
Hardy Oil & Gas Salamander Energy
Bowleven Heritage Oil Plc Serica Energy
Cairn Energy Ithaca Energy SOCO International
Desire Petroleum JKX Oil & Gas Sterling Energy
EnQuest Melrose Resources Tullow Oil
Falkland Oil and Gas Petroceltic 
International
Valiant Petroleum
Gulf Keystone 
Petroleum
Premier Oil  
Gulfsands Petroleum Rockhopper Exploration 
(2) There is an underpinning performance measure of Reserves 
Replacement Ratio (RRR). RRR is the ratio of number of barrels of oil 
equivalent (proved and probable) discovered or acquired to the number 
produced over the three-year period. Any shares due to vest under the 
TSR measure will be reduced if the Group fails to meet its three-year 
target for RRR (105% for 2012 and 2013 grants). The vesting level 
will be reduced by a percentage of maximum vesting which is the same 
as the percentage of the production barrels by which the RRR falls 
short of target. 
All staff, including support staff, are eligible for all remuneration 
elements except share options (for which grants are made, only 
exceptionally, to Senior Executives on recruitment), the only difference 
being the quantum of reward provided. For each element the Directors’ 
opportunity is generally higher – in the case of the ﬁxed elements and 
annual bonus percentage because of the higher market practice for the 
Directors’ positions, in the case of the Performance Share Plan grant 
as a percentage of salary, both because of market practice and because 
of the greater impact that the Directors have on Group strategy and 
long-term value creation.
For the annual bonus, the Company and Group performance measures 
map closely the Group KPIs as disclosed in the Business review. The PSP 
measures reﬂect management performance in building shareholder 
value as calibrated against a range of other companies with similar 
economic circumstances. The underpin of a reserves replacement ratio 
is the critical strategic indicator of sustainability and growth leading to 
long-term proﬁtability. Corporate governance
92
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
KPI Weighting Result Award
KPI measures
Reserves replacement ratio 30% Stretch target bettered by 5% 30%
Working interest production 10% Basic target exceeded by 2% 7.3%
Normalised operating cost per barrel 10% Stretch target bettered by 3.5% 10%
Total Recordable Incident Rate and Lost Time 
Injury Frequency
10% TRIR stretch target bettered by 21%; LTIF basic target missed by 26% 5%
Project and ﬁnancial KPIs
EPD projects
}
40%
Six EPD projects ahead of programme
}
40%
Financial and capex targets Financial targets achieved
Capex budgets Capital expenditure within budget
Financing objectives Bond ﬁnancing success
Total 100% 92.3%
Annual performance targets and achievements
Scenario analysis
In compliance with the requirements of the pending new regulations, 
we are presenting a scenario analysis showing the future value of 
the total remuneration opportunity for the Chief Executive and its 
elements for various levels of performance achievement. The future 
value excludes any increases in the price of the Company’s shares.
Remuneration and performance in the year
2012 was a year of extraordinary achievement and record results for 
Afren. The Group has enjoyed signiﬁcant exploration success with 
major world-class discoveries in Nigeria and the Kurdistan region of 
Iraq. Excellent progress was made on the assets in East Africa where 
resources have been upgraded substantially and the Company is 
moving forward into an active phase of exploration drilling.
The maximum bonus for Executive Directors within the 2012 annual 
bonus plan was 100% of salary. 80% of this bonus was determined 
by the Group’s achievement against targets and 20% by individual 
achievement. The Company element paid 92.3% of maximum 
(i.e. 73.8% of salary) and the individual element was awarded 
in full for all three Executive Directors, giving a total bonus of 
93.8% of salary.
The Company bonus targets were linked directly to the Group 
KPIs reported in the Business review. Two-thirds of the maximum 
for each performance element is paid for achieving a basic target. 
The maximum for that element is paid for achieving a stretch 
target. The weighting of targets and the achievement in the year 
is shown in the following table:
In addition to the normal bonus, the Remuneration Committee 
approved an “exceptional performance award” , that was proposed by 
the Partner on the Okoro ﬁeld. By way of background, Afren acts as 
the Technical Services Provider on the Okoro ﬁeld. The Okoro ﬁeld 
was initially brought on stream in June 2008, following a record 
two-year development lead time (the quickest independent 
development at the time in Nigeria). The ﬁeld was brought on stream 
at production rates of 22,000 boepd, having initially guided the 
market to a rate of 15,000 boepd. Since then the reservoir has 
continued to perform well ahead of expectations. At the end of 201 1, 
the Partner and Afren commenced a wildcat exploration well east of 
the original Okoro Field (the Okoro Field Extension). In January 2012, 
Afren announced a signiﬁcant discovery and proceeded to testing. 
In record time, the Partner and Afren commenced development 
drilling in July 2012 and again in record time, in October 2012, 
announced ﬁrst oil a mere ten months after the original discovery. 
In recognition of the following exceptional technical achievements, 
the Partner advocated that it should reward this performance via 
an exceptional bonus, funded by the project cash ﬂows:
1. The Okoro Field Extension discovery is signiﬁcantly larger than 
the original Okoro Field
 – The discovery of 52 mmbbls (gross 2P reserves) is 206% 
of the original Okoro discovery of 25 mmbbls (2P)
 – It represents a 2P Okoro Reserves Replacement Ratio of 847% 
in 2012
2. The exploration well was drilled on budget
3. The exploration well was drilled with zero lost work days or fatalities
4.The Okoro Field Extension was brought on stream ten months 
following the discovery, setting another unprecedented record 
offshore Nigeria
The Okoro Field Extension discovery, accelerated development and 
production has created signiﬁcant value for Afren and its shareholders.
Directors’ remuneration report
Continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
93
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The total exceptional performance award was approximately 
£3.7 million, of which approximately £1.6 million was awarded 
to the three Executive Directors.
During 2012, the 2009 grant from the Performance Share Plan 
was due to vest. In the event the Company achieved 4th rank out 
of 14 against the three-year total shareholder return benchmark, 
and 82.5% of the maximum number of shares vested.
Historical performance graph
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
T otal remuneration £000
T otal return index
Chief Executive total remuneration
Afren TSR index, Mar 2005 = 100
Afren CEO total remuneration vs 
Total Shareholder Return
Directors’ contracts
It is the Company’s policy that Executive Directors should have 
contracts of an indeﬁnite term providing for a maximum of one 
year’s notice. The Directors have no entitlement to any bonus 
or other additional payment on severance of their contract. 
Each Director would be considered on an individual basis and 
any payment would be entirely at the Company’s discretion. 
The details of the Directors’ contracts are summarised below.
Name of Director Ofﬁce Date of contract Notice period
Executive
Osman Shahenshah Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer
27 February 2009 12 months
Shahid Ullah Chief Operating 
Ofﬁcer
16 April 2008 6 months
Darra Comyn Group Finance 
Director
16 March 2010 12 months
Non-Executive
Egbert Imohoh Chairman 1 September 2009 3 months
Peter Bingham Non-Executive 10 May 2005 3 months
John St. John Non-Executive 18 June 2007 3 months
Toby Hayward Non-Executive 26 June 2009 3 months
Ennio Sganzerla Non-Executive 26 June 2009 3 months
Patrick Obath Non-Executive 2 February 2012 3 months
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have speciﬁc terms 
of engagement and their remuneration is determined by the 
Board based on independent surveys of fees paid to Non-Executive 
Directors of similar companies. Details are shown in the future policy 
table. The notice period for the Chairman and for all Non-Executive 
Directors is three months.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive plan 
or share-based schemes, although the awards from 2008 and earlier 
remain in place. They are not eligible to join the Company’s pension 
scheme.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group
We have a diverse working population across the Group operating 
out of seven countries (UK, USA, Nigeria, Kenya, Côte d’Ivoire, 
Madagascar and the Kurdistan region of Iraq). Our reward structures 
have been designed to meet local requirements whilst reﬂecting our 
Group-wide remuneration policies and philosophy. 
The major objective of the Group remuneration policy is to ensure 
that there is a clear link between each employee’s individual level 
of performance and their reward. Afren’s aim is to achieve an 
integrated approach to reward, linking Company strategy in the 
form of the achievement of corporate objectives and individual 
performance to salary increases and bonus awards. These, along 
with other factors such as market positioning and the overall reward 
budget, go into the annual salary and bonus review process for all 
employees including the Executive team. 
This ensures that a co-ordinated and consistent approach is taken 
– encouraging and supporting a high-performance culture whilst 
ensuring fairness and transparency across the Group. Corporate governance
94
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Name of Director
Fees/basic 
salary 
£’000
Beneﬁts 
in kind 
£’000
Allowance
£’000
Termination 
payments
£’000
Annual 
bonus 
£’000
Exceptional 
performance 
award
£’000
Total bonus
£’000
Total 
emoluments 
2012
£’000
Total 
emoluments 
2011
£’000
Pension 
contributions 
£’000
LTI Awards 
vesting 
in year*
£’000
Total 
remuneration 
2012
£’000
Executive
Osman Shahenshah 625 26 – – 587 688 1,275 1,926 2,045 92 1,347 3,365
Shahid Ullah 424 19 – – 370 569 939 1,382 1,436 16 1,168 2,566
Darra Comyn 375 8 – – 352 375 727 1,110 1,275 43 – 1,153
1,424 53 – – 1,309 1,632 2,941 4,418 4,756 151 2,515 7,084
Non-Executive
Egbert Imomoh 200 2 46–––– 248 258–– 248
Peter Bingham 60 –––––– 60 60–– 60
John St. John 55 –––––– 55 55–– 55
Toby Hayward 70 –––––– 70 70–– 70
Ennio Sganzeria 51 –––––– 51 51–– 51
Patrick Obath 47 –––––– 47––– 47
483 2 46–––– 531 494–– 531
* No share options included as none exercised in year
Directors’ emoluments
Directors’ remuneration report
Continued
Information subject to audit Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
95
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Name 
of Director
As at 
1 January 2012 Granted Exercised Lapsed
Date 
granted
As at 
31 December 2012
Share price 
at grant date
Exercise 
price
Exercisable 
from
Exercisable 
to
E Imomoh 400,000 – 200,000 – 28.06.05 200,000 36p 20p 28.06.05-01.03.07 27.06.15
500,000 – – – 28.06.05 500,000 36p 50p 28.06.05-01.03.06 27.06.15
500,000 – – – 28.06.05 500,000 36p 100p 28.06.05-01.03.07 27.06.15
600,000 – – – 30.05.06 600,000 63p 63p 30.05.07-30.05.09 29.05.16
250,000 – – – 28.03.07 250,000 53.5p 80p 28.03.07-28.03.10 27.03.17
250,000 – – – 28.03.07 250,000 53.5p 120p 28.03.07-28.03.10 27.03.17
250,000 – – – 28.03.07 250,000 53.5p 180p 28.03.07-28.03.10 27.03.17
750,000 – – – 23.01.09 750,000 20.25p 23.25p 23.01.10-23.01.12 23.01.19
O Shahenshah 1,150,000 – – – 28.06.05 1,150,000 36p 20p 28.06.05-01.03.07 27.06.15
850,000 – – – 28.06.05 850,000 36p 50p 28.06.05-01.03.06 27.06.15
550,000 – – – 28.06.05 550,000 36p 100p 28.06.05-01.03.07 27.06.15
600,000 – – – 30.05.06 600,000 63p 63p 30.05.07-30.05.09 29.05.16
416,666 – – – 28.03.07 416,666 53.5p 80p 28.03.07-28.03.10 27.03.17
416,667 – – – 28.03.07 416,667 53.5p 120p 28.03.07-28.03.10 27.03.17
416,667 – – – 28.03.07 416,667 53.5p 180p 28.03.07-28.03.10 27.03.17
3,000,000 – – – 23.01.09 3,000,000 20.25p 23.25p 23.01.10-23.01.12 23.01.19
5,800,000 – – – 30.12.09 5,800,000 84.75p 84.75p 30.12.10-30.12.12 30.12.19
S Ullah 1,500,000 – – – 23.01.09 1,500,000 20.25p 23.25p 23.01.10-23.01.12 23.01.19
1,500,000 – – – 30.12.09 1,500,000 84.75p 84.75p 30.12.10-30.12.12 30.12.19
D Comyn 650,000 – – – 30.12.09 650,000 84.75p 84.75p 30.12.10-30.12.12 30.12.19
1,200,000 – – – 29.03.10 1,200,000 103p 103p 29.03.11-29.03.13 28.03.20
P Bingham 125,000 – – – 28.06.05 125,000 36p 50p 28.06.05-01.03.06 27.06.15
130,000 – – – 28.06.05 130,000 36p 100p 28.06.05-01.03.07 27.06.15
145,000 – – – 21.06.07 145,000 69p 70p 21.06.07-21.06.08 20.06.17
J St. John 400,000 – – – 21.06.07 400,000 69p 70p 21.06.07-21.06.09 20.06.17
Total 28,350,000 –200,000 – 28,150,000
Share option plans
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted 
to or held by the Directors. Details of the options held and granted during the year under the 2005 Share Option Scheme are as follows:
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for the share options during the ﬁnancial year.
In relation to the grant of share options, John St. John and Peter Bingham were appointed Non-Executive Directors and awarded share 
options whilst the Company was AIM listed on the basis that their experience and support to the Executive team in relation to technical 
and ﬁnancial expertise would, and will continue, to add signiﬁcant value to the business. Whilst they retain options granted when the 
Company was AIM listed, no additional share options have been granted to any Non-Executive Director following admission to the 
Ofﬁcial List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority and the Share Option Scheme Rules have been amended to prohibit the grant of 
share options to Non-Executive Directors. Corporate governance
96
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
2008 Performance Share Plan
Date of 
award
Date of 
vesting
As at 
1 January 2012 Granted Vested Lapsed
As at 
31 December 2012
Market price at 
date of award
Market price at 
date of vesting
Osman Shahenshah 19.06.2009 19.06.2012 1,526,012 – 1,258,959 267,053 – £0.43 £1.07
31.03.2011 31.03.2014 788,644 – – – 788,644 £1.63
29.06.201229.06.2015 –1,302,083 – – 1,302,083 £1.04
Darra Comyn 31.03.2011 31.03.2014 473,186 – – – 473,186 £1.63
29.06.201229.06.2015 –781,250 – – 781,250 £1.04
Shahid Ullah 19.06.2009 19.06.2012 1,322,600 – 1,091,145 231,455 – £0.43 £1.07
31.03.2011 31.03.2014 530,048 – – – 530,048 £1.63
29.06.201229.06.2015 –838,844 – – 838,844 £1.04
Notes
2009 Grant: The performance measure was three-year relative total shareholder return against a benchmark of 14 peer upstream oil and gas companies with signiﬁcant interest in Africa. 
Shares would vest in full if Afren achieved top quartile performance. 30% vested at the threshold of median performance, with straight-line vesting between. Afren achieved a ranking of 4th over the 
three years, and 82.5% of the grant vested. 
2012 Grant: Relative total shareholder return is measured against a 22 company E&P peer group (70%) and the FTSE 250 (30%) with similar 30% to 100% vesting. There is an underpinning requirement 
for vesting based on the reserves replacement ratio over the three-year period.
Directors’ remuneration report
Continued
Long-term incentive plans 
Other information subject to audit
In 2012, no amounts were paid in respect of excess retirement 
beneﬁts for Directors and past Directors, compensation for past 
Directors, or to third parties in respect of a Director’s services (201 1: nil).
Market price of ordinary shares
In connection with the information provided above on Directors’ 
equity interests, the closing mid-market market price of the ordinary 
shares at 31 December 2012 was 131.1p and the range during the 
year was 93.95p to 150p.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 25 March 2013 
and signed on its behalf by: 
Mr Toby Hayward 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
25 March 2013 Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
97
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 98
Independent auditors’ report 99
Group primary ﬁnancial statements
Group statement of comprehensive income 100
Group balance sheet 101
Group cash ﬂow statement 102
Group statement of changes in equity 103
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
Section 1 
1.0 Basis of preparation 104
1.1 General information 104
1.2 Basis of accounting 104
1.3 Going concern 104
1.4 Basis of consolidation 104
1.5 Foreign currencies 105
1.6 Critical accounting judgements and key 
sources of estimation uncertainty 105
Section 2
2.0 Result for the year 106
2.1 Revenues 106
2.2 Segmental reporting 106
2.3 Taxation 108
2.4 Reconciliation of proﬁt after tax to 
normalised proﬁt after tax 110
2.5 Earnings per ordinary share 111
Section 3
3.0 Financing the Group’s activities 112
3.1 Net debt, capital management and 
cash ﬂow projections 112
3.2 Borrowings and Loan Notes 114
3.3 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 114
3.4Leasing 116
3.5 Share capital, share premium and 
merger reserve 117
3.6 Finance costs 117
Section 4
4.0 Oil and gas activities 118
4.1 Licences summary 118
4.2 Oil and gas reserves 119
4.3 Intangible exploration and evaluation assets 119
4.4 Property, plant and equipment 120
4.5 Capital commitments 123
4.6 Inventories 123
4.7Investments 124
4.8 Contingent liabilities 126
Section 5
5.0 Other disclosures 126
5.1 Adoption of new and revised standards 126
5.2 Audit and non-audit fees 126
5.3 Subsidiaries 127
5.4 Credit risk management 127
5.5 Trade and other receivables 127
5.6 Trade and other payables 127
5.7 Fair values 128
5.8 Sensitivity analysis 128
5.9 Staff costs 129
5.10 Other reserves 132
5.11 Related party transactions 132
5.12 Remuneration of key management personnel 132
Company ﬁnancial statements
Company balance sheet 133
Company cash ﬂow statement 134
Company statement of changes in equity 135
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements
Section 6
6.1 Accounting policies 136
6.2 Subsidiaries and associated undertakings 136
6.3 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 137
6.4 Borrowings 137
6.5 Trade and other receivables 137
6.6 Cash and cash equivalents 137
6.7 Trade and other payables 137
6.8 Share capital, share premium 
and merger reserve 137
6.9 Share-based payments 138
6.10 Other reserves 138
6.11 Operating lease commitments 138
6.12 Contingent liabilities 138
6.13 Unrecognised deferred tax assets 139
6.14 Related party transactions 139
6.15 Post balance sheet events – Company  
and Group 139
Financial 
statements
Strategic priorities 
P20 
Contents
1
2
3
4
5
Pursue materially accretive acquisitions
Organic reserves growth
Production growth
Operational efﬁ ciency and ﬁ nancial discipline 
Corporate responsibility Financial statements
98
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements 
for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law the Directors are required 
to prepare the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also 
chosen to prepare the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements under 
IFRS as adopted by the European Union. Under company law the 
Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisﬁed 
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company and of the proﬁt and loss of the Company for that period. 
In preparing these ﬁnancial statements, the Directors are required to:
– properly select and apply accounting policies; 
– present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
– provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁc 
requirements in IFRS are insufﬁcient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s ﬁnancial position and ﬁnancial performance; and
– make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
ﬁnancial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that 
the ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They 
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement
I conﬁrm to the best of my knowledge:
1. The ﬁnancial statements, prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt 
or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
2. The management report, which is incorporated into the 
Directors’ Report, includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Osman Shahenshah
Chief Executive
25 March 2013
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
99
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Independent auditors’ report
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of Afren plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Group Income 
Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent 
Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company 
Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1.0 to 6.15. 
The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and, as regards 
the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements, as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter three of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the ﬁnancial 
statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair 
view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable 
assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes 
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. 
In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion:
– the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2012 and of the Group’s proﬁt for the year then ended;
– the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union;
– the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
– the ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
– the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
– the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial year 
for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
– the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
– certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are 
not made; or
– we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
– the Directors’ statement, contained within the Directors’ Report, 
in relation to going concern; 
– the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code speciﬁed for our review; and
– certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
on Directors’ remuneration.
Bevan Whitehead
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, UK
25 March 2013 Financial statements
100
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Group statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Notes
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Revenue 2.1 1,498.8 596.7 
Cost of sales (742.6) (294.3)
Gross proﬁt 756.2 302.4
Administrative expenses (34.6) (26.9)
Other operating income/(expenses) 
– derivative ﬁnancial instruments 3.3 (31.2) (12.5)
– service fees receivable from associate company 4.7 6.3
– impairment charge on exploration and evaluation assets 4.4 (19.7) (1.1)
Operating proﬁt 5.2 675.4 268.2 
Finance costs 3.6 (72.8) (57.1)
Other gains/(losses)
– dilution gain on investment in associate company 4.8 0.8 14.7 
– gain on derivative ﬁnancial instruments on shares of associate company 3.3 0.2 8.0 
– fair value loss on ﬁnancial liabilities and ﬁnancial assets 3.3 (2.5) –
– other gains – 1.6
Share of loss of an associate company 4.7 (6.9) (14.0)
Proﬁt from continuing operations before tax 594.2 221.4
Income tax expense 2.3 (390.8) (96.0)
Proﬁt from continuing operations after tax 203.4 125.4 
Discontinued operations
Loss for the year from discontinued operations – (3.7)
Proﬁt for the year 203.4 121.7 
Other comprehensive income
Loss on revaluation of available-for-sale investment 4.7 (0.9) –
Other comprehensive loss for the year (0.9) –
Total comprehensive income attributable to equity holders of Afren plc 202.5 121.7
Earnings per share from continuing activities
Basic 2.5 18.7c 12.3c
Fully diluted 2.5 17 .9c 11.9c
Earnings per share from all activities
Basic 2.5 18.7c 12.0c
Fully diluted 2.5 17 .9c 11.5c Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
10 1
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Group balance sheet
As at 31 December 2012
Notes
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible oil and gas assets 4.3 875.9 713.7 
Property, plant and equipment 4.4 1,703.8 1,676.0
Prepayments and advances to partners 5.5 88.4 0.6
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 3.3 10.4 13.4 
Investments 4.7 16.6 21.7 
2,695.1 2,425.4 
Current assets
Inventories 4.6 94.4 67.1 
Trade and other receivables 5.5 262.7 145.6 
Prepayments and advances to partners 5.5 7.4 –
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 3.3 – 0.7 
Cash and cash equivalents 3.1 524.8 291.7 
889.3 505.1 
Total assets 3,584.4 2,930.5 
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 5.6 (429.2) (317.4)
Current tax liabilities (155.8) (39.6)
Borrowings 3.2 (189.4) (157 .8)
Deferred consideration and payables on acquisitions – (216.7)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 3.4 (19.3) (18.1)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 3.3 (14.0) (10.3)
(807.7) (759.9)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 81.6 (254.8)
Non-current liabilities
Provision for decommissioning 4.4 (36.7) (31.6)
Deferred tax liabilities 2.3 (383.9) (124.5)
Borrowings 3.2 (823.9) (682.2)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 3.4 (98.1) (1 17 .4)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 3.3 (6.7) (7.5)
(1,349.3) (963.3)
Total liabilities (2,157.0) (1,723.2)
Net assets 1,427.4 1,207.3 
Equity
Share capital 3.5 18.9 18.7 
Share premium 3.5 920.3 918.1 
Merger reserve 3.5 179.4 179.4 
Other reserves 5.10 35.9 26.4 
Retained earnings 272.9 64.7 
Total equity 1,427.4 1,207.3 
The ﬁnancial statements of Afren plc, registered number 05304498, were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 25 March 2013. 
They were signed on its behalf by:
Darra Comyn
Group Finance Director
25 March 2013 Financial statements
10 2
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Group cash ﬂow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Notes
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Operating proﬁt for the year 675.4 268.2 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 374.4 160.1 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 6.7 3.2 
Impairment of oil and gas assets 19.7 1. 1 
Share-based payments charge 17 .3 7.3 
Operating cash ﬂows before movements in working capital 1,093.5 439.9 
Cash used in operating activities of discontinued activities – (3.6)
Increase in trade and other operating receivables (231.3) (111.0)
Increase in trade and other operating payables 78.6 45.6 
Decrease/(increase) in inventory of crude oil 6.0 (25.2)
Current tax paid (1 1.7)  (8.1)
Net cash generated in operating activities 935.1 337.5 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment: (389.6) (418.9)
Exploration and evaluation expenditure (136.7) (91.1)
Acquisition of participating interest in licences in Kurdistan region of Iraq (190.2) (369.4)
Cash received on disposal of equipment of discontinued operations 1.3 0.4
(Increase)/decrease in inventories – spare parts (18.7) 1.3 
Investment inﬂow/(outﬂow) 0.5 (0.2)
Net cash used in investing activities (733.4) (878.0)
Net issue of ordinary share capital – equity raising – 180.7 
Issue of ordinary share capital – warrants, options, share awards 
and LTIP exercises 2.2 19.1
Net proceeds from borrowings 403.4 734.7 
Repayment of borrowings and ﬁnance lease (264.2) (193.8)
Deferred consideration – ﬁnance cost paid (9.7) –
Interest and ﬁnancing fees paid (101.0) (50.0)
Net cash provided by ﬁnancing activities 30.7 690.7 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 232.4 150.3 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 291.7 140.2 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.7 1.2 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 3.1 524.8 291.7  Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
10 3
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Group statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Share capital 
US$m
Share premium 
account 
US$m
Other reserves
US$m
Merger reserve
US$m
Accumulated 
(losses)/proﬁts
US$m
Total equity
US$m
Group
At 1 January 2011 17.0 896.8 22.8 – (77.9) 858.7 
Issue of share capital 1.7 21.3 – 179.4 – 202.4 
Share-based payments – – 13.4 – – 13.4
Transfers to accumulated losses – – (9.3) – 9.3 –
Exercise of warrants designated as ﬁnancial liabilities – – – – 11.6 11.6 
Other movements – – (0.5) – – (0.5) 
Net proﬁt for the year – – – – 121.7 121.7 
Balance at 31 December 2011 18.7 918.1 26.4 179.4 64.7 1,207.3 
Issue of share capital 0.2 2.2 – – – 2.4
Share-based payments – – 15.1 – – 15.1
Transfers to accumulated losses – – (4.6) – 4.6 –
Exercise of warrants designated as ﬁnancial liabilities – – (0.1) – 0.2 0.1
Net proﬁt for the year – – – – 203.4 203.4
Other comprehensive expense for the period – – (0.9) – – (0.9)
Balance at 31 December 2012 18.9 920.3 35.9 179.4 272.9 1,427.4 Financial statements
104
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
In preparing the 2012 ﬁnancial statements, Afren plc has made a number of changes in structure, layout and wording in order to make 
the ﬁnancial statements less complex and more relevant for shareholders and other users.
We have grouped notes into sections under six key categories:
1. Basis of preparation
2. Result for the year
3. Financing the Group’s activities
4. Oil and gas activities
5. Other disclosures
6. The Company’s ﬁnancial statements
The key accounting policies have been incorporated throughout the notes to the ﬁnancial statements adjacent to the disclosure to which 
they relate. All accounting policies are included within an outlined box.
Where possible, wording has been simpliﬁed to provide clearer commentary on the ﬁnancial performance of the Group.
1.0 Basis of preparation 
1.1 General information
Afren plc (the Company, and together with its subsidiaries, the Group) is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the 
Companies Act. The address of the registered ofﬁce is Kinnaird House, 1 Pall Mall East, London SW1Y 5AU, England. The nature of the 
Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in note 2.2 and in the Chairman’s statement and Chief Executive’s review and 
Operations review on pages 8, 14 and 38. These ﬁnancial statements are presented in US dollars because that is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the Group operates. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 1.5.
1.2 Basis of accounting
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted 
by the European Union and therefore the Group ﬁnancial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain ﬁnancial instruments 
and oil inventory which is subject to certain commodity swap arrangements that have been measured at fair value. 
1.3 Going concern
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the going concern basis of accounting. The use of this basis of accounting 
takes into consideration the Group’s current and forecast ﬁnancing position, additional details of which are provided in the Going Concern 
section of the Directors’ Report.
1.4 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements incorporate the ﬁnancial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company 
(its subsidiaries) made up to 31 December each year. 
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the ﬁnancial and operational policies of an entity so as to gain beneﬁt 
from its activities. Entities over which the Company exercises joint control are accounted for using proportional consolidation, under 
which the Group records its share of revenue, expenditure, assets and liabilities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective 
date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the ﬁnancial 
statements of the subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group. All intra-Group transactions, 
balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. 
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
105
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
1.5 Foreign currencies
The individual ﬁnancial statements of each Group company are maintained in the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which it operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the results and ﬁnancial position 
of each Group company are expressed in US dollars which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentational currency 
for the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group.
For the purposes of presenting consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the assets and liabilities of each Group company are translated as 
required into US dollars at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average 
exchange rates for the period. Exchange differences (if any) arising are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated 
in equity. Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of. 
At present the Group has no subsidiaries with functional currencies other than US dollars.
1.6 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described above and in Sections 2 to 5, the Directors are required 
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from 
other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be 
relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. 
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, 
or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The following are the critical judgements and key assumptions made by the Directors, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty 
at the balance sheet date, that may have a signiﬁcant effect on the amounts recognised in the ﬁnancial statements.
Oil and gas assets
Management assesses the Group’s oil and gas assets for indicators of impairment at least annually, with reference to indicators in IAS 36. 
Note 4.4 discloses the carrying value of tangible oil and gas assets and details of the key assumptions used, which include a production 
proﬁle based on management’s best estimate of proven and probable reserves of the assets, an internal oil price proﬁle benchmarked 
to mean analysts’ consensus and a 10% pre-tax discount rate which, taking into account other assumptions used in the calculation, 
management considers to be reﬂective of the risks.
Intangible exploration and evaluation assets
Management assesses impairment in respect of intangible exploration and evaluation assets with reference to indicators in IFRS 6 and 
the speciﬁc facts and circumstances of each asset. Section 4.3 discloses the carrying value of such assets. In making the assessment, 
management is required to make judgements on the status of each project and the future plans towards ﬁnding commercial reserves. 
The nature of exploration and evaluation activity is such that only a proportion of projects are ultimately successful and some assets are 
likely to become impaired in future periods.
Share-based payments and FHN options
Management is required to make assumptions in respect of both the fair value of share-based payments and FHN options in issue, 
in respect of the inputs used to calculate the fair values of these contracts. Details of these can be found in Sections 5.9 and 3.3.
Decommissioning
Provision for environmental clean-up and associated costs depend on the legal requirements at the date of decommissioning, the costs 
and timing of work and the discount rate to be applied. Decommissioning provisions are updated each year to reﬂect management’s best 
estimates of future cost estimates and timings.
Taxation and royalties
The application of tax legislation in jurisdictions in which the Group operates can be uncertain and subject to interpretation. Afren calculates the 
tax charge for the period using the latest information available, taking external advice where necessary, in order to arrive at our best estimate of 
the ﬁnal tax position. Revisions to our tax liabilities (either upward or downward) may occur as the Group’s tax ﬁlings and royalties are agreed 
with the relevant authorities in future periods. Our tax charge and estimate of our tax liabilities is disclosed in Section 2.3. Financial statements
106
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
2.0 Result for the year
This section focuses on the results and performance of the Group. On the following pages are disclosures explaining the Group’s results for 
the year, segmental information, taxation, normalised proﬁt after tax and earnings per share.
2.1 Revenues
Revenue represents the sales value, net of VAT and royalties paid in kind or where the ﬁnancial obligation does not fall directly to Afren, 
of the Group’s share of oil liftings in the year together with gas and tariff income. Oil and gas revenue is recognised when goods are 
delivered and title has passed.
Oil and gas revenues for the year are set out in the table below:
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Oil revenue 1,475.4 576.8
Gas revenue 23.4 19.9
1,498.8 596.7
2.2 Segmental reporting
(a) Geographical segments
During 2012, Afren reorganised its internal reporting structure such that its three previously separate reportable segments in Nigeria, Côte d’Ivoire 
and other West Africa are now considered to be one single operating and reportable segment. The Group now operates in three geographical 
markets which form the basis of the information evaluated by the Group’s chief operating decision maker: Nigeria and other West Africa, 
East Africa and the Kurdistan region of Iraq. This is the basis on which the Group records its primary segment information. Unallocated 
operating expenses, assets and liabilities relate to the general management, ﬁnancing and administration of the Group. Comparative 
information for 2011 has been restated to reﬂect the above change.
2012
Nigeria and other 
West Africa
US$m
East Africa
US$m
Kurdistan region 
of Iraq
US$m
Unallocated
US$m
Consolidated
US$m
Sales revenue by origin 1,498.8––– 1,498.8
Operating gain/(loss) before derivative ﬁnancial instruments 723.5 (1.1) (0.1) (15.7) 706.6
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments losses (31.2) – – – (31.2)
Segment result 692.3 (1.1) (0.1) (15.7) 675.4
Investment revenue –
Finance costs (72.8)
Other gains and losses – dilution gain on investment 
in associate company
0.8
Other gains and losses – fair value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities (2.5)
Other gains and losses – gain on derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments in associate
0.2
Share of loss of an associate (6.9)
Proﬁt from continuing operations before tax 594.2
Income tax expense (390.8)
Proﬁt from continuing operations after tax 203.4
Loss from discontinued operations –
Proﬁt for the period 203.4
Segment assets – non–current* 1,640.5 300.1 736.1 18.4 2,695.1
Segment assets – current** 562.4 2.6 13.4 310.9 889.3
Segment liabilities (1,214.7) (63.8) (12.8) (865.7) (2,157.0)
Capital additions – oil and gas assets 204.3 – 121.2 – 325.5
Capital additions – exploration and evaluation*** 152.1 67.4 25.0 0.7 245.2
Capital additions – other 1.4 – 1.4 2.7 5.5
Capital disposal – other –––––
Depletion, depreciation and amortisation (372.3) – (0.5) (1.6) (374.4)
Exploration costs write-off (19.7) – – – (19.7)
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
10 7
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
2011 (restated for revised segmentation)
Nigeria and other 
West Africa
US$m
East Africa
US$m
Kurdistan region 
of Iraq
US$m
Unallocated
US$m
Consolidated
US$m
Sales revenue by origin 596.7 – – – 596.7
Operating gain/(loss) before derivative ﬁnancial instruments 299.9 (1.2) – (18.0) 280.7
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments losses (12.5) – – – (12.5)
Segment result 287.4 (1.2) – (18.0) 268.2
Investment revenue 1.6
Finance costs (57.1)
Other gains and losses – dilution gain on investment 
in associate company
14.7
Other gains and losses – gain on derivative ﬁnancial 
investments on shares of associate company
8.0
Share of loss of an associate (14.0)
Proﬁt from continuing operations before tax 221.4
Income tax expense (96.0)
Proﬁt from continuing operations after tax 125.4
Loss from discontinued operations (3.7)
Proﬁt for the period 121.7
Segment assets – non–current 1,600.7 216.6 588.8 19.3 2,425.4
Segment assets – current 429.6 1.7 20.2 53.6 505.1
Segment liabilities (783.1) (43.6) (312.7) (583.8) (1,723.2)
Capital additions – PP&E: oil and gas assets 660.9 – 4.9 – 665.8
Capital additions – exploration and evaluation**** 83.7 18.1 583.9 0.8 686.5
Capital additions – other 2.0 – – 2.6 4.6
Capital disposal – other – (2.1) – – (2.1)
Depletion, depreciation and amortisation (158.3) – – (1.8) (160.1)
Exploration costs write off (0.3) (0.8) – – (1.1)
*  The majority of the unallocated non-current segment assets was FHN options.
** The majority of the unallocated current segment assets was cash.
*** During 2012, exploration and evaluation additions of US$68.0 million in respect of the Okoro East licence were transferred to property, 
plant and equipment (PP&E): oil and gas assets in the Nigeria and other West Africa segment.
**** During 2011, exploration and evaluation additions of US$415.4 million in respect of the Barda Rash licence were transferred to property, 
plant and equipment (PP&E): oil and gas assets in the Kurdistan region of Iraq segment. Financial statements
108
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Non-current assets in the following segments include:
Non-current assets by origin 2012 2011
Nigeria 1,459.1  1,408.8 
Cote d'Ivoire 119.4  139.1 
Ghana 29.5  21.7 
Congo (Brazzaville) 32.5  31.1 
Total Nigeria and other West Africa 1,640.5  1,600.7 
Kenya 126.5  72.8 
Ethiopia 60.3  59.0 
Madagascar 43.5  37.8 
Seychelles 46.9  40.2 
Tanzania 22.9  6.8 
Total East Africa 300.1  216.6 
Kurdistan region of Iraq 736.1  588.8 
Total Kurdistan region of Iraq 736.1  588.8 
Unallocated 18.4  19.3 
Total unallocated 18.4  19.3 
Total non-current assets 2,695.1  2,425.4 
Revenues were generated in Nigeria of US$1,467.2 million (2011: US$546.8 million) and Côte d’Ivoire of US$31.6 million (2011: 
US$49.8 million). Included in revenues for Nigeria and other West Africa for the year ended 31 December 2012 are US$1,378 million of sales 
(2011: US$546.5 million) which were billed to the Group’s largest two customers. 
(b) Business segments
The operations of the Group comprise one class of business, being oil and gas exploration, development and production.
2.3 Taxation
The Group is subject to various forms of taxation in the countries in which it operates. These include income tax on proﬁts, royalties on 
production, sales taxes on revenues generated, and payroll taxes on beneﬁts to employees. 
(a) Income tax expense
The income tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable proﬁt for the year. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Notes
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Current tax expense
UK corporation tax – –
Overseas corporate tax 125.0 53.3
Adjustment for prior years 6.4 (18.3)
131.4 35.0
Deferred tax expense 2.3 (b)
Deferred tax 259.4 47 .6
Adjustment for prior years – 13.4
259.4 61.0
Total income tax expense 390.8 96.0
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
109
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The income tax expense is different from the expected income tax expense for the following reasons:
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Proﬁt for the year 594.2 221.4
Tax at the UK corporate tax rate of 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) 145.6 58.7
Tax effect of items which are not deductible for tax 25.2 21.8
Items not subject to tax (26.6) (16.1)
Tax effect of share of associate results 1.5 3.7
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 225.2 39.4
Prior period adjustments 6.4 (4.9)
Recognised tax losses (0.7) (14.6)
Loss not recognised 14.2 8.0
Total income tax expense 390.8 96.0
As highlighted in note 1.6 the application of tax legislation in jurisdictions in which the Group operates can be uncertain and subject to 
interpretation. Afren calculates the tax charge for the period using the latest information available, taking external advice where necessary, 
in order to arrive at our best estimate of the ﬁnal tax position. Revisions to our tax liabilities (either upward or downward) may occur as the 
Group’s tax ﬁlings and royalties are agreed with the relevant authorities in future periods.
(b) Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
ﬁnancial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁt and is accounted for using the balance 
sheet liability method. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable proﬁts will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁts will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates of tax expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
(i) Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
The Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Property, plant and equipment 351.0 92.8
Intangible oil and gas assets 39.8 39.8
Decommissioning provision (12.5) (10.6)
Other temporary differences 5.6 2.5
Net deferred tax liability 383.9 124.5
Analysis of movement during the year – 2012
At 1 January 2012
US$m
Charge for the year
US$m
At 31 December 2012
US$m
Property, plant and equipment 92.8 258.2 351.0
Intangible oil and gas assets 39.8 – 39.8
Decommissioning provision (10.5) (2.0) (12.5)
Other temporary differences 2.4 3.2 5.6
124.5 259.4 383.9
Analysis of movement during the year – 2011
At 1 January 2011
US$m
Charge for the year
US$m
At 31 December 2011
US$m
Property, plant and equipment 36.8 56.0 92.8
Intangible oil and gas assets 39.8 – 39.8
Decommissioning provision (4.2) (6.3) (10.5)
Other temporary differences (8.9) 11.3 2.4
63.5 61.0 124.5 Financial statements
11 0
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
(ii) Unrecognised deferred tax assets
At the balance sheet date the Group also had tax losses (primarily arising in the UK) of US$141.3 million (2011: US$98.3 million) in respect 
of which a deferred tax asset has not been recognised as there is insufﬁcient evidence of future taxable proﬁts against which these tax 
losses could be recovered. Such losses can be carried forward indeﬁnitely. 
The Group had temporary differences of US$12.5 million (2011: US$2.3 million) in respect of share-based payments, property, plant and 
equipment and pensions in respect of which deferred tax assets have not been recognised as there is insufﬁcient evidence of future taxable 
proﬁts against which these tax losses could be recovered.
Deferred tax has not been recognised on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries as the largest proportion of dividends would be from 
subsidiaries where no additional tax would be applied on dividend income.
2.4 Reconciliation of proﬁt after tax to normalised proﬁt after tax
Normalised proﬁt after tax is a non-IFRS measure of ﬁnancial performance of the Group, which in management’s view provides a better 
understanding of the Group’s underlying ﬁnancial performance. This may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by 
other companies. 
The table below reconciles the IFRS proﬁt after tax to the normalised proﬁt after tax:
Notes
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Proﬁt after tax from continuing activities 203.4 125.4
Unrealised losses on derivative ﬁnancial instruments 6.7 3.2
Finance costs on settlement of borrowings 1.8 7.4
Share-based payment charge 17 .3 7.3
Foreign exchange losses 0.5 (1.2)
Fair value loss on ﬁnancial liabilities 2.5 0.1
Gain on derivative ﬁnancial instruments on shares of associate company (0.2) (8.0)
Dilution gain on investment in FHN, an associate company 3.7(a) (0.8) (14.7)
Share of associate’s derivative ﬁnancial instruments losses 13. 1 5.6
Normalised proﬁt after tax 244.3 125.1
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
111
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
2.5 Earnings per ordinary share
Earnings per share (EPS) is the amount of post-tax proﬁt attributable to each share.
Basic EPS is calculated on the Group’s proﬁt for the year attributable to equity shareholders of US$203.4 million (2011: US$121.7 million) 
divided by 1,080.8 million (2011: 1,016.7 million) being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Diluted EPS takes into account the dilutive effect of all share options and warrants being exercised.
Where a proﬁt or loss in the period from a discontinued operation has occurred, this proﬁt or loss is factored into the EPS calculation 
in order to present a Group result from continuing operations.
2012 2011
From continuing and discontinued operations
Basic 18.7c 12.0c
Diluted 17.9c 11.5c
From continuing operations
Basic 18.7c 12.3c
Diluted 17.9c 11.9c
The proﬁt and weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of the earnings per share are as follows:
Proﬁt used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing and 
discontinued operations (US$m) 203.4 121.7
Loss for the period from discontinued operations (US$m) – 3.7
Proﬁt used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing 
activities (US$m) 203.4 125.4
The weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share reconciles to the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share as follows:
Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share 1,080,796,430 1,016,720,136
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Share-based schemes’ awards 49,370,049 38,956,799
Warrants 165,215 273,330
Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted 
earnings per share 1,130,331,694 1,055,950,265 Financial statements
11 2
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
3.0 Financing the Group’s activities
This section outlines how the Group manages its capital and related ﬁnancing costs.
The Directors determine the appropriate capital structure of Afren; speciﬁcally, how much is raised from shareholders (equity) and how 
much is borrowed from ﬁnancial institutions (debt) in order to ﬁnance the Group’s business strategy, both now and in the future and to 
maximise shareholder value.
The Directors consider that debt and equity are both capital, and managing net debt (as disclosed below) is the key strategy for managing 
capital. The Directors consider the Group’s capital structure and funding requirements a minimum of twice a year ahead of announcing 
results in the context of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern and deliver its business strategy. The Group’s funding 
requirements are met through a combination of debt, equity and operational cash ﬂow.
3.1 Net debt and cash ﬂow commitments
Key cash ﬂow activity in the period
In March 2012, Afren raised US$300 million senior secured notes (debt) with a seven-year term.
Part of the proceeds has been used to repay the outstanding BNPP/VTB credit facility (debt) which had a carrying amount of US$95.9 million 
as at 31 December 2011. This facility had been used to fund the acquisition of the Group’s interest in the Ain Sifni block in the Kurdistan 
region of Iraq.
A payment of approximately US$200 million was made in March 2012 in relation to the Barda Rash PSC in Kurdistan. This liability was 
outstanding as at 31 December 2011.
Net debt
Net debt is the key measure by which the Group monitors its funding. Net debt is deﬁned as borrowings, less ﬁnance lease liabilities 
and cash and cash equivalents. 
1 Jan 2012 
US$m
Net cash 
ﬂows
Non-cash 
movements
31 Dec 2012 
US$m Coupon
Repayment 
due
Ebok ﬁeld reserves facility (Ebok RBL) (a) 213.4 (32.1) 3.3 184.6 LIBOR + 4% 
to 5.25%
2012-2015
Socar facility (b) 48.9 – 0.7 49.6 LIBOR + 4.5% July 2013
BNPP/VTB credit facility (c) 95.9 (95.9) – –
Senior Secured Loan Notes 2016 (SSN 2016) (d) 481.8 – 4.5 486.3 11.5% 2016
Senior Secured Loan Notes 2019 (SSN 2019) (e) – 292.8 – 292.8 10.25% 2019
Total borrowings (excluding ﬁnance lease liabilities) 840.0 164.8 8.5 1,013.3
Less: cash and cash equivalents (f) (291.7) (233.1) – (524.8)
Net debt 548.3 (68.3) 8.5 488.5
Finance lease liabilities 135.5 –– 117.4
(a) Ebok RBL 
In March 2010 the Group entered into a US$450 million bank facility agreement which is secured against the Ebok ﬁeld reserves. 
The interest rate and repayments (which are made semi-annually) are determined by the certiﬁed reserves of the Ebok ﬁeld. 
(b) Socar facility
In August 2011, the Group entered into a US$50 million facilities agreement (the Socar facility) with Socar Trading S.A. The Socar facility has 
a term of the earlier of (i) 23 months from the date of the agreement (July 2013) or (ii) 90 days from the date that Afren’s Ebok Crude Oil 
Purchase Contract with Socar terminates (the later of 4 September 2012 or the cumulative lifting of 18.5 mmbbl of crude oil from the 
Ebok ﬁeld). 
(c) BNPP/VTB credit facility
The facility was repaid in March 2012.
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
11 3
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
(d) SSN 2016
In January and February 2011, the Group completed its ﬁrst bond issue and raised US$500 million before issue costs. The Notes, which are 
listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, are guaranteed on a senior basis by certain subsidiaries of Afren plc and on a senior subordinated 
basis by Afren Resources Limited. 
(e) SSN 2019
In March 2012, the Group completed its second bond issue raising US$300 million before issue costs. The Notes, which are listed on the 
Luxembourg Stock Exchange, are guaranteed on a senior basis by certain subsidiaries of Afren plc and on a senior subordinated basis 
by Afren Resources Limited. 
(f) Cash and cash equivalents
The cash ﬂow statement on page 102 gives a breakdown of cash movements in the year.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group in the form of short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less and earn interest at respective short-term deposit rates. The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value. 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2012 includes US$7.5 million (2011: US$31.2 million) that is restricted.   
Contracted cash ﬂow commitments
The Group uses both short- and long-term projected cash ﬂows to monitor funding requirements for the Group’s activities. Cash ﬂow 
projections take into consideration the Group’s debt ﬁnancing plans and covenant compliance. 
The table below analyses the Group’s non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities (borrowings, ﬁnance lease liabilities, trade and other payables and 
deferred consideration) by when they fall due for payment. The values in the table are based on undiscounted cash ﬂows on the earliest 
date on which the Group can be required to pay. The values are greater than the values in the net debt table (Section 3.1) as they include 
contractual forecast interest payments.
The non-interest bearing category in the table below comprises trade and other payables and deferred consideration on acquisitions. 
Borrowings are both variable and ﬁxed rate interest borrowings and they are listed in the net debt table in Section 3.1.
2012
Weighted average 
effective interest %
Less than 
1 month 
US$m
1-3 months
US$m
3 months 
to 1 year 
US$m
1-5 years
US$m
After 5 years
US$m
Total
US$m
Non-interest bearing
Trade and other payables nil 117.8 190.0 84.1 – – 391.9
Interest bearing
Finance lease liability 6% 2.2 6.6 17.7 113.2 – 139.7
Variable and ﬁxed interest rate borrowings 9.9% 29.4 16.1 242.3 818.0 346.6 1,452.4
Total 149.4 212.7 344.1 931.2 346.6 1,984.0
2011
Weighted average 
effective interest %
Less than 
1 month
US$m
1-3 months
US$m
3 months 
to 1 year
US$m
1-5 years
US$m
After 5 years
US$m
Total
US$m
Non-interest bearing
Trade and other payables nil 31.5 277.6 197.1 0.1 – 506.3
Interest bearing
Finance lease liability 6% 2.1 6.4 17.2 103.1 34.4 163.2
Variable and ﬁxed interest rate borrowings 8.4% 29.3 50.1 221.4 874.3 – 1,175.1
Total 62.9 334.1 435.7 977.5 34.4 1,844.6
The amounts reported in the balance sheet relating to borrowings (excluding interest) mature as follows:
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Due within one year 189.4 157 .8
Due within two to ﬁve years 531.1 682.2
More than ﬁve years 292.8 –
1,013.3 840.0 Financial statements
11 4
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
3.2 Borrowings and loan notes
The Group borrows money in the form of bonds and other ﬁnancial instruments. These typically have a ﬁxed interest rate and are for a ﬁxed 
term. The interest and other costs payable on these borrowings are shown in Section 3.6.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classiﬁed according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. 
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. 
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
Borrowings (including senior loan notes) are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are 
subsequently carried at amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is 
recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings. Interest is calculated by applying the coupon rate to the 
redemption value.
2012 2011
Current
US$m
 Non-current
US$m
Current
US$m
Non-current
US$m
Loan notes –779.1 –481.7
Bank borrowings 189.4 44.8 157 .8 200.5
189.4 823.9 157 .8 682.2
Loan notes
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Balance as at 1 January 481.7 –
Proceeds on issue 300.0 500.0
Unamortised costs of issue (2.6) (18.3)
779.1 481.7
3.3 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
A derivative is a ﬁnancial instrument used to manage risk. Its value changes over time in response to a change to underlying variables 
such as crude oil price.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are stated at fair value. If the Group does not hedge account for the derivatives, gains and losses arising 
out of changes in fair value of these instruments together with settlements in the period are accounted for in other operating income/
(expense) in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
If the Group hedge accounts for the derivatives, each period the portion of the gains and losses on the cash ﬂow hedging instruments 
that is determined to be an effective hedge is taken to equity (other comprehensive income) and the ineffective portion, as well as any 
change in time value, is recognised in the income statement.
Third-party valuations are used to value the Group’s derivatives.
The Group has the following derivatives:
Purpose Hedge accounting
Okoro commodity synthetic put options (a) Sets a minimum price for Okoro crude oil production No
Ebok commodity deferred put options (cash ﬂow hedges) (b) Hedge against the price of crude falling for Ebok ﬁeld Yes
Put (sell) and call (buy) options for FHN shares (c) Options to buy and sell FHN shares No
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
11 5
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
(a) Okoro commodity call options
The Group receives a minimum amount if the market falls, but receives a set discount from the market price if the oil price is above 
that minimum. The arrangement protects the Group against the risk of a signiﬁcant fall in the price of crude oil. These instruments 
terminated in 2011.
(b) Ebok commodity deferred put options
The Group will receive a minimum amount if the market falls. These instruments have been classiﬁed as cash ﬂow hedges, with a portion 
of the gains and losses on the instruments that are determined to be an effective hedge taken to equity and the ineffective portion, as well 
as any change in time value, recognised in the income statement for each period. During the period the loss incurred of US$20.0 million 
(2011: US$10.6 million loss), net of cash realisations, relating to these instruments was charged to the income statement in relation to the 
change in time value.
(c) Put and call options for FHN shares
The Group has three put and/or call option contracts in relation to its associate, FHN. Two of the option contracts are with equity investors 
of FHN and there is also a call option between Afren and FHN. The Group recorded a net gain of US$0.2 million (2011: US$8.0 million) 
in respect of these instruments.
The ﬁrst option contract with an equity holder of FHN is a put and call option agreement over 7.2 million FHN shares. The Group entered 
into this call option on 8 October 2010 and it expires on 8 April 2013 and can exercise the call option any time during the 2.5 years over the 
equity investment. The investor can exercise their put option for 90 days after the call option expires.
The Group has also granted a put option to an equity investor of FHN over 15 million FHN shares, exercisable two years after the equity 
investment. The duration of this option is 4 April 2011 to 4 April 2013. This option will lapse if not exercised within 150 days of this date. 
As consideration for providing this put option, FHN granted Afren 30 million call options with a ten-year term, which are subject to certain 
exercise limitations. During the year, none of these options were exercised (2011: 6.75 million). FHN has 135 million of issued ordinary shares 
as at 31 December 2012.
2012 2011
Current
US$m
Non-current
US$m
Current
US$m
Non-current
US$m
Financial assets –10.4 0.7 13.4
Financial liabilities (14.0) (6.7) (10.3) (7 .6)
(14.0) 3.7 (9.6) 5.8
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Charge to the income statement
Realised derivative ﬁnancial instrument loss (24.5) (9.3)
Unrealised derivative ﬁnancial instrument loss (6.7) (3.2)
(31.2) (12.5)
Gain on derivative ﬁnancial instrument in associate company 0.2 8.0
Loss from fair value of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities (2.5) – Financial statements
11 6
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
3.4 Leasing
Leases are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
to Afren, as the lessee. All other leases are classiﬁed as operating leases.
For a ﬁnance lease, an asset and corresponding liability is recognised on the balance sheet. No asset or liability is recognised for an 
operating lease.
Finance leases assets are recognised at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined 
at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a ﬁnance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between ﬁnance expenses and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate 
of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance expenses are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless they 
are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s general policy on 
borrowing costs.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease except where 
another more systematic basis, such as a unit of production method, is more representative of the time pattern in which economic 
beneﬁts from the lease asset are consumed. 
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability. The aggregate 
beneﬁt of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis, except where another systematic basis is more 
representative of the time pattern in which economic beneﬁts from the leased asset are consumed.
Obligations under ﬁnance lease
The Group has a seven-year lease of a Mobile Offshore Production Unit (MOPU) and a Floating Storage Ofﬂoading Vessel (FSO) from 
Mercator Offshore (Nigeria) Limited in respect of the production operations of the Ebok ﬁeld, offshore Nigeria. The carrying amount of the 
Group’s lease obligations approximates its fair value. For the year ended 31 December 2012, the effective interest rate was 6% (2011: 6%). 
The amounts reported in the balance sheet relating to ﬁnance leases mature as follows:
Obligations under ﬁnance leases
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Including interest
Amounts payable under ﬁnance leases:
Within one year 26.5 25.8
In the second to ﬁfth years inclusive 11 3.2 103.1
After ﬁve years – 34.3
Less: future ﬁnance charges (22.3) (27.7)
Present value of lease obligations 117.4 135.5
Excluding interest
Amounts payable under ﬁnance leases:
Within one year 19.3 18.1
In the second to ﬁfth years inclusive 98.1 84.5
After ﬁve years – 32.9
Present value of lease obligations 117.4 135.5
Analysed as:
Amounts due within one year 19.3 18.1
Amounts due after one year 98.1 11 7.4
Present value of lease obligations 117.4 135.5
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
11 7
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operating lease commitments
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Lease payments under operating leases recognised in the income statement for the year 75.4 57.7
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows:
2012 2011
< 1 year
US$m
2-5 years
US$m
> 5 years
US$m
Total
US$m
< 1 year
US$m
2-5 years
US$m
> 5 years
US$m
Total
US$m
FPSO for Okoro ﬁeld production* 14.9 16.5 0.0 31.4 15.2 7 .5 0.0 22.7
Okoro terminal, security boats, ﬁeld transport rentals 6.3 0.4 0.0 6.7 3.1 0.0 0.0 3.1
Ebok rig and ﬁeld rentals** 156.7 1 13.2 0.0 269.9 83.4 60.1 19.9 163.4
Ofﬁce property 5.8 19.1 7.3 32.2 7. 1 1 2.4 2. 1 21.6
183.7 149.2 7.3 340.2 108.8 80.0 22.0 210.8
* The Okoro FPSO lease expires on April 2013 and has been renewed for a further one year.
** Includes commitments under ﬁnance lease. 
3.5 Share capital, share premium and merger reserve
This section explains material movements recorded in shareholders’ equity that are not explained elsewhere in the ﬁnancial statements. 
The movements in equity and the balance sheet at 31 December 2012 are presented in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Authorised
1,200 million ordinary shares of 1p each (equivalent to approx US$1.59 cents) (2011: 1,200 million) 19.1 19.1
Equity share capital allotted and fully paid Share premium Merger reserve
(i)
Number $m $m $m
Allotted equity share capital and share premium
As at 1 January 2012 1,073,440,088 18.7 918.1 179.4
Issued during the year for cash 2,427,333 0.0 2.2 –
Non-cash shares issued
(ii)
11,240,276 0.2 – –
As at 31 December 2012 1,087,107,697 18.9 920.3 179.4
(i) In 2011, the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to Merger relief (s612 and s613) were applied to the equity raising through 
a cash box structure, resulting in the creation of a merger reserve, after deducting the cost of share issue of US$3.4 million. The so 
called “cash box” method of effecting an issue of shares for cash is commonplace and enabled the Company to issue shares without 
giving rise to any share premium.
(ii) Non-cash shares were issued to eligible staff members on maturity of the 2009 LTIP. 
3.6 Finance costs
Financial costs of debt are allocated to periods over the term of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount. Arrangement 
fees and issue costs are deducted from the debt proceeds on initial recognition of the liability and are amortised and charged to the 
income statement as ﬁnance costs over the term of the debt. 
Borrowing costs, including interest on loans, which are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying 
assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the 
cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Capitalised borrowing costs are amortised in line with the underlying asset. All other borrowing costs are recognised in proﬁt or loss in 
the period in which they are incurred. Financial statements
11 8
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Bank interest payable (b) 14.1 12.8
Borrowing costs amortisation and facility fees (a) 14.1 17 .8
Interest on ﬁnance lease (b) 8.5 6.3
Interest on Loan Notes (b) 83.9 55.2
Corporate facility interest payable (b) 2.5 1.0
Unwinding of discount on Loan Notes – 2.4
Unwinding of discount on decommissioning and deferred consideration 8.5 8.5
131.6 104.0
Less: capitalised interest (b) (58.8) (46.9)
72.8 57.1
(a) Borrowing costs
During the year borrowing costs were capitalised to the Ebok ﬁeld using a weighted average rate of approximately 10.3% (2011: 1 1.3%).
Following approval of the development plan for the Barda Rash ﬁeld in the Kurdistan region of Iraq in late 2011, borrowing costs were 
capitalised using a weighted average rate of 12.0% (2011: 11.9%). 
Borrowing costs incurred during the year relating to the Okoro project were capitalised using a weighted average rate of approximately 
11.7% (2011: 4.4%) related to the speciﬁc project borrowings rate. 
Total expenses of the bond issue incurred amounted to US$8.2 million in the current year (2011: US$22.1 million) which are being amortised 
over the life the Notes using the effective interest method.
(b) Interest costs
Interest amounting to US$109.0 million (2011: US$75.3 million) (before capitalisation of some of the interest to oil and gas assets under 
development), has been charged to the income statement for the period to 31 December 2012. 
4.0 Oil and gas activities
This section shows the assets used to generate the Group’s trading performance and the liabilities incurred as a result. Liabilities relating 
to the Group’s ﬁnancing activities are addressed in Section 3. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in Section 2.3.
On the following pages there are disclosures showing intangible and tangible oil and gas assets, capital commitments, inventories, 
investments and contingent liabilities. Other working capital balances are shown in Section 5.
4.1 Licences summary
The Group has interests in oil and gas licences at the three different stages of the operational work programme cycle – exploration, 
appraisal and development, and production. Further details on each licence and the stage of the work programme can be found on pages 
40 to 55 and on page 140.
The classiﬁcations reﬂect the stage of each work programme from an operational perspective as explained further in the Operations review. 
The classiﬁcation within the ﬁnancial statements may be different due to the criteria for determining when the work programme has moved 
from exploration (intangible oil and gas assets) to development and then to production (both categories tangible oil and gas assets) being 
different under accounting standards.
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
11 9
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
4.2 Oil and gas reserves
Commercial reserves are proven and probable oil and gas reserves (also commonly referred to as 2P reserves), which are deﬁned as the 
estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical and engineering data demonstrate 
with a speciﬁed degree of certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and which are considered commercially 
producible. There should be a 50% statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves will be more than the amount 
estimated as proven and probable reserves and a 50% statistical probability that it will be less.
The Group’s commercial reserves as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2012 are detailed in the table on page 142 of this Annual 
Report and Accounts. These commercial reserves are stated on a working interest basis, and have been prepared in accordance with the 
deﬁnitions and guidelines set forth in the 2007 PRMS approved by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE). The commercial reserves 
are unaudited.
The commercial reserves are used in a number of ways in the ﬁnancial statements; in particular:
1) to assess whether a prospect is commercially viable, and therefore support that the recoverable amount of oil and gas assets 
(both intangible and property, plant and equipment) continue to exceed the carrying amount of the assets; and
2) in the calculation of depletion of the property, plant and equipment: oil and gas assets.
4.3 Intangible exploration and evaluation assets
The Group follows the successful efforts method of accounting for intangible exploration and evaluation costs. All licence acquisition, 
exploration and evaluation costs are initially capitalised as intangible ﬁxed assets in cost centres by ﬁeld or exploration area, as 
appropriate, pending determination of commerciality of the relevant property. Directly attributable administration costs are capitalised 
insofar as they relate to speciﬁc exploration activities. Pre-licence costs and general exploration costs not speciﬁc to any particular licence 
or prospect are expensed as incurred.
Intangible exploration and evaluation assets:
US$m
At 1 January 2011 443.8
Additions (a) 686.4
Transfer to property, plant and equipment: oil and gas assets (b) (415.4)
Amounts written off (c) (1.1)
At 1 January 2012 713.7
Additions (a) 249.9
Transfer to property, plant and equipment: oil and gas assets (b) (68.0)
Amounts written off (c) (19.7)
At 31 December 2012 875.9
(a) Additions
Additions during 2012 included US$68.0 million in respect of the Okoro East Field Extension in Nigeria, all of which was transferred from 
intangible exploration and evaluation assets to tangible oil and gas assets. 
Additions during 2011 included US$415.4 million in respect of the Barda Rash licence in the Kurdistan region of Iraq acquired during 
the period which was transferred from intangible exploration and evaluation assets to tangible oil and gas assets following approval of the 
ﬁeld development plan by the government. Additions also included US$168.4 million in respect of the Ain Sifni licence in the Kurdistan 
region of Iraq. Financial statements
12 0
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
(b) Transfer to property, plant and equipment: oil and gas assets
Non-current assets are tested for impairment when facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may exceed 
the recoverable amount. Such triggering events are deﬁned in IFRS 6 in respect of exploration and evaluation assets and include the 
point at which determination is made as to whether commercial reserves exist. 
If prospects are deemed to be commercially viable on completion of the evaluation, the attributable costs are transferred to property, 
plant and equipment in single ﬁeld cost centres.
Prospects deemed to be commercially viable, and transferred to property, plant and equipment during 2012, primarily relate to the Okoro 
Field Extension as disclosed in (a) above. As part of this assessment in 2012, management performed an impairment test upon its Okoro 
asset, on transfer from intangible exploration and evaluation assets. This test compared the carrying value of the assets at the balance sheet 
date with the expected discounted cash ﬂows from each project. For the discounted cash ﬂows to be calculated, management used 
a production proﬁle based on its best estimate of proven and probable reserves of the assets and a range of assumptions, including an 
internal oil price proﬁle benchmarked to mean analysts’ consensus and a 10% pre-tax discount rate which, taking into account other 
assumptions used in the calculation, management considers to be reﬂective of the risks.
Prospects deemed to be commercially viable, and transferred to property, plant and equipment during 2011, relate to Barda Rash 
as disclosed in (a) above. As part of this assessment in 2011, management performed an impairment test upon its Barda Rash asset, 
on transfer from intangible exploration and evaluation assets. This test compared the carrying value of the assets at the balance sheet 
date with the expected discounted cash ﬂows from each project. For the discounted cash ﬂows to be calculated, management used 
a production proﬁle based on its best estimate of proven and probable reserves of the assets and a range of assumptions, including an 
internal oil price proﬁle benchmarked to mean analysts’ consensus and a 10% discount rate which, taking into account other assumptions 
used in the calculation, management considers to be reﬂective of the risks.
(c) Exploration costs written-off
If prospects are deemed to be impaired (‘unsuccessful’) on making the above determination as to whether commercial reserves exist, 
the associated costs are charged to the income statement.
2012 
US$m
2011 
US$m
Exploration costs written off 19.7 1. 1 
Amounts written off in 2012 primarily relate to well costs in respect of Nunya-1X Keta block Ghana which was plugged and abandoned 
during the year, and impairments of potentially unrecoverable amounts relating to Nigeria blocks OPL 907 & 917, for which the Group 
is currently considering its strategic options (2011: amounts relate to the relinquishment of the Group’s interest in Ethiopia Blocks 2 & 6).
4.4 Property, plant and equipment
Oil and gas assets
Development assets are costs incurred to obtain access to proved reserves and to provide facilities for extracting, treating, gathering, 
and storing oil and gas. Examples of these costs are costs incurred to gain access to and prepare well locations for drilling; drill and 
equipment development wells, including cost of platforms and well equipment; acquire, construct, and install production facilities such 
as ease ﬂow lines, separators, treaters, and heaters; and other items as appropriate. Intangible exploration and evaluation assets are 
transferred into development assets once the property has proved reserves and a development plan approved by all relevant parties 
including, where applicable, the Government. 
Production assets are those properties which have begun producing. These assets are typically development properties which are 
transferred into the production portfolio or through acquisition of a subsidiary. Once commercial production starts on a development 
asset, the property is reclassiﬁed as a production asset and depletion of the property commences.
Other property, plant and equipment assets 
Other property, plant and equipment comprises the Group’s investment in leasehold improvements, ﬁxtures and equipment, 
and computer hardware and software; and is stated at cost less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
12 1
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes
Development
US$m
Production
US$m
Gas plant
US$m
Total oil & 
gas assets
US$m
Other property, 
plant & equipment
US$m
Total
US$m
Cost
At 1 January 2011 493.7 514.9 28.0 1,036.6 14.9 1,051.5
Additions (a) 623.4 42.2 0.2 665.8 4.5 1,040.8
Transfer from intangible exploration and evaluation assets (4.3a) 415.4 – – 415.4 – 44.9
Effect of changes to decommissioning estimates (b) (8.9) (7.5) – (16.4) – (16.4)
Transfer from development to production (c) (1,097.3) 1,097.3 – – – –
Reclassiﬁcation of assets previously held for sale – – – – 2.8 2.8
Disposal – – – – (2.1) (2.1)
At 1 January 2012 426.3 1,646.9 28.2 2,101.4 20.1 2,121.5
Additions (a) 121. 1 204.4 – 325.5 5.5 331.0
Transfer from intangible exploration and evaluation assets (4.3a) 68.0 – – 68.0 – 68.0
Effect of changes to decommissioning estimates (b) – 3.5 – 3.5 – 3.5
Transfer from development to production (c) (45.1) 45.1 – – – –
Disposal ––– – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 December 2012 570.3 1,899.9 28.2 2,498.4 25.3 2,523.7
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation (d)
At 1 January 2011 6.0 261.4 10.0 277.4 8.0 285.4
Charge for the year – 151.0 4.4 155.4 4.7 160.1
At 1 January 2012 6.0 412.4 14.4 432.8 12.7 445.5
Charge for the year – 366.5 4.4 370.9 3.5 374.4
Disposal ––– – – –
At 31 December 2012 6.0 778.9 18.8 803.7 16.2 819.9
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2011 420.4 1,234.5 13.7 1,668.6 7.4 1,676.0
At 31 December 2012 564.3 1,121.0 9.4 1,694.7 9.1 1,703.8
The gross capitalised interest included in the oil and gas assets amounted to US$148.5 million as at 31 December 2012 
(2011: US$89.7 million). 
(a) Additions
Additions during the year included capital expenditure in respect of the Ebok ﬁeld of US$204.4 million and Barda Rash ﬁeld of 
US$121.1 million. In addition, US$68.0 million relating to the Okoro Field Extension was transferred from intangible exploration and 
evaluation assets to development during the year. 
Additions in 2011 included US$168.3 million relating to the MOPU and FSO at Ebok ﬁeld, offshore Nigeria, held under ﬁnance lease 
as disclosed in note 3.4. 
(b) Provision for decommissioning
A provision for decommissioning the oil and gas assets is recognised in full when the related facilities are installed. The extent to which 
a provision is required depends on the legal requirements for decommissioning, the costs and timing of work and the discount rate to 
be applied.  Financial statements
12 2
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The provision represents the present value of the decommissioning costs relating to Ebok, Okoro and CI-11 ﬁelds that are expected to be 
incurred up to 2023. The table below details the movements in the provision.
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
At 1 January 31.6 35.1
Addition during the year 7. 1 10.8
Unwinding of discount 1.5 2.1
Effects of changes to decommissioning estimates (3.5) (16.4)
At 31 December 36.7 31.6
A corresponding amount equivalent to the provision is recognised as part of the cost of the related property, plant and equipment 
(within additions). The amount recognised is the estimated cost of decommissioning, discounted to its net present value, and is 
reassessed each year in accordance with local conditions and requirements, reﬂecting management’s best estimates. 
Additions during the year relate to provisions for additional wells drilled at the Ebok ﬁeld and Okoro ﬁeld. 
During 2011 an independent specialist evaluated the decommissioning costs for the three ﬁelds and the study led to the adjustment 
of the amounts previously provided for. Management believe the estimates continue to form a reasonable basis for the expected future 
costs of decommissioning, which are expected to be incurred up to 2023. 
Changes in the estimated timing of decommissioning or decommissioning cost estimates are dealt with prospectively by recording 
an adjustment to the provision and a corresponding adjustment to property, plant and equipment.
The unwinding of the discount on the decommissioning is included as a ﬁnance cost.
(c) Transfer from development to production
Transfers from development to production in the year include a portion of the Okoro Field Extension of US$45.1 million, and in 2011 include 
Ebok ($1,097.3 million).
(d) Depreciation, depletion and amortisation
Oil and gas assets
Oil and gas assets are amortised from the commencement of production on a unit of production basis, which is the ratio of oil and gas 
production in the period to the estimated quantities of commercial reserves, generally on a ﬁeld by ﬁeld basis. Costs used in the unit of 
production calculation comprise the net book value of capitalised costs plus the estimated future ﬁeld development costs. Changes in the 
estimates of commercial reserves or future ﬁeld development costs are dealt with prospectively.
The gas plant is depreciated straight line over six and a quarter years.
Included in the depletion, depreciation and amortisation charge during the year is US$32.4 million (2011: US$8.2 million) attributable 
to the assets under ﬁnance lease in respect of the Ebok ﬁeld.
Other property, plant and equipment
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost of the property, plant and equipment, less anticipated disposal proceeds, 
on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic life as follows:
Leasehold improvements over life of lease
Fixtures and equipment over three years
Computer hardware and software over three years
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
12 3
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Impairment
Non-current assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may exceed its 
recoverable amount. 
Where there has been an indication of a possible impairment, management assesses the recoverability of the carrying value of the asset 
by comparison with the estimated discounted future net cash ﬂows based on management’s expectation of future production, oil prices 
and costs. 
As part of this assessment in 2012, management carried out a review of all property, plant and equipment, oil and gas assets and no 
impairment indicators were noted (2011: impairment tests carried out on assets in Côte d’Ivoire and on the Barda Rash asset in the 
Kurdistan region of Iraq). 
These tests compared the carrying value of the assets at the balance sheet date with the expected discounted cash ﬂows from each project. 
For the discounted cash ﬂows to be calculated, management used a production proﬁle based on its best estimate of proven and probable 
reserves of the assets and a range of assumptions, including an internal oil price proﬁle benchmarked to mean analysts’ consensus and 
a 10% pre-tax discount rate which, taking into account other assumptions used in the calculation, management considers to be reﬂective 
of the risks.
Any impairment identiﬁed is charged to the income statement as additional depletion and amortisation. Where conditions giving rise 
to impairment subsequently reverse, the effect of the impairment charge is also reversed as a credit to the income statement, net of any 
depreciation that would have been charged since the impairment.
4.5 Capital commitments
As at 31 December, the Group has committed to the following capital expenditure, but as the related assets have not been received 
as at that date, no liability is recognised in the ﬁnancial statements.
2012 
US$m
2011 
US$m
Property, plant and equipment: oil and gas assets – development 34.4 130.5 
Intangible exploration and evaluation assets 447.1 196.5 
481.5 327.0 
4.6 Inventories
Oil and gas inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value other than certain oil inventory in Côte d’Ivoire, which is 
settled via a reduction in the amount recoverable in respect of realised gas sales from the Lion Gas Plant. The inventory subject to this 
swap is recorded at its fair value.
Spare parts and materials inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs comprise direct materials and, where 
applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and 
condition. The cash ﬂows associated with the purchase of spare parts and materials are classiﬁed in investment activities with the oil 
and gas assets. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
The table details the carrying value of inventories as at 31 December:
2012 
US$m
2011 
US$m
Oil and gas inventory 52.1 43.6 
Spare parts and materials 42.3 23.5 
94.4 67.1 
Spare parts and materials are stated net of a provision of US$1.5 million (2011: US$1.2 million) to write down the inventory to recoverable 
amount. Additional provision of US$0.3 million was made during the year. Financial statements
12 4
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
4.7 Investments
Associates are those entities in which the Group has signiﬁcant inﬂuence, but not control, over the ﬁnancial and operating policies. 
Signiﬁcant inﬂuence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50% of the voting power of another entity. 
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring 
unanimous consent for strategic ﬁnancial and operating decisions. An interest in an entity where the Group has neither control, 
joint control nor signiﬁcant inﬂuence is classiﬁed as a ﬁnancial asset. 
The following table details the entities for which the Group accounts for its investment as associates or joint ventures, the percentage 
investment the Group holds as at 31 December 2012 along with detail of the licences these entities hold:
Entity Interest Country/licence
Associates (a):
First Hydrocarbon Nigeria (FHN) 46.7% Nigeria: OML 26
Jointly controlled entities (b):
Afren Global Energy Resources Limited (AGER) 50% Nigeria: OPL 907 and OPL 917
Dangote Energy Equity Resources Limited (DEER) 49% Nigeria & São Tomè & Prìncipe JDZ: Block 1
Financial assets (c):
Gasol Plc (Gasol) 14% UK
(a) Associates
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are included in the Group accounts using the equity method of accounting 
in accordance with IAS 28, except when classiﬁed as held for sale. 
The investment is initially recognised at cost, this being the fair value of the purchase consideration together with the fees and other 
expenses incurred directly in making the acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair values of the 
identiﬁable net assets of the investee at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill. The goodwill is included within the carrying 
amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment. Any excess of the Group’s share of the fair values 
of the identiﬁable net assets of the investee at the date of acquisition above the cost of acquisition (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited 
in the income statement in the period of acquisition.
The carrying amount of the investment in the Group balance sheet is subsequently adjusted each period:
1) by the Group’s share of any relevant gains or losses, which are accounted for by a charge or credit to the income statement and 
an increase or decrease in the carrying value of the investment accordingly. This includes any gains arising on non-dilutive, third-party 
equity investments; and
2) less any impairment in the value of the investment. Investments in associates and jointly controlled investees are assessed for 
impairment annually. Where the investment relates to marketable securities the carrying amount is compared to the fair value at the 
reporting date and any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement.
The Group income statement includes the Group’s share of the post-tax proﬁt or loss and other comprehensive income, after any 
adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date signiﬁcant inﬂuence commences and until the date 
that signiﬁcant inﬂuence ceases. The result is disclosed on one line.
Where the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in that associate, the carrying amount of that interest, including any long-term 
investments, is reduced to zero, and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an 
obligation or has made payments on behalf of that investee.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, proﬁts and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest 
in the relevant associate. Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred, in which case appropriate provision 
is made for impairment.
IAS 28 is currently not speciﬁc on how changes in an investee’s net assets that are not the investor’s share of the investee’s proﬁt or loss 
or other comprehensive income, or that are not distributions received are accounted for. The Group’s policy in these circumstances is to 
recognise these gains (or losses) through the income statement when they occur. 
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
12 5
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The table below summarises the movements in the carrying value of the Group’s investment in FHN during the year:
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
At the beginning of the year 21.8 11.2
Additions – 9.9
Dilution gain 0.8 14.7
Fair value gain on derecognition of investment 1.8 –
Transfer of investment – available for sale (1.8) –
Share of associates loss (6.9) (14.0)
At the end of the year 15.7 21.8
Aggregated amounts related to associates, were as follows:
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Total assets 354.8 333.6
Total liabilities (308.7) (277.4)
Revenues 11 2.4 –
Group's share of net loss from associates (6.9) (14.0)
FHN
In December 2011, FHN, in which the Group is a 46.7% shareholder as at 31 December 2012, completed the acquisition of a 45% interest 
in the OML 26 licence onshore Nigeria. FHN also secured ﬁnancing facilities totalling US$280 million to enable it to fully fund the acquisition 
and its share of future capital requirements associated with the initial development of the block. 
The Group recognised a dilution gain of US$0.8 million (2011: US$14.7 million) arising from the Group’s proportionate share of the increase 
in the net asset value of FHN’s balance sheet following a third-party equity injection.
The ﬁnancial information accounted for using the equity method as at 31 December has been taken from the management information 
of FHN at that date. 
(b) Jointly controlled entities
Entities over which the Group exercises joint control are accounted for using proportional consolidation, under which the Group records 
its share of revenue, expenditure, assets and liabilities.
The Group’s share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of the jointly controlled entities at 31 December 2012 and 201 1 
and for the years then ended, which are included in the Group’s ﬁnancial statements, are as follows:
2012 2011
50% share in AGER
US$m
49% share in DEER
US$m
50% share in AGER
US$m
49% share in DEER
US$m
Current assets –1.6 1.3 1.5
Non-current assets –25.5 4.7 18.7
– 27.1 6.0 20.2
Current liabilities –(19.3) (6.4) (12.4)
Non-current liabilities –– ––
– 7.8 (0.4) 7.8
Total Income –– ––
Total expenses 5.9 0.1 0.1 –
Loss before and after income tax 5.9 0.1 0.1 – Financial statements
12 6
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
(c) Gasol
In August 2012, the Group’s shareholding in Gasol plc reduced to 14% (2011: 20.9%). As Afren plc no longer holds signiﬁcant inﬂuence 
over Gasol, its investment in Gasol has been reclassiﬁed from an associate to an available for sale (AFS) ﬁnancial asset. The AFS investment 
in Gasol is held at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in the investment valuation reserve. The gains and losses on both 
reclassiﬁcation to an AFS ﬁnancial asset and subsequent measurement of the investment have not been material.
4.8 Contingent liabilities
A contingent liability is a liability that is not sufﬁciently certain to qualify for recognition as a provision. Uncertainty may exist regarding 
the outcome of future events.
As at 31 December
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
Performance bond issued by a bank in respect of OPL 907/917 24.1 24.1
Standby letter of credit in respect of contractual agreements of the Okoro FPSO, Ebok MOPU/FSO 12.0 12.0
Performance bond issued by a bank in respect of Kenya exploration activities 12.6 0.5
Indemnity in respect of FHN’s standby letter of credit 6.5 6.5
Other 2.1 2.0
57.3 45.1
5.0 Other disclosures
This section includes all disclosures which are required by IFRS or the Companies Act which have not been included elsewhere in the 
ﬁnancial statements. In our view, these disclosures are less important and/or material to the core operations of Afren and as such they have 
been grouped in section 5.
5.1 Adoption of new and revised standards
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2013, 
and have not been applied in preparing these ﬁnancial statements. None of these are expected to have a signiﬁcant effect on the ﬁnancial 
statements, except for IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which becomes mandatory for the 2013 ﬁnancial statements and could impact both the 
measurement and disclosure of ﬁnancial instruments and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements. With respect to IFRS 10, management 
continue to assess the likely impact on Afren’s accounting for associates and joint ventures. There are other standards in existence which will 
be considered once endorsed for use in the EU.
5.2 Audit and non-audit fees
2012 
US$m
2011 
US$m
An analysis of auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.3 0.3
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and their associates for other services to the Group:
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.5 0.4
Total audit fees 0.8 0.7
– Audit related assurance services 0.3 0.2
– Taxation compliance services 0.1 0.1
– Other taxation advisory services 0.1 0.4
– Corporate ﬁnance services – 0.1
Total non-audit fees 0.5 0.8
Audit related assurance services in 2012 include the fees related to the auditors’ reviews of the Group’s interim and quarterly reporting.
Fees paid to Deloitte for audit and other services to the Company are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are 
required to discuss such fees on a consolidated basis. 
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
12 7
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
5.3 Subsidiaries
For a list of signiﬁcant subsidiaries and associated undertakings which form the Afren Group, refer to the Afren Company ﬁnancial 
statements note 6.2.
5.4 Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty (most commonly a customer) will default on its contractual obligations (for example default 
on invoice payment) resulting in ﬁnancial loss to the Group. 
The Group reviews the credit risk of the entities that it sells its products to or that it enters into contractual arrangements with and will 
obtain guarantees and commercial letters of credit as may be considered necessary where risks are signiﬁcant to the Group. 
The Group’s sales are diversiﬁed in terms of both region and the number of counterparties and, other than transactions with major 
oil companies with high credit rating and government organisations in Côte d’Ivoire and balances due from its partners, the Group does 
not have signiﬁcant exposure to any single counterparty or group of counterparties with similar characteristics. 
The credit risk on cash is limited because the majority is deposited with banks with good credit ratings assigned by international credit 
rating agencies or with governmental guarantee. The Group’s total maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December 2012 was 
US$766.0 million (2011: US$428.7 million) made up of cash and bank balances and trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments).
5.5 Trade and other receivables
(i)
Trade receivables are recognised initially at the value of the invoice sent to the customer and subsequently at the amounts considered 
recoverable (amortised cost). When there is evidence that the receivable is not recoverable, it is impaired with a corresponding charge 
to the income statement.
2012 
US$m
2011 
US$m
Trade and other receivables – non-current
Prepayments and advances to partners 88.4 0.6
88.4 0.6
Trade and other receivables – current 
Trade and other debtors 222.9 131.4
Prepayments and accrued income 39.8 14.2
262.7 145.6
Prepayments and advances to partners 7.4 –
270.1 145.6
Total trade and other receivables 358.5 146.2
There were no material receivables which were past due but not impaired at either balance sheet date, nor any material bad debt provisions. 
Advances to partners are expected to be recovered over 3-5 years. No trade or other receivables items bear interest. 
5.6 Trade and other payables
(i)
Trade payables are recognised at the value of the invoice received from a supplier.
2012 
US$m
2011 
US$m
Trade creditors 9.5 20.5
Other creditors and operated partners 164.6 109.6
Accruals 255.1 187 .3
429.2 317.4
Group accruals include interest payable of US$0.4 million (2011: US$2.0 million) relating to the bank borrowings and US$32.8 million 
(2011: US$24.3 million) of coupon interest relating to the loan notes, which are both described in note 3.6. Financial statements
12 8
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
(i) Underlift and overlift
Lifting or offtake arrangements for oil and gas produced in certain of the Group’s jointly owned operations are such that each participant 
may not receive and sell its precise share of the overall production in each period. The resulting imbalance between cumulative 
entitlement and cumulative production is “underlift” or “overlift”. Underlift and overlift are valued at market value and included within 
debtors and creditors respectively. Movements during an accounting period are adjusted through cost of sales such that gross proﬁt is 
recognised on an entitlements basis.
5.7 Fair values
The ﬁnancial instruments on the Afren balance sheet are measured at either fair value or amortised cost. Set out below is a comparison 
by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments. The measurement of fair value can sometimes 
be subjective. The different valuation methods are called hierarchies and they are described below:
Carrying amount Fair value
2012 
US$m
2011 
US$m
2012 
US$m
2011 
US$m
Financial assets
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments – level 2 – 1.6 – 1.6
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments – level 3 10.4 12.4 10.4 12.4
10.4 14.0 10.4 14.0
Financial liabilities
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments – level 2 12.6 10.3 12.6 10.3
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments – level 3 5.4 7.6 5.4 7.6
Borrowings – Ebok RBL 184.6 213.4 179.2 229.0
Borrowings – BNPP/VTB credit facility – 95.9 – 100.3
Borrowings – Socar 49.6 48.9 49.7 47 .5
Loan notes 779.1 481.7 988.6 527.4
1,031.3 857.8 1,235.5 922.1
Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, trade creditors, other creditors and accruals and deferred consideration and payables 
on acquisitions have been excluded from the above analysis as their fair values are equal to the carrying values.
Level 2 fair values are measured using inputs (other than quoted prices from active markets) that are observable for the asset or liability either 
directly or indirectly. Okoro commodity call options and Ebok commodity deferred put options are valued using the forward oil price curve.
Level 3 fair values are measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. The FHN options, whose 
valuation requires assumptions regarding FHN’s share price which is not readily available, are valued using a Black Scholes model. One of the 
option arrangements also incorporates a Monte Carlo model over the exercise proﬁle.
In 2012, the only movement in level 3 ﬁnancial instruments was an increase in the option valuation of US$0.2 million recorded as a gain 
in the income statement. In 2011, the only movement in level 3 ﬁnancial instruments was the exercise of 6.8 million options resulting in 
a reduction in value of US$3.1 million and an increase in the option valuation of US$8.0 million recorded as a gain in the income statement. 
The fair value of bank borrowings (including loan notes) have been determined by discounting future cash outﬂows relating to the 
borrowings. Senior loan notes have been discounted at 12%-13%. All other borrowings have been discounted at 10%.
For the level 3 ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, changing certain inputs to reasonably possible alternative assumptions does not change the 
fair value signiﬁcantly. 
5.8 Sensitivity analysis
Interest rate risk
The risk of the Group being adversely affected by a 1% change in interest rates was not material in 2012 or 2011.
Oil price risk
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in oil price relates primarily to the Group’s derivative ﬁnancial instruments. The terms of the 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments are such that the Group will receive a minimum amount if the market falls, but will receive a set discount 
from the market price if the oil price is above that minimum. The effect on Group loss and equity of changes in the oil price on the fair value 
of the derivative ﬁnancial instruments is as follows:
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
12 9
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Positive/(adverse) 2012 
US$m
Positive/(adverse) 2011 
US$m
Increase in oil price by 10% (19.4) (16.5)
Decrease in oil price by 10% (8.6) 18.8
Foreign exchange risk
The impact of a 10% change in the sterling or the Nigerian Naira to US dollar exchange rate was not material in 2012 or 2011.
5.9 Staff costs
2012 2011
The average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors) employed was as follows:
Administration 55 48
Professional 261 224
316 272
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
2012 
US$m
2011 
US$m
Wages and salaries 46.2 40.3
Share-based payments (a) 15.0 13.4
Social security costs 7.6 1.0
Pension costs (b) 2.5 2.1
71.3 56.8
A proportion of the Group’s staff costs shown above are recharged to the Group’s joint venture partners and a proportion is capitalised into 
the cost of intangible and tangible oil and gas assets under the Group’s accounting policy for exploration, evaluation and oil and gas assets. 
The amount ultimately remaining in the income statement was US$28.6 million (2011: US$25.1 million).
Details of Directors’ remuneration are provided in the part of the Directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited.
(a) Share-based payments
A transaction is accounted for as a share-based payment where the Group receives services from employees, Directors (or other third 
parties) and pays for these in shares or similar equity instruments. 
The Group makes equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees and Directors. Equity-settled share-based schemes are 
measured at fair value (excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions) at the date of grant, measured by use of an 
appropriate valuation model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the 
effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the 
period to exercise, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The Company is liable for Employer’s National Insurance on the difference between the market value at date of exercise and exercise 
price. This expense is accrued by reference to the share price of the Company at the balance sheet date.
Share-based payments made to employees of subsidiaries of the Company are recharged to the relevant subsidiary when awarded.
The share-based payments expense comprises the following three schemes:
2012 
US$m
2011 
US$m
Equity-settled share option scheme (i) 5.0 5.7
Long Term Incentive Plan: Afren Performance Share Plan (equity-settled share award scheme) (ii) 10.0 7.6
Share Award Scheme (equity-settled share award scheme) (iii) – 0.1
15.0 13.4
(i) Equity-settled share option scheme
The Group operates a share option scheme for employees. The Group’s policy is to award options to employees on appointment or 
completion of their probationary period and periodically thereafter. Options are issued at market price on the grant date and have vesting 
periods of up to three years. The options expire after ten years if they remain unexercised and are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group 
before the options vest except at the discretion of the Board. Financial statements
130
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2012 2011
Number of 
share options
Weighted average 
exercise price £
Number of 
share options
Weighted average 
exercise price £
Outstanding at beginning of the year 56,552,175 0.42 56,604,342 0.90
Granted during the year 2,040,000 1.81 4,369,500 1.42
Exercised during the year (2,101,333) 0.78 (3,617,500) 0.62
Lapsed during the year (1,141,000) 1.85 (804,167) 0.87
55,349,842 1.43 56,552,175 0.42
Exercisable at end of the year 46,455,334 1.02 21,236,677 0.54
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options outstanding at 31 December 2012 was 6.1 years (2011: 7.1 years).
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year ended 31 December 2012 was 129p 
(2011: 158p). 
In 2012 options were granted on 3 January, 28 March, 2 and 23 April, 4, 12, 18 and 30 June, 22 August, 2, 23 and 30 October, 6 and 
27 November and 7 December. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on those dates was US$1.3 million.
In 2011 options were granted on 5 January, 31 March, 9, 20 and 31 May, 21 June, 31 August, 1, 19 and 20 September, 4 October, 
22 November and 5 December. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on those dates was US$3.5 million. 
The options granted during the year have been valued by reference to the Barrier option valuation model, consistent with the prior year. 
The inputs into the Barrier model were as follows:
2012 2011
Weighted average share price (pence) 129.9 89.5
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 181.0 131.4
Weighted average target price before eligibility to exercise (barrier) (pence) 181.0 135.3
Expected volatility 40% 40%
Expected life (years) 3 3
Risk free rate 4% 4%
Expected dividends – –
The volatility of Afren shares was again reviewed following a further 12 months of share price data. The volatility was measured utilising 
several formulae, including an Exponentially Weighted Moving Average model and a GARCH (Generalised Autoregressive Conditional 
Heteroscedasticity) model, and over several time periods. These gave a range of estimates for the share price volatility which is in line with 
the prior year. 
The Group recognised total expenses related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in the form of options in 2012 of 
US$5.0 million, of which US$5.0 million related to employees, including Executive Directors, of the Group (2011: US$5.7 million, of which 
US$5.7 million related to employees, including Executive Directors, of the Group).
(ii) Long Term Incentive Plan: Afren Performance Share Plan (equity-settled share award scheme)
Under the Afren Performance Share Plan, the Group also gives awards to Directors and staff subject to outperforming a comparator group 
of similarly focused oil and gas exploration and production companies in terms of shareholder return over a three-year period and based 
upon a multiple of salary. However, these shares only vest after a three-year period and the full award is made only if Afren has performed 
in the top quartile when compared against a selected peer group of upstream oil and gas companies, which for the 2012 award was as 
follows: Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, Apache Corporation, Cairn Energy, Canadian Natural Resources, DNO, Dragon Oil, Genel 
Energy, Gulfsands Petroleum, Hess Corporation, Heritage Oil, JKX Oil & Gas, Lundin Petroleum, Marathon Oil Corporation, Maurel et Prom, 
Melrose Resources, Nexen, Niko Resources, Noble Energy, PA Resources, Pioneer Natural Resources, Premier Oil, Salamander Energy, SOCO 
International, Talisman Energy, Tullow Oil, Vaalco Energy and Woodside Petroleum. If Afren does not achieve at least median performance in 
the peer group, no shares will be awarded. At the median level, 30% of the shares will vest and there is a sliding scale between median and 
top quartile performance where only a percentage of the total award will vest. A second performance target was applied to the 2012 award 
relating to the Group’s Reserves Replacement Ratio (RRR), setting a target RRR of 105% over the three-year vesting period of the awards. 
In the event that a ratio of less than 105% is achieved then the overall award amount is reduced pro-rata.
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
13 1
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Awards are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, except under certain circumstances, e.g. redundancies, 
where the number of awards vesting will be pro-rated according to the length of time the employee has been employed during the 
three-year vesting period.
Details of the share awards outstanding are as follows:
2012 2011
Number of 
share options
Weighted average 
exercise price £ 
Number of 
share options
Weighted average 
exercise price £ 
Outstanding at beginning of the year 23,754,101 0.01 21,310,821 0.01
Granted during the year 16,226,772 0.01 7,887,532 0.01
Exercised during the year (1 1,240,276) 0.01 (1,327 ,604) 0.01
Forfeited during the year (856.009) 0.01 (4,1 16,648) 0.01
Outstanding at end of the year 27,704,588 0.01 23,754,101 0.01
Exercisable at end of the year –0.01 – 0.01
The awards outstanding at the end of 31 December 2012 have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.3 years (2011: 2.3 years) 
and an exercise price of £0.01 (2011: £0.01).
The aggregate of the fair value of the options granted during the year ended 31 December 2012 was US$12.8 million (2011: US$9.2 million).
The fair values were calculated using a stochastic model. The inputs used for fair valuing awards granted during the two periods were 
as follows:
2012 2011
Weighted average share price (pence) 98.0 158.6
Weighted average exercise price (pence) 1.0 1.0
Expected volatility 40% 40%
Expected life (years) 3 3
Risk free rate – –
Expected dividends – –
The volatility of Afren shares was again reviewed following a further 12 months of share price data. The volatility was measured utilising 
several formulae, including an Exponentially Weighted Moving Average model and a GARCH (Generalised Autoregressive Conditional 
Heteroscedasticity) model, and over several time periods. These gave a range of estimates for the share price volatility which is in line with 
the prior year. Therefore the volatility assumption was reduced, but will remain under review going forwards.
The Group recognised total expenses related to the above equity-settled share-based payment transactions in the form of options during 
the year ended 31 December 2012 of US$10.0 million (2011: US$7.6million).
(iii) Share Award Scheme – equity-settled share award scheme
As part of the incentives to attract the Jefferies, Randall & Dewey technical team, a number of shares were awarded in 2008, subject 
to continuing employment in the most part, to the team. None of this team was eligible to an award under the Long Term Incentive Plan. 
The timing of the shares issued range from six months to three years over which the fair value was spread. The share award scheme was 
closed in 2011.
(b) Pension costs
The Group operates a deﬁned contribution pension scheme. The Group pays ﬁxed contributions into a separate entity and has no legal 
or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to the deﬁned contribution plan are recognised as staff 
costs and are expensed to the income statement in the periods during which related services are rendered by employees.  Financial statements
13 2
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
5.10 Other reserves
Share-based
payment reserve 
US$m
Other reserves 
US$m
Total 
US$m
Group
At 1 January 2011 20.9 1.9 22.8
Share-based payments for services 13.4 – 13.4
Transfer to accumulated losses (7.1) (2.2) (9.3)
Other movements – (0.5) (0.5)
At 31 December 2011 27.2 (0.8) 26.4
Share-based payments for services 15.0 – 15.0
Transfer to accumulated losses (4.6) – (4.6)
Other movements –(0.9) (0.9)
At 31 December 2012 37.6 (1.7) 35.9
Share-based payment reserve represents the fair value of the options, share awards, warrants and LTIP granted under the Company’s 
share-based schemes.
5.11 Related party transactions
The transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation. Amounts 
owed by and to joint ventures and associates are disclosed in notes 6.5 and 6.7 of the Company ﬁnancial statements. Transactions between 
the Company and its subsidiaries have been disclosed in note 6.14 of the Company ﬁnancial statements.
Trading transactions
Sale of goods/services Purchase of goods/services Amounts owed to related parties
Year ended 2012 
US$m
Year ended 2011 
US$m
Year ended 2012 
US$m
Year ended 2011 
US$m
Year ended 2012 
US$m
Year ended 2011 
US$m
St. John Advisors Ltd – – 0.3 0.3 – –
STJ Advisors LLP – – 0.5 1.2 – –
First Hydrocarbon Nigeria Ltd (FHN) 4.7 6.3 – – (6.0) (6.3)
St. John Advisors Ltd and STJ Advisors LLP are the contractor companies for the consulting services of John St. John, a Non-Executive 
Director of Afren, for which they receive fees, including contingent completion and success fees, from the Group. Both St. John Advisors 
and STJ Advisors LLP also receive monthly retainers of £15,000 and £30,000 under contracts which started from 27 June 2008 and 
15 December 2011 respectively. The contracts have a 12-month period which automatically continues unless terminated by either party. 
FHN, an associate of Afren plc, has an outstanding payable to Afren of US$8.6 million at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$6.3 million). 
Further information on Afren’s investment in FHN is disclosed in note 4.7.
5.12 Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the 
categories speciﬁed in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors, transactions 
with Directors and Directors’ interests is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ remuneration report.
2012 
US$m
2011 
US$m
Short-term employee beneﬁts 5.1 5.3
Other long-term beneﬁts 0.2 0.2
Exceptional award+ 2.6 3.1
Share-based payment 3.7 3.8
11.6 12.4
6.0 Company ﬁnancial statements
As permitted by section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006, a separate statement of comprehensive income, dealing with the results of the 
Parent Company, has not been presented.
Notes to the Group ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
13 3
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes
2012
 US$m
2011
 US$m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 3.2 3.2
Prepayments and advances to partners 88.4 –
Investments in subsidiaries 6.2 883.0 507.1 
Other investments 0.9 –
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 6.3 9.1 13.4 
984.6 523.7 
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 6.5 969.0 1,094.4 
Prepayments and advances to partners 7.4 –
Cash and cash equivalents 6.6 278.5 36.1 
1,254.9 1,130.5 
Total assets 2,239.5 1,654.2 
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 6.7 (363.5) (59.0)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 6.3 (14.0) (10.2)
(377.5) (69.2)
Net current assets 877.4 1,061.3 
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 6.4 (828.7) (530.6)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 6.3 (5.4) (7.6)
(834.1) (538.2)
Total liabilities (1,21 1.6) (607.4)
Net assets 1,027.9 1,046.8 
Equity
Share capital 6.8 18.9 18.7 
Share premium 6.8 920.3 918.1 
Merger reserve 6.8 179.4 179.4 
Other reserves 6.10 38.3 28.8 
Accumulated losses (129.0) (98.2)
Total equity 1,027.9 1,046.8 
The ﬁnancial statements of Afren plc, registered number 05304498, were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue 
on 25 March 2013. They were signed on its behalf by:
Darra Comyn
Group Finance Director
25 March 2013
Company balance sheet
As at 31 December 2012 Financial statements
134
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
2012
 US$m
2011
 US$m
Operating loss for the year (20.7) (14.0)
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 1.2 1.3 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments (20.0) (7.9)
Share-based payments charge 6.2 3.4 
Operating cash ﬂows before movements in working capital (33.3) (17 .2)
Increase in trade and other operating receivables (48.1) (4.1)
Decrease in trade and other operating payables (27.9) (28.8)
Net cash used in operating activities (109.3) (50.1)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (1.2) (2.1)
Net loan repayments from/(advances to) Group companies 513. 1 (305.3)
Investment in subsidiaries (375.9) (312.2)
Investment revenue 0.1 0.5 
Net cash used in investing activities 136.1 (619.1)
Net issue of ordinary share capital – equity raising – 180.7 
Issue of ordinary share capital – warrants, options, share awards and LTIP exercises 2.2 19.1
Net proceeds from borrowings 291.8 527.7 
Interest and ﬁnancing fees paid (78.0) (28.8)
Net cash provided by ﬁnancing activities 216.0 698.7 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 242.9 29.5 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 36.1 5.3 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (0.5) 1.3 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 278.5 36.1 
Company cash ﬂow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
13 5
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Share capital
 US$m
Share premium
 account
 US$m
Other reserves
 US$m
Merger reserve
 US$m
Accumulated losses
 US$m
Total equity
 US$m
At 1st January 2011 17.0 896.8 25.2 – (81.3) 857.7 
Issue of share capital 1.7 21.3 – 179.4 – 202.4 
Share-based payments – – 13.4 – – 13.4 
Transfers to accumulated losses – – (9.8) – 9.3 (0.5)
Exercise of warrants designated as ﬁnancial liabilities –––– 11.6 11.6 
Total comprehensive expense for the year –––– (37.8) (37.8) 
Balance at 31 December 2011 18.7 918.1 28.8 179.4 (98.2) 1046.8 
Issue of share capital 0.2 2.2 – – – 2.4
Share-based payments – – 15.1 – – 15.1
Transfers to accumulated losses – – (4.6) – 4.6 –
Exercise of warrants designated as ﬁnancial liabilities –––– 0.2 0.2
Total comprehensive expense for the year –––– (35.6) (35.6)
Balance at 31 December 2012 18.9 920.3 38.3 179.4 (129.0) 1,027.9
Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Financial statements
13 6
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued
6.1 Accounting policies
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union and therefore the Company ﬁnancial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
To the extent that an accounting policy is relevant to both Afren Group and Company ﬁnancial statements, refer to the Group ﬁnancial 
statements for disclosure of the accounting policy.
Foreign currencies
In preparing the ﬁnancial statements of the Company, transactions in currencies other than the Company’s functional currency (foreign 
currencies) are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets 
and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items carried 
at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was 
determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. Exchange 
differences arising are included in the proﬁt and loss for the period. 
The functional and presentation currency of the Company is US dollars.
6.2 Subsidiaries and associated undertakings
Investment in subsidiaries held by the Company as non-current assets are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
A list of the signiﬁcant investments in subsidiaries and associated undertakings, including the name, proportion of ownership interest, 
country of operation and country of registration, is given below:
Name Principal activity %
Country of
operation
Country of 
registration
Directly held
Afren Congo Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Congo Bahamas
Afren USA inc. Service company 100 USA USA, Delaware
Black Marlin Energy Holdings limited Holding company 100 Dubai British Virgin Islands
Afren MENA Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Kurdistan  
region of Iraq
England and Wales
Indirectly held
Afren JDZ One Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Norway Norway
Dangote Energy Equity Resources Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 49 Nigeria Nigeria
Afren Energy Resources Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Nigeria Nigeria
Afren Okoro Limited Holding company 100 UK England & Wales
Afren Global Energy Resources Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 50 Nigeria Nigeria
Afren Investments Oil & Gas (Nigeria) Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Nigeria Nigeria
Afren Energy Services Limited Service company 100 Nigeria Nigeria
Afren Exploration and Production Nigeria Alpha Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Nigeria Nigeria
Afren Exploration and Production Nigeria Beta Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Nigeria Nigeria
Afren Nigeria Holdings (Nigeria) Limited Holding company 100 Nigeria Nigeria
Afren CI One Corporation Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Côte d’lvoire Cayman
Afren Côte D’lvoire Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Côte d’lvoire Cayman
Lion GPL SA Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Côte d’lvoire Côte d’lvoire
East African Exploration (K) Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Kenya Kenya
East African Exploration (Seychelles) Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Seychelles British Virgin Islands
East African Exploration (Madagascar) Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Madagascar British Virgin Islands
East African Exploration (Ethiopia) Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Ethiopia British Virgin Islands
Afren Energy Ghana Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Ghana Bahamas
Afren Resources Limited Oil and gas exploration, development and production 100 Nigeria Nigeria Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
13 7
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
6.3 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
To the extent a disclosure is relevant to both the Afren Group and Company ﬁnancial statements, refer to the Group ﬁnancial statements.
The Company has the following derivatives:
Purpose Hedge accounting
Okoro commodity call options (a) Sets a minimum price for Okoro crude oil production No
Ebok commodity deferred put options (cash ﬂow hedges) (b) Hedge against the price of crude falling for Ebok ﬁeld Yes
Put (sell) and call (buy) options for FHN shares (c) Options to buy and sell FHN shares No
2012 2011
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
Current 
US$m
Non-current 
US$m
Current 
US$m
Non-current 
US$m
Financial assets –9.1 –13.4
Financial liabilities (14.0) (5.4) (10.2) (7 .6)
(14.0) 3.7 (10.2) 5.8
6.4 Borrowings
The Senior Secured Loan Notes 2016, the Senior Secured Loan Notes 2019 and the Socar facility are held by the Company. To the extent 
a disclosure is relevant to both the Afren Group and Company ﬁnancial statements, refer to the Group ﬁnancial statements.
2012 2011
Current 
US$m
Non-current 
US$m
Current 
US$m
Non-current 
US$m
Loan notes –779.1 –481.7
Bank borrowings –49.6 –48.9 
–828.7 –530.6
6.5 Trade and other receivables
2012
US$m
2011 
US$m
Trade and other debtors 5.0 14.9
Due from subsidiary undertakings* 944.6 1,066. 1
Due from joint ventures 19.4 13.3
969.0 1,094.3
* The amount is shown net of a provision for doubtful debt of US$26.7 million (2011: US$25.4 million).
There were no material past due not impaired receivables at either balance sheet date, nor any material bad debt provisions (other than 
as disclosed above in respect of intercompany balances). 
6.6 Cash and cash equivalents
The Cash ﬂow statement on page 134 gives a breakdown of cash movements in the year. To the extent a disclosure is relevant to both the 
Afren Group and Company ﬁnancial statements, refer to the Group ﬁnancial statements.
6.7 Trade and other payables
2012 
US$m
2011 
US$m
Trade and other creditors 3.1 5.5 
Accruals 48.2 38.6 
Due to subsidiary undertakings 312.2 14.9 
363.5 59.0
6.8 Share capital, share premium and merger reserve
The allotted and issued share capital and share premium, and the merger reserve are consistent with Afren Group ﬁnancial statements. 
Refer to note 3.5 of the Group ﬁnancial statements. Financial statements
138
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the Company ﬁnancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
continued
6.9 Share-based payments
Details of the Afren share option scheme are disclosed in note 5.9 of the Group ﬁnancial statements.
The Company is liable for Employer’s National Insurance on the difference between the market value of the share-based payment at date 
of exercise and exercise price. This expense is accrued by reference to the share price of the Company at the balance sheet date.
The share-based payments expense comprises the following three schemes:
2012 
US$m
2011 
US$m
Equity-settled share option scheme 3.1 3.7
Long Term Incentive Plan: Afren Performance Share Plan (equity-settled share award scheme) 5.4 4.5
Share Award Scheme (equity-settled share award scheme) – 0.1
8.5 8.3
Additional details of these schemes are disclosed in note 5.9 of the Group ﬁnancial statements.
6.10 Other reserves
Share-based
payment reserve 
US$m
Other reserves 
US$m
Total 
US$m
At 1 January 2011 20.9 1.9 22.8
Share-based payments for services 13.4 – 13.4 
Transfer to retained earnings (7.1) (2.2) (9.3)
Other movements – (0.5) (0.5) 
At 31 December 2011 27.2 (0.8) 26.4
Share-based payments for services 15.0 – 15.1 
Transfer to accumulated losses (4.6) – (4.6)
Other comprehensive expenses for period –(0.9) (0.9)
At 31 December 2012 37.6 1.7 35.9
Share-based payment reserve represents the fair value of the options, share awards, warrants and LTIP granted under the Company’s 
share-based schemes.
6.11 Operating lease commitments
At the balance sheet date, the Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
2012 
US$m
2011 
US$m
Within one year 1.7 1.6 
In the second to ﬁfth years 6.7 6.5 
After ﬁve years 0.4 2.0
8.8 10.1 
Operating lease expenses for the current and prior year were not material.
6.12 Contingent liabilities
The Company has the following contingent liabilities:
As at 31 December
2012 
US$m
2011 
US$m
Indemnity in respect of FHN’s standby letter of credit 6.5 6.5 Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
13 9
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
6. 13 Unrecognised deferred tax assets
At the balance sheet date the Company had tax losses (primarily arising in the UK) of US$91.2 million (2011: US$67.0 million) in respect of 
which a deferred tax asset has not been recognised as there is insufﬁcient evidence of future taxable proﬁts against which these tax losses 
could be recovered. Such losses can be carried forward indeﬁnitely. 
The Company had temporary differences of US$5.3 million (2011: US$3.8 million) in respect of share-based payments, property, plant and 
equipment and pensions in respect of which deferred tax assets have not been recognised as there is insufﬁcient evidence of future taxable 
proﬁts against which these tax losses could be recovered. 
6.14 Related party transactions
Amounts owed by and to subsidiaries are disclosed in notes 6.5 and 6.7 respectively. Transactions between the Company and its 
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures were as follows:
2012
Subsidiaries
US$m
Joint ventures 
US$m
Net loan advances/(repayments) (448.6) 6.1
Investments 375.9 –
2011
Subsidiaries 
US$m
Joint ventures 
US$m
Net loan advances 375.4 0.9 
Investments 304.8 –
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is disclosed in note 5.12 of the Group ﬁnancial 
statements. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors, transactions with Directors and Directors’ interests 
is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ remuneration report.
Trading transactions
All trading transactions between the Company and related parties are disclosed in note 5.11 of the Group ﬁnancial statements.
6.15 Post balance sheet events – Company and Group
On 22 March 2013 Afren signed a new US$300 million Ebok facility which has a three-year term and bears interest at Libor plus 4-4.8%. 
The facility will be used to reﬁnance the existing Ebok Reserve Based Lending facility amount of approximately US$185 million as well 
as fund ongoing capital expenditure and general corporate requirements including intra Group loans. Supplementary information
140
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Licences (not audited)
Country Date acquired Effective working interest (%) Operator Partner Work programme
Nigeria and West Africa 
Nigeria
Ebok
(7)
Q1 2008 100%/50%
(1)
Afren Oriental
Okoro
(7)
Q2 2006 50% Afren Amni
OML 26 Q3 2010 45%
(4)
Afren FHN
Ofa Q2 200790%/32.5%
(1)
Afren IEL
Okwok
(7)
Q3 2009 70%/56%
(9)
Afren Oriental/Addax
OML 115
(7)
Q1 2010 100%/50%
(1)
Afren Oriental
OPL 310 Q4 2008 91%/70%
(10)
Afren Optimum
OPL 907 Q1 2008 51.25%/41%
(1,3)
AGER
(6)
GEC
OPL 917 Q1 2008 70%/42%
(1,3)
AGER
(6)
GEC
Côte d’Ivoire
Block CI-11 Q3 2008 47.96% Afren PETROCI
Lion Gas Plant Q3 2008 100% Afren PETROCI
Block CI-01 Q3 2008 65%
(2)
Afren PETROCI
Ghana
Keta Block Q4 2007 35% Eni GNPC
Nigeria & São Tomè & Prìncipe JDZ
Block 1 Q1 2005 4.41%
(5)
Total Total
Congo (Brazzaville)
La Noumbi Q2 2006 14% Maurel et Prom Eni
South Africa
Block 2B Q1 2011 25%
(8)
Thombo Thombo
(1) Afren effective working interest pre/post cost recovery.
(2) Direct participating interest. Afren also holds rights over an additional 15% interest.
(3) Held through AGER in which Afren holds a 50% economic interest.
(4) Held through FHN in which Afren holds a 46.7% interest at 31 December 2012.
(5) Afren has a 49% interest in DEER which has a 9% working interest in JDZ Block 1.
(6) Afren Global Energy Resources.
(7) Note: On the Okoro Setu project, Afren is the technical service provider to Amni, the named operator. On the Ebok project, Okwok and OML 115, 
Afren is the technical service provider to Oriental Energy Resources.
(8) Working interest increases to 50% and operatorship transferred to Afren if Afren exercises its option to drill an exploration well.
(9) Afren effective working interest pre/post cost recovery. Once hurdle point is achieved, Afren effective working interest becomes 35%. Hurdle point 
is achieved when post-royalty revenue lifted by the parties outside of any cost recovery period is greater than US$1.2 billion.
(10) Afren effective working interest pre/post cost recovery. Afren’s interest is 21% for a short period of Optimum’s cost recovery phase.
Key
 Production
 Appraisal and Development
 Exploration Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
14 1
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Country Date acquired Effective working interest (%) Operator Partner Work programme
Afren East Africa Exploration
Ethiopia
Blocks 7 & 8 Q3 2010 30% Africa Oil Africa Oil
Kenya
Block 10A Q3 2010 20% Tullow Oil Africa Oil
Block L17 & L18 Q3 2010 100% Afren –
Block 1 Q3 2010 80% Afren Lion Petroleum
Tanzania
Tanga Block Q1 2011 74% Afren Petrodel
Seychelles
Blocks A & B Q3 2010 75% Afren Avana Petroleum
Madagascar
Block 1101 Q3 2010 90% Afren Candax
Country Date acquired Effective working interest (%) Operator Partner Work programme
Kurdistan region of Iraq
Barda Rash Q3 2011 60% Afren KRG, Komet 
Ain Sifni Q3 2011 20% Hunt Oil Middle East Hunt Oil Middle East  Supplementary information
14 2
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Working interest basis before all royalties
Nigeria Côte d’Ivoire
Nigeria – 
São Tomé & Príncipe Kurdistan region of Iraq Total Group
Oil 
(mmbbl)
Gas 
(bcf) mmboe
Oil 
(mmbbl)
Gas
(bcf) mmboe
Oil 
(mmbbl)
Gas
(bcf) mmboe
Oil 
(mmbbl)
Gas
(bcf) mmboe
Oil 
(mmbbl)
Gas
(bcf) mmboe
Group Proved and 
Probable Reserves
At 31 December 2011 68.86 – 68.86 0.47 9.51 2.10 – – – 1 14.00 – 1 14.00 183.33 9.51 184.96
Revisions of previous 
estimates 0.03 – 0.03 (0.05)3.89 0.62 ––– ––– (0.02)3.89 0.65
Discoveries and 
extensions 39.15 –39.15 ––– ––– ––– 39.15 –39.15
Acquisitions – – – ––– ––– ––– – – –
Divestments – – – ––– ––– ––– – – –
Production (14. 15) – (14. 15) (0. 14) (4.20) (0.87) – – – – – – (14.29) (4.20) (15.01)
At 31 December 2012 93.89 – 93.89 0.27 9.20 1.86 – – – 1 14.00 – 1 14.00 208. 1 7 9.20 209.75
Contingent Resources
At 31 December 2011 29.76 – 29.76 12.87 65.98 24.25 1.87 – 1.87 754.20 – 754.20 798.70 65.98 810.08
Revisions of previous 
estimates – – – ––– ––– ––– – – –
Discoveries and 
extensions – – – ––– ––– ––– – – –
Acquisitions – – – ––– ––– ––– – – –
Divestments – – – ––– ––– ––– – – –
At 31 December 2012 29.76 – 29.76 1 2.87 65.98 24.25 1.87 – 1.87 754.20 – 754.20 798.70 65.98 810.08
Total Reserves and 
Contingent Resources
At 31 December 2011 98.62 – 98.62 13.34 75.48 26.35 1.87 – 1.87 868.20 – 868.20 982.03 75.48 995.04
Revisions of previous 
estimates
0.03 – 0.03 (0.05)3.89 0.62 ––– ––– (0.02)3.89 0.65
Discoveries and 
extensions
39.15 –39.15 ––– ––– ––– 39.15 –39.15
Acquisitions – – – ––– ––– ––– – – –
Divestments – – – ––– ––– ––– – – –
Production (14. 15) – (14. 15) (0. 14) (4.20) (0.87) – – – – – – (14.29) (4.20) (15.01)
At 31 December 2012 123.65 – 123.65 13. 14 75. 17 26. 10 1.87 – 1.87 868.20 – 868.20 1006.87 75. 17 10, 19.83
Notes:
– Reserves and resources above are stated on a working interest basis (i.e. for the Nigerian contracts our net effective ultimate working interest based on 
working interest to payback (95% to 100%) and WI post payback (50%)).
– Proved plus Probable (2P) reserves have been prepared in accordance with the deﬁnitions and guidelines set forth in the 2007 PRMS approved by the SPE.
– Contingent resources are those quantities of petroleum that are estimated to be potentially recoverable from known accumulations but for which the 
projects are not yet considered mature enough for commercial development due to one or more contingencies.
– Quantities of oil equivalent are calculated using a gas-to-oil conversion factor of 5,800 scf of gas per barrel of oil equivalent.
– The oil price used by NSAI and RPS Energy for their independent reserve and resource assessments was US$100/bbl ﬂat.
– The Group provides for depletion and amortisation of tangible ﬁxed assets on a net entitlement basis, which reﬂects the terms of the licences and 
agreements relating to each ﬁeld. Total net entitlement reserves were 110.9 mmboe at 31 December 2012.
Oil and gas reserves (not audited)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information
14 3
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Glossary of terms
AGM
Annual General Meeting 
appraisal well
A well drilled to follow up a discovery and 
evaluate its commercial potential
bbls 
barrels of oil
bcf 
billion cubic feet of gas
boe 
barrels of oil equivalent
boepd 
barrels of oil equivalent per day
bopd 
barrels of oil per day
capital employed 
equity plus interest-bearing debt
CR 
Corporate responsibility
deg API 
a measure of how heavy or light a petroleum 
liquid is compared with water
dwt 
dead weight tonnage
E&A/E&E
Exploration and Appraisal/Evaluation
E&P 
Exploration and Production
EHSS 
environment, health, safety and security
farm-in 
to acquire an interest in a licence from 
another party
farm-out 
to assign an interest in a licence to another party
FPSO 
Floating Production Storage and 
Ofﬂoading vessel
ft 
feet
GOR 
Gas Oil Ratio
H1 
ﬁrst half
H2 
second half
Hydrocarbons 
compounds containing only the elements 
hydrogen and carbon; they may exist as solids, 
liquids or gases
JDZ 
Joint Development Zone
joint venture or JV 
a group of companies who share the cost and 
rewards of exploring for and producing oil or gas 
from a permit or licence
km
2
square kilometres
licence or permit 
area of speciﬁed size, which is licensed to 
a company by the government for production 
of oil and gas
LSE 
London Stock Exchange
Major 
major international oil company
m
metres
mmbbl, mmbbls 
million barrels
mmboe 
millions of barrels of oil equivalent
mmcfd
million cubic feet of gas per day
MOPU
Mobile Offshore Platform Unit
MOU 
Memorandum of Understanding
OML 
Oil Mining Licence
operator 
a company which organises the exploration and 
production programmes in a permit or licence 
on behalf of all the interest holders in the permit 
or licence
OPL 
Oil Prospecting Licence
Q1 
ﬁrst quarter
Q2 
second quarter
Q3 
third quarter
Q4 
fourth quarter
spud 
to commence drilling a well
STOIIP 
Stock Tank Oil Initially In Place
tcf 
trillion cubic feet of gas
working interest (WI) 
Afren’s share of the ﬁeld based on Afren’s equity 
share of the ﬁeld including pre-payback and 
post-payback equity percentages and before 
deduction of all royalties
1P 
proven
2P 
proven and probable
3P 
proven, probable and possible
3D 
three-dimensional Supplementary information
144
Afren plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Advisers and Company Secretary 
Company Secretary and Registered Ofﬁce
Shirin Johri & Elekwachi Ukwu
Afren plc
Kinnaird House
1 Pall Mall East
London SW1Y 5AU
Sponsor and Joint Broker
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
www.ml.com
Joint Broker
Morgan Stanley
20 Bank Street
London E14 4AD
www.morganstanley.com
Auditors
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
2 New Street Square
London EC4A 3BZ
www.deloitte.com
Financial PR Advisers
Pelham Bell Pottinger
5th Floor
Holborn Gate
330 High Holborn
London
WC1V 7QD
www.pelhambellpottinger.co.uk
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 82, The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 7NH
www-uk.computershare.com
Legal Advisers
White & Case LLP
5 Old Broad Street
London EC2N 1DW
www.whitecase.com
Dr Ken Mildwaters
Walton House
25 Bilton Road
Rugby CV22 7AG
Principal Bankers
HSBC Bank PLC
60 Queen Victoria Street
London EC4N 4TR
www.hsbc.co.uk Printed by Park Communications on FSC
®
 certiﬁed paper.
Park is an EMAS certiﬁed CarbonNeutral
®
 company and its Environmental Management System 
is certiﬁed to ISO14001.  
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, 
on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.  
This document is printed on Amadeus Offset 50, a paper containing 50% post consumer recycled ﬁbre 
and 50% virgin ﬁbre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC
®
 certiﬁed forests. The pulp used in this 
product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) process.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document, 
have been reduced to net zero through a veriﬁed carbon offsetting project.
Designed and produced by SampsonMay
Telephone: 020 7403 4099 www.sampsonmay.com Afren plc
Kinnaird House
1 Pall Mall East
London SW1Y 5AU
England
T: +44 (0)20 7864 3700
F: +44 (0)20 7864 3701
E: info@afren.com
Afren Nigeria
1st Floor, The Octagon
13A, A.J. Marinho Drive
Victoria Island Annexe
Lagos
Nigeria
T: +234 (0) 1279 6000
Afren Côte d’Ivoire Limited
Avenue Delafosse Prolongée
RDC Résidence Pelieu
04 B P 827 Abidjan 04
Côte d’Ivoire
T: +225 20 254 000
F: +225 20 226 229
Afren Resources USA Inc
10001 Woodloch Forest Drive
Suite 600
The Woodlands
Texas 77380
USA
T: +1 281 297 2500
F: +1 281 297 2999
Afren East Africa Exploration Limited
Room No. 2 Mezzanine Floor
Hughes Building
Muindi Mbingu Street
Nairobi
Kenya
Afren Middle East and North Africa
Erbil Branch
Building C2
Second Floor
Empire Business Complex
Erbil
Kurdistan region of Iraq 
T: +964 (0) 6626 41462
For more information see: 
www.afren.com
www.ar2012afren.com
www.afren.com/afreneax/index.html
