 FOCUSING ON CONNECTIVITY
CSR plc 
ANNUAL REPORT 
AND FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS 2008 Pioneering connectivity
o ur business is changing  
the way the world connects.
we’ve long been world 
leaders in bluetooth;  
but we’ve now moved well 
beyond b luetooth alone.
we’re building the 
c onnectivity c entre, 
Progressively bringing 
together a diversity of short 
range wireless connectivity 
Products to work together, 
with oP timum Performance. 
bluetooth, fm radio, wi-fi, 
ultra wideband, high quality 
audio for music, g Ps and  
n ear field c ommunications...
for the world, it changes  
the way we will connect .
for us, it crea tes a  
strategic roadma P for  
long- term growth.
 DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
01  financial highlights
02  grouP at a glance
04   chairman’s statement
06 chief eXecutive’s review
18  research and  
develoPment
20  business review 
38 board of directors 
40  cor Porate  
 governance 
46  other statutory  
 information
50   directors’  
remuneration rePort
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
62  statement of directors ’ 
resPonsibilities
63  indePendent auditors’ 
rePort
64  consolidated income 
statement
64  consolidated statement 
of recognised income 
and eXPense
65  consolidated  
balance sheet 
66  consolidated cash flow 
statement 
67   notes to the 
consolidated financial 
statements
97  comPany statement 
of changes in 
shareholders’ equity
97  com Pany  
balance sheet 
98  comPany cash flow 
statement 
98  notes to the com Pany 
financial statements
104 five year summary
105  share and cor Porate 
information
106  glossary of  
industry terms
108  csr ’s subsidiaries , 
branches and offices
IBC  forward looking 
statements
This Annual Report does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, or otherwise acquire 
or dispose of any CSR plc shares. This Annual Report contains certain forward looking statements with 
respect to financial condition, results, operations and businesses of CSR plc. These statements and 
forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that 
will occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments  
to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements and forecasts 
(see inside back cover). Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing 
advice should consult an independent financial adviser. The Directors Report (Other Statutory 
Information) has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable 
English company law and the liabilities of the directors in connection with that report shall be subject  
to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law. csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
01
r eve nue -1 8 % to 
$ 69 5 m i llion
g ross marg i n 44 . 6%
u n d e r l y i n g o Pe ra ti ng  
P r ofit
*
 - 62%  
to $65 m i llion
u n d e r l y i n g o Pe ra ti ng  
mar g in
*
 9. 4 %  
o Pe ra ti ng l o ss  
$9 million 
u n d e r ly i n g d i l u t ed e Ps
*
  
- 5 4% t o $ 0. 43 P e r s har e
d i l ute d l oss Pe r s har e $0 .05
*Underlying figures excluding the impact of amortisation of acquired intangible assets, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges and adjustments to goodwill  
as a result of the recognition of pre acquisition tax losses.
Statutory income statement information is given on page 64 of the Financial Statements. csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  GROUP AT A GLANCE
WHO WE ARE WHA T WE DO
02
CONNECTINg w ITh quALITy
CSR IS A LEADINg PROvIDER  
OF w IRELESS CONNECTIvITy.
wE hAvE A gLOBAL REPuTATION 
FOR COMMERCIAL AND 
OPERATIONAL ExCELLENCE.
CONNECTINg w ITh PERFORMANCE
DuRINg ThE yEAR w E ShIPPED OuR 
ONE BILLIONTh ChIP . NEARLy 40% 
OF ThE w ORLD’S BLuETOOTh ChIPS 
uSE CSR TEChNOLOgy. 
IN 2008, CSR wERE DESIgNED-IN 
AROuND 50% OF ALL BLuETOOTh-
quALIFIED PRODuCTS.
OuR TEChNOLOgy IS uSED By  
ThE wORLD’S LEADINg BRANDS 
INCLuDINg Au DI, FORD, Lg, 
MOTOROLA, NEC, NOkIA, 
PANASONIC, RIM, SAMSuNg, 
ShARP , SONy, TOMTOM AND 
TOShIBA.
CONNECTINg w ITh OPPORTuNITy
PEOPLE w ILL CONTINuE TO  
wANT TO COMMuNICATE, ShARE 
INFORMATION, ENjOy MuSIC AND 
wATCh vIDEOS uSINg FASTER  
AND MORE CONvENIENT wIRE  
FREE DEvICES.
CSR IS DEv ELOPINg ThE w IRELESS 
CONNECTIvITy SOLuTIONS FOR  
ThE FuTuRE INCLuDINg 
BLuETOOTh, wI-FI, gPS, NEAR 
FIELD COMMuNICATION AND uLTRA  
wIDEBAND TO MEET ThOSE NEEDS.
hANDSETS
MP3 PLAyERS
AuTOMOTIvE
gAMINg
STEREO hEADSETS
gPS
w I-FI
PCs
CONSuMER
MONO hEADSETS csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
WHERE WE DO IT
03
A LEADINg PROvIDER OF 
wIRELESS CONNECTIvITy 
TEChNOLOgy, wE hAvE 975 
SkILLED PROFESSIONALS 
OPERATINg OuT OF TEN 
COuNTRIES. 
DALLAS, uSA
EMPLOyEES 32
DETROIT, uSA
EMPLOyEES 30
BANgALORE, INDIA
EMPLOyEES 73
ShANghAI & ShENZhEN, 
ChINA
EMPLOyEES 1 6
TAIPEI & ChuNgLI, 
TAIwAN
EMPLOyEES 31
AALBORg, DENMARk
EMPLOyEES 51
TOkyO, jAPAN
EMPLOyEES 22
SOPhIA ANTIPOLIS, 
FRANCE
EMPLOyEES 20
SEOuL & gu MI, 
SOuTh kOREA
EMPLOyEES 31
CAMBRIDgE & 
EDINBuRgh, uk
EMPLOyEES 6 1 7
STOCkhOLM, Sw EDEN
EMPLOyEES 52 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
Wireless connectivity is becoming an increasingly core 
feature of our everyday lives. Our strategy is to position 
CSR to take advantage of this and to strengthen our 
ability to do so.
Decisive Action
CSR does not under-estimate the task ahead in 2009. 
Already we have taken decisive action to reduce costs 
for the very different business conditions. We believe 
these necessary actions were essential to safeguard the 
core strategy which is our focus for 2009 and beyond. 
Joep addresses this in more detail in his statement.
Quickly adapting to the changing circumstances  
of the current economic conditions as they prevail  
will be important for us in the near term to ensure that 
CSR is in a strong position to benefit from any future 
economic recovery. 
Management Team
2008 saw the emergence of a new management team 
led by Joep, who has himself been in position for only  
a little over a year. Joep has impressed me with his 
expertise as a team builder, skills as a business 
strategist and attention to detail.
We welcomed Will Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer,  
to CSR during the year. Will took over from Paul 
Goodridge, who played an important role for us over 
many years. Prior to joining CSR, Will was Director  
of Finance Technology and Enterprise at BSkyB plc, 
responsible for a 100 strong team which supported the 
technology platforms across BSkyB and its enterprise 
division. He has also been CFO of Easynet Group plc,  
a pan-European broadband telecoms company,  
and held a number of senior roles within J P Morgan’s 
investment banking division.
Chris Ladas was appointed to the Board at the start  
of 2008, following almost eight years as our Senior Vice 
President of Operations. Chris has extensive experience 
of electronics, particularly the semiconductor sector, 
and his wealth of knowledge has made valuable 
contributions to Boardroom discussions.
No one needs telling that 2008 has seen the rapid 
emergence of the worst global economic down-turn 
any of us can remember. Nor do we see any current 
signs of the economic trends returning to growth.
No sector has been immune from these pressures,  
and CSRs’ is no exception. We have inevitably seen 
significant decline in demand, and the scale of this 
decline increased post the September financial crisis as 
a result of customers de-stocking their supply chains. 
For the first time, CSR did not achieve growth.  
Our revenues fell by 18%. After taking account of 
non-cash items and exceptional charges, we also 
recorded an operating loss of $8.5 million. Nevertheless, 
we generated positive cash, maintained our strong 
balance sheet and increased our net cash.
2008 was also a year of transition for CSR. In the first 
quarter of the year, the Board completed a detailed 
operational review led by the new CEO, Joep van 
Beurden. This review both confirmed the potential for  
the markets in which CSR already operates and has led 
to the development of a clear strategy on how CSR can 
succeed in these markets. Our new strategy is therefore 
to focus solely on the Connectivity Centre where we see 
significant future growth opportunities, and have an 
advanced portfolio of suitable products.
Notwithstanding the current wider economic 
challenges, the Board believes that the strategy 
developed in 2008 combined with our recognised 
capabilities in wireless connectivity provides a solid 
foundation that will enable us to deliver long term  
growth for CSR and for our shareholders.
Even allowing for the current fall in demand, wireless 
connectivity will continue to grow and our strategy is to 
position CSR to take advantage of this. Consumers want 
to communicate quickly and efficiently using devices 
that connect with one another easily and reliably. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
04 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
Revenue  $’000
2008
2007
2006
2005
694,865
848,622
704,695
486,531
underlying R&D Expenditure  $’000
2008
2007
2006
2005
152,749
140,932
107,252
59,425
David Tucker, who has served as a non-executive 
director since 2004, will retire at the AGM. I would like to 
thank David for his skills, insight and good humour over 
the last five years. David’s role as chair of the audit 
committee will be taken by Andrew Allner.
Outlook
Looking ahead, 2009 will undoubtedly be a difficult year. 
Consumer confidence is low, economic uncertainty high 
and determined global action by governments will be 
required in order to minimise the further impact of the 
downturn, while CSR fights to maintain market share 
and seek out opportunities for growth.
CSR will continue to work to safeguard and build upon 
the existing strengths and market leading positions 
which we have established. As Joep explains in more 
detail in his Chief Executive Officer’s statement, the 
strategic review we carried out in 2008 has set out a path 
for growth in exciting, high-potential markets.
We have excellent people who are executing a powerful 
strategy in a long term growth industry. I thank them for 
their continued support and commitment. Together, we 
face the long-term future with confidence in our potential.
Ron Mackintosh
Chairman
wireless connectivity  
is becoming an  
increasingl y core feature 
of our everyday lives.  
our strategy is to Position  
csr to take advantage  
of this and to strengthen 
our ability to do so
Ron Mackintosh, Chairman
05
Further appointments have also strengthened our 
executive team. As our new Global Head of Sales, 
Charlie Lesko has added valuable sales and marketing 
experience and a healthy amount of assertiveness to  
our sales organisation. Our new HR Director, Elaine 
Rowe, has similarly wide-ranging experience. Her 
appointment underpins the enormous value we place  
on our workforce.
We now have an accomplished and truly international 
team at CSR. I would like to extend my thanks on behalf 
of the Board for the continuing efforts which all our staff 
have made during 2008.
In October, we appointed Andrew Allner as a non-
executive director. Andrew is a chartered accountant 
with extensive experience in senior executive and 
non-executive positions. Between 2004 and 2007 he 
was Group Finance Director at RHM plc, and has also 
served in senior executive positions with other global 
and well respected listed companies. Andrew’s 
experience and qualities have been well received by  
his new Board colleagues. csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
06
2008 was my first full year at CSR, having joined the 
company in November 2007. In common with most,  
if not all businesses in our sector and beyond, our 
plans for 2008 were affected by the global financial 
and economic crisis that developed during the year. 
The liquidity constraints brought about initially by the 
banking crisis have had a significant impact on all 
aspects of the global economy. Falling confidence in the 
economic outlook and a squeeze on disposable income 
have changed consumer spending decisions and this 
has translated directly into lower sales for our customers. 
Throughout the year, we took steps to secure the longer 
term strategic and commercial success of the Company. 
As the economic events became more acute during the 
autumn of 2008, we acted decisively and implemented 
significant cost reduction measures in order to position 
the business appropriately for the economic recession. 
Regrettably, this has necessitated a reduction in 
headcount. It was not a decision we took lightly. At the 
same time, it shows our commitment to taking the 
decisions which are necessary to keep the Company  
on the right financial footing and we believe will see the 
Company through these difficult times. The cost savings 
programme was fully implemented by the end of 2008 so 
we will benefit fully from this action in 2009. Overall we 
have reduced our cost base by approximately $25 million 
on an annualised basis.
Strong fundamentals
CSR is a sound business with world-leading skills in  
a dynamic market. The markets we supply are also 
fundamentally sound. Wireless connectivity is an integral 
part of how people want to communicate, whether at 
work or in their leisure time and CSR is supplying the 
products and delivering the solutions to meet the 
demands for ease of wireless connectivity, whether for 
voice, music, video or data. In 2008 we shipped nearly 
40% of the world’s Bluetooth chips and were designed-in 
around 50% of all Bluetooth-qualified products.
2  WIRELESS CONNECTIVITY IS AN 
INTEGRAL PART OF HOW PEOPLE WANT 
TO COMMUNICATE
1
2
1  CSR IS SUPPLYING THE PRODUCTS AND 
DELIVERING THE SOLUTIONS TO MEET 
THE DEMANDS FOR EASE OF WIRELESS 
CONNECTIVITY csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
our Priorities are to 
continue to strengthen 
our leading market 
Position, maintain our 
strong balance sheet  
and manage our costs  
and working ca Pital in  
line with the realities  
of the market Place
Joep van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer
Perhaps more importantly still, we have been developing 
a number of exciting products during the year:
–  BlueCore7000 range, our next-generation Bluetooth 
chip, combines Bluetooth with FM Transmit, FM 
Receive, Bluetooth low energy and GPS capability.  
We believe that BlueCore7000 is a world leading 
product. We anticipate shipping BC7000 to our lead 
customer in the third quarter this year.
–  MusiCore is a high performance product aimed at 
improved audio quality for music phones. MusiCore 
adds audio to Bluetooth, allowing people to enjoy up  
to 100 hours of high quality playback via their mobile 
phone handset. It also provides our customers with  
a significant bill of materials saving. Once again, CSR 
has created a world first with this product.
–  UF6000 is our third generation embedded Wi-Fi 
product family which offers the smallest chip size of any 
comparable product together with an ultra low cost. 
BlueCore7000 and MusiCore have been demonstrated 
to customers at various international trade shows early  
in 2009 and each of these three products is sampling at 
Tier 1 customers. 
Operational assessment
Undoubtedly, a key highlight of the year was the 
development and implementation of our new strategy, 
following a comprehensive review which I initiated soon 
after I joined CSR. 
During the assessment, we looked at our market in  
great detail and consulted widely to critique our existing 
views on the opportunities for winning in the global 
market for wireless solutions. Crucially, we undertook 
in-depth discussions with our customers on all 
continents, and asked the leading players where they 
anticipated the most growth. We also carried out a 
ruthless analysis of our own capabilities, identifying 
strengths and weaknesses to determine our most 
advantageous positioning.
The review was a major investment in resources and 
commitment and it revealed a significant opportunity. 
CSR has the products, the customer relationships  
and the capabilities to lead what we have called the 
‘Connectivity Centre’. As a result of the review,  
we were also able to make better informed choices  
about where we wanted to focus our capabilities, which 
resulted in discontinuing certain operations associated 
with the acquisition we made in 2005 of UbiNetics.  
These resources were largely redeployed onto  
projects consistent with executing on the Connectivity 
Centre strategy.
 
CSR enters 2009 with a very clear strategy and  
roadmap for our long term growth which is to focus  
on the Connectivity Centre. 
The Connectivity Centre
The Connectivity Centre brings together many aspects  
of short range wireless connectivity products with 
excellent co-existence, capable of operating concurrently 
without degradation in optimum performance. Bluetooth, 
FM radio, Wi-Fi, UWB, high quality audio for music, 
Bluetooth low energy, GPS location-finding technology 
and Near Field Communications can all ultimately 
co-exist alongside each other.
Our research shows that the market for Connectivity 
Centre products in the medium term will be driven  
by the exciting developments in smart and feature 
phones. With our help, customers can put world-class 
connectivity in their products at competitive prices  
and are able to choose, within reason, exactly what 
capabilities they need for any particular product to meet 
end-customer demand. This provides our customers 
with an important differentiator. Despite the economic 
slowdown, we expect the Connectivity Centre market 
has the potential to grow from around $3.5 billion in 2007 
to between $5 billion and $7 billion in 2012. 
07 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
GPS GPS

DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
08 THE CONNECTIVITY CENTRE
The Connectivity Centre brings together many aspects of short range wireless connectivity products with excellent  
co-existence, capable of operating concurrently without degradation in optimum performance. Bluetooth, FM radio,  
Wi-Fi, Ultra Wideband, high quality audio for music, Bluetooth low energy, GPS location-finding technology and  
Near Field Communications can all ultimately co-exist alongside each other.
GPS GPS
Bluetooth
FM radio
GPS location-finding 
technology
High quality  
audio for music
Wi-Fi
A new low  
power wireless  
technology
Ultra Wideband
Near Feld  
Communications
the connectivity centre 
informs every key decision 
from where we invest the 
bulk of our r &d dollars , to 
how we lay out our roadmaP
Joep van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer
Bluetooth

Bluetooth csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
We recognise the importance of our business activities 
being supported by a sound financial footing. CSR remains 
strongly cash generative, with an operating cash inflow  
for the final quarter of 2008 of $34 million and a closing  
net cash balance for the year of $262 million. This, 
combined with our tight management of costs  
and inventory, will allow CSR to support its existing 
business through our own cash resources.
Notwithstanding the more immediate challenges facing 
many businesses, we are confident in the long-term 
potential of the Connectivity Centre and in our ability  
to take advantage of our position as a leading player  
in its development. 
Today, our focus is sharper than ever before. As a leading 
player in wireless connectivity, we are faced with many 
opportunities – each of which represents a significant 
commercial market. It was important to make an informed, 
clear choice about where our expertise should be directed 
in order to generate maximum returns for shareholders.  
We have made that choice and now have a clearly defined 
set of priorities for the business.
2009 will be tough for all businesses. We are budgeting  
on the basis of a continued slowdown in economic  
activity as well as a continuation in the entire supply chain 
de-stocking. Our priorities are to continue to strengthen 
our leading market position, maintain our strong balance 
sheet and manage our costs and working capital in line 
with the realities of the marketplace.
Commercially, we enter 2009 with a product development 
pipeline in excellent shape, as demonstrated by the recent 
launch of three new products BC7000, UF6000 and CSR 
Synergy as well as the soon to be launched CSR9000, our 
leading edge Bluetooth/GPS/Wi-Fi/FM combination chip. 
We expect all these products will have a positive impact on 
our revenues starting later this year and building through 
the next. Each of these is superior in performance and 
cost-effectiveness to competitors’ offers.
Financially, we have ensured we are strong. Operationally, 
our execution has noticeably sharpened and we have the 
ability, should it become necessary, to respond to further 
deterioration in markets.
Joep van Beurden
Chief Executive Officer
The Connectivity Centre focus informs every key 
decision, from where we should invest the bulk of  
our R&D dollars to how we lay out our roadmap and 
which potential strategic partnerships merit further 
investigation. The first question in any discussion is 
always the same: how will this action help us build 
strength in the Connectivity Centre?
Further progress
During 2008 we implemented more effective project 
management that plans, monitors and supports the 
execution of our projects. This allows us to have greater 
confidence in the delivery of our product roadmap and 
ultimately meeting our strategic goals. It also ensures  
that we have a clear understanding of how our critical 
financial and people resources are being applied, 
enabling us to respond quickly where necessary to  
meet changing circumstances, as demonstrated  
by the events of the final quarter of 2008. We have 
institutionalised programme management within  
the organisation and have improved the way in which  
we track programmes through monthly reviews.  
Our approach to projects has also been revitalised,  
with an emphasis on multi-disciplinary teamwork,  
with a single owner of each project, from conception 
through to delivery. 
The results of this focus is demonstrated by the recent 
launch of three new products that we expect will have a 
positive impact on our revenues starting later this year 
and building through the next. Based on the encouraging 
level of customer engagement, we believe that our 
products will be in demand in the future as they are 
becoming increasingly core to the wireless and 
‘connected’ world in which we now live.
We have also upgraded and improved our commercial 
organisation. A new team has been established and their 
commercial acumen, combined with a suitable amount 
of assertiveness, is already showing effect.
In the following sections of this Annual Report,  
we outline in more detail our expectations for the 
Connectivity Centre and how we intend to implement  
a winning strategy for the future. 
2009 and beyond
2009 will be equally if not more challenging than  
2008. However, looking beyond the short-term macro-
economic difficulties, we have great cause for optimism.
2008 has seen CSR change in ways which better 
position us for the future. Our company is a strong 
business with huge opportunities brought alive by our 
focus on the Connectivity Centre and delivered by the 
most talented and committed people in our industry. 
BlueCore7 , MusiCore and UF6026 will all come to market 
during the next 12 months. We anticipate revenue from 
the second half of the year onwards and, together, we 
expect these three products will help lay the foundations 
for growth in 2010 and beyond.
09 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
CONNECTIVITY TECHNOLOGY ROADMAP
10
• Constant evolution since 1999.
•  A progressive increase in functionality coupled with a steady reduction in size.
•  BlueCore7000 Bluetooth, FM Transmit, FM Receive, Bluetooth low energy and GPS functionality on one chip. 
•  The ‘shrink the chip but expand the functionality’ trend will continue.
TIME 2004 2001 2005 2002 2003
Audio on-chip  
ROM added 
Added  
Enhanced  
Data Rate
Bluetooth  
2.0
SIZE AND DEVELOPMENT  
IN FUNCTIONALITY
(dimensions mm)
BC1
4.86 x 4.86
First Bluetooth  
chip implemented  
into mobile handset
BC2
(4.24 x 4.41)
BC3
(3.84 x 3.40)
BC4
(3.8 x 3.62)
GENERATION OF 
CSR TECHNOLOGY
(dimensions mm)
0 mm
2
5 mm
2
10 mm
2
15 mm
2
20 mm
2
25 mm
2
30 mm
2
35 mm
2
40 mm
2
Shrink process  
continues
Shrink process  
continues
Shrink process  
continues
BC1
(4.86 x 4.86)
Shrink 
design
Shrink 
process csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
11
2008 2006 2009 2007
FM radio 
first 
added 
to chip
(FM 
Receive)
UniFi 1
802.11 a,b,g
(5.84 x 6.44)
UWB 
100 Megabit 
per second 
data transfer 
(5.12 x 5.12)
Improved  
voice and  
music quality
Added  
FM  
Transmit,
BLE and 
GPS
UF6000
802.11 a,b,g,n
(3.70 x 4.17)
Increasing future connectivity
BC5
(4.04 x 4.12)
BC6
(3.49 x 3.21)
BC7
(3.60 x 3.25)
Shrink 
process 
continues
Shrink 
process 
continues
Shrink 
process 
continues
Shrink 
process 
continues
Shrink 
process 
continues csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
12
CSR is changing the way the world connects. We have 
developed products that help people interact, navigate,  
play music and connect to the internet. CSR technology 
inspires, enlivens and offers an ever-improving user 
experience for people worldwide.
Our customers – the leading manufacturers who incorporate  
our technology in their products – include many of the world’s  
top names in electronics. Bose, Nokia, Samsung, Sanyo, Sony 
Ericsson and many more rely on our expertise to add value to  
their products and give them global commercial appeal.
World class products
We are a world leader in connectivity. During 2008 we shipped  
our one billionth chip since the first shipment was made in  
2001 and continued with strong positions in each of our two  
key market sectors: cellular handsets and headsets; and  
Non-cellular applications. 
•  BLUECORE7000 IS OUR NEXT- 
GENERATION BLUETOOTH CHIP  
AND CONTINUES OUR RELENTLESS 
DRIVE TOWARDS PUTTING GREATER 
PERFORMANCE ON AN EVER – 
SMALLER CHIP
•  MUSICORE IS OUR HIGH 
PERFORMANCE COMBINED AUDIO 
AND BLUETOOTH PRODUCT FOR 
MUSIC PHONES ALLOWING 100 HOURS 
OF HIGH QUALITY AUDIO PLAYBACK
•  UF6000 IS OUR EMBEDDED WI-FI CHIP 
THAT OFFERS HIGH PERFORMANCE, 
HIGH SPEED DOWNLOADS OF LARGE 
FILES SUCH AS VIDEO CLIPS
•  OUR CUSTOMERS INCLUDE MANY  
OF THE WORLD’S TOP NAMES IN 
ELECTRONICS
CONNECTING WITH QUALITY csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
13
Cellular
In handsets, over half of all products sold now incorporate 
Bluetooth technology. Over the last four years, we have seen this 
figure (known as the attach rate) rise from just 14% and expect this 
upward trend to continue over the long term. Our products benefit 
from a loyal, established and diverse customer base, and we are 
key suppliers to many of them.
We anticipate that the Bluetooth attach rate for handsets will 
continue to increase over the next few years, albeit that the total 
number of handsets sold is expected to drop in 2009 as a result  
of the current economic environment.
The Bluetooth standard has evolved year-on-year as more 
technology has been added. Not only has the performance of  
our Bluetooth continued to improve, but we have also been able  
to combine that enhanced performance with the addition of new 
functionality. For example, the integration of FM radio onto our 
chips provides improved sound quality that enables the user to 
enjoy listening to music tracks as well as experience improved 
voice reception.
We recognise that a potential challenge to our strength in 
Bluetooth could be mounted by a competitor choosing to integrate 
the Bluetooth-only function into the baseband chip in the phone. 
However, based on our own research, we believe that there are 
several key reasons why such a challenge is not likely to be 
successful. Firstly, the evolution of baseband technology is 
significantly slower than the changes being made to the wireless 
connectivity technology. Secondly, the continuing growth in attach 
rates in a number of applications, as mentioned in this section of 
the report; and thirdly, we believe that Bluetooth will continue  
to be used as an ‘anchor point’ around which other technology is 
integrated. This latter point is reflected in both our existing product 
roadmap and the development of the Connectivity Centre (see the 
diagram on page 8).
In headsets, we again lead the market with a share of around  
80%. Our products are particularly strong at the top end of the 
market where customers demand the greatest capability and 
performance and here we have almost 100% market share. 
Demand for headsets is driven in part by legislation and in June 
2008 we benefited when laws concerning the mandatory use  
of a hands-free device for making phone calls while driving were 
introduced in California and Washington state in the US. 
In addition, we are seeing an increasing number of new headset 
applications leading to opportunities in areas such as the market 
for games consoles (or ‘gaming’) where several leading headset 
manufacturers are now active. Stereo headsets are also expected 
to be a market opportunity of the future. Our solutions provide long 
battery life and high quality audio comparable with that offered by 
wired headphones.
1 2
1  WE LEAD THE HEADSET 
MARKET WITH A SHARE OF 
AROUND 80%
2  CSR TECHNOLOGY INSPIRES, 
ENLIVENS AND OFFERS AN 
EVER IMPROVING USER 
EXPERIENCE csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
Non-cellular
Non-cellular applications are served by our PC, Automotive and 
Consumer division. Wireless connectivity continues to provide 
growth potential across many consumer devices in the medium 
term, with both the total available market and the attach rate 
showing growth. Gaming is an exciting market as is the 
automotive segment, where we lead the market for Bluetooth 
solutions. Although sales of cars are likely to fall during 2009,  
we believe that a greater percentage of new models will feature 
Bluetooth functionality. The inclusion of Bluetooth is relatively 
inexpensive for manufacturers while being extremely attractive  
to their customers. 
Personal Navigation Devices (PNDs) are also an important sector 
for us and our RoadTunes product is now installed in the high 
volume devices of a leading US manufacturer. RoadTunes 
combines in a single device the capability to make and receive 
phone calls simply through a voice instruction from the driver.  
It features state-of-the-art noise and echo cancellation for a better 
user experience and also allows the driver to access in-car 
information and entertainment systems (termed ‘infotainment’)  
by voice activation alone. 
Other notable CSR design wins in the Non-cellular sector include 
digital photo frames, and TVs.
Indeed, we are seeing an increasing number of new applications 
for Bluetooth technology as it becomes a more mainstream and 
cost-effective connectivity solution. We are therefore encouraged 
by the enormous opportunities for our technology that have still  
to be exploited.
World class innovation
We made significant progress with three important new products 
during 2008.
BlueCore7000 is our next-generation Bluetooth chip and 
continues our relentless drive towards putting greater 
performance on an ever-smaller chip. Size is a key factor for  
our customers – and as we demonstrate on pages 10 and 1 1, we 
have a proven track record of increasing functionality while also 
reducing the size of our chips. This is important to our customers, 
since it reduces the space required by our chip when incorporated 
into their products. BlueCore7000 combines Bluetooth with FM 
Transmit, FM Receive, Bluetooth low energy and GPS capability.  
It therefore delivers good radio performance for the user, while 
consuming less power than even conventional Bluetooth and at 
the same time providing personal navigation via a mobile phone  
or other hand held device – all on a single chip. We expect to enter 
mass production towards the end of the second quarter of 2009 
and anticipate sales revenue in the second half of the year.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
14
CONNECTING WITH QUALITY  continued
1  OUR ROADTUNES PRODUCT IS NOW INSTALLED IN THE HIGH 
VOLUME DEVICES OF A U.S. MANUFACTURER
2  BLUECORE7000, OUR NEXT GENERATION CHIP COMBINES 
BLUETOOTH WITH FM TRANSMIT, FM RECEIVE, BLUETOOTH LOW 
ENERGY AND GPS CAPABILITY
1
2 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
MusiCore adds audio to Bluetooth and is perfectly matched to  
the increasing consumer demand for music phones which have 
traditionally received poor uptake due to limited battery life and 
poor audio quality. Here again the size and power consumption  
of CSR’s chips enable our customers to create breakthroughs  
in the quality of their products. Our chip offers market-leading 
performance, including 100 hours of high quality playback time 
with audio quality comparable to leading-edge MP3 players and  
a bill of materials that is significantly lower than the competition. 
We expect to see revenue streams from leading manufacturers  
in the second half of 2009.
UF6000 is our embedded Wi-Fi chip. With UF6000, 
manufacturers are able to create handsets that offer high 
performance, high speed downloads of large files, such as  
video clips or large music files that the user can send or receive via 
their mobile device. Our Wi-Fi chip co-exists effectively alongside 
Bluetooth in the same device. This means that the user can make 
a phone call using Bluetooth while also carrying out a Wi-Fi activity 
such as uploading a video clip at the same time – without the 
performance of either function being compromised.
World class manufacturing
We work with the world’s leading semiconductor manufacturers in 
order to maintain and enhance our reputation among customers 
for leading-edge technology supported by reliable supply, proven 
quality and excellent cost advantages. 
CSR is a ‘fabless’ semiconductor company. All wafer fabrication, 
assembly, testing and shipping is subcontracted to Taiwan 
Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and Advanced 
Semiconductor Engineering (ASE). TSMC is the largest wafer 
manufacturer in the world offering the leading technologies in 
wafer fabrication. ASE is the largest packaging and testing 
company in the world with significantly greater capability and 
capacity than any other supplier.
In 2008, we developed a range of new products utilising both 
90nm and 65nm technology and also completed development  
of advanced new packaging technology to complement our 
world-leading Wafer Level Chip Scale Package (WLCSP) 
capability. WLCSP enables us to prepare and package a chip  
at the wafer level instead of the more traditional method which 
involves assembling the package after the wafer has been diced 
into individual chips.
We expanded our assembly manufacturing base by qualifying 
ASE’s facility in Shanghai, China for manufacturing low cost 
packages. Furthermore, we extended our WLCSP capability  
by transitioning new products from 8” wafers to ASE’s new 12” 
wafer manufacturing line. This provides efficiencies in testing  
and packaging and therefore saves on costs. The year also saw  
us work closely with TSMC on the development of 40nm 
technology for advanced RF/wireless product applications. 
In 2009, we intend to ramp volume production for both 90nm  
and 65nm products. As demonstrated by the graphic on pages  
10 and 11, over the period since 2001, we have progressively 
transitioned to smaller ‘geometries’ as part of our drive to reduce 
cost, thereby remaining price competitive. We work closely with 
our key partners when implementing these new products, as the 
process of adopting leading-edge technologies brings significant 
challenges. In conjunction with TSMC and ASE, we work to 
ensure that the introduction of these changes does not impact  
on either delivery schedules or product quality. We will continue  
to build on the strong relationships with both TSMC and ASE, 
ensuring that our customers benefit from an operational capability 
focused on world-leading quality, delivery and performance. 
World class talent
We employ around 975 people at 18 sites in 10 countries 
worldwide. Over 75% of our people are engineers, reflecting  
our emphasis on leading-edge science and our commitment  
to innovation.
We carried out a restructuring of our teams during 2008.  
Business units have been merged and reorganised and this  
action has hugely simplified the way in which we allocate our  
R&D resource. There is now significantly better alignment 
between R&D projects and the business units, which has resulted 
in greater commercial agility and more rapid decision-making, 
allowing us to exploit new opportunities as well as respond at 
speed to our customers’ requirements.
we work with the world’s 
leading semiconductor 
manufacturers Providing 
leading edge technology 
suPPorted by Proven quality
Joep van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer
15 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
16
•  WE ARE COMBINING DIFFERENT 
WIRELESS STANDARDS TO ENHANCE  
THE CAPABILITIES OF CONSUMERS’ 
MOBILE DEVICES TO COMMUNICATE  
WITH EACH OTHER
•  CSR HAS THE EXPERIENCE AND THE 
KNOW-HOW TO BUILD AND CONTINUALLY 
INNOVATE CONNECTIVITY SOLUTIONS
•  BLUECORE7000, MUSICORE AND UF6000 
ARE EXAMPLES OF NEW PRODUCTS 
COMING TO MARKET, HERALDING THE 
START OF A NEW PHASE IN CSR’S 
DEVELOPMENT
CONNECTING WITH PERFORMANCE
CSR is pioneering connectivity, changing the way the  
world connects. The trend towards a wire-free world  
is set to continue in the coming years. This is the future  
that consumers demand and which CSR, through its  
ground-breaking technology, enables leading  
manufacturers to exploit.
Personal devices featuring CSR technology can direct you to the 
nearest coffee bar, petrol station or supermarket. On your journey, 
you can listen to FM radio stations, broadcast from the handset to 
a set of stereo headphones. Or you can choose to listen to any of 
around 500 of your own music tracks, using only a fraction of the 
battery power usually associated with a music capability. While 
you’re waiting for your coffee to cool, you can check your 
Facebook wall, catch up on the news or download music or 
podcasts through your Wi-Fi or Ultra Wideband connection.
Tightening our focus
Following the operational review, we have been focussed on  
the Connectivity Centre. 
Although the term ‘Connectivity Centre’ was originally coined  
by CSR and first used when we announced the results of our 
operational review in the spring of 2008, such is the compelling 
case of the concept that it is already used by competitors and 
customers alike. However, we believe that the Connectivity Centre 
is far more than a neat phrase for describing the bringing together 
of different wireless technologies. The Connectivity Centre is not 
only the future of wireless communication: it is already happening. 
We are combining different wireless standards to enhance the 
capabilities of consumers’ mobile devices to communicate with 
each other. Significantly, we believe also that only CSR offers  
a true Connectivity Centre, with all technologies fully-integrated 
and capable of operating together while sustaining optimum high 
level performance for the user.  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
17
Market opportunity
The Connectivity Centre offers a significant growth opportunity. 
Smartphones and feature phones, which have additional 
functionality and provide the user with greater flexibility of 
applications in their mobile phone, will become increasingly 
important at the expense of more basic and ultra low cost models. 
According to industry sources such as ABI and IMS, the number  
of smartphones and feature phones – the core market for the 
Connectivity Centre – will surpass 1.1 billion units worldwide  
by 2012. By the same year, the total addressable market for the 
Connectivity Centre has the potential to grow to be between  
$5 billion and $7 billion compared to around $3.5 billion in 2007 .
CSR has the experience and the know-how to build and 
continually innovate connectivity solutions in order to meet 
end-user demand for increasingly sophisticated and multi-
functional wireless interface between devices. 
The Connectivity Centre
Today, Bluetooth represents over 95% of our revenues. We 
recognise that the continuing success of CSR lies in developing 
additional technologies that operate seamlessly with Bluetooth  
as one part of a connectivity capability. 
At the end of 2008, our Connectivity Centre was offering proven 
performance in a number of key technologies:
 
Bluetooth
Our teams continue to push back the boundaries of Bluetooth. 
During 2008, we shipped nearly 40% of the world’s Bluetooth 
chips and our technology featured in around 50% of all new 
product designs that incorporated Bluetooth.
FM
Music and audio are increasingly important to consumers and, 
therefore, to our customers. Our FM capability allows people  
to listen to radio stations on the move, via a Bluetooth mono  
or stereo headset.
GPS
Interest in and use of GPS grew rapidly in 2008 and is expected  
to continue to increase during 2009. Our GPS solution, which 
features significant technical advantages, is a fraction of the cost  
of alternative solutions while also being capable of acquiring a 
location signal more quickly, even inside buildings. This means  
we can offer greater reliability and therefore an enhanced user 
experience. 
Bluetooth low energy
This new low-power wireless technology can be used to transfer 
simple data sets between compact devices, and can run for up to 
an astonishing ten years on one button-like cell battery. This opens 
up whole new opportunities for Bluetooth, addressing compact 
applications such as watches, TV remote controls and medical 
sensors. In fact low-power wireless technology can transfer data 
from one location to another at a fraction of the cost of existing 
products. For example, training shoes can incorporate monitors  
to record fitness and sports data which can then be downloaded 
wirelessly onto a home computer. Similarly, pulse rate data 
recorded by a medical device can be downloaded wirelessly at 
home or at a local surgery, giving physicians valuable information 
about the patient’s day.
Wi-Fi
With UF6026, our Wi-Fi solution, people can transfer data at  
high speed, downloading music or films and browsing the web. 
UF6026 co-exists alongside Bluetooth in the same device so that, 
for example, consumers can make wireless phone calls while 
uploading files at the same time.
We believe that these products, which will support revenue 
opportunities in 2009 and beyond, demonstrate our firm 
commitment to extending our technology capabilities. 
BlueCore7000, MusiCore and UF6000 are examples of new 
products coming to market, heralding the start of a new phase  
in CSR’s development.
1  OUR FM CAPABILITY ALLOWS PEOPLE  
TO LISTEN TO RADIO STATIONS ON THE 
MOVE, VIA BLUETOOTH MONO OR STEREO 
HEADSET
1 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
18
Product development
In 2008, we invested some $150 million in R&D on an 
underlying basis. This represents around 21.6% of our total 
revenue, a proportion normal within an R&D intensive industry. 
This investment has been focussed on the technologies 
relevant to the Connectivity Centre and associated eco-
systems such as handsets and headsets: Bluetooth, Bluetooth 
low energy, FM, Wi-Fi, GPS and eGPS, UWB and audio signal 
processing: which focus we believe is unique in our sector.
The functionality of the Connectivity Centre is immediately apparent 
to any end customer, and thereby brings product differentiation and 
therefore competitive advantage to our customers. In contrast, 
cellular baseband, although undoubtedly essential actually brings 
little, if any, end product differentiation. CSR first identified and 
defined this concept and through our ‘intelligent integration’ strategy 
now have many of the required technologies both as stand-alone 
chips and in combinations tailored for various market segments.
Evolution of the Connectivity Centre
Bluetooth, FM, Bluetooth low energy and Wi-Fi are already key 
components of products already fully developed, with Bluetooth  
at the heart of and an essential component on which successful 
deployment of all other technologies depend. These have been 
developed on 90nm and 65nm CMOS processes. 
We are developing the Connectivity Centre further in a number  
of ways:
CONNECTING WITH OPPORTUNITY
1
1  BLUETOOTH, FM, BLUETOOTH LOW ENERGY AND WI-FI  
ARE ALREADY KEY COMPONENTS OF PRODUCTS ALREADY 
FULLY DEVELOPED csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
19
–  We expect to see GPS increase penetration rapidly over the  
next few years, with the potential to become ubiquitous, whereas 
it has hitherto been largely confined to driver navigation devices.  
To date, most GPS optimisations have been for vehicles and it is 
only recently that most manufacturers have begun thinking about 
the practicalities of adding useable GPS functionality to 2G and 
3G phones. The recently announced BlueCore 7830 BT/FM/
GPS combination chip is specifically targeted to cellular phones. 
Several more, with significantly enhanced performance, are in 
development and we expect to be taping-out during 2009.
–  In performance terms, our GPS delivers competitive advantage  
by reducing the board area and cost of adding GPS to cellular 
phones. Following the benefits derived from our acquisition  
of the technologies and skills of Cambridge Positioning Systems 
by integrating with measurements made on the cellular network 
infrastructure of mobile phone communication masts, we are 
able to provide fast fixes and extend coverage even inside 
buildings. This we believe to be essential before cellular 
operators deploy location based software in any meaningful 
manner.
–  Music playback has already grown to be a standard feature of 
phones, but has usually been added as an afterthought to the 
applications processors or cellular baseband chips, resulting  
in current consumption and therefore battery life which is 
becoming unacceptable. Since the Bluetooth and FM devices 
from CSR already contain an audio router and DSP capability it 
has been straightforward for us to add music decode, including 
DRM and HiFi quality audio to our chips. This not only has size 
and cost advantages, it has reduced power consumption up  
to ten fold. Additionally we have included the advanced noise 
cancellation DSP which we have used successfully in headsets 
and car-kits for some years, further improving audio quality 
during normal voice calls. Many enhancements have been made 
during 2008, and we anticipate developing further chips with 
advanced music and speech processing during 2009.
–  High speed wireless data transfers. The MusiCore products  
can connect directly to the bulk (NAND Flash cards) memory of 
the phone or PMP, and we can take advantage of this to transfer 
or synchronise files in an efficient manner without the bottle-
necks or power penalties of transfer via the applications 
processor. We have already demonstrated transfer speeds of 
ten times the normal Bluetooth speed using our Wi-Fi with the 
developing Bluetooth AMP protocol, and one hundred times 
using our UWB with the same AMP protocol. Our UWB method 
is ten times faster than that of competitor’s Wi-Fi versions,  
while using only one tenth of the energy per bit transferred. 
Nonetheless we support and make chips for both Wi-Fi and 
UWB high speed enhancements, and can use the most 
appropriate in each use-case.
–  Advanced Technology. During 2008 we analysed thoroughly  
the cost of the various functions described above for a variety  
of silicon geometries. It is clear that all our devices are currently 
on the optimum process. Furthermore we have decided that 
65nm is inappropriate for many products, being more costly  
for single standard devices and sub-optimal for larger 
combination devices. This is a different conclusion to that  
made by competitors and stems from our designs being  
in general smaller than theirs on the same process node.  
We have therefore decided to concentrate future process 
development on 40nm. We have already taped-out test  
silicon on 40nm and have several projects and circuits under 
development during 2009.
James Collier
Chief Technical Officer
 
our r &d investment has  
been focussed on the 
technologies relevant to 
the connectivity centre and 
associated eco-systems
James Collier , Chief Technical Officer csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  BUSINESS REVIEW
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – BUSINESS REVIEW
r &d is a t the heart of our 
strength in the Products  
and solutions we are able to 
offer our customers . in 2008  
r &d sPend was $152.8 million a  
7% increase over 2007 
Will Gardiner , Chief Financial Officer
20
Overview
CSR plc is the holding company of an international 
group of companies with its headquarters in 
Cambridge, UK. CSR plc listed on the London Stock 
Exchange in March 2004 and is a constituent of the 
FTSE 250 Index. 
Our core business is the design and supply of integrated 
circuits, or silicon chips, for use in wireless devices. 
Through our BlueCore range of products, we are a 
market leader in the supply of single chip solutions for 
Bluetooth wireless voice and data communications, 
providing low cost, high performance integrated circuits 
(ICs or silicon chips) to manufacturers of a wide range of 
electronic devices. These include items such as mobile 
phones, headsets, laptop PCs, PC peripherals, games 
consoles, stereo headphones, MP3 players and 
automotive based systems. We supply over 450 end 
customers including BMW, Bose, Dell, LG, Motorola, 
Nokia, NEC, Panasonic, RIM, Samsung, Sharp, Sony, 
TomTom and Toshiba. We are also extending our 
technologies beyond Bluetooth to bring a broader range 
of short-range wireless technologies to market, namely 
Wi-Fi, GPS, FM radio, UWB (Ultra Wideband), NFC  
(Near Field Communications) and Bluetooth low energy.
Our objective is to be the supplier of choice of solutions 
for wireless voice and data communications focussing 
on the Connectivity Centre. The Connectivity Centre 
brings together many aspects of short range wireless 
connectivity products with excellent co-existence, 
capable of operating concurrently without degradation 
in optimum performance. We believe that Bluetooth,  
FM radio, Wi-Fi, UWB, high quality audio for music,  
GPS location-finding technology and Near Field 
Communications can all ultimately co-exist alongside 
each other, with significant benefits for the end user.  
Our strategy is built around the Connectivity Centre  
and this guides all decisions we make. The Connectivity 
market has grown very quickly over the last few years 
and is forecast to continue to grow substantially over  
the long term.
We have a very strong research and development team 
of 630 staff as at 2 January 2009 (down from 714 a year 
earlier). The majority of these are based in Cambridge, 
UK, with teams in Aalborg in Denmark; Stockholm in 
Sweden; Dallas and Detroit in the US; Sophia Antipolis in 
France and Bangalore in India. Our sales and marketing 
function is centred in Cambridge in the UK with sales 
liaison offices in Dallas and Detroit in the US; Taipei in 
Taiwan; Seoul and Gumi in South Korea; Tokyo in Japan 
and Shanghai and Shenzhen in China. 
We market to Original Equipment Manufacturers  
(often called OEMs) and Original Design Manufacturers 
(or ODMs), principally through our own direct sales force 
and, in North America, through sales representatives. 
We also market our chips through a network of 
distributors. 
Our marketing efforts are supported by a team of 
applications engineers who provide technical support 
and assistance to existing and potential customers in 
designing, testing and qualifying systems that 
incorporate our products. 
This support is generally provided without charge to 
customers who have the potential to purchase large 
volumes of products. An important part of our marketing 
effort involves providing technical support to product 
developers to encourage them to design products using 
our chips. For this purpose, we provide a range of 
development kits and tools.
Business segments
For the period to 2 January 2009 we were organised into 
two business segments; Cellular; which includes mobile 
phones and headsets, and Non-cellular; which includes 
applications beyond the mobile phone including PC, 
Automotive and Consumer applications.
We identified business segments based on internal 
reporting and have chosen to aggregate those business 
segments which meet the aggregation criteria specified 
in International Financial Reporting Standard 8 for 
disclosure as reportable segments. csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
21
Cellular segment
During 2008, we achieved good progress designing  
in our next-generation Bluetooth chip, BlueCore7000, 
which combines Bluetooth with FM Transmit,  
FM Receive, Bluetooth low energy and GPS RF. 
BlueCore7000 is expected to enter mass production 
during the second half of 2009.
There continues to be significant interest in our 
combination Bluetooth and Audio Codec chip, 
MusiCore, among Tier 1 phone manufacturers and  
we believe this could lead to end products in the market 
in the second half of 2009.
UniFi6000, our third generation embedded Wi-Fi 
product family was developed during 2008. The 
UniFi6000 range is the world’s smallest embedded Wi-Fi 
chip available. UF6000 has a die size of less than 16mm
2
 
of silicon, whilst providing customers with low power 
consumption. It supports IEEE 802.11a/b/g and n.
Non-Cellular segment
We are the wireless connectivity provider of choice  
in the Non-cellular segment and the number of 
applications for Bluetooth continues to grow. We are 
working with our customers to integrate Bluetooth in a 
range of new consumer electronic devices. These 
include products such as Hi-Fi units, a wider range of 
games consoles and televisions where wider adoption  
is expected to occur.
We have a significant presence in the gaming segment 
where low-latency is a key requirement from customers. 
Our Fast Stream™ software ensures that the audio and 
video are synchronised to enhance the realism of the 
computer game and therefore the user enjoyment. We 
are seeing a trend in having multiple simultaneous uses 
for Bluetooth in gaming and we expect consumers to 
see this in the market in 2009.
The automotive market continues to provide growth 
opportunities as Bluetooth connectivity is being 
incorporated into a growing range of newly built cars and 
attach rates continue to increase. While we expect 
global demand for cars to be impacted by the general 
economic slowdown, we believe a greater proportion  
of those cars built will include Bluetooth functionality as 
manufacturers offer higher specification levels in order  
to make their products more attractive to consumers.
Personal Navigation Devices (PNDs) are an important 
market and our RoadTunes product benefits from having 
an easy to integrate reference design.
2008 was a challenging year in the PC sector, and we 
suffered market share loss. However we continue to 
develop products aimed at this market. Our partnership 
with Intel has provided PC customers and OEMs with the 
ability to offer their customers a saving of battery life of 
30 minutes. To ensure ease of integration, CSR has 
launched a new PC ‘Slim module’ design with a new 
read only memory (ROM) device that incorporates the 
CSR/ Intel advanced power management functionality. 
We expect to ship devices with this functionality in 2009. 
Market overview
CSR remains a world leader in the Bluetooth market,  
a position it has held since 2004. The operational 
assessment during the first quarter of 2008 validated 
CSR’s fundamental strength in wireless technologies 
whilst also confirming that the wireless connectivity 
market represented a significant long term growth 
opportunity. Even allowing for the current economic 
uncertainties, the Company estimates that the market 
for short range wireless connectivity solutions may grow 
from around $3.5 billion in 2007 to between $5 billion 
and $7 billion in 2012.
At the heart of this growth are several connectivity 
technologies that the Company believes will 
progressively converge onto a single piece of silicon in 
mobile phones and other portable consumer electronics 
products, forming what we call a Connectivity Centre. 
This trend is already being reflected by requests from our 
customers for product designs that combine multiple 
short range wireless communication technologies.  
All the technologies which we believe will be potential 
elements of the Connectivity Centre are either in 
production by us or are in our current R&D pipeline. 
csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  BUSINESS REVIEW continued 
22
Bluetooth is at the core of the Connectivity Centre due to 
its high adoption rate and Connectivity Centre chips will 
normally include a combination of Bluetooth with other 
technologies and functionality.
The markets in which we operate are highly competitive 
and are characterised by rapid technological change, 
evolving industry standards and declining prices and 
costs. Our primary competition includes Broadcom, 
Texas Instruments and ST Microelectronics.
We believe that the rate of adoption into mobile devices 
(the ‘attach rate’) for Bluetooth in handsets was between 
50% and 60% in 2008, which represents an increase of 
approximately 5% compared to 2007. Based on market 
reports and discussions with customers, management 
expects a further overall increase in the Bluetooth attach 
rate for our target markets during 2009 as more devices 
are launched that provide wireless connectivity. 
Offsetting the increase in the adoption of Bluetooth and 
other wireless technologies, however, is the impact of 
the global economic downturn, which has particularly 
affected the consumer oriented markets which our 
customers sell into. We therefore expect the market for 
short range wireless connectivity solutions in 2009 to 
contract compared with 2008. 
This is expected to impact the handset and headset 
markets which are both forecast to experience 
contraction with a decline in sales forecast for both 
markets. However, the Company believes that its 
products provide strong technical and performance 
differentiation from alternative solutions which will enable 
it to compete effectively in securing and maintaining 
market share. 
In the Non-cellular segment the Company expects the 
attach rate for Bluetooth will continue to grow in 2009 in 
certain applications. In the automotive market, despite 
the widely reported decline in global car sales, it is 
expected that the attach rate for Bluetooth will increase 
due to the relatively low cost for the inclusion of this 
feature into new build cars.
Financial review
The table opposite includes both GAAP and underlying 
data for the 53 week period ended 2 January 2009, 
extracted from the income statement on page 64.  
The term ‘underlying’ is not defined under IFRS and 
therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled 
measures reported by other companies. Further,  
these measures are not intended to be a substitute for, 
and are not considered to be superior to other defined 
IFRS measures.
We believe that the presentation of the underlying 
measures provides useful additional information as they 
represent the measures used internally by management  
to evaluate the performance of its operations, develop 
budgets and incentive compensation arrangements for 
employees. Further, the ‘underlying’ measures presented 
below are also used to analyse and understand the key 
drivers of the business. They exclude significant items 
which, whilst important to an understanding of the overall 
business, are less important for the operational decisions 
made. The items which have been excluded from 
underlying measures are the amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets and, in 2008, asset impairment charges, 
charges for restructuring and the deferred tax adjustment 
to goodwill, and in 2007 , a patent dispute settlement. 
We believe that the exclusion of these items provides a useful 
view of our operating performance as it clearly reflects our 
internal financial reporting. A statutory format income 
statement is on page 64 of the Financial Statements.
Financial performance
 53 weeks  52 weeks  
 ended ended  
 2 January  28 December  
 2009 2007    
 $ Million $ Million Change
Revenue 694.9 848.6 -18%
Gross Profit 309.8 396.3 -22%
Gross Margin 44.6% 46.7% -2.1%
R&D 158.2 147.5 +7%
% of revenue 22.8% 17.4% +5.4%
*Underlying R&D 152.7 140.9 +8%
% of revenue 22.0% 16.6% +5.4%
SG&A 160.2 98.6 +62%
% of revenue 23.1% 11.6% +11.5%
*Underlying SG&A 91.8 83.4 +10%
% of revenue 13.2% 9.8% +3.4%
Operating (loss) profit (8.5) 150.1 -106%
% of revenue (1.2%) 17.7% -18.9%
*Underlying operating profit 65.2 172.0 -62%
% of revenue 9.4% 20.3% -10.9%
*Underlying earnings  
per share($) (Diluted) 0.43 0.94 -54%
(Loss) earnings per share  
($) (Diluted) (0.05) 0.83 -106%
*Underlying numbers exclude the amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets, a $52.9 million asset impairment charge in 2008, $14.4 million of 
restructuring charges in 2008, a $1.0 million charge in 2008 (2007: $0.3 
million) related to the adjustment to goodwill as a result of the recognition 
of pre-acquisition losses and, in 2007, the payment of $15.0 million in 
settlement of a patent dispute.
Summary
2008 has been a year of significant change for the 
Company. During the first quarter, the Company 
completed a detailed operational assessment of its 
business strategy, which has been successfully 
implemented and is already yielding benefits in 
operational efficiency and focus on product execution. 
The operational impact of these changes are explained 
on pages 6 to 9 of the Annual Report. The later part of the 
year saw the impact of the global banking and financial 
crises, which has resulted in a reduction in financial 
liquidity and a sharp slowing in demand from business 
and end-consumers alike. csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
23
The Company’s primary market is the supply of  
Bluetooth products, which represented over 95% of 
CSR’s revenues in 2008. The overall growth in demand 
for Bluetooth products, albeit slower than in prior years, 
continued in both Cellular and Non-cellular applications. 
Approximately 98% of the Company’s products are 
supplied to customers which produce products serving 
the retail consumer markets. 
Key performance measures
We use a range of financial and non-financial 
performance measures, reported on a periodic basis,  
to measure performance over time. There have been  
no changes in the period in our financial KPIs; we have 
added headcount as a non-financial KPI in the current 
period. No changes have been made to the source of 
data or calculation methods used in the period. The 
source of all data is consistent with published financial 
and non-financial information.
To measure growth of the business:
Revenue represents sales of integrated circuits to 
customers, sales of services to customers and royalty 
income from products sold under a royalty earning 
licence net of any estimated provisions for credit notes 
and returns. Only a negligible percentage of our 
revenues come from sales of services and royalties. 
 
Revenue as reported in the Income Statement on page 64).
Revenue for 2008 amounted to $694.9 million, 
representing an 18% decrease from revenue in 2007  
of $848.6 million. This reflected principally a reduction  
in the volume weighted average selling price of 13.8%, 
coupled with lower shipment volume due to the sharp 
decline in demand from customers at the end of 2008, 
the previously reported loss during 2006 of a BlueCore5 
FM device programme at our largest customer and 
competitive pressure in the low cost headset and other 
markets. The loss of this BlueCore5 FM programme  
has resulted in the revenue we derive from that customer  
as a proportion of our total revenues declining from  
29% in 2006 to 26% in 2007 and to 19% in 2008.  
We have however, maintained our strong relationship 
with this customer and based on the development  
of our next generation Bluetooth device BlueCore7000, 
we anticipate regaining market share with them  
during 2009. 
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
$m
To measure performance of the business:
Underlying earnings per diluted share is used as a 
measure of the interest each current share and each 
potentially dilutive share has in the performance of the 
business. Underlying earnings per diluted share is 
calculated as underlying earnings divided by the number 
of current shares and potentially dilutive shares 
outstanding. 
Underlying diluted earnings per share in 2008 was 
$0.43, a decrease of 54% compared to $0.94 in 2007 .
The decrease resulted from the reductions in revenue 
and gross profit, along with the increases in underlying 
operating expenses, all of which are described in more 
detail on page 24.
To measure working capital management:
Inventory turns is used as a measure of the 
management of inventory levels in the business and 
represents the number of times inventory ‘turns over’  
in an annual period based on the previous three months 
cost of sales. 
Inventory turns decreased in 2008 to 4.8, based on  
the previous three months cost of sales (2007: 6.3).  
The decrease resulted from reductions in orders towards 
the end of the year, which were notified within the 
lead-time for production from our suppliers and hence 
led to higher than planned inventory balances. We took 
decisive actions to reduce inventory balances as far as 
possible as soon as the effect of these reductions in 
orders on forecast shipments became known.
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Cents per Share
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Iventory turns csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  BUSINESS REVIEW continued
24
Days sales outstanding (DSO) is a measure of the 
number of days that it takes us to collect revenue  
after a sale has been made taken at our year end date. 
We calculate DSO by taking the balance of trade 
receivables outstanding at the end of the annual period, 
dividing by the revenue for the most recent monthly 
periods and then multiplying by the number of days  
in those monthly periods.
Note: Data is given at year end dates
The increase in DSO was due to the non-payment  
of invoices on the due date by a distributor. This debt  
is not provided for and has been collected since  
2 January 2009.
In previous years, DSO was lower as, due to higher levels 
of demand, customers paid invoices early to remain 
within their credit limits.
Free cash flow is used to represent the cash that we  
are able to generate after cash out flows on capital 
expenditure. We calculate free cash flow as cash 
generated by operations (as per the cash flow statement 
on page 66) less expenditure on tangible and intangible 
assets in the annual period (as shown on the cash flow 
statement). 
Free cash flow declined to $73.7 million (2007: $222.9 
million), mainly as a result of our lower gross profit and 
higher operating expenditures. In 2007, there was a 
substantial benefit from working capital movements in 
the year, mainly due to timing of purchases from 
subcontractors and receipt of cash from customers  
at the 2007 year end, compared to the 2006 year end.
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
60
40
20
0
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
250
200
150
100
50
$m
Headcount as at the end of the annual period is used  
as a non-financial key performance indicator of the 
resources available in the business and is monitored 
closely in relation to productivity and research and 
development output.
Note: Data is given at year end dates
Headcount has decreased from 1,062 at the end  
of 2007 to 975 at 2 January 2009; a reduction of 8%.  
This was primarily due to implementation in the final 
quarter of 2008 of headcount reductions in response to 
the global financial and economic downturn experienced 
in the latter part of the year, and reversed a growth in 
headcount in the first part of 2008. The headcount 
reductions were implemented following careful 
consideration of the long-term strategic objectives and 
shorter term targets for 2009. This was performed in 
conjunction with operational management to ensure  
that core projects remain adequately resourced.
Details of 2008 financial results
Revenue
As noted on page 23, revenue for 2008 amounted to 
$694.9 million, representing an 18% decrease from 2007 
revenue ($848.6 million). This reflected principally a 
reduction in the volume weighted average selling price  
of 13.8% coupled with a lower shipment volume due to 
the sharp decline in demand from customers at the end 
of 2008, the previously reported loss during 2006 of a 
BlueCore5 FM programme with our largest customer 
and competitive pressures in the low cost headset  
and other markets. The loss of this BlueCore5 FM 
programme resulted in the revenue we derived from  
that customer as a proportion of our total revenues 
declining from 29% in 2006 to 26% in 2007 and to  
19% in 2008. We have however maintained our strong 
relationship with this customer and, based on the 
development of our next generation Bluetooth device 
BlueCore7000, we anticipate regaining market share 
with them during 2009.
 
Segmental Revenue
 53 weeks  52 weeks  
 ended ended  
 2 January  28 December  
 2009 2007    
 $ Million $ Million % change
Cellular 552.8 660.6 (16%)
Non-cellular 142.1 188.0 (24%)
 694.9 848.6 (18%)
Cellular segment revenue, which represented 80% of 
our total revenue in 2008, decreased 16% compared to 
2007. This was due to a combination of the decline in 
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
25
The key projects we have identified all form major  
parts of the Connectivity Centre: we have concentrated 
on our latest Bluetooth and FM device (BlueCore7000), 
MusiCore (Bluetooth plus Audio Codec) product,  
our next generation Wi-Fi device and development  
and integration of our leading edge software based  
GPS solution.
We expect to continue to invest heavily in technological 
innovation, with our focus on technologies forming key 
parts of the Connectivity Centre.
As a result of our R&D effort and recent acquisitions,  
we have nearly 200 granted patents and a significant 
number of further applications in process.
Selling, General & Administrative (SG&A)
In 2008, selling, general & administrative costs were 
$160.2 million, representing a 62% increase from  
$98.6 million in 2007 , mainly due to the charges 
described opposite. 
As a result of the operational strategy assessment,  
in May 2008, the Company decided to cease ongoing 
investment in the UbiNetics protocol stack. This had 
been acquired with the software business of UbiNetics  
in August 2005. The main reason for the acquisition had 
been to expand our footprint in the handset for which a 
protocol stack was necessary. As a result of the 
subsequent evolution of market however, the Company 
took the view, shared by most of the industry, that the 
integration of Bluetooth and other technologies into the 
baseband is unlikely to happen. We therefore focussed 
the Company’s resources on our capabilities in the 
Connectivity Centre, explained elsewhere in this Annual 
Report. This resulted in a non-cash impairment charge  
of $52.9 million, which included the write down of the 
goodwill relating to the UbiNetics acquisition ($36.9 
million) and certain assets which will not be used in future 
development activities ($16.0 million).
In response to the current economic recession, a cost 
reduction programme was implemented in the fourth 
quarter of 2008, with the aim of reducing ongoing 
annualised operating expenses by $20 million in 2009. 
This has been successfully completed, and is expected 
to deliver actual annualised savings of $25 million with 
the initial benefit of the savings commencing in the first 
quarter of 2009. This resulted in a charge of $14.4 million.
During 2007, the Company reached an agreement with 
the Washington Research Foundation (WRF) to settle its 
patent infringement suit issued against twelve of the 
Company’s customers. The Company remained of the 
view that WRF’s infringement suit against its Bluetooth 
chips was without merit. Notwithstanding this, the 
Company believed that an early resolution of the claim 
was both in its own and in customers’ best interests and 
accordingly a settlement payment of $15.0 million was 
made in April 2007. In connection with this settlement, 
the Company obtained an undertaking from WRF not to 
sue the Company, its suppliers, customers or end users 
for the alleged infringement by CSR products of the 
patents asserted in the suit.
revenue from handsets from our largest customer  
and competitive pressures in the headset market.
Non-cellular segment revenue, which represented  
20% of our total revenue in 2008 decreased by 24% 
compared to 2007 . This was in large part due to a 
decline in revenue from personal computer customers, 
where we lost market share.
Our BlueCore4 ROM device (the world’s best selling 
Bluetooth device) was again our largest shipping 
product in the year. BlueCore4 ROM started shipping in 
volume in 2005 and was our largest selling product in 
each of 2006, 2007 and 2008. Product lifecycles vary; 
in some cases they can extend to several years, while  
in others the rate of technological innovation may 
compress the lifecycle. Product average selling prices 
generally decline by around 15-20% per year and 
individual product costs tend to reduce at a similar rate. 
Gross margin
Gross margin for 2008 fell to 44.6% from 46.7% in 2007. 
This decline resulted in part from increased competition 
and pressure on margins and also from a change in the 
mix of end market demand towards handset related 
sales, which generally have lower margins and feature 
the basic Bluetooth devices, and away from shipments 
to the higher margin headset and PC sectors. 
The effects of this shift were partially offset by reductions 
in production costs exceeding selling price reductions, 
which had a beneficial effect on gross margins.  
The overall lower level of revenue also impacted gross 
margins since those elements of largely fixed overheads 
recorded in cost of sales do not reduce.
We expect continuing competitive pressure on our 
product average selling prices, particularly given the 
current economic climate. 
Research and Development (R&D)
R&D, is the heart of our strength in the products and 
solutions we are able to offer to our customers and 
which underpins and sustains our success. In 2008  
R&D costs were $158.2 million, a 7% increase from the 
$147.5 million of R&D expenditure in 2007. Underlying 
R&D expenses (excluding the amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets) were $152.7 million in 2008, an 8% 
increase from our $140.9 million of R&D expenditure in 
2007 , representing 22% of revenue. The increase 
reflected an increase in R&D personnel in the first three 
quarters of 2008 (4% average increase), and a 6% 
increase in the exchange rate at which we converted  
our GBP costs into dollars (2008: $1.98=£1.00,  
2007: $1.86=£1.00).
The Company invests a significant proportion of its 
resources in R&D in order to ensure that it continues to 
provide innovative wireless connectivity solutions to its 
customers. This is explained in more detail on pages  
18 and 19.  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  BUSINESS REVIEW continued
26
Underlying selling, general & administrative costs 
(excluding the deferred tax adjustment to goodwill and  
in 2008, asset impairment charges and charges for 
restructuring, and in 2007 , a patent dispute settlement – 
as described on page 25) were $91.8 million 
representing a 10% increase over 2007 SG&A costs of 
$83.4 million. The increase resulted from a combination 
of increased headcount in the first three quarters of 2008 
(before the restructuring exercise) (3% average increase), 
and a 6% increase in the exchange rates we used to 
record our sterling-denominated costs. There was a 
further increase in exchange losses of $0.9 million, due 
to translation differences on un-hedged, non-US dollar 
denominated assets and liabilities, following the volatility 
on international foreign currency markets. SG&A costs 
also reflect expenditures of approximately $2 million on 
independent consultants retained in connection with  
our extensive operational assessment described above.
Investment income 
Our investment income represents primarily interest 
earned on our cash and cash equivalents. During 2008 
we had an average of $231.1 million in cash, cash 
equivalents and treasury deposits, an increase of 40% 
from the average in 2007. Investment income decreased 
to $6.1 million in the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009 
compared to $7 .9 million in 2007 , as a result of lower UK 
and US interest rates.
Net (loss) income
Net loss was $6.9 million in 2008, compared to net 
income of $112.8 million in 2007. The reduction was 
mainly due to the lower level of revenue and gross profit 
described above, along with the impairment charge of 
$52.9 million and the restructuring charge of $14.4 
million; this was offset by the reduction in patent dispute 
settlement costs of $15.0 million. There was a smaller 
impact from increases in underlying operating expenses.
Taxation
The tax charge for 2008 was $0.5 million, a sharp 
decline from 2007 as a result of our operating loss.  
The major items which affected the tax charge were the 
non-deductible goodwill impairment of $36.9 million 
referred to above and the enhanced tax deduction 
allowed for research and development expenditure.  
In 2007 , when we had net income of $112.8 million, the 
tax charge was $42.8 million, reflecting a marginal tax 
rate on corporate earnings of 27.5%. 
Earnings per share 
Underlying diluted earnings per share was $0.43, a 
decrease of 54% compared to $0.94 in 2007. Diluted 
earnings per diluted share was a loss of $0.05 for the 53 
weeks ended 2 January 2009, compared to diluted 
earnings per share of $0.83 for 2007. Basic earnings per 
share was also a loss of $0.05 compared to earnings per 
share of $0.86 for 2007. Earnings per share measures 
were not significantly impacted by changes in the 
number of basic or dilutive shares.
 
Financial position
 2 January  28 December 
  2009  2007 
 $ Million   $ Million
Non-current assets    
Goodwill 106.3  144.2
Other intangible assets 20.8  45.1
Property, plant and equipment 48.2  52.9
Deferred tax asset 6.5  7.1
 181.8  249.3
Current assets    
Inventory 66.2  77.3
Cash flow hedges –  0.7
Trade and other receivables 81.8  97.2
Treasury deposits 81.0  52.0
Cash and cash equivalents 180.9  193.3
 410.0  420.5
Total assets 591.7  669.8
    
Current liabilities (102.1)  (152.8) 
Non-current liabilities (22.9)  (8.3) 
Total liabilities (125.0)  (161.1) 
    
Net assets 466.7  508.7
Goodwill
Goodwill arose on the acquisitions of CPS and NordNav 
in 2007 and Clarity and UbiNetics during 2005. As a 
result of the decision to terminate development of the 
UbiNetics protocol stack in 2008, all goodwill of $36.9 
million relating to the UbiNetics acquisition was written 
off. The remaining balance of $106.3 million represents 
the goodwill from the CPS, NordNav and Clarity 
acquisitions. The annual impairment review did not 
indicate any impairment of the remaining balances.
Fixed assets
Fixed assets at 2 January 2009 included the net book 
value of our software licences of $5.2 million (2007: $15.8 
million), which support R&D, along with $14.3 million of 
in-process R&D purchased as part of the acquisitions in 
2007 and 2005 (2006: $29.3 million). The book value of 
our software licenses at 2 January 2009 declined by 
$10.6 million from 28 December 2007, mainly due to 
amortisation of $5.1 million and an impairment of $3.0 
million; and the value of our in-process R&D declined by 
$15 million over the same period, as a result of 
amortisation of $5.1 million and an impairment of $9.6 
million. The majority of the balance of our tangible fixed 
assets is made up of test equipment and IT equipment, 
including 18 production testers which we consign to our 
subcontractors.
Inventory
Inventory at 2 January 2009 stood at $66.2 million,  
a 14% decline from the level ($77.3 million) at  
28 December 2007, which represents 76 inventory  
days (2007: 58 days). We aim to keep sufficient inventory 
to meet the often short customer order lead times in  
this industry.  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
27
Trade receivables
Trade receivables decreased to $65.2 million as  
at 2 January 2009, down from $81.6 million at  
28 December 2007. The decrease was due to the lower 
level of revenue in the fourth quarter 2008, compared  
to the fourth quarter of 2007. Days’ sales outstanding 
increased to 58 days (2007: 37 days). The increase in 
days’ sales outstanding was due to the non-payment  
of invoices on the due date by one distributor. This 
receivable has been collected since 2 January 2009  
and has therefore not been provided for. 
Liabilities
Our total liabilities decreased to $125.0 million at 2 
January 2009 from $161. 1 million at 28 December 2007 .
Accounts payable fell by $25.2 million, due to lower 
amounts payable to our subcontracted manufacturers. 
This was driven by a reduction in production levels 
towards the end of 2008 compared to 2007 as we  
took actions to reduce inventory on hand in line with 
forecast demand.
Tax liabilities fell by $25.1 million as a result of the lower 
tax charge in 2008. As the forecast profits and hence tax 
charge fell as we progressed through 2008, almost the 
full tax liability was paid with our first two payments 
under the quarterly payment system (in July 2008 and 
October 2008). Hence there was a very small 
outstanding balance at the end of 2008.
These falls were offset by the significant increase in the 
negative fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts 
in place. The net liability increased by $32.0 million in the 
year. Further information on our hedging is given on page 
28. The liability related to these contracts will unwind as 
we go through 2009 and the contracts mature. It will  
fix the exchange rate at which we record sterling 
denominated operating expenses at 1.93 for 2009. The 
future liability will depend upon the differential between 
current exchange rates, and those rates committed as 
part of our hedging portfolio. We continue to put in place 
forward contracts for our forecast sterling expenditures 
11-15 months in advance.
Liquidity and capital resources
Our primary source of liquidity is our cash flow from 
operations. At present we do not rely on third party 
financing for any operational cash requirements.
 
Cash flow
 53 weeks  52 weeks  
 ended  ended 
 2 January  28 December 
  2009  2007 
 $ Million   $ Million
Operating cash flows  
before movements in  
working capital 88.1  192.5
Working capital 8.2  59.9
Taxation (30.0)  (29.8)
Interest paid (0.3)  (0.4)
R&D tax credit received 0.3  –
Net cash from  
operating activities 66.3  222.2
Treasury management (22.7)  (14.3)
Acquisitions (11.7)  (81.9)
Capital expenditure (22.7)  (29.5)
Financing 1.2  (0.1)
Purchases of own shares (20.2)  (20.0)
Net cash (outflow) inflow (9.8)  76.4
Cash, cash equivalents and treasury deposits increased 
to $261.9 million at 2 January 2009, from $245.4 million 
at 28 December 2007, an increase of $16.5 million.  
The difference compared to the outflow of $9.8 million 
shown above is due to amounts placed on treasury 
deposit of $28.9 million (deposits with an initial term of 
greater than 90 days, which are shown separately from 
cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet on 
page 65), and a foreign exchange loss of $2.6 million 
from retranslation of non-USD cash balances.
During the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009 there has 
been a cash outflow of $9.8 million (2007: inflow $76.4 
million). Operating cash flow before movements in 
working capital contributed $88.1 million (2007: $192.5 
million), with movements in working capital resulting in  
a cash inflow of $8.2 million (2007: inflow $59.9 million).  
In 2007, there was a substantial benefit from working 
capital movements in the year, mainly due to timing of 
purchases from subcontractors and receipt of cash 
from customers at the 2007 year end, compared to the 
2006 year end. This pattern was not repeated in 2008.
Cash outflows on acquisitions of $1 1.7 million in 2008 
related to payments of deferred consideration on the 
NordNav acquisition and the repayment of the loan 
notes related to the CPS acquisition.
During 2008, there was a cash outflow of $20.2 million 
for the purchase of shares in CSR plc by the CSR 
Employee Benefit Trust (2007: $20.0 million). csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  BUSINESS REVIEW continued
28
Capital expenditure
The table below summarises additions to fixed assets  
in our last two fiscal years. The amounts differ from the 
cash outflow on capital expenditure due to movements 
in payables and accruals.
 53 weeks  52 weeks  
 ended ended  
 2 January  28 December  
 2009 2007    
 $ Million $ Million % change
Other intangible assets  3.8 7.1 (46.9)
Property, plant and equipment  19.3 24.6 (21.7)
 23.1 31.7 (27.3)
Our capital expenditures declined by 27.3% from 2007 
to 2008. 
In order to reduce manufacturing costs, and to secure 
sufficient testing capacity, we purchase production test 
equipment and consign it to our subcontractors’ sites in 
Taiwan. We own 18 consigned production testers each 
costing around $1.5 million when purchased. In 2008, we 
purchased three additional testers (2007: three testers).
During 2007, capital expenditure was particularly high 
as we expanded into a new office in Cambridge, 
incurring significant fit out costs. These costs totalled 
$2.9 million in the aggregate, and did not recur in 2008.
Due to current economic conditions, capital 
expenditures are planned to be substantially lower  
in 2009.
Taxation and financing
Net tax paid in 2008 was $30.0 million (2007: $29.8 
million), the majority of which was incurred in prior 
periods. As described above, we would expect cash 
outflows from taxation to be lower in 2009. There was a 
cash inflow from financing of $1.2 million principally due 
to the proceeds on issues of shares (2007: outflow of 
$0.1 million). 
Hedge accounting
Substantially all sales and costs of sales are 
denominated in US dollars, our functional currency. 
Approximately 40% of operating costs are denominated 
in Sterling. 
In order to reduce the volatility of our earnings due to 
exchange rate fluctuations, we enter into forward foreign 
exchange contracts to fix an exchange rate for our future 
Sterling-denominated expenditures. We commit to 
forward contracts between 11 and 15 months in 
advance, in accordance with our treasury policy. These 
contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges and 
will not affect profit or loss until the period in which the 
related transaction is recorded or we conclude that it  
is no longer probable that the hedged transaction will 
occur. They also form hedges against exchange gains 
or losses on the related Sterling liabilities.
As at 2 January 2009, contracts were in place which 
gave us an average GBP:USD exchange rate for 2009 
of 1.93 (2008: 1.98). This means that GBP expenditures 
will cost around 2.5% less in USD terms in 2009. 
The fair value liability of the contracts in place as at  
2 January 2009 was $32. 1 million, of which $25.3 
million of the related expense was deferred in reserves 
(in the hedging reserve). The difference of $6.8 million 
has already impacted the income statement ($3.3 
million was recorded as part of the restructuring 
charge, as this related to forward contracts no longer 
required following the cost reduction exercises). The 
remaining difference of $3.5 million had been recorded 
as expense in the income statement as the related 
transactions had been recorded.
Dividend policy
We do not intend to pay a dividend for the foreseeable 
future. We currently intend to retain future earnings to 
fund the development and growth of our business.  
Any future payment of dividends will be at the discretion 
of the Board, after taking into account various factors, 
including our financial condition, operating results, 
current and anticipated cash needs and plans for 
expansion.
Capital management and treasury policy
Our policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to 
maintain investor, creditor and market confidence as  
well as to sustain future development of the business. 
Our main forms of liquid investments at 2 January 2009 
were bank and money market deposits.
We intend to reinvest cash balances in the business 
either through higher levels of investment in working 
capital and fixed assets or through M&A activity, to 
support the long-term ambitions of the Company.
The issued share capital at 2 January 2009 was 
132,890,821 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each 
(2007:132,073,576). As a result of the funds raised 
through the initial public offering of CSR plc in March 
2004 and our subsequent positive operating cash flows, 
we had a total of $261.9 million of treasury deposits, 
cash and cash equivalents at 2 January 2009, an 
increase of 7% from the $245.4 million we held in those 
accounts at 28 December 2007. 
Neither CSR plc nor any of its subsidiaries are subject  
to any externally imposed capital requirements.
We hold our cash and liquid investments in accordance 
with the counterparty and settlement risk limits of the 
Board approved treasury policy. We maintain a policy  
in the placement of cash deposits and investments with 
counterparties such that at any one time cash is placed 
with at least three approved financial institutions.  
No counterparty with a credit rating of less than Aa3  
will be approved.
We have well defined and consistently applied policies 
for the management of foreign exchange and interest 
rate exposures.  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
29
The finance and treasury functions increased the 
frequency of their review of the financial stability and 
associated risk of the counterparties used as the level  
of financial market risk has increased during the year. 
The Company’s internal auditor reviews the internal 
control environment regularly.
The Audit Committee of the Board reviews and agrees 
policies for managing foreign exchange and interest  
rate exposure risks. The principal risks and uncertainties 
to which the Group is subject are discussed on pages  
35 to 37 .
CSR Employee Benefit Trust (EBT)
From time to time, the CSR Employee Benefit Trust 
purchases shares in CSR plc in the stock market; the 
timing of these purchases depends on market prices. 
The shares are intended to be used for satisfying our 
obligations to deliver shares under our share option 
programmes, thereby reducing dilution and pressure 
against ABI dilution guidelines.
During 2008, the EBT purchased 3,222,813 ordinary 
shares in CSR plc (2007: 1,466,767) for a total cash 
consideration of $20.2 million.
Critical accounting policies and estimates
Our significant accounting policies and estimates are 
described in Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. We believe that our most critical accounting 
policies include impairment of purchased goodwill and 
intangible assets, inventory valuation, provisions for 
returns and warranty claims, revenue recognition, 
accounting for income taxes and accounting for 
share-based payments.
The preparation of these financial statements requires  
us to make estimates and judgements that affect the 
reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and 
expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets 
and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate 
estimates, including those related to uncollectable 
accounts receivable, inventories, investments, intangible 
assets, income taxes, financing operations, warranty 
obligations and contingencies and litigation. Our 
estimates are based on historical experience and on 
various other assumptions that we believe to be 
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of 
which form the basis for making the judgements about 
the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not 
readily apparent from other sources. Because this can 
vary in each situation, actual results may differ from the 
estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
Inventory valuation
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. Provisions for excess or obsolete 
inventory are recorded based upon assumptions about 
future demand and market conditions. 
The level of inventory provisioning required is sensitive  
to changes in the forecast sales of particular products 
which is dependent on changes in conditions in our 
markets. If changes in actual market conditions are  
less favourable than those we project, additional 
inventory provisions may be required; similarly if 
changes in actual market conditions are more 
favourable than we predict, we may be able to  
release a proportion of the inventory provision.
The carrying amount of inventory at 2 January 2009 
was $66.2 million (28 December 2007: $77 .3 million).
Goodwill and intangible assets
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the 
consideration paid on acquisition of a business over  
the fair value of the assets, including any intangible 
assets identified and liabilities acquired. At 2 January 
2009, the carrying amount of goodwill was $106.3 
million (28 December 2007: $144.2 million).
Goodwill is not amortised but is instead tested for 
impairment at least annually. Annual impairment reviews 
in 2008 and 2007 determined, primarily with reference 
to cash flow forecasts, that there was no indication of 
impairment with respect to goodwill.
Identifiable intangible assets acquired as part of a 
business combination are capitalised and amortised 
over an estimate of the time that the Group expects to 
benefit from them. This is currently over periods 
between four and five years.
During 2008, a non-cash impairment charge of  
$52.9 million was recorded (including $36.9 million  
of goodwill, $9.6 million of acquired intangible assets 
and $6.4 million of other assets). This resulted from the 
decision to discontinue investment in the UbiNetics’ 
protocol software development programme following 
the recommendations of the operational assessment. 
During the assessment, we looked at our market in 
great detail and consulted widely to review the 
opportunities for winning in the global market for 
wireless solutions. We undertook in-depth discussions 
with our customers on all continents, and asked the 
leading customers where they anticipated the most 
growth. We also carried out an analysis of our own 
capabilities and identified strengths and weaknesses  
to determine our future strategy.
The impairment was charged to administrative 
expenses in the consolidated income statement and 
includes $36.9 million in relation to goodwill arising on 
the acquisition of UbiNetics (VPT) Limited, $9.6 million 
for acquisition related intangible assets and $6.4 million 
for certain tangible and intangible fixed assets which are 
no longer required for ongoing development activities.
We assess the carrying value of identifiable intangible  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  BUSINESS REVIEW continued
30
assets, long-lived assets and goodwill annually, or more 
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that such carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors 
we consider important, which could trigger an 
impairment review, include the following: 
–  significant underperformance relative to historical or 
projected future results; 
–  significant changes in the manner of our use of the 
acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; 
and 
– significantly negative industry or economic trends. 
When we determine that the carrying value of intangible 
assets, long-lived assets or goodwill may not be 
recoverable based upon the existence of one or more  
of the above indicators of impairment, we measure any 
impairment based on discounted projected cash flows. 
This review is based upon our projections of anticipated 
discounted future cash flows. The most significant 
variables in determining cash flows are discount rates, 
terminal values, the number of years on which to base 
the cash flow projections, as well as the assumptions 
and estimates used to determine the cash inflows and 
outflows. Management determines discount rates to be 
used based on the risk inherent in the related activity’s 
current business model and industry comparisons. 
Terminal values are based on the expected life of 
products and forecasted life cycle and forecasted cash 
flows over that period. While we believe that our 
assumptions are appropriate, such amounts estimated 
could differ materially from what will actually occur in the 
future. In assessing goodwill, these discounted cash 
flows are prepared at a cash-generating unit level. 
Amounts estimated could differ materially from what will 
actually occur in the future. 
Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
provides further disclosures on the assumptions 
underlying the impairment review and the allocation  
of goodwill by reportable segments.
Provisions for returns and warranty claims
We provide for the estimated cost of returns and product 
warranties at the time revenue is recognised. Our 
products are covered by product warranty plans of 
varying periods, depending on local practices and 
regulations. While we engage in extensive product 
quality programmes and processes, including actively 
monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component 
suppliers, our warranty obligations are affected by actual 
product failure rates (field failure rates) and by material 
usage and service delivery costs incurred in correcting  
a product failure. 
Our warranty provision is established based upon our 
best estimates of the amounts necessary to settle future 
and existing claims on products sold as of the balance 
sheet date. As we continuously introduce new products 
which incorporate complex technology, and as local 
laws, regulations and practices may change, it will 
continue to be difficult to anticipate our failure rates,  
the length of warranty periods and repair costs. While we 
believe that our warranty provisions are adequate and 
that the judgements applied are appropriate, the ultimate 
cost of product warranty could differ materially from  
our estimates. When the actual warranty cost of our 
products is lower than we originally anticipated, we 
release an appropriate proportion of the provision, and if 
the warranty cost is higher than anticipated, we increase 
the provision. 
The carrying amount of the provision at 2 January 2009 
was $2.8 million (28 December 2007: $2. 1 million).
Accounting for share-based payments
Share options granted before 7 November 2002 or 
granted after 7 November 2002 and vested before  
1 January 2005.
No expense is recognised in respect of these options. 
The shares are recognised when the options are 
exercised and the proceeds received and allocated 
between share capital and share premium.
Share options and awards granted after 7 November 
2002 and vested after 1 January 2005
IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payments’ is effective in respect  
of options and share awards granted after 7 November 
2002 and which had not vested as at 1 January 2005. 
We issue equity-settled share-based payments to 
certain employees. Equity settled share-based 
payments are measured at the fair value at the date of 
grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the 
equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on our 
estimate of the number of share options that will 
eventually vest. The fair value of the majority of options 
granted is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which 
the options were granted. For certain share awards 
which include total shareholder return related conditions, 
the fair value is estimated through the use of a Monte-
Carlo simulation.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted  
to reflect the actual number of shares that vest. Non-
market vesting conditions are included in assumptions 
about the number of shares that are expected to 
become exercisable. The estimates of the number of 
share options and awards that are expected to become 
exercisable are reviewed at each balance sheet date. 
The impact of the revision of original estimates, if any,  
is recognised in the income statement and a 
corresponding adjustment to equity. The proceeds 
received net of any directly attributable transaction  
costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and 
share premium (the balance) when the option or awards 
are exercised. csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
31
In 2008, $7.6 million of share-based compensation 
expense was recognised (2007: $9.3 million).
Share options and taxation
In the UK and US we are entitled to a tax deduction for 
amounts treated as compensation on exercise of certain 
employees’ share options under each jurisdiction’s tax 
rules. This gives rise to a temporary difference between 
the accounting and tax bases and hence a deferred tax 
asset is recorded. This asset is calculated by comparing 
the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in 
the future (based on the share price at the balance sheet 
date) with the share-based payment expense recorded 
in the income statement. If the amount of estimated 
future tax deduction exceeds the cumulative amount  
of share-based payment expense at the statutory rate, 
the excess is recorded directly in equity, against  
retained earnings.
As explained above, no share-based payment expense  
is recorded in respect of options granted before  
7 November 2002. Nevertheless, tax deductions have 
arisen and will continue to arise on these options. The 
tax effects in relation to these options are recorded 
directly in equity against retained earnings.
Note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
provides details on the valuation assumptions made  
for each grants of share options and awards during  
the period. 
Revenue recognition
Sales are recognised when the significant risks and 
rewards of ownership have transferred to the buyer, 
continuing managerial involvement usually associated 
with ownership and effective control have ceased, the 
amount of revenue can be measured reliably, it is 
probable that economic benefits associated with the 
transaction will flow to the Group and the costs incurred 
or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be 
measured reliably. 
This requires us to assess at the point of delivery 
whether these criteria have been met. When 
management determines that such criteria have been 
met, revenue is recognised. We record estimated 
reductions to revenue for pricing agreements, price 
protection and other volume based rebates. Estimated 
sales adjustments for volume based discount 
programmes are based largely on shipment information. 
Income taxes
We are subject to the income tax laws of the various tax 
jurisdictions in which we operate, principally the United 
Kingdom. These laws are complex and subject to 
different interpretations by taxpayers and tax authorities. 
When establishing income tax provisions, we therefore 
make a number of judgements and interpretations about 
the application and interaction of these laws. Changes  
in these tax laws or our interpretations of these laws and 
the resolution of future tax audits could significantly 
impact our effective tax rate and the results of operations 
in a given period.
The Group estimates its income taxes in each of the 
jurisdictions in which it operates. This process involves 
estimating its current tax liability together with assessing 
temporary differences resulting from differing treatment 
of items for tax and accounting purposes. These 
differences result in the recognition of deferred tax 
assets and liabilities, which are included within the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet (deferred tax assets are 
only included to the extent that we believe they are 
recoverable).
In recognising deferred tax assets, the Group considers 
profit forecasts including the effect of exchange rate 
fluctuations on sales and external market conditions. 
Where it is probable that a position may be successfully 
challenged by revenue authorities, a tax provision is 
created for the tax on the probable adjustment. 
Managements’ judgement is required in determining the 
provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and 
liabilities. Deferred tax assets have been recognised 
where management believes there are sufficient taxable 
temporary differences or convincing other evidence that 
sufficient taxable profit will be available in future to 
realise deferred tax assets.
Although the deferred tax assets which have been 
recognised are considered realisable, actual amounts 
could be reduced if future taxable income is lower than 
expected. This can materially affect our reported net 
income and financial position.
Hedge accounting for financial instruments
The financial instruments that are used in hedging 
transactions are assessed both at inception and 
quarterly thereafter to ensure they are effective in 
offsetting changes in, or cash flows of, the related 
underlying exposures. Hedge accounting is used  
for foreign currency risk exposures and for firm 
commitments to hedge foreign currency risk exposures. 
Management’s judgement is required to determine 
whether a future transaction is probable. External 
market data is applied in measuring the hedge 
effectiveness of financial instruments. Hedge 
ineffectiveness is recognised immediately in the income 
statement. Refer to note 18 of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for details of the hedging 
relationships as well as the impact of the hedge  
on the pre-tax profit or loss for the period.
Production process and supply chain
Currently, the majority of manufacturing is located  
in Taiwan to minimise production cycle time and 
inventory, simplify logistics and to take advantage of  
a common language and culture. We use five different 
TSMC wafer fabrication sites in Taiwan, including two 
12” wafer facilities allowing us to achieve dual sourcing 
objectives, along with geographical separation of 
manufacturing sites. csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  BUSINESS REVIEW continued
32
During 2008, we increased our assembly and test 
capability by adding ASE Shanghai in China to our 
existing production base across two ASE sites in Taiwan. 
By increasing sourcing options, we are better placed to 
deal with any unplanned interruptions at any single 
location and to respond to changes in demand. 
Our relationships with TSMC and ASE provide us with 
leading-edge manufacturing technology and strong 
support in satisfying capacity requirements and 
controlling costs. We have successfully shipped over 
one and a quarter billion Bluetooth single chip devices 
lifetime to date, whilst aggressive cost management has 
ensured that as product selling prices come down, the 
cost of production of those devices decreases at a 
similar rate. This quality of the production process 
encourages adoption of our technology in the products 
of current and potential customers.
We extended our IC test strategy during 2008, with a 
further three Teradyne Flex Testers consigned to ASE 
production sites in Taiwan. This strategy has been 
effective in reducing production costs and avoiding 
capacity issues.
Employees 
Headcount has decreased from 1,062 at the end of 2007 
to 975 at the end of 2008; a reduction of 8%. This was 
primarily due to implementation in the final quarter of 
2008 of headcount reductions in response to the global 
financial and economic downturn experienced in the 
latter part of 2008 discussed elsewhere in this report. 
The headcount reductions were implemented following 
careful consideration of the long term strategic 
objectives and shorter term targets for 2009 in 
conjunction with operational management to ensure  
that core projects remain adequately resourced.
Our employees play a critical part in our success and the 
current challenging economic environment does not 
alter the importance which the Company attaches to 
creating a high performance working environment which 
allows our people to reach their full potential in a highly 
technical and innovative arena.
We actively review and develop our people and 
performance processes to ensure that, in a sector where 
international talent is key to success, our focus is on how 
to attract, retain and inspire the very best people to 
deliver innovative solutions for our customers.
We invest in providing competitive benefits packages 
that support this objective, recognising that we compete 
in a global market. We seek to offer, where possible 
flexible benefits that allow our employees to tailor their 
compensation arrangements to suit them. In 2008,  
we received the Professional Pensions Award 2007 for 
the quality of our interactive website which explained 
options available to employees for setting up and then 
maintaining their personal pension plan online. 
We have remuneration packages that are regularly 
benchmarked against companies competing in our 
sector and have developed incentives that are aligned  
to our business delivery and commercial goals. We were 
also one of the first UK businesses to be awarded a 
Grade A Certificate of sponsorship licence granted by 
the Home Office which is now required for the 
employment of foreign nationals in the UK. 
We remain committed to providing our employees with  
a workplace that not only encourages excellence in their 
performance but also engenders well being and 
personal satisfaction. In March 2008 we launched a 
global employee engagement survey for the first time. 
We had an exceptional response rate of 89%, which 
demonstrates the genuine commitment we have from 
our employees. The feedback from the survey has been 
shared with all employees. The results showed us that 
people generally enjoy their jobs; get a sense of personal 
accomplishment and develop their skills; we have  
great managers who are trusted by their teams and 
close to the workload. Overall our people would 
recommend CSR as a good place to work and are  
proud to work here.
The engagement survey also highlighted the things we 
can do better and one key area of feedback was a need 
to further enhance employee communication. Effective 
communication has been a real focus area and following 
the survey we introduced a global employee 
e-newsletter. The newsletter includes contributions from 
various departments, reporting on their current activities 
which provides employees with useful up-dates on key 
developments. The revised format has been positively 
received and generates a valuable exchange of views 
and ideas across the Company. This in turn benefits our 
business performance.
The Company’s intranet has also undergone a review 
with the intention of further enhancements for fast and 
effective employee communication during 2009. To 
optimise the benefits from these initiatives, a global 
training programme has been put in place to support all 
areas of the intranet. In addition during 2008, reflecting 
employee feedback, we introduced a global Group 
presentation on key developments which is open to all 
employees worldwide. The event is staged in Cambridge 
and broadcast in ‘real time’ to each of our international 
locations. This allows all employees to receive 
information on their Company and also encourages 
questions and feedback, with each of our offices 
provided with the opportunity to contribute via telephone 
conferencing. The presentation is held once every six 
months and its implementation has received positive 
feedback, providing our employees a clear 
understanding of our strategy and immediate objectives 
and the opportunity to exchange views and ideas.  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
33
We invest in training and career progression to support 
the individual in their career development, benefit our 
customers in the quality of service and enable us to 
remain a world leading provider of wireless connectivity 
solutions. The Company promotes and supports 
individuals and teams through both on-the-job and 
formal training. 
We also recognise our responsibilities to ensure fair 
treatment of all employees in accordance with national 
legislation in the territories in which we operate.  
Equal opportunities for appropriate training, career 
development and promotion are available to all 
employees, regardless of any physical disability, gender, 
religion, race or nationality. In particular, having regard  
to their aptitudes and abilities, we give full and fair 
consideration to applications for employment received 
from disabled persons. Provisions for pensions are 
available for all employees either through participation  
in the state pension schemes operated by the country in 
which the employee is resident or provision of a defined 
contribution pension scheme. Such defined contribution 
schemes are maintained in accordance with legislative 
requirements, custom and practice and Group policy  
as appropriate.
Social responsibility 
We recognise the importance of social, environmental 
and ethical (SEE) matters and during 2008, continued  
to work towards compliance with the ABI disclosure 
guidelines on social responsibility. This includes the 
impact through our operations on the environment, on 
the safety and well being of our employees, and end 
users of our products as well as those who contribute  
to the process of the development and manufacture of 
our products through our suppliers, distributors and 
customers.
The Company expects the highest of ethical standards 
of all its employees and its policies and procedures 
support its stated aim of acting with integrity in all 
aspects of its operations. 
SEE matters are considered an integral part of the 
philosophy of the Company, and the Board and its 
committees receive reports as part of its routine 
business on aspects of SEE issues in addition to such 
other reports from those directors responsible for such 
matters as may be appropriate from time to time.
From the time of his appointment in June 2008, the 
Board director responsible for health and safety matters 
was Will Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer. Mr Gardiner 
met on a number of occasions with those who manage 
the Company’s health and safety issues including the 
Chair of the Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) 
Committee. An annual report is presented to the Board 
covering health and safety matters, which includes 
statistics on accidents and incidents, progress against 
targets from the previous period and objectives for the 
next year.
We have a Health, Safety and Environmental Committee 
which meets regularly and is chaired by the Group 
Facilities Manager, who is also the senior health and 
safety manager for the Group. Our Health, Safety, and 
Environmental policies are available to all employees  
on our intranet site as are the minutes of the HSE 
Committee and current HSE initiatives. Current initiatives 
are explained below. 
During 2008 the development of a formal health and 
safety programme across overseas locations was 
initiated with visits by the senior health and safety 
manager to several of our offices in Europe. This is an 
ongoing programme to assess existing measures 
around health and safety management at each of  
our international locations and ensure appropriate 
procedures and practices are in place. The visits 
undertook a base line assessment of health and safety 
standards and management in addition to providing 
training on basic practices. This was augmented by 
guidance on establishing or improving on current local 
policies by reference to both local law and best practice 
within the Group. Each of our European and US offices 
now has a designated point of contact on health and 
safety matters, responsible for implementation and 
monitoring compliance with the policies and for 
reporting events or breach of practice to the senior 
health and safety manager. Further visits to overseas 
locations are scheduled for 2009.
Going forward, in addition to the existing quality 
assurance audits which are carried out as an integral 
part of the Company’s ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 
certification, the Internal Auditor will, as part of the 
planned internal audit programme assess compliance 
by each office with established health and safety policies 
and procedures and report on findings to the senior 
health and safety manager, executive management  
and the Audit Committee. 
The executive director with responsibility for the  
Group’s Environmental Management System (EMS) is 
Mr Chris Ladas, Operations Director. The EMS, which 
has the support of the Board, has been developed 
reflecting our existing low eco-footprint, with all 
employees working in office based environments, whilst 
recognising that high standards should be established 
and maintained across all aspects of our operations.  
The ongoing management of EMS is overseen by a team 
incorporating managers responsible for Facilities, 
Business Management Systems and Quality Assurance.
During 2008, surveillance visits by representatives of 
Lloyds Register Quality Assurance were completed at 
the Company’s UK facilities to review existing ISO 14001 
and OHSAS 18001 registrations. These were concluded 
satisfactorily and the Company’s recertification 
assessment is scheduled for June 2009. csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  BUSINESS REVIEW continued
34
Certification requires that we have an Environmental 
Management System (EMS) which defines the 
environmental policy of the Group and sets objectives 
intended to drive continuous improvements in 
environmental awareness and practices. 
Our environmental policy includes commitments to:
– employee consultation and training
–  assessment of our activities and product related 
environmental impacts to identify targets for 
continuous improvement and
–  legal compliance and due consideration of other 
stakeholder environmental requirements.
We believe that CSR is taking considerable steps to 
contribute to sound environmental practices, covering 
not only the manufacture and supply of its products but 
also positive measures to establish and build on good 
working practices within its various office locations.
As part of ongoing employee consultation and training, 
during 2008 we extended the UK based awareness 
campaign aimed at encouraging employees to consider 
ways in which their daily working practices could be 
altered to reduce consumption of energy or other 
materials. 
This included encouraging employees to take ownership 
for their own office area for saving on electricity by 
turning off idle monitors and all photocopiers at the  
end of the day and switching off unnecessary lighting.  
As part of the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
programme, early in 2009 we started a programme  
of research using ‘Owl meters’ to measure what areas 
and/or particular types of equipment, processes or 
procedures consume the most energy. This data will  
be used to identify potential improvements in working 
practices or changes in equipment which could support 
reductions in energy consumption. 
Continuing the 2007 focus on safeguarding forestry, all 
photocopiers now default to double sided printing which 
has significantly reduced the consumption of paper. This 
is in addition to our switch to the use of recycled paper 
which was extended across all UK sites in 2008. 
Action taken to reduce water consumption through the 
use of ‘hogs’ in water cisterns and spray taps in the first 
quarter of 2008 has resulted in a decrease in water 
consumption by approximately 29 cubic meters of water 
per month. Planned preventative maintenance regimes 
have been improved and staff awareness has increased 
to identify leaks and dripping taps so that prompt action 
can be taken to rectify.
We remain committed to finding ways in which we can 
develop further the recycling of spent materials. 
During 2007 we had reduced by 31% of total waste 
produced the amount of material going to landfill and 
had introduced processes which enabled us to measure 
both the amount of waste produced and the amount 
being sent for recycling. These steps enabled us to 
determine that for 2008 as a whole, whilst the overall 
amount of waste produced increased by 16% to 
2,234,000 litres the total amount of waste going to  
the landfill has only increased by 1% and waste being 
recycled has increased from 31% to 40% or 895,940 
litres. This percentage increase in waste sent for 
recycling matched the target set at the commencement 
of 2008. 
Utilising the statistics which we have available, we have 
established two objectives for 2009 linked to waste 
production and recycling. The main objective for 2009 is 
to tackle our waste at source by finding ways in which we 
can prevent potential waste from coming on to site in the 
first place. The second quantitative objective is to 
increase the amount of waste going to recycling to 50%. 
We believe this represents a stretching target beyond the 
achievements already made in recent years. To facilitate 
this, in early 2009 we created designated recycling areas 
throughout our UK premises. These have information 
and storage bins that enable employees to dispose of 
different materials according to categories of waste 
types. This, in addition to other measures to be 
introduced and continued awareness and training 
programmes are expected to contribute to meeting the 
2009 recycling target. 
We continue to employ IT technology to support existing 
energy efficiencies whilst still providing state of the art 
research facilities and data storage capacity. During 
2008, we identified the potential to utilise leading edge 
video and audio conferencing facilities that will be rolled 
out across our international locations as a planned 
programme to improve operational efficiencies, whilst 
also significantly reducing our overseas travel. The new 
measures are expected to reduce international travel by 
up to 25% which provides cost savings as well as 
reducing the Company’s carbon footprint. 
An ongoing objective is to optimise the use of ‘greener’ 
materials in our end products. We are committed to 
developing and supplying products which meet the 
highest standards as regards minimising the use of 
hazardous substances. CSR’s products are 
manufactured and packaged in a variety of forms.  
Most of these products are already manufactured 
according to CSR’s own ‘green’ standards. The green 
standards have been developed by CSR as part of 
continual engagement with leading global companies 
who are customers of CSR and also with the support  
of our suppliers. CSR’s green standards therefore reflect 
not only internationally recognised guidelines but also 
the feedback of our customers, whose requirements 
frequently exceed the minimum conditions set by 
governments and regulators. As a result of continuous 
improvement in this area, from 2009 all new product 
releases across all packaged forms will comply with   csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
35
the Company’s ‘green standard’, which we believe 
represents best practice within the semiconductor 
industry.
We have dedicated internal resource which assists in  
the development of all new products and the review  
of existing product lines targeting the use of greener 
materials. Part of their role is to monitor established and 
pending legislation and standards published by national 
and international governments and agencies and to 
ensure that we are proactive in going beyond the 
minimum requirements in our compliance with the  
types and quantities of materials used. 
In this respect we work closely with both customers and 
suppliers in developing products which reduce the use 
of hazardous materials, and through testing and 
certification ensures ongoing compliance. 
For example, in preparation for the introduction of the  
EU Directive ‘REACH’ (Registration, Evaluation, and 
Authorisation of Chemicals) which concerns the use  
of hazardous chemicals, questionnaires were sent to  
our key suppliers to assess compliance with the new 
standards. Based on the replies, we are satisfied that our 
suppliers have appropriate awareness of the REACH 
Directive and that the Directive will not impact CSR’s 
standard integrated circuits. Our standard integrated 
circuits are fully compliant with all existing European 
legislation, including RoHS, as well as in other territories 
where equivalent legislation has been introduced.
In addition to procedures that establish and monitor 
compliance, we have processes in place to make sure 
that customers are supported with up to date materials 
information and laboratory analysis to validate the 
environmental compliance of our products. 
We have considered the implications on our products  
of the European Waste from Electrical and Electronic 
Equipment (WEEE) Directive which came into effect in 
2007 and we are satisfied that for our principal business 
of the supply of integrated circuits, the WEEE Directive 
does not directly apply. Where the Directive does apply 
in limited circumstances is in the supply to third parties  
of development kits and certain modules intended to 
support potential customers in the development of their 
products. Whilst this represents a small part of our 
operations, the impact of the Directive has been 
assessed and measures to comply with the Directive 
have been implemented.
We recognise the importance of ensuring that our key 
suppliers have appropriate policies and practices on 
SEE matters. Key manufacturing partners are selected 
and assessed based on certification to appropriate 
globally recognised standards such as ISO 14001, 
OHSAS 18001 and SA 8000. Audits of their operations 
are undertaken regularly to ensure that appropriate 
standards and certification exists. 
During 2008, a review of product environmental 
compliance was conducted by CSR’s Supplier Audit 
Team at TSMC in Taiwan. This confirmed that current 
certifications to the recognised standards mentioned 
above were being maintained. The review also 
considered TSMC’s wider HSE policies and 
management systems in connection with CSR’s 
requirements. The results of this assessment were 
reported to CSR management which concluded that 
TSMC complied with CSR’s requirements.
The Company is aware of the introduction of the Carbon 
Reduction Commitment which is due in 2010, and such 
preparatory work as is possible has already been 
undertaken in readiness for its implementation. 
Based on the extent of the Company’s ongoing 
engagement with health, safety and environmental 
matters the Board is satisfied that there are no significant 
risks affecting its strategic objectives or the long or short 
term value of the Group. 
Principal risks and uncertainties
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties 
which could adversely impact our long term 
performance:
Current severe economic conditions may adversely 
affect our financial performance
Our products are predominantly supplied for adoption 
into devices intended for the consumer market. If current 
depressed economic conditions persist or worsen, 
demand levels for our customers’ products, and 
therefore our products, are likely to be adversely 
affected. A continued economic downturn is likely to 
adversely affect our key customers and suppliers, thus in 
turn affecting our own results of operations and financial 
condition. In addition, although we do not rely upon 
banks for financing, turmoil in the financial markets has 
exposed us to the risk of the failure any of the banks 
where we deposit our cash balances.
Our fabless business model exposes us to risks 
associated with our suppliers
We use independent suppliers to manufacture, 
assemble and test all of our products. We are therefore 
reliant on these independent suppliers to provide the 
required capacity to manufacture, assemble and test all 
products and to provide high quality products on time. 
Any interruptions in manufacturing or testing at supplier 
sites, (for example earthquake, natural disaster or 
geopolitical instability, shortage of materials or failures  
in their own suppliers), material financial troubles 
experienced by our suppliers, or quality problems at  
their sites (which could result in lower yields of suitable 
integrated circuits or returns of products which fail to 
perform to the specification), could have a material 
adverse impact on the business.
  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  BUSINESS REVIEW continued
36
The length of our product design cycle  
exposes us to risks
The design cycle for our ICs in Bluetooth enabled 
products can take up to 24 months to complete, and 
achieving volume production of products using our ICs 
can take an additional six months or more. This lengthy 
design cycle makes it difficult to forecast product 
demand and the timing of orders, and exposes us  
to the risk that orders will not ultimately materialise in 
accordance with expectations. In addition, the delays 
inherent in lengthy design cycles increase the risk that 
our customers may seek to cancel or modify orders. 
We may suffer delays or experience problems  
in the introduction of new products
Our products are complex and may contain undetected 
hardware and software errors or failures when first 
introduced or as new versions are tested. The resolution 
of these errors could cause us to invest significant  
capital and other resources and divert technical staff 
from other development efforts. If our introduction of 
products is delayed, our ability to compete and maintain 
market share may be materially harmed. If we deliver 
products with errors, defects or bugs, our credibility  
and the market acceptance and sales of our products 
could be harmed. Errors in hardware and software could 
also result in customer warranty claims, resulting in 
additional costs.
Bluetooth could be integrated into other  
integrated circuits
The Bluetooth standard has evolved during its ten year 
existence and more technology has been added to the 
Bluetooth chips. However at the same time our ability to 
optimise chip design and industry-wide manufacturing 
improvements means the physical size of the Bluetooth-
only function has been reduced. Although we believe 
Bluetooth will continue to be used as an ‘anchor point’ 
around which to integrate other technology, if the 
Bluetooth function were ultimately integrated into one  
of the so-called cellular-chips in the phone, our business 
would be materially adversely affected. 
There are risks associated with our transition  
to smaller geometry process technologies
To remain competitive, we expect to continue to 
transition our semiconductor products to increasingly 
smaller line width geometries. This transition requires 
modification to the manufacturing processes and the 
re-design of some products as well as standard cells 
and other integrated circuit designs that may be used  
in multiple products. This may result in reduced 
manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries  
and increased expenses.
We are subject to the risk of declining prices  
and volumes on sales of existing products 
The life cycle of our ICs can be relatively short. Through 
the life cycle, sales may initially increase, but then decline 
as new, superior products become available.  
The average selling prices of our ICs will generally fall 
over the product’s life cycle. As a result, we are subject to 
the risk that prices, margins and volumes of our existing 
products will fall, and we will not have replacement 
products to counteract the resulting decline in revenues.
Our business is highly cyclical 
The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has 
experienced significant downturns, often in connection 
with maturing products and declines in general 
economic conditions. Such downturns have reflected 
production overcapacity, excess inventory levels and 
accelerated erosion in average selling prices.
We may fail to develop new revenue sources or fail  
to secure new orders with our new technologies
We currently derive most of our revenue from sales of  
our Bluetooth-based products. We would be materially 
adversely affected if Bluetooth were to decline as the 
prevailing technology for short-range wireless 
communication. We continue to invest in the 
development of next generation products, but our  
future products may not achieve market acceptance. 
Our future success is dependent upon our ability  
to develop new semiconductor solutions for existing  
and new markets, introduce these products in a 
cost-effective and timely manner, and convince leading 
equipment manufacturers to select these products for 
design into their own new products. Our success also 
depends on the development of these markets and 
adoption of the technologies by our customers.  
We cannot predict the adoption of these technologies  
or the growth rate, if any. If we are unsuccessful in 
achieving these objectives our results of operations  
may be adversely affected.
We are highly reliant upon the success  
of our customers’ products
 We rely on equipment manufacturers to select our 
products to be designed into their products. Even if an 
equipment manufacturer selects our product, their 
product may not be commercially successful. As a 
result, sales of our products are largely dependent on 
the commercial success of our customers’ products. 
We are subject to the risk of breakdowns in our systems 
and infrastructure
We are dependant on the continued availability and 
operational integrity of our computer systems. A material 
breakdown in our IT systems or major infrastructure 
systems would materially disrupt our operations, and 
could adversely affect our results. csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
37
We may be unable to protect our intellectual property 
Our success depends on our ability to protect our 
intellectual property and trade secrets. Third parties may 
attempt to copy aspects of our products and seek to use 
information that we regard as proprietary. There is a risk 
that our means of protecting our intellectual property 
rights may not be adequate, and weaknesses or failures 
in this area could adversely affect our business.
We may be subject to claims that we infringe third party 
intellectual property rights 
Companies in the semiconductor industry often 
aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual 
property rights. Other parties may assert intellectual 
property infringement claims against us, and our 
products may infringe the intellectual property rights  
of third parties. Claims against us could adversely  
affect our ability to market our products, require us to 
re-design products or seek licences from third parties, 
and seriously harm our operating results. In addition,  
the defence of such claims and any adverse settlement 
could result in significant costs and divert the attention  
of our management or other key employees.  
As we diversify into different wireless technologies,  
we may become more susceptible to these types of 
infringement claims.
We may fail to compete successfully in a very 
competitive market
The market for our products is highly competitive and 
rapidly evolving. We are seeing increased competition 
throughout the market for wireless connectivity 
products. The increased competition could result in 
price reductions, reduced margins and/or loss of market 
share. We may be unable to compete successfully 
against current or future competitors. Within each of our 
markets, we face competition from public and private 
companies, as well as our customers’ in-house design 
efforts. Many of our competitors have significantly 
greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, 
sales and other resources than we do. We may fail to 
compete successfully, which would adversely affect  
our business and financial performance. 
We rely on a limited number of customers for  
a significant portion of our revenue
We work with a broad range of customers across our 
product portfolio but a number of large customers 
represent a material portion of our total revenue. If we  
fail to meet schedules for the launch of new products  
or we fail to sell our products to one or more of these 
customers in any particular period, our revenue could 
decline materially and our operating results may be 
affected. We are also subject to the risk that one or more 
of these major customers are themselves adversely 
affected, which could result in a decline in our sales  
and financial performance.
Changes to our senior management and inability to 
recruit and retain employees could negatively affect  
our operations and relationships with manufacturers, 
customers and employees
Changes in our senior management could negatively 
affect our operations and our relationships with our 
manufacturers, third-party subcontractors, customers, 
employees and market leaders. If the assimilation or 
departure of members of our senior management team 
does not go as smoothly as anticipated, it could 
negatively affect our business. Further, if we are unable 
to attract and retain employees of the calibre required to 
support the development of technically advanced and 
complex products, our ability to achieve the Company’s 
strategy may be adversely affected and our financial 
performance may be impaired.
Management is constantly considering and reviewing 
risk. In addition, we have put in place formal processes 
for the identification and, where possible, the 
management of significant risks which are reviewed 
regularly by senior management. This is formally 
reported to the Audit Committee on a regular basis,  
as a result of which the directors are aware of the 
potential cost and resources involved in managing these 
risks. Details on the identification and management of 
risks are also addressed on pages 44 and 45 in the 
Corporate Governance Report. 
Will Gardiner
Chief Financial Officer csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
38                                                    
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
9 8 7
6 5 4
3 2 1
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  BOARD OF DIRECTORS csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
39
1 Ron Mackintosh  l s 
Chairman  
Mr Mackintosh has served as a non-
executive director of CSR since May 2004 
and was appointed Chairman with  
effect from 2 May 2007.  
Mr Mackintosh is a non-executive director 
of software company Fidessa group plc. 
Mr Mackintosh has held a number of 
senior executive positions in European 
technology companies. Between 1992 
and 2000 he was chief executive of 
Computer Sciences Corporation’s (CSC) 
European business which had revenues 
of $2.5 billion. He is also a former director 
of Gemplus SA, and the former chairman 
of each of Smartstream Technologies Ltd, 
Northgate Information Solutions plc and 
also of Differentis, a privately owned IT 
consultancy which he co-founded in July 
2000. Age 60.
2 Joep van Beurden 
Chief Executive Officer 
Mr van Beurden was appointed Chief 
Executive Officer of CSR on 1 November 
2007. Mr van Beurden has over ten years 
of experience in managing technology 
companies in the US and Europe.  
For the three years prior to joining CSR,  
he was Chief Executive of NexWave Inc.,  
a provider of embedded software solutions 
for the consumer electronics market  
based in France. Before joining NexWave, 
Mr van Beurden held senior positions at 
Canesta Inc., a fabless semiconductor 
company, and Philips Components. Whilst 
at Philips, he was part of the executive 
team which established a successful 
consumer electronics joint venture with 
LGE. Prior to that, Mr van Beurden worked 
for five years for management and strategy 
consultants McKinsey & Company.  
Mr van Beurden has also worked as a 
crude oil trader for Royal Dutch Shell in 
Rotterdam and lectured in Physics and 
Electronics at the University of Zambia.  
In January 2009, Mr van Beurden 
was appointed a director of the Global 
Semiconductor Alliance, a not-for-profit 
organisation supporting collaboration, 
supply chain integration and innovation  
in the global semiconductor industry.  
Mr van Beurden holds a Masters degree in 
Applied Physics from Twente University of 
Technology in Enschede, the Netherlands. 
Age 48.
3 James Collier  
Chief Technical Officer, Co-founder  
Mr Collier has served as the Company’s 
Chief Technical Officer since CSR’s 
establishment in April 1999. Mr Collier 
is a co-founder of CSR. Between 1984 
and April 1999, Mr Collier held a number 
of executive and technical positions 
at Cambridge Consultants Ltd, where 
he formed the microelectronics group 
in 1987. Prior to 1984, Mr Collier held 
a number of executive and technical 
positions at Schlumberger. Mr Collier has 
a degree in Physics from the University of 
Oxford. Age 50.
4 Anthony Carlisle  l n s 
Non-executive Director  
Mr Carlisle was appointed a non-
executive director of CSR in July 2005. 
Mr Carlisle is an executive director of 
Citigate Dewe Rogerson Consultancy, 
where he is responsible for strategic 
consultancy and client services. He has 
over 30 years experience in marketing 
and communications, advising major 
companies in the UK and internationally. 
He holds a BA in Economics and is a 
Fellow of the Institute of Public Relations. 
Age 61.
5 Will Gardiner  
Chief Financial Officer  
Will Gardiner joined CSR as Chief Financial 
Officer in June 2008. Prior to joining 
CSR, Mr Gardiner was Director, Finance 
Technology and Enterprise at BSkyB plc, 
responsible for a 100 strong team which 
supported the technology platforms 
across BSkyB and its enterprise division. 
Before its acquisition by BSkyB in 2006, 
Mr Gardiner had since 2001 been CFO 
of Easynet Group plc, a pan-European 
broadband telecoms company. Between 
1991 and 2001, Mr Gardiner held a 
number of senior roles within J P Morgan’s 
investment banking division, specialising in 
the telecoms and technology sectors. 
Mr Gardiner has a BA from Harvard 
College and MA from John Hopkins 
University. Age 44.
6 Chris Ladas 
Operations Director  
Mr Ladas was appointed a director of the 
Company on 1 January 2008. He has 
served as CSR’s Senior Vice President, 
Operations since May 2000. Between 
January 1996 and May 2000, Mr Ladas 
served as the vice president of operations 
at Micro Linear Corporation. Prior to 
1996, Mr Ladas held several managerial 
and technical positions at National 
Semiconductor, Fairchild, Harris, Sperry, 
Motorola and Signetics. Mr Ladas holds 
a B.S. in Chemistry from Arizona State 
University, US. He is also a member of 
the Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers and a member of the Europe, 
Middle East and Africa Leadership Council 
of the Global Semiconductor Alliance 
(Formerly the Fabless Semiconductor 
Association). Age 63.
7 Sergio Giacoletto  l n s 
Non-executive Director  
Mr Giacoletto was appointed a non-
executive director of CSR on 4 January 
2007. He is the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. In December 
2008, Mr Giacoletto retired from Oracle 
Corporation, where he had been executive 
vice president of Oracle Corporation, 
Europe, Middle East and Africa and 
also a member of Oracle’s executive 
committee. Prior to joining Oracle in 
1997, Mr Giacoletto was President, Value 
Added Services at AT&T, before which 
he spent 20 years with Digital Equipment 
Corporation in various senior management 
and executive roles. Mr Giacoletto has 
served on multiple company boards and IT 
industry associations. In February 2009,  
Mr Giacoletto was appointed a non-
executive director of Logica plc. He holds 
a Masters in Computer Science from the 
University of Turin. Age 59.
8 David Tucker  l n s 
Non-executive Director, 
Senior Independent Director  
Mr Tucker joined CSR as a non-executive 
director in January 2004. He is the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee and 
the Senior Independent Director. After 19 
years as an investment manager with M&G 
unit trusts, Mr Tucker retired as deputy 
managing director in 1988. Mr Tucker is 
a member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales.  
Age 69.
9 Andrew Allner  l n s 
Non-executive Director  
Mr Allner was appointed a non-executive 
director of CSR on 1 October 2008. 
Between 2004 and 2007 he was Group 
Finance Director at RHM plc, prior to which 
he was CEO of Enodis PLC. He has held a 
number of other senior executive positions 
with Dalgety PLC, Amersham International 
PLC and Guinness PLC and is a former 
partner of Price Waterhouse. 
Mr Allner is presently a non-executive 
director and chairman of the audit 
committee at Northgate plc, a non-
executive director and chairman of the 
remuneration committee at Marshalls plc, 
and a non-executive director and chairman 
of the audit committee of The Go-Ahead 
Group plc. Mr Allner is a member of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants in 
England and Wales. Age 55.
l  Remuneration Committee 
n  Audit Committee 
s  Nomination Committee csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
40
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Statement of compliance
The Company supports the principles of corporate 
governance contained in the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance which is appended to the 
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Board is accountable to the Company’s 
shareholders for good governance. The Company has 
complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 
2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance other 
than the provision relating to the composition of the 
Board and the balance of executive and non-executive 
directors over the period 1 January 2008 to  
29 September 2008. With the appointment to the  
Board on 1 January 2008 of Mr Chris Ladas, the number 
of executive directors became greater than that of 
non-executive directors. As explained in the Corporate 
Governance report for the 2007 Annual Report, the 
Board considers that Mr Ladas’ extensive experience, 
both as Senior Vice President, Operations in the  
Group since 2000 and senior executive roles in other 
semiconductor companies contributes to the balance  
of skills and experience of the Board as a whole.  
In the period from Mr Goodridge standing down as  
an executive director on 29 February 2008, through to 
the appointment of Mr Gardiner as an executive director 
on 18 June, the composition of the Board fulfilled the 
provisions of the Combined Code. 
During 2008, the Board conducted a search for an 
additional non-executive director through external 
consultants. The Board believes that it was appropriate 
to ensure that a rigorous process was applied to the 
selection of an additional non-executive director.  
This process culminated in the appointment on  
1 October 2008 of Mr Andrew Allner. The Board is  
satisfied an appropriate balance was in place in the 
interim period to enable the Board to perform its 
responsibilities effectively.
The statements as follows describe how the Company 
has applied the principles identified in the Combined 
Code.
The Board
As at 2 January 2009, the Board comprised nine 
members, being the Chairman, Mr Ron Mackintosh,  
four executive directors and four non-executive 
directors. Of those in post as at 2 January 2009,  
six directors, including Mr Mackintosh had served 
throughout the year. The four executive directors in office 
at 2 January 2009 were Mr Joep van Beurden, Chief 
Executive Officer, Mr Will Gardiner, Chief Financial 
Officer (appointed 18 June 2008), Mr James Collier, 
Chief Technical Officer and Mr Chris Ladas, Operations 
Director (appointed 1 January 2008). The four non-
executive directors, each of whom is considered 
independent of management were Mr David Tucker,  
Mr Anthony Carlisle, Mr Sergio Giacoletto and  
Mr Andrew Allner (appointed 1 October 2008). 
Mr Paul Goodridge stood down from the Board on  
29 February 2008.
Mr Mackintosh has served as Chairman of the Board 
since May 2007 and as a non-executive director of the 
Company since May 2004. In the opinion of the Board, 
on each of his appointments as a non-executive director 
and as Chairman, Mr Mackintosh was independent of 
management. The Board is satisfied that Mr Mackintosh 
is able to devote the necessary time commitments to  
the role of Chairman of the Board.
Mr Tucker is the Senior Independent Director. Until he 
stood down from the Board, Mr Goodridge was the 
director responsible for health and safety within the 
Group. On his appointment to the Board, Mr Gardiner 
became the director responsible for health and safety. 
The directors possess diverse business experience in 
spheres complementary to CSR’s activities, as well as 
other sectors. Biographies of the directors are shown  
on page 39. Mr Brett Gladden served as Company 
Secretary throughout the year.
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as  
on an adhoc basis as required by time critical business 
needs. The Board is responsible to shareholders for the 
effective and proper management and control of the 
Company and Group and has a formal schedule of 
matters reserved for its decisions. Its primary roles are  
to determine and review Company strategy and policy, 
consider acquisitions and disposals, assess requests  
for major capital expenditure and give consideration to 
all other significant financial matters. This process is 
undertaken following discussions in conjunction with 
senior executive management, who in turn, are 
responsible for the day-to-day conduct of the Group’s 
operations and for reporting to the Board on the 
progress being made in meeting the objectives.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
41
The Chairman ensures that the Board functions 
effectively, overseeing the timely and effective provision 
of information to the Board and that the business of the 
Board is properly conducted. A comprehensive file of 
briefing papers and a meeting agenda is provided for 
each director in advance of each meeting. Decisions are 
taken by the Board, in conjunction, where appropriate, 
with the recommendations of its Committees and advice 
from external consultants and executive management.
The non-executive directors of the Board have diverse 
business, financial and technical experience, details of 
which are summarised on page 39 and they each play  
a full role in the consideration of matters brought before 
the Board. This includes considering, approving and 
monitoring performance against the strategic objectives 
of the Group through detailed reviews conducted at 
Board level. Strategic objectives are determined each 
year and this assessment incorporates a two day offsite 
meeting attended by the Board and the executive 
leadership team that report to the CEO.
In accordance with the provisions of the Combined 
Code, consideration has been given to the 
independence of all the non-executive directors.  
The Board considers all the non-executive directors  
to be independent of management and free from any 
business or other relationship that could materially 
interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
The division of responsibilities between the non-
executive Chairman and Mr van Beurden, CEO, is 
sufficiently clear in the opinion of the Board that it  
is not required that they be formally documented.
The CEO has day-to-day responsibility for the Group  
and has reporting to him executive management who  
in turn are responsible for the performance of discrete 
commercial and operational activities of the Group. This 
includes management teams responsible for reviewing 
the implementation of established objectives and 
assessing performance of particular functions against 
those objectives. Representatives from these teams in 
turn attend and report to a weekly executive leadership 
forum which includes the executive directors. The CEO 
also meets regularly with the managers and leaders in 
various established forums that fit with the operational 
cycles of the Group. The CEO formally reports at each 
meeting of the Board on salient matters arising from  
the execution of his responsibilities.
The Board met 11 times during the year and the 
attendance of each of the directors is shown on page 45. 
During the year, the Board undertook a formal process  
of performance evaluation. Each director completed a 
questionnaire prepared by the Company Secretary, 
covering a wide range of matters associated with the 
activities and conduct of the Board and its Committees. 
The process was conducted without reference to 
external agencies. A detailed summary of the responses 
was prepared by the Company Secretary which was 
considered by the Board as an agenda item in 
December 2008 led by the Chairman. 
The overall conclusion was that the Board and its 
Committees were performing appropriately.
 
The Chairman holds regular meetings with all the 
directors individually. In addition, prior to the year end, 
the Chairman held a meeting with the non-executive 
directors to discuss the performance of the executive 
directors which concluded that they were each 
performing well. 
In October 2008, the non-executive directors, led  
by the Senior Independent Director, met in the absence 
of the Chairman to appraise the performance of  
Mr Mackintosh as Chairman. The non-executive 
directors concluded that he had performed well.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association, all directors are required to retire and submit 
themselves for re-election at least once every three 
years. It is the policy of the Board that non-executive 
directors are appointed for an initial term of three years. 
The director’s performance is assesed throughout the 
term. An appointment may, if performance is 
satisfactory, be extended for a further period not 
exceeding three years. Non-executive directors should 
not generally serve for more than nine years. 
During 2008, the letter of appointment for Mr Carlisle fell 
due for review following the completion of his initial three 
year term of appointment. His letter of appointment has 
been extended for a further three year term.  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
42 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued    
On appointment, all directors are advised that they have 
access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary and, in addition, that they are entitled to seek 
independent professional advice in the furtherance of 
their duties, if necessary, at the Company’s expense. As 
part of their induction, the directors are provided with a 
detailed file explaining their role and duties, in addition to 
background information on the Company and Group as 
well as the function and recent deliberations of the Board 
and its committees. In addition, where appropriate, 
meetings with advisers to the Company and Board are 
arranged to assist in briefing a director on appointment.
Directors are also provided with information and 
assistance in the event of any change in their role.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association, directors are granted an indemnity from the 
Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of 
liabilities incurred as a result of the performance of their 
duties in their capacity as directors to the Company. The 
indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent 
that a director is proven to have acted fraudulently or 
dishonestly. The Company has also arranged insurance 
coverage in respect of legal action against the directors 
and officers.
Communications with shareholders
Principally via the executive directors, the Company 
seeks to build on a mutual understanding of objectives 
with its major shareholders through regular meetings 
and presentations following announcements of each 
quarter’s results. During the year, Mr Mackintosh 
participated in a number of these meetings. 
The Senior Independent Director, Mr David Tucker, is 
available to meet institutional shareholders should there 
be unresolved matters they wish to bring to his attention. 
The Board is also appraised of discussions with major 
shareholders to ensure that executive and non-executive 
directors consider any matters which might be raised by 
those shareholders and to enable all directors to 
understand shareholders views. This includes feedback 
from the meetings attended by executive directors and 
the Chairman, in addition to reports from the Company’s 
advisers on their engagement with shareholders on 
behalf of the Company.
Although the non-executive directors are not asked to 
meet with the Company’s shareholders as a matter of 
course, their attendance at the Annual General Meeting 
is required. Corporate information is also available on  
the Company’s website, www.csr.com. 
Committees of the Board
The Board has three committees, Remuneration, Audit 
and Nomination. During the year, the Chairman and 
each of Mr Tucker, Mr Carlisle and Mr Giacoletto were 
members of the Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees. Mr Mackintosh attends meetings of the 
Audit Committee by invitation. Following his appointment 
to the Board, Mr Andrew Allner became a member of the 
Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the duties of 
the Committees are set out in formal terms of reference. 
These are available from the Company Secretary and 
can be found on the Company’s website, www.csr.com. 
Membership of the Committees is shown on page 39. 
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each  
of the Committees.
Remuneration Committee
Mr Sergio Giacoletto is the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, which position he has held 
since September 2007. The other members of the 
Committee at 2 January 2009 were Messrs Allner, 
Carlisle, Mackintosh and Tucker. 
The principal function of the Committee is to establish 
and review the terms and conditions for the executive 
directors, and the overall policy framework for the 
remuneration of other senior executives and the Group 
as a whole. The Committee met three times during the 
year and the attendance of its members is shown in the 
table on page 45.
The report to shareholders on how directors are 
remunerated, together with details of individual directors’ 
remuneration are shown on pages 50 to 61.
Nomination Committee
Mr Ron Mackintosh is the Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee, which position he has held since  
2 May 2007. The other members of the Committee at  
2 January 2009 were Messrs Allner, Carlisle, Giacoletto 
and Tucker. 
The Committee meets as appropriate to consider 
appointments to the Board and to consider succession 
planning at senior levels within the Company.  
The Committee reviews the composition of the Board, 
particularly in relation to the diversity of skills, experience 
and terms of office and seeks to ensure that both 
executive and non-executive directors have the 
necessary skills and attributes for the future success  
of the Group. 
The Committee retains external search consultants as 
appropriate and during 2008 engaged Russell Reynolds 
to assist in the appointment of a new Chief Financial 
Officer, which culminated in the appointment of  
Mr Will Gardiner to the Board on 18 June 2008. Russell 
Reynolds were also engaged during 2008 to assist in a 
search and appointment process for an additional 
non-executive director. This culminated in the 
appointment of Mr Andrew Allner to the Board on  
1 October 2008.
On appointment, all non-executive directors undertake 
that they will have sufficient time to meet the role 
expected of them. 
During 2008, the Committee met once formally to 
discuss the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer 
and as part of a formal meeting of the Board to consider 
the appointment of Mr Allner as a non-executive director. csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
43
Audit Committee
Mr David Tucker is the Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
a position he has held since January 2004. The other 
members of the Committee at 2 January 2009 were 
Messrs Allner, Carlisle and Giacoletto. Mr Mackintosh, 
Chairman of the Board, attends meetings of the 
Committee by invitation. The experience and expertise 
of the members of the Committee are summarised on 
page 39. The attendance of its members is shown in the 
table on page 45. The Committee met four times during 
the year and reported its conclusions to the full Board. 
The Committee invites the Chief Executive Officer, the 
Chief Financial Officer, the Internal Auditor and senior 
representatives of the external auditors to attend 
meetings as appropriate to the business being 
considered. In addition, the Committee has the right to 
invite any other employees to attend meetings where  
this is considered to be appropriate.
The Committee is responsible for the development, 
implementation and monitoring of the Company’s policy 
on external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and 
effectiveness of the auditors. The Committee monitors 
the conduct of the statutory audits of the consolidated 
reports and financial statements. This includes 
consideration of the areas of focus of the audits in 
conjunction with the external auditors and assessment 
of their findings and recommendations, where relevant.
The Committee recommends the appointment and 
re-appointment of the Group’s external auditors and 
considers the scope of their audit work, the terms  
of their appointment, their fees and the cost 
effectiveness of their work. 
During 2008, as part of its formal business, the 
Committee met on four occasions with the external 
auditors. On two occasions the Committee also  
held separate meetings with the external auditors at 
which no executive director or employee of the  
Company was present. 
In relation to the appointment of external auditors and in 
order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, 
the Committee has a policy of permitted services which 
details the services that can be provided by the Group’s 
auditors and those services which require specific 
approval by the Committee. The policy also details 
services that the Group’s auditors are not permitted  
to provide. The policy was reviewed and revised in 
February 2008. The policy has been complied with 
throughout the year.
The Committee is aware of and has approved the  
audit and non-audit services which have been provided 
during 2008 by the Company’s external auditors, 
Deloitte LLP. Those non-audit services concerned 
advice on tax matters which was considered to be 
appropriate, given their in-depth knowledge of the  
affairs and financial practices in the Group. The 
Committee is satisfied that, notwithstanding this  
work, Deloitte LLP have retained objectivity and 
independence during the year. 
Deloitte LLP have been the Company’s auditors since 
July 2002 and the cost, scope and effectiveness of the 
audit are reviewed regularly. During 2008, the 
Committee commissioned an internal review of the 
effectiveness of the external auditors and concluded  
that Deloitte LLP should be recommended for re-
appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee reviews all proposed announcements to 
be made by the Group to the extent they contain financial 
information. The Committee also monitors and reviews 
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems, 
accounting policies and practices, risk management 
procedures and compliance controls, as well as the 
statement on internal controls before they are agreed  
by the Board for each year’s annual report. 
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness 
of the internal audit function, approving the annual 
internal audit plan, and thereafter reviewing reports  
on the results of internal audit work which has been 
conducted. These reports also up-date the Committee 
on the progress in addressing any recommendations 
that have been made arising from the audits which have 
been conducted. 
The Chairman of the Committee attends the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder 
questions that might be raised concerning the 
Committee’s activities.
Internal control
Philosophy and policy
The objective of the directors and senior management is 
to safeguard and increase the value of the business and 
assets of the Company. Part of this objective requires the 
development of relevant policies and appropriate internal 
controls to ensure proper management of the 
Company’s resources and the identification of risks 
which might serve to undermine them. 
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Group’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. The systems and processes established 
by the Board are designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives 
and provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance 
against misstatement or loss. The Board has delegated 
responsibility for the review of practices and procedures 
to the Audit Committee. The Company’s senior 
management, in conjunction with external advisers are 
responsible for undertaking periodic reviews of the 
suitability of current systems on which they report to  
the Audit Committee. csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
44
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued    
The Audit Committee reviews the findings to ensure  
the effectiveness and efficiency of the processes 
implemented by senior management. This includes 
discussions with senior management of the Group  
and consideration of reports that have been submitted. 
These findings are in turn regularly reviewed and 
discussed by the full Board. The Board is satisfied that 
this process accords with the internal control guidance 
for directors set out in the Turnbull Report ‘Internal 
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code’ 
and that through its interface with management, the 
Board is aware of the major risks facing the Group and 
the steps taken by the Group to mitigate such risks,  
so far as is possible. The risk evaluation process has 
been the subject of review during 2008 and a revised 
process adopted which reflects the changing nature  
of the business in particular following the strategic  
review completed earlier in 2008. A risk evaluation 
process has been implemented throughout 2008 and 
was in place up to the date of approval of the Annual 
Report and financial statements.
Managing risks
The Board confirms that the actions it considers 
necessary have been or are being taken to remedy  
such failings and weaknesses which it has determined  
to be significant from its review of the system of internal 
control. This has involved considering the matters 
reported to it and developing plans and programmes 
that it considers are reasonable in the circumstances.
A summary of the structures and processes in place  
to identify and manage risks across the Group are set 
out below.
Risk profiling
There is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate 
risks faced by the Group, through the conduct of regular 
meetings by the Group’s senior management, and 
engagement of external consultants where in the opinion 
of the Group’s Senior Management this is considered 
appropriate. Findings are reported to the Audit 
Committee together with recommended actions for 
managing the risks and a timetable for implementation. 
The assessment of prioritised risks is refreshed on a 
regular basis to reflect changes to the business and any 
observations or proposals arising from events since the 
last review. A schedule of the prioritised risks along with 
other management information is used to develop an 
overall assurance plan for the Group.
Controlling risk
The Group has policies which address a range of key 
business risks, including financial, treasury, health and 
safety and the protection of intellectual property. The 
policies are made available to relevant employees 
through policy manuals, an intranet site and also via 
employee briefings on specific topics as appropriate. 
Periodically, reviews are performed in order to verify that 
ongoing practices within relevant parts of the Group 
comply with current policies. In addition, policies are 
themselves reviewed against best practice and in order 
to take appropriate account of developments both within 
or external to the Group’s business operations. As an 
example steps are ongoing to embed internal control 
and risk management further into the operations of the 
Group and to deal with areas of improvement which 
come to management’s and to the Board’s attention.
During 2008, as part of a rolling programme of assessing 
tax exposures in each jurisdiction in which the Group has 
a presence, a formal review of the Group’s standing and 
business practices in conjunction with local tax 
regulations was undertaken in Japan and Korea.  
This assessment, which was supported by external 
consultants was followed by seminars in each territory  
to inform local management of appropriate practices to 
ensure continued compliance with the Group’s policies 
and local laws. The review concluded that the operations 
were compliant with local tax regulations. A report was 
provided to the Audit Committee detailing the results of 
the review and that report was considered at a formal 
meeting of the Committee. 
As explained in the Directors’ Report – Business Review 
on pages 28 and 29, the Group has a treasury policy for 
the placement of cash deposits with financial institutions. 
The policy is reviewed annually and was most recently 
considered at a meeting of the Committee in October 
2008. The review considered amongst other aspects  
of the policy, the requirement for the Group’s cash to  
be spread amongst multiple counter-parties and the 
minimum credit ratings required to be met to allow the 
Group to make a deposit with each counter-party, in 
addition to the authorities required to manage the 
movement of funds. Management also keeps the Board 
appraised on the placement of funds and the steps 
being taken to safeguard the Group’s cash resources. 
The Group has a formal whistle-blowing policy  
which was last up-dated during 2006 and has been 
communicated to CSR’s employees. The policy  
provides information on the process to follow in the  
event that any employee feels it appropriate to make  
a disclosure. Periodically the Committee ensures that 
employees are reminded of the existence of the policy 
and the Company’s ability to respond appropriately  
to circumstances warranting investigation. The 
Committee is satisfied that the policy provides an 
adequate basis for employees to make representations 
in confidence to the Group and for appropriate and 
proportionate investigation. 
The Group carries out a programme of management 
self-assessment over the status of key business risks 
through formal reviews which consider the risks faced  
by the business, how these might be mitigated and who 
within the Group is responsible for implementing agreed 
actions. Where appropriate, external advisers are 
appointed in order to support this process.  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
45
Monitoring and managing the status of residual risk 
The actions arising from external and internal 
assessments of risks are consolidated and during 2008 
the results were reported to the Audit Committee. 
The Committee assesses the findings and proposed 
actions for addressing residual risks and also advises  
on areas for further attention.
Business continuity planning
During 2007 a project was initiated to refresh the 
Business Continuity Plan for the Group. The project has 
been facilitated by the risk management practice of a 
leading independent consultant. Through workshops 
and one-on-one interviews, the potential significant risks 
were identified and an action plan established to enable 
the Group to respond in the event that such a risk arose. 
That plan was the subject of further work through 2008. 
There is a programme of further reviews and testing 
during 2009. The findings and steps taken to date have 
been reported to the Audit Committee.
Internal financial controls
The Group has a comprehensive system for regular 
monitoring and reporting of financial performance and 
assessing the adequacy of the Group’s systems of 
internal controls. Risk assessment and evaluation is an 
integral part of the annual planning cycle. This includes 
assessment of the Group’s strategic direction, objectives 
and financial returns and the risks in achieving them. 
As part of the planning cycle, a detailed budget is 
prepared by management and thereafter is reviewed 
and formally adopted by the Board. The budget and 
other targets are regularly updated via a rolling 
forecasting process and regular business review 
meetings are also held involving senior management 
worldwide, at which the Group’s overall performance  
is assessed. The results of these reviews are in turn 
reported to and discussed by the Audit Committee and 
the Board at each meeting. A summary of the key 
financial and non-financial risks inherent in the Group’s 
business is given on pages 29 to 32 and 35 to 37 .
These processes are supported by discrete reviews 
conducted by external advisers, as determined by  
the Committee, in addition to the routine audits. 
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the 
effectiveness of the system of internal controls which 
were in place throughout the financial year and up to the 
date of signing the Financial Statements for the 53 week 
period ended 2 January 2009.
 
Attendance at meetings
The table below shows the attendance of each of the 
directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees 
held during the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009. 
 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
No. of Meetings 11 4 3 1
J A J van Beurden 11 – – –
A J Allner 2 1 2 –
J D Y Collier 11 – – –
D D W Gardiner 5 – – –
P G G Goodridge 1 – – –
C A Ladas 11 – – –
R W Mackintosh 11 – 3 1
A E C G Carlisle 11 3 3 1
S Giacoletto 11 4 3 1
D L Tucker 11 4 3 1
Annual General Meeting resolutions
The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 27 May 2009, together with 
explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of the 
Annual General Meeting, which has been sent to all 
registered shareholders.
By Order of the Board
Brett Gladden
Company Secretary
9 February 2009 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
46
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – OTHER ST A TUTORY INFORMA TION
The directors submit their Annual Report and the 
audited consolidated financial statements of the 
Company and its subsidiaries for the 53 week period 
ended 2 January 2009.
Activities and business review
CSR is a leading developer and provider of single chip 
wireless solutions designed to support data and voice 
communications between a wide range of products  
over short range radio links. More detailed information 
on the principal activities of CSR plc and its subsidiaries, 
together with a review of the businesses and a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing 
the Group along with other information that fulfils the 
requirements of the Business Review are set out on 
pages 20 to 37. The use of financial instruments is 
covered within the Directors’ Report – Business Review. 
Details of the subsidiaries and branches of the Company 
are set out on page 99. 
Conditional merger agreement
Following the year end, on 9 February 2009, the 
Company entered into a conditional Merger Agreement 
with SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. (SiRF) under which 
SiRF will merge with CSR. SiRF is a global leader in GPS 
location platforms. Pursuant to the terms of the merger 
agreement, SiRF shareholders will receive 0.7 41 of an 
ordinary share in CSR for each SiRF share, which as at 
close of business on 9 February 2009 values SiRF at 
approximately £91 million ($136 million). The conditional 
agreement is subject to shareholder approval, as well as 
other conditions customary in a transaction of this 
nature. The Company will be sending documentation to 
shareholders setting out the rationale for the proposed 
merger and containing a notice of general meeting  
which sets out the timetable of the merger. Assuming  
all conditions are satisfied, the Company expects the 
merger would complete in the second quarter of 2009.
Financial results
The Group’s consolidated income statement, set out on 
page 64 shows a decrease to $65.2 million in underlying 
operating profit compared to an underlying operating 
profit in 2007 of $172.0 million. Turnover showed a 
decrease by 18% to $694.9 million from $848.6 million  
in 2007 and underlying diluted earnings per share were 
$0.43 from $0.94 in 2007. 
In accordance with stated policy, no dividend will  
be paid in respect of the 53 weeks ended 2 January 
2009 (2007: nil).
Future development
It remains the Board’s intention to develop the Group 
through organic growth and selective acquisition.
Directors of the Board
The directors who served during the year are explained 
on page 40 of the Corporate Governance report.
Change of control
All of the Company’s share schemes contain provisions 
relating to a change of control of the Company following 
a takeover. Outstanding options and awards would, 
subject to satisfaction of applicable performance 
conditions and certain rules of the particular schemes 
normally vest and become exercisable on a change of 
control (in some cases subject to a pro-rata adjustment 
reflecting the time elapsed since the month in which the 
grant was made).
Share capital
The Company’s ordinary shares with a nominal value  
of 0.1p per share, are quoted on the London Stock 
Exchange. The rights and obligations attaching to the 
Company’s ordinary shares are set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained 
from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the 
Company Secretary. There are no restrictions on the 
voting rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary 
shares. No person holds securities in the Company 
carrying special rights with regard to control of the 
Company. The Company is not aware of any agreements 
between holders of securities that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting 
rights. Unless expressly stated to the contrary in the 
Articles of Association of the Company, the Company’s 
Articles of Association may be amended by special 
resolution of the Company’s shareholders.
During the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009, options 
were exercised pursuant to the Company’s share 
schemes. The number of shares allotted and the 
consideration received in respect of such allotments  
are detailed in note 31 of the Financial Statements on 
page 92.
On 31 December 2008, the ABI issued revised 
guidelines relating to directors’ power to allot and 
disapply pre-emption rights. These changes, which 
allow directors authority to issue new shares worth up  
to two-thirds of a company’s existing capital in the case 
of a compensatory rights issue without holding a 
shareholder general meeting, are reflected in Resolution 
9 in the Notice of Meeting (the ‘Section 80 Authority’). 
The directors propose (Paragraph (A) of Resolution 9 in 
the Notice of Meeting) to renew the authority granted at 
the Annual General Meeting held in 2008 to allot equity 
shares up to an aggregate nominal value of £44,442 
(representing approximately one third of the ordinary 
shares issued as at the most recent practicable date).  
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
47
In addition, the directors propose (Paragraph (B) of 
Resolution 9 in the Notice of Meeting) to take advantage 
of the new ABI guidelines which enable companies to 
authorise their directors to issue shares worth up to 
two-thirds of the company’s existing capital (as reduced 
by the nominal amount of any shares issued under 
paragraph (A) of Resolution 9) in the case of a 
compensatory rights issue. If approved at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this would 
represent in total an aggregate nominal value of £88,884. 
This Section 80 Authority, if approved, will expire at the 
earlier of 30 June 2010 (the last date by which the 
Company must hold an annual general meeting in 2010) 
or the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be 
held in 2010. 
In order to be able to issue new shares to the levels  
now permitted under the ABI guidelines, the authorised 
share capital of the Company will need to be increased. 
The directors are therefore proposing that the authorised 
share capital of the Company be increased to 
350,000,000 ordinary shares, with a nominal value of  
0.1 pence per share, representing £350,000. This is  
an increase of 165,000,000 shares from the present 
authorised share capital at the date of this report.
The limited power granted to the directors at the Annual 
General Meeting held in May 2008 to allot equity shares 
for cash other than pro-rata to existing shareholders 
expires no later than 15 August 2009. Subject to the 
terms of the Section 80 Authority, the directors 
recommend (Resolution 10 in the Notice of Meeting) that 
this authority should be renewed so as to give the ability 
(until the earlier of 30 June 2010 (the last date by which 
the Company must hold an annual general meeting in 
2010), or the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting 
to be held in 2010) to issue ordinary shares for cash other 
than pro-rata to existing shareholders, in connection 
with a rights issue or up to a limit of 5% of the ordinary 
share capital issued at the date of this report. The 
directors have no present intention to issue ordinary 
shares for cash other than pursuant to the Company’s 
employee share schemes and in connection with 
completion of the terms for the merger of SiRF with CSR, 
which will be the subject of a specific and separate 
resolution to shareholders at the general meeting 
referred to on page 46. 
The directors recommend that you vote in favour of 
Resolutions 8, 9 and 10 to maintain the Company’s 
flexibility in relation to future share issues, including any 
issues to finance business opportunities should 
appropriate circumstances arise. 
A Special Resolution will be proposed (Resolution 11  
in the Notice of Meeting) to renew the directors’ limited 
authority last granted in 2008 to repurchase ordinary 
shares in the market. The authority will be limited to a 
maximum of 13,332,657 ordinary shares (being 10% of 
the Company’s issued share capital as at the most recent 
practicable date) and also sets the minimum and 
maximum prices which may be paid. 
The directors believe it is advantageous for the Company 
to have the flexibility to make market purchases of its own 
shares. In the event that shares are purchased, they 
would either be cancelled (and the number in issue would 
be reduced accordingly) or, subject to the legislation 
referred to below, retained as treasury shares. The 
directors will only make purchases after consideration of 
the possible effect on earnings per share, the long term 
benefits to shareholders and consultation with advisers.
The Companies (Acquisition of Own Shares) (Treasury 
Shares) Regulations 2003 allow shares repurchased by 
the Company to be held as treasury shares that may  
be cancelled, sold for cash or used for the purpose of 
employee share schemes. The Company currently holds 
no shares in treasury. The authority contained in the 
Special Resolution will expire at the earlier of 30 June 
2010 (the last date by which the Company must hold  
an annual general meeting in 2010), or the conclusion  
of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2010 but it is 
the current intention of the directors to renew this 
authority annually.
Notice required for shareholder meetings
The Shareholders Rights Directive is intended to be 
implemented in the UK in August 2009. The regulation 
implementing this Directive will increase the notice period 
for general meetings of the Company to 21 days. The 
Company is currently able to call general meetings (other 
than an AGM) on 14 clear days’ notice and would like to 
preserve this ability. In order to be able to do so after 
August 2009, shareholders must have approved the 
calling of meetings on 14 days’ notice. Resolution 12 
seeks such approval. The approval will be effective until 
the Company’s next annual general meeting, when it is 
intended that a similar resolution will be proposed. The 
Company will also need to meet the requirements for 
electronic voting under the Directive before it can call  
a general meeting on 14 days’ notice.
Employee Benefit Trust
The CSR Employee Benefit Trust was established in 2007 
to facilitate satisfying the issue of shares to employees 
within the Group on exercise of vested options under the 
various share option plans of the Company.
During 2008, the Trust acquired in the open market an 
aggregate of 3,222,813 ordinary shares in CSR plc. This 
was satisfied through cash drawn down under the terms 
of a Loan Facility Agreement established at the time of the 
creation of the Trust entered into between CSR plc and  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
40 40
the Trust. The details of each purchase of ordinary shares 
in CSR plc is shown in note 26 to the Financial Statements 
on page 90.The Trust holds a total of 4,689,580 ordinary 
shares in CSR plc representing 3.5% of the issued share 
capital at the date of this report.
As participants in the share options plans, the executive 
directors of the Company are potential beneficiaries 
from the shares held by the Trust and are therefore 
regarded for the purposes of the Companies Act as 
being interested in ordinary shares held by the Trust.
Directors
Details of the directors of the Board who served during 
the year are contained on page 40. Biographies of the 
directors in office at 2 January 2009 are on page 39.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the 
directors retiring at the Annual General Meeting will be  
Mr Will Gardiner, executive director and Chief Financial 
Officer and Mr Andrew Allner, a non-executive director 
as they have been appointed since the last meeting. 
Being eligible, Mr Gardiner and Mr Allner offer 
themselves for election. There are no directors required 
to stand for re-election under the Company’s Articles  
of Association. 
Pursuant to the Company’s Articles of Association a 
director shall retire from office and may offer himself for 
re-appointment when they have been appointed since 
the last Annual General Meeting, held office in the 
preceding two annual general meetings and did not 
retire at either of them or has been in office for a 
continuous period of nine years or more at the date  
of the meeting.
Mr David Tucker, non-executive director, Senior 
Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee intends to stand down from the Board at  
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in May.
The interests of the executive directors in the options of 
the Company are detailed in the Remuneration Report 
on page 60.
Directors’ interests in shares
The directors in office at 2 January 2009 and their 
families had the under-mentioned interests in the 
ordinary shares of the Company. 
  2 January 28 December 
  2009 2007
Andrew Allner  – –
Joep van Beurden  – –
Anthony Carlisle   4,000  4,000
James Collier  1,014,911 1,014,911
Will Gardiner  – –
Sergio Giacoletto   5,000 5,000
Chris Ladas  86,234 75,000
Ron Mackintosh  100,000 75,000
David Tucker  120,000 100,000
There were no changes to the directors’ shareholdings 
between 2 January 2009 and 9 February 2009.  
On 2 March 2009, Mr Collier acquired an additional 
382,002 ordinary shares on the exercise of share options. 
This took Mr Colliers total shareholding to 1,396,913 
ordinary shares in the Company. The foregoing holdings 
do not include the ordinary shares held by the CSR 
Employee Benefit Trust in which the executive directors 
are potential beneficiaries as disclosed earlier.
Conflicts of interests
The Company has procedures in place to deal with 
conflicts of interests and believes that procedures  
are operated efficiently.
Payment of creditors
The Group agrees payment terms with its suppliers 
when it enters into binding purchase contracts to 
ensure that suppliers are made aware of terms of 
payment. The Company abides by these terms of 
payment. At 2 January 2009 the number of creditor 
days outstanding for the Company was 30 (2007: 30) 
and for the Group was 64 (2007: 54).
Donations
The Company and employees support a number of 
charities for a variety of causes. For the period ended  
2 January 2009, the Company made charitable 
donations totalling $20,979 which included $11,866  
in respect of donations towards the China earthquake 
appeal, with the remainder being the Company’s 
continued support of local charities. The Company  
did not make any political donations during the year.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The directors are responsible for preparing the  
Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and  
the Financial Statements. The directors are required  
by the International Auditing Standards (IAS) Regulation 
to prepare financial statements for the Group in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union 
and have also elected to prepare financial statements  
for the Company in accordance with IFRS. Company  
law requires the directors to prepare such financial 
statements in accordance with the Companies Act  
1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that 
financial statements present fairly for each financial year 
the Company’s financial position, financial performance 
and cash flows. This requires the faithful representation 
of the effects of transactions, other events and 
conditions in accordance with the definitions and 
recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses set out in the International Accounting 
Standards Board’s ‘Framework for the Preparation and 
Presentation of Financial Statements’. In virtually all 
circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by 
compliance with all applicable International Financial 
Reporting Standards. Directors are also required to:
– properly select and apply accounting policies; 
–  present information, including accounting policies,  
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, 
comparable and understandable information; and
–  provide additional disclosures when compliance with 
the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to 
enable users to understand the impact of particular 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION continued 
48 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
49
transactions, other events and conditions on the  
entity’s financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper 
accounting records which disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of  
a directors’ report and directors’ remuneration report 
which comply with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance  
and integrity of the Company’s website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
differs from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of the 
approval of this report confirms that:
–  so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are 
unaware,
–  the director has taken all the steps that he ought to 
have taken as a director to make himself aware of the 
relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
–  the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance 
with the applicable set of accounting standards, give  
a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of CSR and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
–  the report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of 
the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties  
that they face.
The directors, having prepared the Financial 
Statements, have permitted the auditors to take 
whatever steps they consider appropriate for the 
purpose of enabling them to give their audit opinion. 
Substantial shareholdings
As at 17 March 2009, the Company had received the 
following notifications of substantial interests (3% or 
more) in the total voting rights of the Company.
   % of issued 
   ordinary share 
 Disclosed holding†  capital
Schroders Plc 16,100,819  12.08%
The BlackRock Group 12,751,403  9.56%
Lazard Asset Management 8,552,425  6.41%
Aberforth Partners LLP  7,454,010  5.59%
Fidelity 6,665,681  5.00%
Legal & General Group PLC   
and its subsidiaries 5,973,594  4.48%
†at 17 March 2009
Going concern
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the 
going concern basis. The directors have considered 
future cash forecasts and revenue projections,  
based on prudent market data, in their consideration  
of going concern. 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are set out on pages 20 to 37. The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position 
are described in the Business Review on pages 27 to 28.  
In addition, note 33 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for managing its capital; its financial risk 
management objectives; details of the financial 
instruments and hedging activities; and its exposure to 
credit risk. The principal risks and uncertainties which 
could adversely impact the long term performance of the 
Group are discussed on page 35 to 37 in the Business 
Review. All of these matters have been taken into 
account by the directors in coming to their conclusions 
on going concern. 
Management is currently of the opinion that the Group 
has adequate financial resources and a robust policy 
towards treasury risk and cash flow management. The 
directors believe that the Group is adequately placed to 
manage its business risks successfully despite the 
current uncertain economic outlook and challenging 
macro economic conditions. During 2008, additional 
measures had been taken to safeguard cash and  
cost reduction programmes and working capital 
management policies have been put in place which will 
continue in 2009. The directors consider that the Group 
has flexibility to react to changing market conditions as  
a substantial proportion of the Group’s costs are variable 
or discretionary and can be reduced or increased in line 
with the needs of the business. 
 
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements.
Auditors
Deloitte LLP are the Company’s auditors and have 
expressed their willingness to continue in the office  
of auditors and therefore, in accordance with Section 
385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution for their 
re-appointment will be proposed at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board
Brett Gladden
Company Secretary
9 February 2009 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
The Committee determines policy for the remuneration 
of the executive directors and is consulted and provides 
guidance on the broader remuneration policies for the 
Group below Board level based on recommendations of 
the Chief Executive Officer and the other executive 
directors. Further information on meetings held and 
attendance by the members of the Committee is 
disclosed in the Corporate Governance report  
on page 45. 
The Directors’ Report on Remuneration for the period 
ended 28 December 2007 was approved by the 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held in May 
2008. As required by the Companies Act, shareholders 
will be invited to approve this report at the Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 27 May 2009.
This Report has been prepared in accordance with 
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 (‘the Act’).  
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the 
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and 
describes how the Board has applied the Principles of 
Good Governance relating to directors’ remuneration. 
The Act requires the auditors to report to the Company’s 
members on certain parts of the Remuneration Report 
and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the 
Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Act. The Remuneration Report has 
therefore been divided into separate sections for audited 
and unaudited information.
Unaudited information
Changes in executive directors
Mr Paul Goodridge stood down as a director of CSR plc 
and from his position as Finance Director on 29 February 
2008, but remained an employee until 31 May 2008  
to assist in an orderly transition through to the 
commencement of employment by Mr Will Gardiner  
as Chief Financial Officer on 2 June 2008. 
It was agreed that Mr Goodridge would retain certain 
rights to exercise vested options issued under the  
CSR Global Share Option Plan and the CSR Share 
Award Plan. 
For those options granted prior to the Company’s 
flotation in 2004 under the CSR Global Share Option 
Plan, Mr Goodridge retained through to 31 August 2008 
the right to exercise options which had vested at the date 
of termination of his employment. These comprised 240 
options granted in December 2001 at £2.385 per share, 
44,820 options granted in September 2002 at £1.01 per 
share, 37,500 options granted in November 2002 at 
£1.01 per share and 36,000 options granted in 
November 2003 at £1.025 per share.
The Board presents the Remuneration Report  
for the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009.
The Board sets the Company’s remuneration policy.  
The Remuneration Committee (‘the Committee’) makes 
recommendations to the Board within its agreed terms 
of reference (available on the Company’s website  
www.csr.com or from the Company Secretary at the 
Company’s registered office) on the Company’s 
framework of executive remuneration and its cost. 
It also determines on behalf of the Board, specific 
remuneration packages for each of the executive 
directors and for the Chairman. The Committee 
administers the Company’s share incentive plans for 
employees and monitors and provides guidance  
on the level and structure of remuneration for senior 
management who report to the Chief Executive Officer. 
The Board itself determines the remuneration of the 
non-executive directors. No director plays a part in  
any discussion about their own remuneration.
Mr Giacoletto is Chairman of the Committee. The other 
current members of the Committee, all of whom are 
independent non-executive directors within the definition 
of the Code, are set out on page 42. Mr Mackintosh, 
Chairman of the Board, attended meetings of the 
Committee as a member. The Company Secretary acts 
as secretary to the Committee. None of the members  
of the Committee has any personal financial interest 
(other than as shareholders), conflicts of interests arising 
from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in 
running the business of the Company. 
An evaluation of the performance of the Committee was 
conducted during 2008, in regards to which more 
information is contained in the Corporate Governance 
report on page 41.
The Committee has access to detailed external research 
from independent consultants. During the year, 
professional advice has been provided by Hewitt New 
Bridge Street, Slaughter and May and Alithos Limited. 
Each of the advisers were appointed by the Committee. 
Slaughter and May act as legal advisers to the Company 
generally. Neither Hewitt New Bridge Street nor Alithos 
Limited provides other services to the Company.
50
DIRECTORS’ REPORT – DIRECTORS’ REMUNERA TION REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT   csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
For those options granted under the CSR Share Award 
Plan, Mr Goodridge was permitted to exercise 15,278 
shares, which had vested at 31 May 2008, at £0.001 per 
share representing the pro-rata adjustment of the vested 
portion of an original grant of 17,000 following the 
determination of the extent to which the Performance 
Conditions had been satisfied. 
For those options granted under the CSR plc Share 
Option Plan, in accordance with the plan’s rules, the 
Remuneration Committee determined in June 2008 
following termination of his employment, that  
Mr Goodridge should be entitled to exercise three of the 
separate grants made to him, all of which had vested by 
31 May 2008, being an option grant of 12,765 shares 
made on 26 February 2004 at £2.35 per share, 54,235 
shares made on 26 February 2004 at £2.00 per share 
(both grants made at the time of the Company’s listing) 
and 56,100 shares granted on 5 May 2005 at £3.21 per 
share. The right to acquire these options lapsed on  
30 November 2008. 
In determining the arrangements for Mr Goodridge’s 
termination, the Committee consulted with its advisers 
and is satisfied that they were both appropriate and in 
the interests of the Company. 
Effective 2 June 2008 Mr Will Gardiner commenced 
employment as Chief Financial Officer and effective  
18 June 2008 was appointed to the Board of CSR plc. 
Mr Gardiner’s biography and professional experience  
is set out on page 39. 
In recruiting Mr Gardiner, the Company sought the 
advice of executive search consultants Russell Reynolds 
who assisted in a rigorous selection process. In addition 
the remuneration package of Mr Gardiner was arranged 
with the advice of remuneration consultants Hewitt New 
Bridge Street. The Company believes that Mr Gardiner 
possesses valuable commercial and financial 
experience as a senior executive in companies operating 
in highly competitive and dynamic global markets.  
It therefore believed that it was necessary to offer a 
competitive package in order to secure his recruitment.
Under the terms of his service agreement, Mr Gardiner  
is provided with an annual salary of £290,000. He is 
permitted to establish a UK defined contribution 
personal pension plan to which the Company will make 
contributions of 4% of salary in addition to a further 
maximum of 10% of salary, conditional on matching 
contributions from Mr Gardiner and benefits in kind 
consistent with those provided to other executive 
directors. These benefits in kind are explained in more 
detail later in this report.
To facilitate his appointment Mr Gardiner was provided 
with support of £1,450 per month from June 2008 
through to November 2008 with the monthly rental costs 
of a residence close to the Company’s offices. He was 
also provided with a relocation allowance of £15,000 
plus VAT. In addition, the Company agreed to meet 
stamp duty costs equivalent to £30,000 on the purchase 
of a permanent residence closer to the Company’s 
offices. On commencement of his employment,  
Mr Gardiner was paid a recruitment bonus of £80,000, 
net of applicable deductions and for the financial year 
ended 2 January 2009, was entitled to a guaranteed 
bonus of 25% of salary, pro-rata to the number of 
completed months of service net of applicable 
deductions (out of a potential bonus of 100% of salary).
On 11 June 2008, Mr Gardiner was granted options and 
share awards under the Company’s Share Option and 
Share Award Plans of 300% of salary for share options 
and 200% of salary for share awards, in addition to the 
grant of 20,000 deferred shares granted on a similar 
basis to the CSR Share Award Plan. With the exception 
of the deferred shares, each of the grants made under 
the Share Option and Share Award Plans are subject to 
satisfying performance conditions. All of the options and 
shares granted to Mr Gardiner are subject to a three year 
retention period.
Consistent with grants made to other executive directors 
in the year, the grant of share options made under the 
CSR plc Share Option Plan was subject to satisfying a 
performance condition linked to the growth in the 
Company’s earnings per share (‘EPS’) over a three year 
period, in this case commencing from March 2008.
If the growth in EPS over the three year performance 
period is less than a compound 5% per annum plus RPI, 
none of the share options vest. If the Company’s EPS 
growth over the three year performance period is equal 
to a compound 5% per annum plus RPI, then 30% of the 
share options will vest. For EPS growth above a 
compound 5% per annum plus RPI up to a compound 
12.5% per annum plus RPI the proportion of the share 
options which shall vest is determined on a straight line 
basis pro-rata between 30% and 100%. If the 
Company’s EPS growth over the three year performance 
period exceeds a compound 12.5% per annum plus RPI 
all options will vest. No retesting is permitted.
51 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
52
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued    
In November 2008, the Committee undertook a review 
of the utilisation within the Company of equity reward 
and the optimal method of operating these plans in order 
to attract, motivate and retain employees at Board level 
and below. As a result of this review, it was determined 
that the Share Award Plan should be used as the primary 
vehicle of incentive for executive and middle 
management and that share options should be focused 
on executive directors and the next level of senior 
executives. In addition, the Committee concluded that 
the performance measures applying to share awards 
and share options should be changed so that the 
requirement to deliver compound growth in EPS is used 
for share awards (previously relative TSR) and relative 
TSR is used to determine the vesting of share options 
(previously compound growth in EPS).
This was felt appropriate to align key performance 
measures across all levels of management and to 
recognise the contribution which they make to directing 
and securing the financial and commercial success of 
the Company. It was also seen as a contributor to the 
development of coherent reward structures aligned with 
sound succession planning practices. Due account was 
also taken of the need to adopt targets which were easily 
understood at more junior levels of the Company and 
which they also felt most able to positively influence, 
whilst also ensuring that the same conditions could be 
adopted as performance measures for those at Board 
and executive level. 
In keeping with best practice, prior to implementation  
of this change, the Company consulted with its largest 
shareholders, and their representative bodies. More 
details of the changes are set out on pages 54 and 55.
Basic salary
An executive director’s basic salary is considered by  
the Committee on appointment and then reviewed prior 
to the beginning of each year and when an individual 
changes position or responsibility. When making a 
determination as to the appropriate remuneration, the 
Committee considers remuneration practices within  
the Group as a whole and where considered relevant, 
conducts objective research on companies within the 
Company’s UK listed peers of a similar size with an 
international focus, reflecting that the Company is 
competing in a global market. The target salary is at 
mid-market (noting that after promotion or appointment 
to the Board it may take several years to meet this policy), 
with the opportunity to go above this level, subject to 
sustained individual performance.
With the exception of Mr Ladas, who is paid his salary in 
US Dollars, the executive directors in office at 2 January 
2009 were paid in Pounds Sterling. Details of the basic 
salary of the executive directors who served during the 
period ended 2 January 2009 are set forth in the table  
on page 58.
Consistent with awards made to other executive 
directors in the year, the grant of share awards made 
under the CSR Share Award Plan was subject to the 
Company’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) relative  
to the performance of a comparator group of peer 
companies over a three year period, in this case 
commencing from 1 January 2008. The peer group 
appears on page 54. Thereafter and to the extent the 
TSR performance measure is satisfied in whole or part, 
the Remuneration Committee will determine the extent 
to which there has been a sustained underlying 
improvement in the financial performance of the 
Company, using such measure as the Committee 
considers appropriate.
None of the options shall vest if the Company’s relative 
position is below median. 30% of a grant shall vest at 
median, with full vesting of a grant for performance at  
the upper quartile. Shares shall vest on a straight-line 
basis between the median and upper quartile, with no 
retesting of the performance condition it if is not met  
at the end of the three year period.
The Committee is satisfied that the performance  
targets for both the share options and share awards 
were appropriately stretching, having regard to the 
performance of the Company and are aligned with the 
interests of shareholders as a whole.
Remuneration policy for the executive directors
Executive remuneration packages are designed in  
order to attract, motivate and retain employees of the 
highest calibre required by the Group in order to achieve 
its objectives, to meet the needs of customers and 
enhance value to shareholders. There are five main 
elements of the remuneration package for executive 
directors and senior management, which include 
medium and long term incentives comprising basic 
annual salary, benefits-in-kind, the opportunity to 
participate in a money purchase pension scheme,  
a cash bonus plan and participation in the Company’s 
share incentive plans.
The Company’s policy is that a substantial proportion  
of the remuneration of the executive directors should  
be performance-related. The payment of both cash 
bonuses and the vesting of share incentives are subject 
to meeting performance conditions established by the 
Committee at the beginning of each performance period 
reflecting what, at that time, the Committee considers  
to be demanding targets. These targets are set taking 
appropriate account of the challenging and rapidly 
evolving market in which the Group operates, and the 
expectations of the investment community on the 
Company’s potential future performance. The 
Remuneration Committee also considers corporate 
performance on environmental, social and governance 
issues and aims to ensure that the incentive structure 
does not raise risks in these areas. csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
53
Salary levels were not adjusted at the review in 
December 2008 and the Committee will keep under 
review whether any increases are warranted later in 
2009. The Committee’s decision, which was supported 
by the Board as a whole, was appropriate given the 
current economic environment and the decision was  
in keeping with the general pay freeze which has been 
adopted for the Group. 
Current salaries at February 2009 are:
J A J van Beurden   £300,000
J D Y Collier   £275,000
D D W Gardiner   £290,000
C A Ladas   $300,000
Benefits-in-kind
The executive directors receive certain benefits-in-kind, 
comprising private medical insurance, life assurance of 
four times basic salary, and personal accident insurance 
and subsistence expenses. During 2008, Mr Ladas,  
who lives in the US, was provided with support towards 
the cost of a UK temporary residence reflecting his 
frequent travel and stays in the United Kingdom as part 
of the performance of his role. Mr Ladas also receives 
separate US-based dental plan insurance.
Cash bonus plan 
The Committee is responsible for determining on what 
basis to incentivise employees, including executive 
directors, through a cash bonus plan. The Committee 
establishes against defined targets the minimum 
threshold at which a bonus will be payable and the 
maximum potential award. In setting appropriate bonus 
thresholds and targets, the Committee may refer to the 
objective research on a comparator group as noted on 
page 52 under ‘Basic salary’ .
For the cash bonus plan applicable to executive 
directors in 2008, the targets were set after considering 
the Company’s budgeted operating profit and market 
expectations. The budget was agreed based upon 
objectives which were considered to be appropriate  
and stretching against the background of an underlying 
operating profit for the year ended December 2007 of 
$172 million. 
Achievement of targets based on the Company’s 
financial and strategic objectives and the personal 
performance of individual directors would result in 
determination by the Committee of the appropriate  
size of the bonus having regard to actual performance 
against the targets. The maximum potential bonus 
payable for the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009 to  
all executive directors was 100% of salary. 
Based on the performance targets set at the beginning 
of 2008, no performance related bonus was paid to a 
director for the 53 week period to 2 January 2009.
The bonuses paid to the directors for the 53 weeks 
ended 2 January 2009 are as follows:
J A J van Beurden    £150,000
J D Y Collier   £nil
D D W Gardiner   £42,292
C A Ladas   £nil
The guaranteed bonuses paid to Mr van Beurden and Mr Gardiner 
reflect the terms agreed at the time of their recruitment in respect of the 
financial year 2008. 
Targets for the bonus plan for 2009 have been 
determined by taking into account the financial targets 
(including cash flow) and strategic objectives of the 
Company, with due regard for market expectations in 
addition to personal objectives set for each of the 
executive directors. 
As stated above, the Committee’s policy is to provide  
a base salary of directors at mid-market. Mindful of the 
decision that salary levels at January 2009 would remain 
unchanged from the prior year, the Committee 
determined that it was appropriate that the bonus 
potential, for the Chief Executive only, should be 
increased for 2009 to a maximum of 150% of salary,  
with an on-target bonus potential of 75% of salary.  
The change in bonus opportunity for 2009 was made 
with due regard to the fact that Mr van Beurden’s base 
salary remains below mid-market. The Committee has 
made the change in bonus potential for 2009.  
The bonus potential for subsequent years will be 
determined by the Committee within the overall balance 
of Mr van Beurden’s remuneration. The maximum bonus 
potential for other executive directors in 2009 will remain 
at 100% of salary with an on-target bonus potential of 
50% of salary.
Share option plans
The Company has four share option plans, intended to 
facilitate the motivation and retention of employees. Two 
of the plans were established prior to the Company’s 
flotation, being the Founders Share Option Plan and the 
Global Share Option Plan. Whilst not all the awards 
under these two plans have been exercised, the plans 
are closed for the purpose of any new awards, and 
neither plan was used during 2008 for grants to 
executive directors or to other employees. 
As stated above, the Committee reviewed the operation 
of the share incentive plans and decided that the 
performance measures applied to grants under the 
Share Option Plan and Share Award Plan should be 
changed. Details of the revised measures are set out  
on page 54. In making the change to the performance 
measures, the Committee sought the advice of Hewitt 
New Bridge Street and undertook consultation with its 
largest shareholders and representative bodies.
Following shareholder approval at the 2004 Annual 
General Meeting, the Company established the CSR plc 
Share Option Plan (‘CSOP’).  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
54
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued    
The reason for the introduction of this plan was to 
provide a means by which to incentivise the executive 
directors and employees whilst aligning their interests 
more closely with those of the Company’s shareholders. 
The Committee has responsibility for supervising the 
CSOP and the grant of options in accordance with  
its rules.
Awards are made to executive directors and other 
employees at the discretion of the Committee. Awards 
for directors and other senior employees are subject to  
a three year retention period and the requirement that, 
subject to certain mitigating factors, the participant is  
an employee at the end of the retention period.
Since the introduction of the CSOP, the vesting of shares 
has been subject to a performance target based on the 
growth over the three year period in the Company’s 
Earnings per Share. Details of the targets for grants 
made in 2008 and prior years appear as notes to the 
table on page 60. The performance target for options 
granted in 2005 were met and vested in full. The 
performance target for the 2006 grants were not met, 
and these options therefore lapse.
Following a review of long term share reward structures, 
as applied across the Group from executive director level 
down, the Committee decided that the target for options 
under the CSOP would, for grants made in 2009, be 
based on relative Total Shareholder Return of the 
Company against a peer group. The peer group is 
shown below. 
Total Shareholder Return comparator group  
of companies
The following table shows the comparator companies 
for determining the relative TSR performance of the 
Company.
ARM Holdings plc Hewlett-Packard STMicroelectronics   
 Company N.V. 
Advanced Semiconductor Infineon Technologies AG  
Engineering Inc.   
ASML Holding N.V. INTEL CORPORATION SILICON  
  LABORATORIES INC.
Analog Devices Inc. Logitech International SA Skyworks Solutions,   
  Inc.
Apple Computer, Inc. Marvell Technology  Spirent plc 
 Group Ltd 
Atheros Communications, Motorola, Inc.  Synopsys Inc. 
Inc. 
austriamicrosystems AG National Semiconductor Taiwan  
 Corporation Semiconductor  
  Manufacturing   
  Company Limited
Bookham, Inc. Nokia Oyj  
Broadcom Corporation Nordic Semiconductor  TERADYNE, Inc. 
 ASA  
Cirrus Logic Inc. PMC-Sierra Inc. Texas Instruments   
  Incorporated
Conexant Systems, Inc.  Plantronics Inc. Wavecom SA
Dell Inc. QUALCOMM  Wolfson 
 Incorporated Microelectronics plc
Dialog Semiconductor plc  Research in  
  Motion Ltd 
GN Store Nord A/S SiRF Technology,  
 Holdings Inc.
 
The Committee decided that the thresholds to be met 
would be as follows. None of the options shall vest if the 
Company’s relative position is below median. 30% of a 
grant shall vest at median, with full vesting of a grant for 
performance at the upper quartile. Shares shall vest on  
a straight-line basis between the median and upper 
quartile, with no retesting of the performance condition  
if it is not met at the end of the three year period.
The performance condition is considered by the 
Committee to be challenging and appropriately aligned 
with shareholder interest to achieving sustained 
performance in the return to shareholders over the  
three year performance period. 
The rules of the CSOP do not allow for options to be 
granted at a discount to the Company’s share price  
at the date of grant.
The Company’s policy is to grant options to executive 
directors at the discretion of the Committee up to a 
maximum of 200% of salary, taking into account 
individual performance. Pursuant to the rules of the 
CSOP, the Committee also reserves to its discretion  
the right to grant awards at a higher proportion of basic 
salary which, in exceptional circumstances only, such  
as recruitment of a new executive or key employee, 
could be up to 400% of basic salary.
The Company operates an HM Revenue and Customs 
approved SAYE Share Option Scheme for eligible 
employees under which options may be granted at  
a discount of up to 20% of market value. Executive 
directors are eligible to participate in the SAYE Share 
Option Scheme.
Performance share awards 
At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2005, 
shareholders approved the introduction of a new Share 
Award Plan called the CSR Share Award Plan. Awards 
are made to executive directors and other employees at 
the discretion of the Committee. 
Since the introduction of the Share Award Plan, vesting 
of the Share Awards made to executive directors and 
senior management have been subject to Total 
Shareholder Return, (‘TSR’) over a fixed three year 
period with an additional requirement that the Company 
should have achieved a sustained improvement in 
underlying financial performance over the same three 
year period. Grants of share awards below this level 
(which have been small in value) have been subject  
only to employment at the end of the retention period.
With the decision to extend the grant of share awards 
with accompanying performance conditions to other 
employees, the Committee has decided that for grants  
in 2009, the performance condition for vesting will be 
earnings per share.  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
55
No significant amendments are proposed to be made  
to the terms and conditions of any entitlement of an 
executive director under these share incentive plans. 
The level of award is considered each year in the light  
of performance.
The Company monitors the awards of shares made 
under the various share plans which it operates in 
relation to their effect on dilution limits. Following 
shareholder approval at the 2005 Annual General 
Meeting, the Company is able to make selective share 
awards while maintaining the traditional overall 10% limit 
on awards as a proportion of the issued share capital in 
any rolling ten year period.
Conscious of the need to ensure that the satisfaction of 
issue of new shares to employees pursuant to its share 
schemes operates within ABI guidelines, the CSR 
Employee Benefit Trust (the ‘Trust’) was established 
during 2007. The Trust will enable the grant of shares  
to employees on exercise of vested options to be met by 
using shares acquired by the Trust in the open market.
During 2008, the Trust acquired in the open market  
an aggregate of 3,222,831 ordinary shares in CSR plc. 
This was satisfied through cash drawn down under the 
terms of a Loan Facility Agreement established at the 
time of the creation of the Trust. The details of each 
purchase of ordinary shares in CSR plc is shown in note 
26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 90.
Pension arrangements
Three of the executive directors serving at the year end 
are members of the Cambridge Silicon Radio Retirement 
Benefits Scheme (‘the UK Pension Plan’) which is an HM 
Revenue and Customs approved money purchase 
(defined contribution) scheme operated for eligible 
employees in the United Kingdom. One executive 
director has established their own personal pension  
plan to which the Company contributes.
The detail of the condition is that no Share Award will 
vest for a compound EPS growth of less than 7.5% per 
annum, adjusted for RPI. 30% vests for a compound 
EPS growth of 7.5% per annum, adjusted for RPI and  
full vesting of the share awards occurs for a compound 
EPS growth of 15% per annum adjusted for RPI. Share 
awards vest on a straight line basis for a compound  
EPS growth between 7.5% and 15% adjusted for RPI. 
There is no retesting of the performance condition if it is 
not met at the end of the three year performance period.
The Committee considers that these performance 
conditions are appropriate for the form of award and  
are suitably stretching.
Grants made in May 2005 completed the three year 
retention period in May 2008. Following completion of 
the three year performance period (1 January 2005 to  
31 December 2007) for these grants the Committee 
considered a report which had been prepared by an 
independent agency, Alithos Limited, on the Company’s 
TSR performance. That report concluded that the 
Company’s comparative TSR performance against its 
peer group resulted in a ranking that allowed for  
89.87% of the original grants to employees to vest. 
The TSR performance target for the grants made  
in 2006 were not met, and the Share Awards  
therefore lapse.
In accordance with the rules of the CSR Share Award 
Plan, the Committee will reserve the right to grant 
awards at a proportion of basic salary normally up to  
a maximum of 100% of salary (200% in exceptional 
circumstances). 
The table below summarises awards granted and 
exercised in 2008 under the CSR Share Award Plan,  
and the total awards held by each executive director  
at 2 January 2009 or at the termination of office. 
  Awards        
  held at  Date   Award Awards  Interests Performance 
  28 December of 2008 Awards Awards vesting exercised Lapsed held at 2 cycle for the 
Name  2007 award made price date in 2008 in 2008 January 2009 2008 Awards
J D Y Collier  62,365  05 March 2008 65,720 £3.16 05 March 2011 – (1,910) 126,175 1 January 2008 
           to 31 December  
          2010
P G G Goodridge  61,580 – – – – (15,278) (46,302) – n/a 
 
J A J van Beurden  93,603 05 March 2008 71,694 £3.16 05 March 2011 – –  1 January 2008  
          to 31 December 
           2010
J A J van Beurden  – 11 June 2008  23,250 £3.11 11 June 2011 – – 188,547 1 January 2008  
          to 31 December  
          2010
D D W Gardiner  – 11 June 2008 179,800 £3.11 11 June 2011 – – 179,800 1 January 2008  
          to 31 December  
          2010
C A Ladas  27,632 05 March 2008 36,096 £3.16 05 March 2011 (11,234) (1,266) 51,228 1 January 2008  
          to 31 December  
          2010 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
56
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued    
Contributions are determined as a percentage of the 
employee’s gross basic salary. Details of the actual 
contributions made by the Group to the UK Pension Plan 
on behalf of the executive directors are set out in the 
table on page 58. 
Normal retirement age is 65 for employees and  
executive directors. 
Other than basic salary, no element of the directors’ 
remuneration is pensionable. 
Share ownership
Executive directors are encouraged to build up a 
shareholding in the Company to a level equivalent to 
100% of their basic salary. This shareholding can be 
satisfied through retention of 50% (or more at the 
discretion of the director concerned) of the shares 
obtained as a result of participating in a Company share 
plan, net of the shares sold to finance option exercises  
or to pay a National Insurance or income tax liability or 
overseas equivalent. The programme specifically 
excludes the need for directors to make a personal 
investment should awards not vest. Normally the 
Committee would expect the executive director to 
achieve the holding within five years following 
appointment to the Board.
Performance graph
The graph below shows the Company’s performance, 
measured by total shareholder return, compared with 
the performance of the FTSE 250 index. 
The Company’s application to list on the London Stock 
Exchange was effective 2 March 2004.
The FTSE 250 index has been selected for this 
comparison because it is a broad equity index of which 
CSR plc is a constituent company. The graph covers the 
period since the Company was listed on the London 
Stock Exchange. 
Directors’ contracts
It is the Company’s policy that executive directors 
should have contracts of an indefinite term. All executive 
directors have a service contract which is subject to  
one year’s notice from the Company. Each of  
Mr van Beurden, Mr Collier, Mr Gardiner and Mr Ladas 
has a service agreement requiring them to give six 
months’ notice to the Company. 
The details of the directors’ service contracts and notice 
period from the Company under their respective 
contracts for those in office at the year end are 
summarised in the table below:
 Date of service  Period of 
Name of director contract notice
J A J van Beurden 29 September 2007 1 year
J D Y Collier 25 February 2004 1 year
D D W Gardiner  27 February 2008 1 year
C A Ladas  12 December 2007 1 year
In the event of termination, a director would be entitled to 
a payment not exceeding one year’s remuneration. In an 
appropriate case, the Company would have regard to the 
departing director’s duty to mitigate against costs to the 
Company.
Non-executive directors
All non-executive directors have specific terms of 
engagement provided in formal letters of appointment 
and their remuneration is determined by the Board 
within the limits set by the Articles of Association  
and based on independent surveys of fees paid to 
non-executive directors of similar companies. The fees 
for non-executive directors are considered annually.  
The non-executive directors are appointed for a fixed 
term, subject to re-appointment by the shareholders.  
All non-executive directors are appointed for a fixed 
three year term, with the exception of Mr Tucker whose 
letter of appointment was renewed in January 2007  
for two years. 
The terms and conditions of appointment are available 
for inspection at the Company’s registered office during 
normal business hours on request to the Company 
Secretary and up to 15 minutes prior to and at the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting.
In April 2008, the Board reviewed the fees payable to  
non-executive directors and concluded the basic fee 
should be increased for a non-executive director from 
£38,160 to £42,000. The fee for Mr Tucker, who acts as 
both Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior 
Independent Director was increased from £48,760 to 
£53,500. The fee paid to Mr Giacoletto, who acts as 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee was increased 
from £43,460 to £47,700. The fee paid to Mr Mackintosh 
as Chairman of the Board was increased from £160,000 
to £170,000. These increases were made taking account 
of advice provided by Hewitt New Bridge Street.
-100.0%
0.0%
100.0%
200.0%
300.0%
400.0%
500.0%
600.0%
02/03/04
31/12/04
30/12/05
29/12/06
28/12/07
02/01/09
CSR FTSE 250 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
57
Each of the increases in fees took effect from  
1 May 2008.
The fees of the non-executive directors and the 
Chairman were reviewed in December 2008 when it  
was determined that the fees would remain unchanged. 
The Board will keep under review whether any increases 
are warranted later in 2009.
Non-executive directors do not receive any bonus, do 
not participate in awards under the Company’s share 
schemes and are not eligible to join the Company’s 
pension scheme. 
Mr Allner who is proposed for election, being a non-
executive director, does not have a service contract.
During 2008 the letter of appointment for Mr Carlisle fell 
due for review following the completion of his initial three 
year term of appointment. Mr Carlisle was re-appointed 
for a further three year term to July 2011.
 Date of letter   Duration of  
Name of director of appointment  appointment
D L Tucker
1
 23 January 2007  2 years
R W Mackintosh 2 May 2007  3 years
A E C G Carlisle 23 September 2008  3 years
S Giacoletto 4 January 2007  3 years
A J Allner 23 September 2008  3 years
1 The appointment letter of Mr Tucker has been extended on its 
prevailing terms through to 27 May 2009, being the date of the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting, on conclusion of which, Mr Tucker 
will stand down as a non-executive director.
Outside appointments
Executive directors are entitled to accept appointments 
outside the Company provided that the Chairman’s 
permission is sought prior to accepting the appointment. 
Whether or not the director concerned is permitted to 
retain their fees is considered on a case by case basis.  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
58
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued    
Audited Information
Directors emoluments or fees 
The emoluments or fees of the directors serving during the year, for the financial years 2007 and 2008 were as follows:
      Emoluments     
      in respect   
      of a person   
    Other accepting office   
 Fees/Basic salary Benefits-in-kind Annual bonuses emoluments  as a director 2008 total 2007 total 
Name of director $ $ $ $ $ $ $
Executive       
J D Y Collier 528,482 1,805 – – – 530,287 540,769
G Collinson* – – – – – – 185,555
P G G Goodridge
†
 99,532 13,463 – – – 112,995 485,774
J C Scarisbrick
‡
 – – – – – – 1,959,766
J A J van Beurden
•
 593,580 21,504 – – – 615,084 541,596
C A Ladas
¥
 300,000 30,706 – 470,495 – 801,201 –
D D W Gardiner 334,916 1,055 83,852 – 339,426 759,249 –
       
Non-executive       
J W Whybrow* – – – – – – 87,637
D L Tucker 102,733 – – – – 102,733 90,740
R W Macintosh 329,775 – – – – 329,775 229,671
A E C G Carlisle 80,572 – – – – 80,572 71,014
S Giacoletto 91,586 – – – – 91,586 73,616
A J Allner 20,788 – – – – 20,788 –
Total 2,481,964 68,533 83,852 470,495 339,426 3,444,270 4,266,138
The salary for Mr Ladas and the fees of Mr Giacoletto were paid in US Dollars. In 2007, the salary for Mr Scarisbrick was paid partly in US Dollars and partly  
in Pounds Sterling. The salary and fees for other directors were paid in Pounds Sterling but denominated in US Dollars for reporting purposes, consistent with  
the accounting policies of the Company.
* Resigned 2 May 2007
† 
Resigned 29 February 2008 remaining employed to 31 May 2008
‡ 
 Stood down 1 November 2007 as CEO, remaining employed to 31 December 2007. The fees for Mr Scarisbrick shown above are for the period to 28 December 2007  
which were paid partly in US Dollars and partly in Pounds Sterling
•  
Mr van Beurden will receive a bonus of £150,000 in February 2009 which was disclosed in 2007 as part of his emoluments in respect of a person accepting office  
as a director
¥
 
 Other emoluments represents the cost met by the Company for travel to the UK and temporary residence for Mr Ladas, a US citizen and resident in California in connection 
with the performance of his duties. The benefits are consistent with those provided to Mr Ladas prior to his appointment as an executive director. Mr Ladas heads the 
Operations function of the Group, a post he has held since 2000 and he is responsible for managing the manufacture and supply of the Company’s products in which 
capacity he is required to undertake extensive travel around the world. csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
59
Aggregate directors’ remuneration
The aggregate directors’ remuneration was as follows:
       2008 2007 
       $ $
Emoluments       3,444,270 4,266,138
Gains on exercise of share options      26,000 935,866
Money purchase pension contributions      240,810 166,208
       3,711,080 5,368,212
Directors’ pension entitlements
Contributions paid or accrued by the Group in respect of the directors during the year were as follows:
       2008 2007 
       $ $
J D Y Collier       76,176 68,284
G Collinson       – 22,859
P G G Goodridge       10,645 61,317
J A J van Beurden       83,101 13,748
D D W Gardiner       46,888 –
C A Ladas       24,000 –
       240,810 166,208
Directors’ share options
Aggregate emoluments disclosed on page 58 do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the 
Company granted to or held by the directors.
Details of the options exercised by directors during their period of appointment in 2008 and details of the gains arising on the exercise of 
options in the 53 week period to 2 January 2009 and the prior year are shown below:
       Gains on
 Grant Date of Number  Market value  Gains on   exercise 
Name of director description  exercise  exercised  Cost per share per share exercise 2007
    £ £ $ $
      Note (i) 
C A Ladas Performance  04 December 
 award 2008 11,234 0.001 1.565 26,000 –
J D Y Collier SAYE 05 June 2007 5,013 1.880 7.706 – 58,236
P G G Goodridge* SAYE 26 June 2007 5,013 1.880 7.603 – 57,359
*Resigned 29 February 2008 
Note (i): The US $ gain represents the number of options exercised multiplied by the market value per share shown in Pounds Sterling and translated at the US $/ Pounds 
Sterling exchange rate prevailing on the date of exercise. 
  csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
60
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT continued    
Details of options for directors who served during the year or have been appointed since the year end but prior to the approval  
of this report are shown below:
  29 Dec 2007      
  (or date of    2 Jan 2009 Exercise Date from
Name of  appointment)     (or date of  Price £ which  
Director Scheme Note (iii) Granted Exercised Lapsed cessation) Note (iii) exercisable Expiry date
J D Y Collier Founders 382,002 – – – 382,002 0.054 01-Apr-00 (i) 01-Sep-09
 Global 120,000 – – – 120,000 0.503 10-May-01 (i) 10-May-10
 CSOP 75,000 – – – 75,000 2.000 26-Feb-07 (iv) 26-Feb-14
 CSOP 62,350 – – – 62,350 3.210 05-May-08 (vi) 05-May-15
 Performance award 18,850 – – (1,910) 16,940 0.001 05-May-08 (vii) 05-May-15
 CSOP 24,525 – – – 24,525 9.990 01-Mar-09 (viii) 01-Mar-16
 Performance award 18,393 – – – 18,393 0.001 01-Mar-09 (vii) 01-Mar-16
 Performance award 25,122 – – – 25,122 0.001 28-Feb-10 (vii) 28-Feb-17
 CSOP 33,496 – – – 33,496 7.680 28-Feb-10 (ix) 28-Feb-17
 SAYE 1,615 – – (1,615) – 5.848 28-Mar-10 (v) 28-Sep-10
 CSOP – 87,025 – – 87,025 3.160 05-Mar-11 (xi) 05-Mar-18
 Performance award – 65,720 – – 65,720 0.001 05-Mar-11 (vii) 05-Mar-18
 SAYE – 3,797 – – 3,797 2.528 28-Mar-11 (v) 28-Sep-11
P G G Goodridge* Global 240 – – – 240 2.385 31-Dec-02 (i) 31-Aug-08
 Global 37,500 – – – 37,500 1.010 31-Dec-02 (i) 31-Aug-08
 Global 44,820 – – – 44,820 1.010 30-Sep-03 (i) 31-Aug-08
 Global 40,000 – – (4,000) 36,000 1.025 31-Dec-03 (ii) 31-Aug-08
 CSOP 12,765 – – – 12,765 2.350 26-Feb-07 (iv) 30-Nov-08
 CSOP 54,235 – – – 54,235 2.000 26-Feb-07 (iv) 30-Nov-08
 CSOP 56,100 – – – 56,100 3.210 06-Jun-08 (xiii) 30-Nov-08
 Performance award 17,000 – – (1,722) 15,278 0.001 05-May-08 (vii) 30-Nov-08
 CSOP 33,033 – – (33,033) – 9.990 – 27-Feb-08
 Performance award 22,022 – – (22,022) – 0.001 – 27-Feb-08
 Performance award 22,558 – – (22,558) – 0.001 – 27-Feb-08
 CSOP 30,078 – – (30,078) – 7.680 – 27-Feb-08
J A J van Beurden CSOP 186,190 – – – 186,190 6.445 14-Nov-10 (xi) 14-Nov-17
 Performance award 93,603 – – – 93,603 0.001 14-Nov-10 (vii) 14-Nov-17
 Recruitment award 25,000 – – – 25,000 0.001 14-Nov-10 (x) 14-Dec-10
 CSOP – 94,936 – – 94,936 3.160 05-Mar-11 (xi) 05-Mar-18
 Performance award – 71,694 – – 71,694 0.001 05-Mar-11 (vii) 05-Mar-18
 SAYE – 3,797 – – 3,797 2.528 28-Mar-11 (v) 28-Sep-11
 Performance award – 23,250 – – 23,250 0.001 11-Jun-11 (vii) 11-Jun-18
 CSOP – 96,463 – – 96,463 3.110 11-Jun-11 (xi) 11-Jun-18
C A Ladas Global 48,751 – – – 48,751 0.503 15-May-01 (i) 15-May-10
 CSOP 67,000 – – – 67,000 2.000 26-Feb-07 (iv) 26-Feb-14
 CSOP 20,600 – – – 20,600 3.210 05-May-08 (vi) 05-May-15
 Performance award 12,500 – (11,234) (1,266) – 0.001 05-May-08 (vii) 05-May-15
 CSOP 11,000 – – – 11,000 12.410 25-May-09 (viii) 25-May-16
 Performance award 6,000 – – – 6,000 0.001 25-May-09 (vii) 25-May-16
 Performance award 9,132 – – – 9,132 0.001 05-Jun-10 (vii) 05-Jun-17
 CSOP 18,264 – – – 18,264 7.860 05-Jun-10 (ix) 05-Jun-17
 CSOP – 47,798 – – 47,798 3.160 05-Mar-11 (xi) 05-Mar-18
 Performance award – 36,096 – – 36,096 0.001 05-Mar-11 (vii) 05-Mar-18
D D W Gardiner CSOP – 279,742 – – 279,742 3.110 11-Jun-11 (xi) 11-Jun-18
 Performance award – 179,800 – – 179,800 0.001 11-Jun-11 (vii) 11-Jun-18
 Recruitment award – 20,000 – – 20,000 0.001 11-Jun-11 (xii) 11-Jul-11
Total  1,629,744 1,010,118 (11,234) (118,204) 2,510,424   
*Resigned 29 February 2008 csr plc a nnual r eport and financial statements 2008
61 
Note (i): Vesting of option 20% on anniversary of grant, then 5% each subsequent calendar quarter end (31 March, 30 June, 30 September, 31 December) for 16 quarters.
Note (ii): Vesting of option 5% each calendar quarter end (31 March, 30 June, 30 September, 31 December) for 20 quarters.
Note (iii): Option numbers are adjusted to reflect changes to the share capital structure on listing in March 2004.
Note (iv): Options granted to Directors under the CSOP scheme in 2004 vest after three years and have certain performance criteria attached. The options vest in proportions 
from 10% – 100% dependent upon the EPS achieved by the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006, the target EPS is in the range $0.17 to $0.26. Thereafter the option 
may be exercised for the rest of its ten year life without further test. The performance condition was satisfied and the options have vested.
Note (v): Options granted under the SAYE scheme vest after three years and must be exercised within 6 months of vesting date.
Note (vi): Options granted under the CSOP scheme vest after three years and have certain performance criteria attached. For options to vest, the EPS growth must  
be greater than the growth in the RPI plus a compound 4% per annum over a fixed period of three financial years beginning in January 2005. The performance condition  
was satisfied and the options have vested.
Note (vii): Shares granted under the Share Award scheme in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 vest after three years and have certain performance conditions attached.  
The shares vest in proportions from 30% to 100% dependent on the Company’s TSR against a basket of comparator companies established at the start of the three year 
period and thereafter only if the Company’s underlying financial performance has improved to the satisfaction of the Remuneration Committee, details of which shall be 
disclosed to shareholders in reports of the Remuneration Committee subsequent to the determination of the Committee. The performance condition for 2006 has not  
been satisfied and therefore the options have lapsed.
Note (viii): Options granted under the CSOP scheme in 2006 also vest after three years and have performance criteria attached. No options will vest if EPS growth  
is below a compound 12% per annum plus RPI. If the Company’s EPS growth meets or exceeds a compound of 12% per annum plus RPI, 30% of the share options will vest. 
If the Company’s EPS growth meets or exceeds a compound 14% per annum plus RPI an additional 50% of the share options will vest. If the Company’s EPS growth meets 
or exceeds a compound 17% per annum plus RPI all options will vest. The performance condition for the grant in 2006 has not been satisfied and therefore the options  
have lapsed.
Note (ix): Options granted under the CSOP scheme in 2007 between 1 January 2007 and 31 August 2007 also vest after three years and have performance criteria attached. 
No options will vest if EPS growth is below a compound 12% per annum plus RPI. If the Company’s EPS growth meets or exceeds a compound of 12% per annum plus RPI, 
30% of the share options will vest. If the Company’s EPS growth meets or exceeds a compound 14% per annum plus RPI an additional 50% of the share options will vest.  
If the Company’s EPS growth meets or exceeds a compound 17% per annum plus RPI all options will vest. 
Note (x): To facilitate the recruitment of Mr van Beurden, the Company agreed to award Mr van Beurden 25,000 ordinary shares in the Company. The award is subject to 
vesting after the satisfaction of conditions relating to service.
Note (xi): Options granted under the CSOP scheme after August 2007 also vest after three years and have performance criteria attached. No options will vest if EPS growth  
is below a compound 5% per annum plus RPI. If the Company’s EPS growth is equal to compound 5% per annum plus RPI, 30% of the share options will vest. For EPS 
performance above a compound 5% per annum plus RPI up to a compound 12.5% RPI per annum, the proportion of shares that shall vest is determined on a straight line 
basis pro-rata between 30% and 100%. If the Company’s EPS growth over the three year performance period exceeds a compound 12.5% per annum plus RPI, all the 
options vest. 
Note (xii): To facilitate the recruitment of Mr Gardiner, the Company agreed to award Mr Gardiner 20,000 ordinary shares in the Company. The award is subject to vesting  
after the satisfaction of conditions relating to service.
Note (xiii) Details of the changes in Mr Goodridge’s share options associated with his cessation of office and employment are given on pages 50 and 51.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 2 January 2009 was £1.79 and the range during the year was £1.50 to £6.00.
This report was approved by the Board of directors and signed on its behalf by:
S Giacoletto  
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
9 February 2009 62
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements. The directors 
are required by the International Auditing Standards (IAS) Regulation to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare financial statements 
for the Company in accordance with IFRS. Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with the 
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Company’s financial position, 
financial performance and cash flows. This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in 
accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting 
Standards Board’s ‘Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements’. In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation 
will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards. Directors are also required to:
– properly select and apply accounting policies; 
–  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; 
and
–  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the 
impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and 
for the preparation of a directors’ report and directors’ remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other 
jurisdictions. 
Each of the persons who is directors at the date of the approval of this report confirms that:
–  so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware.
–  the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of the relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
–  the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of CSR and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
–  the report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The directors, having prepared the Financial Statements, have permitted the auditors to take whatever steps they consider appropriate for the 
purpose of enabling them to give their audit opinion.  63
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
Independent auditors’ report to the members of CSR plc
We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements (the ‘Financial Statements’) of CSR plc for the 53 week period ended  
2 January 2009 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and parent Company balance sheets, the consolidated 
and parent Company cash flow statements, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the parent Company statement of 
changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 48. These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. 
We have also audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report 
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company 
and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of 
Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with 
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Statements and the 
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the 
Directors’ Report is consistent with the Financial Statements. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not 
disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined 
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to 
consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s 
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with 
the audited financial statements. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 
inconsistencies with the Financial Statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.  
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the 
directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s 
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide 
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated 
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited. 
Opinion
In our opinion:
	 •	 	 the	 Group	 financial	 statements	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view,	 in	 accordance	 with	 IFRSs	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	 European	 Union,	 of	 the	 state	 of	 the	
Group’s affairs as at 2 January 2009 and of its loss for the 53 week period then ended;
	 •	 	 the	 parent	 Company	 financial	 statements	 give	 a	 true	 and	 fair	 view,	 in	 accordance	 with	 IFRSs	 as	 adopted	 by	 the	 European	 Union	 as	
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent Company’s affairs as at 2 January 2009; 
	 •	 	 the	 Financial	 Statements	 and	 the	 part	 of	 the	 Directors’	 Remuneration	 Report	 to	 be	 audited	 have	 been	 properly	 prepared	 in	 accordance	
with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
	 •	 the	 information	 given	 in	 the	 Directors’	 Report	 is	 consistent	 with	 the	 Financial	 Statements.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs
As explained in Note 3 to the Group financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at  
2 January 2009 and of its loss for the 53 week period then ended.
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, 
London, United Kingdom 
9 February 2009
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 64
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
      Notes $’000 $’000
Revenue      5,6 694,865 848,622
Cost of sales       (385,037) (452,348)
Gross profit       309,828 396,274
Underlying research and development      (152,749) (140,932)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets     14 (5,418) (6,609)
Research and development       (158,167) (147,541)
Sales and marketing       (58,119) (55,667)
Underlying administrative expenses      (33,716) (27,689)
Asset impairment      29 (52,918) –
Restructuring      30 (14,445) –
Patent dispute settlement       – (15,000)
Deferred tax adjustment to goodwill     13 (978) (279)
Administrative expenses       (102,057) (42,968)
Underlying operating profit       65,244 171,986
Asset impairment       (52,918) –
Restructuring       (14,445) –
Patent dispute settlement       – (15,000) 
Deferred tax adjustment to goodwill      (978) (279)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets       (5,418)  (6,609)
Operating (loss) profit       (8,515) 150,098
Investment income      5 6,139 7,938
Finance costs      10 (4,075) (2,437)
(Loss) profit before tax       (6,451) 155,599
Tax      11 (488) (42,795)
(Loss) profit for the period      7 (6,939) 112,804
   
(Loss) earnings per share       $ $
Basic      12 (0.05) 0.86
   
Diluted      12 (0.05) 0.83
The results were all derived from continuing operations.
The loss for the period and profit for the prior period is wholly attributable to equity holders of the parent company, CSR plc.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOgNISED INCOME AND ExPENSE  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
      Notes $’000 $’000
Loss on cash flow hedges      26 (31,677) (4,906)
Adjustments to deferred tax from reduced UK tax rates    20 – (11)
Net tax on cash flow hedges in equity     26 8,930 1,382
Net expense recognised directly in equity      (22,747) (3,535)
   
Transfers   
Transferred to income statement in respect of cash flow hedges    26 7,316 836
Tax on items transferred from equity     26 (2,052) (225)
(Loss) profit for the period       (6,939) 112,804
Total recognised income and expense for the period     (24,422) 109,880 65
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
      Notes 2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Non-current assets   
Goodwill      13 106,322 144,207
Other intangible assets      14 20,797 45,144
Property, plant and equipment      15 48,173 52,924
Deferred tax asset      20 6,481 7,021
       181,773 249,296
Current assets   
Inventory      17 66,201 77,256
Derivative financial instruments      19 – 696
Trade and other receivables      18 81,809 97,206
Treasury deposits      18 81,000 52,065
Cash and cash equivalents       18 180,898 193,311
       409,908 420,534
Total assets       591,681 669,830
   
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables      22 62,170 93,376
Current tax liabilities       1,648 26,851
Obligations under finance leases     21 1,057 3,108
Derivative financial instruments      19 32,062 1,080
Provisions      24 4,408 2,414
Contingent consideration      23 753 25,988
       102,098 152,817
Net current assets       307,810 267,717
   
Non-current liabilities   
Deferred tax liability       20 4,002 8,208
Contingent consideration      23 16,747 –
Long-term provisions      24 1,795 –
Obligations under finance leases      21 293 142
       22,837 8,350
Total liabilities       124,935 161,167
Net assets       466,746 508,663
 
Equity   
Share capital      25 238 236
Share premium account      26 91,448 89,926
Capital redemption reserve      26 950 950
Employee benefit trust reserve      26 (40,224) (20,025)
Merger reserve      26 61,574 61,574
Hedging reserve      26 (25,260) (899)
Share-based payment reserve      26 27,864 20,278
Tax reserve      26 35,770 35,298
Retained earnings      26 314,386 321,325
Total equity       466,746 508,663
These financial statements were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 9 February 2009. 
They were signed on its behalf by:
Will Gardiner Ron Mackintosh
9 February 2009 9 February 2009
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  2 January 2009 66
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 28 December 
       2009 2007 
      Notes $’000 $’000
Net cash from operating activities     27 66,301 222,178
Investing activities   
Interest received       6,187 7,752
Purchase of treasury deposits       (28,935) (22,065)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment      (20,232) (24,382)
Purchases of intangible assets       (2,448) (5,098)
Acquisition of subsidiaries       (11,689) (81,946)
Net cash used in investing activities      (57,117) (125,739)
Financing activities   
Repayments of obligations under finance leases      (279) (5,924)
Purchases of own shares       (20,199) (20,025)
Proceeds on issue of shares        1,524 5,824
Net cash used in financing activities      (18,954) (20,125)
   
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents     (9,770) 76,314
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period     193,311 117,494
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes      (2,643) (497)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period      180,898 193,311
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009 67
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
1 General information
CSR plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985. The address of the registered office is given on 
page 105. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in note 6. 
These financial statements are presented in US Dollars because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group 
operates. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
These financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis. A detailed discussion of going concern is given on page 49 of the 
Directors Report in the section titled Going Concern.
2 Adoption of new and revised standards
In the current year, two interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the period. 
These are: IFRIC 11 ‘IFRS2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions’, which was early adopted by the Group in 2006, and IFRIC 14 ‘The 
Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, the adoption of which has not led to any change in the 
Group’s accounting policies.
The Group adopted IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ in advance of its effective date with effect from 30 December 2006.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not yet been applied in these 
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective (and in some cases, had not yet been adopted by the EU): 
IFRS 1 (amended)/ IAS 27 (amended) Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate
IFRS 2 (amended) Share-based payment – Vesting Conditions and Cancellations
IFRS 3 (revised 2008) Business Combinations
IAS 1 (revised 2007) Presentation of Financial Statements
IAS 23 (revised 2007) Borrowing Costs
IAS 27 (revised 2008) Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements
IAS 32 (amended)/ IAS 1 (amended) Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation
IFRIC 12  Service Concession Arrangements
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate
IFRIC 16  Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation
Improvements of IFRSs (May 2008)
 
The directors anticipate that, other than detailed below, the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no 
material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of IFRS 3 (revised) may have a significant impact on the profit (loss) before tax and effective tax rate in 
future years. The adoption of the standard removes the requirement to adjust goodwill after the normal 12 month period following the business 
combination, when recognising a deferred tax asset for pre-acquisition losses of an acquired subsidiary in certain circumstances. As disclosed 
in note 20, the Group has significant unrecognised tax losses which may become recognisable in future periods after the adoption of this 
standard. The Group is reviewing when it will adopt this standard, but notes that at the current time it has yet to be adopted by the European 
Union, and the earliest date of application is for periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009.
3 Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’). The Financial Statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by 
the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. 
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments. The principal 
accounting policies adopted are set out below. 
The Financial Statements cover the 53 week period from 29 December 2007 to 2 January 2009; the comparatives are presented for the 52 
week period from 30 December 2006 to 28 December 2007. The Financial Statements are reported on a 52 or 53 week basis to be consistent 
with the Group’s internal reporting.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
68
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
3 Accounting policies (continued)
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the Financial Statements of CSR plc (the Company) and entities controlled by the Company 
(its subsidiaries) drawn up to the dates indicated in the primary financial statements. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to 
govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of 
acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the Financial Statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those 
used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the 
fair value, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for 
control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination. 
On acquisition, the identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair value at the date of 
acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any 
deficiency of the cost of the acquisition below the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to 
profit or loss in the period of acquisition. 
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable 
assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially measured as an asset at 
cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for 
impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to benefit from the 
synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested annually or more frequently when there 
is an indication that the unit may be impaired. To determine the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit, the Group uses discounted 
projected cash flows based on approved budgets and projections covering a period up to five years and estimates growth rates, terminal 
growth rates and discount rates specific for the economic environment within which the cash-generating unit is operating. If the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying 
amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in 
the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit 
or loss on disposal.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and delivery has occurred or the service has been 
provided, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. These criteria are generally met at the time the 
product is shipped and delivered to the customer and, depending on the delivery conditions, title and risk have passed to the customer and 
acceptance of the product, when contractually required, has been obtained, or, in cases where such acceptance is not contractually required, 
when management has established that all aforementioned conditions for revenue recognition have been met and no further post-shipment 
obligations exist other than obligations under warranty. Examples of the above-mentioned delivery conditions are ‘Free on Board point 
of delivery’ and ‘Costs, Insurance Paid point of delivery’, where the point of delivery may be the shipping warehouse or any other point of 
destination as agreed in the contract with the customer and where title and risk in the goods pass to the customer. 
Revenues are recorded net of sales taxes, customer discounts, rebates and similar charges.
For products for which a right of return exists during a defined period, revenue recognition is determined based on the historical pattern of 
actual returns, or in cases where such information is lacking, revenue recognition is postponed until the return period has lapsed. Return 
policies are typically based on customary return arrangements in local markets. Revenue is shown net of estimated provision for credit notes 
and returns.
Shipping and handling costs billed to customers are recognised as revenues. 
A provision for product warranty is made at the time of revenue recognition and reflects the estimated costs of replacement and free of-charge 
services that will be incurred by the Company with respect to the sold products. 
Royalty income, which is generally earned based upon a percentage of sales or a fixed amount per royalty earning product, is recognised upon 
shipment by the licencee. 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 69
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
3 Accounting policies (continued)
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease 
payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance 
lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant 
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement. 
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Foreign currencies
The functional currency of CSR plc is the US Dollar and this is also the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements. 
Transactions in currencies other than US Dollars are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each 
balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the 
balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the 
rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the net profit or loss 
for the period, except for exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks (see policy on Hedge 
Accounting). 
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts (see Financial Instruments policy for 
details of the Group’s accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments).
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet 
date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. Currency translation differences are recognised 
directly in equity.
Operating (loss) profit
Operating (loss) profit is stated before investment income and finance costs.
Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Differences between contributions 
payable in the period and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax payable is based on taxable (loss) profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet 
liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences, unused carried forward 
tax losses and unused carried forward tax credits can be utilised. However, such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary 
differences arise from:
	 •	 the	 initial	 recognition	 of	 goodwill;	
	 •	 	 the	 initial	 recognition	 (other	 than	 in	 a	 business	 combination)	 of	 other	 assets	 and	 liabilities	 in	 a	 transaction	 that	 affects	 neither	 the	 taxable	
profit nor the accounting profit;
	 	 •	 	 investments	 in	 subsidiaries	 and	 associates,	 and	 interests	 in	 joint	 ventures,	 where	 the	 Group	 is	 able	 to	 control	 the	 reversal	 of	 the	
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred 
tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case 
deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
70
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
3 Accounting policies (continued)
Taxation (continued)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and 
when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a 
net basis. 
Government grants, by means of tax relief for Research and Development expenditure, are recognised as income as qualified expenditures are 
made.
Property, plant and equipment
Plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of the assets, less estimated residual value, over their estimated useful lives, using the 
straight line method, on the following basis:
Computer equipment 2 to 3 years
Test equipment 2 to 5 years
Office equipment 3 years
Furniture and fittings 5 years
Leasehold improvements minimum lease period
Residual values are the estimated amount that the Group would obtain from disposal of the asset, after deducting estimated costs of disposal, 
if the asset were already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet 
date.
In general residual values are zero or negligible, due to the technical and specialised nature of assets held. Residual values are reviewed 
annually.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over 
the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses. Costs included are those that directly relate to 
the construction of the asset. Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible fixed assets are stated at cost or fair value for items acquired in business combinations, net of amortisation and any provision 
for impairment. No amortisation is provided on assets in the course of construction. On other intangible fixed assets, amortisation is provided at 
rates calculated to write off the cost or fair value, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life 
as follows:
Software licences licence term
Customer contracts and relationships 3 years
Purchased R&D 4 to 10 years
Residual values are the estimated amount that the Group would obtain from disposal of the asset, after deducting estimated costs of disposal, 
if the asset were already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet 
date.
In general residual values are zero or negligible, due to the technical and specialised nature of assets held. Residual values are reviewed 
annually.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over 
the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost net of any provision for impairment. Costs included are those that directly relate to the 
construction or production of the asset. Amortisation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use. 71
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
3 Accounting policies (continued)
Research and development expenditure
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Group’s product development is recognised only if all of the following conditions  
are met:
	 •	 an	 asset	 is	 created	 that	 can	 be	 identified	 (such	 as	 a	 new	 device	 or	 software);
	 •	 the	 project	 from	 which	 the	 asset	 arises	 meets	 the	 Group’s	 criteria	 for	 assessing	 technical	 feasibility;	
	 •	 it	 is	 probable	 that	 the	 asset	 created	 will	 generate	 future	 economic	 benefits;	 and
	 •	 the	 development	 cost	 of	 the	 asset	 can	 be	 measured	 reliably.
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives. Where no internally generated intangible 
asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated 
in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other 
assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an 
indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately. After the 
recognition of an impairment loss, any depreciation or amortisation charge for the asset is adjusted for future periods to allocate the asset’s 
revised carrying value, less estimated residual value, on a systematic basis, over its remaining useful life.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate 
of its recoverable amount, but the reversal is limited so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment 
loss is recognised as income immediately.
 
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, those overheads 
that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Cost is calculated using the first-in-first-out 
(FIFO) method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in 
marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified 
as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment or 
appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for 
short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial. 
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms 
require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, including 
transaction costs. 
Investments consist of money market deposits in USD, GBP and Euros. Interest income is recorded as it accrues over the period of the 
investment at rates fixed at the time of inception. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily 
available convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
72
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
3 Accounting policies (continued)
Financial instruments (continued)
Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire; or it transfers the financial 
asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest 
in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. 
Impairment
Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. Financial assets are impaired when there is objective 
evidence that, as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, the estimated future cash flows of 
the investment have been impaired.
Objective evidence of impairment could include significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the counterparty; or default or delinquency in 
interest or principal payments; or it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade 
receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is considered 
uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the 
allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. 
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction cost. Subsequently these are measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest recognised on an effective yield basis.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity 
instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL (Fair value through profit and loss)
Financial liabilities are classified as FVTPL where the financial liability has been designated as FVTPL.
A financial liability may be designated as FVTPL upon initial recognition if: 
	 •	 	 such	 designation	 eliminates	 or	 significantly	 reduces	 a	 measurement	 or	 recognition	 inconsistency	 that	 would	 otherwise	 arise;	 or
	 •	 	 the	 financial	 liability	 forms	 part	 of	 a	 group	 of	 financial	 assets	 or	 financial	 liabilities	 or	 both,	 which	 is	 managed	 and	 its	 performance	
evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s documented risk management or investment strategy, and information 
about the Group is provided internally on that basis; or
	 •	 	 it	 forms	 part	 of	 a	 contract	 containing	 one	 or	 more	 embedded	 derivatives,	 and	 IAS	 39	 Financial	 Instruments:	 Recognition	 and	
Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The Group uses foreign 
exchange forward contracts to hedge these exposures. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 33 to the Financial Statements.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by the Board of directors, which provides written principles on 
the use of financial derivatives. The Group’s policy is to hedge between 75% and 90% of forecast GBP expenditure for the following 11 to 15 
months. 
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative 
is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the 
hedge relationship.
  73
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
3 Accounting policies (continued)
Financial instruments (continued)
Hedge accounting
Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along 
with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and 
on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting 
changes in cash flows of the hedged item.
Note 19 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes. Movements in the hedging reserve in equity 
are also detailed in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.  
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled into profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss. When the forecast 
transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred 
in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, 
exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is 
recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, 
the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
 
Provisions
Provisions for warranty and returns costs are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products, at the directors’ best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the Group’s liability.
Provision is made for onerous contracts at the fair value of the minimum unavoidable lease payments, net of any amounts recoverable from 
sub-leases.
Share-based payment
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’. In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been 
applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005. 
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, including share options with non-market based vesting 
conditions. Equity settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date 
of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of 
shares that will eventually vest.
For grants where the options vest in instalments over the vesting period each instalment is treated as a separate grant, which results in the fair 
value of each instalment being spread across the vesting period of that instalment. 
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model for the majority of share options in issue. The expected life used in the model has been 
adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
For certain share options which include TSR related condition the fair value is estimated through the use of a Monte-Carlo simulation.
Employee benefit trust
The Group has established an employee benefit trust which is a separately administered trust and is funded by loans from Group companies. 
The assets of the trust comprise shares in CSR plc and cash balances. The Group recognises assets and liabilities of the trust in the 
consolidated accounts and shares held by the trust are recorded at cost as a deduction from shareholders’ equity.
4 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and uncertainty
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. The preparation of financial 
statements requires the directors to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amounts of assets and 
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise 
of judgement based on various assumptions and other factors such as historical experience, current and expected economic conditions. The 
directors constantly re-evaluate these significant factors and makes adjustments where facts and circumstances dictate. The directors believe 
that the following accounting policies are critical due to the degree of estimation required and / or the potential material impact they may have 
on the Group’s financial position and performance. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
74
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
4 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and uncertainty (continued)
Inventory valuation
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Provisions for excess or obsolete inventory are recorded based upon 
assumptions about future demand and market conditions. 
The level of inventory provisioning required is sensitive to changes in the forecast sales of particular products which is dependent on changes 
in conditions in the Group’s markets. If changes in actual market conditions are less favourable than those projected, additional inventory 
provisions may be required; similarly if changes in actual market conditions are more favourable than predicted, the Group may be able to 
release a proportion of the inventory provision.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets
The Group assesses the carrying value of identifiable intangible assets, long-lived assets and goodwill annually, or more frequently if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors considered important, which could trigger an 
impairment review, include the following: 
 
	 •	 significant	 underperformance	 relative	 to	 historical	 or	 projected	 future	 results;	
	 •	 significant	 changes	 in	 the	 manner	 of	 our	 use	 of	 the	 acquired	 assets	 or	 the	 strategy	 for	 our	 overall	 business;	 and	
 
	 •	 significantly	 negative	 industry	 or	 economic	 trends.	
 
This assessment is based upon projections of anticipated discounted future cash flows. The most significant variables in determining cash 
flows are discount rates, terminal values, the number of years on which to base the cash flow projections, as well as the assumptions and 
estimates used to determine the cash inflows and outflows. The Group determines discount rates to be used based on the risk inherent in the 
related activity’s current business model and industry comparisons. Terminal values are based on the expected life of products and forecasted 
life cycle and forecasted cash flows over that period. While the Group believes that its assumptions are appropriate, such amounts estimated 
could differ materially from what will actually occur in the future. In assessing goodwill, these discounted cash flows are prepared  
at a cash-generating unit level.
In accordance with IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’ the Group has identified its operating segments based on the information provided to the 
Chief Operating Decision Maker. For the purposes of assessing the carrying value of goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated to 
cash generating units.
Note 13 to the Financial Statements provides further disclosures on the assumptions underlying the impairment review and the allocation of 
goodwill to cash generating units.
Provisions for returns and warranty claims
The Group provides for the estimated cost of returns and product warranties at the time revenue is recognised. The Group’s products are 
covered by product warranty plans of varying periods, depending on local practices and regulations. While the Group engages in extensive 
product quality programmes and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of its component suppliers, warranty 
obligations are affected by actual product failure rates (field failure rates) and by material usage and service delivery costs incurred in correcting 
a product failure. 
The Group’s warranty provision is established based upon its best estimates of the amounts necessary to settle future and existing claims on 
products sold as of the balance sheet date. As the Group continuously introduces new products which incorporate complex technology, and 
as local laws, regulations and practices may change, it continues to be difficult to anticipate failure rates, the length of warranty periods and 
repair costs. While the Group believes that its warranty provisions are adequate and that the judgements applied are appropriate, the ultimate 
cost of product warranty could differ materially from estimates. When the actual warranty cost of products is lower than originally anticipated, 
the Group releases an appropriate proportion of the provision, and if the warranty cost is higher than anticipated, the Group increases the 
provision. 
Accounting for share-based payments
The Group applies IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payments’ in relation to the accounting for share-based payments in respect of options and share 
awards granted after 7 November 2002 and which had not vested as at 1 January 2005. Under IFRS 2, the share-based compensation is 
measured at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award, and is recognised as expense over the employee’s requisite 
service period.
The fair value of the majority of options granted is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions 
upon which the options were granted. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate for the 
effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and, behavioural considerations. The volatility used in the model is based on movements 
in the Group’s share price for a period matching that of the expected term of the options. The risk-free interest rate used is the implied yield 
currently available on zero-coupon government issues in the UK, with a remaining term equal to the expected term of the option being valued 
(based on the option’s remaining contractual life and taking into account the effects of expected early exercise). For certain share awards 
which include total shareholder return related conditions, the fair value is estimated through the use of a Monte-Carlo simulation. 75
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
4 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and uncertainty (continued)
Accounting for share-based payments (continued)
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest. Non-market vesting conditions are included 
in assumptions about the number of shares that are expected to become exercisable. The estimates of the number of share options and 
awards that are expected to become exercisable are reviewed at each balance sheet date. The impact of the revision of original estimates, 
if any, is recognised in the income statement and a corresponding adjustment to equity. Note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
provides details on the valuation assumptions made for each grants of share options and awards during the period. 
Share options and Taxation
In the UK and US the Group is entitled to a tax deduction for amounts treated as compensation on exercise of certain employees’ share 
options under each jurisdiction’s tax rules. This gives rise to a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases and hence a 
deferred tax asset is recorded. This asset is calculated by comparing the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in the future 
(based on the share price at the balance sheet date) with the share-based payment expense recorded in the income statement. If the amount 
of estimated future tax deduction exceeds the cumulative amount of share-based payment expense at the statutory rate, the excess is 
recorded directly in equity, against retained earnings.
No share-based payment expense is recorded in respect of options granted before 7 November 2002. Nevertheless, tax deductions have 
arisen and will continue to arise on these options. The tax effects in relation to these options are recorded directly in equity against retained 
earnings.
Revenue recognition
Sales are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the buyer, continuing managerial involvement 
usually associated with ownership and effective control have ceased, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, it is probable that 
economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction 
can be measured reliably. 
This requires the Group to assess at the point of delivery whether these criteria have been met. When the Group determines that such criteria 
have been met, revenue is recognised. The Group records estimated reductions to revenue for pricing agreements, price protection, other 
volume based rebates. Estimated sales adjustments for volume based discount programmes are based largely on shipment information. 
Income taxes
The Group is subject to the income tax laws of the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, principally the United Kingdom. These laws 
are complex and subject to different interpretations by taxpayers and tax authorities. When establishing income tax provisions, we therefore 
make a number of judgements and interpretations about the application and interaction of these laws. Changes in these tax laws or our 
interpretations of these laws and the resolution of future tax audits could significantly impact our effective tax rate and the results of operations 
in a given period.
The Group estimates its income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. This process involves estimating its current tax liability 
together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences 
result in the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are included within the consolidated balance sheet to the 
extent that we believe they are recoverable.
In recognising deferred tax assets, the Group considers profit forecasts including the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on sales and 
external market conditions. Management’s judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and 
liabilities. Deferred tax assets have been recognised where management believes there are sufficient taxable temporary differences or 
convincing other evidence that sufficient taxable profit will be available in future to realise deferred tax assets. Although the deferred tax assets 
which have been recognised are considered realisable, actual amounts could be reduced if future taxable income is lower than expected. 
This can materially affect the Group’s reported net income and financial position.
Hedge accounting for financial instruments
The financial instruments that are used in hedging transactions are assessed both at inception and quarterly thereafter to ensure they 
are effective in offsetting changes in either the fair value or cash flows of the related underlying exposures. Hedge accounting is used for 
foreign currency risk exposures and for firm commitments to hedge foreign currency risk exposures. Management’s judgement is required 
to determine whether a future transaction is probable. External market data is applied in measuring the hedge effectiveness of financial 
instruments. Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised immediately in the income statement. Refer to note 33 for details of the hedging relationships 
as well as the impact of the hedge on the pre-tax profit or loss for the period. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
76
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
5 Revenue
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Sale of goods       693,698 846,831
Royalties       1,167 1,791
       694,865 848,622
Investment income       6,139 7,938
       701,004 856,560
Investment income is interest on bank deposits.
6 Segmental reporting
Products and services from which reportable segments derive their revenues
The Group’s reportable segments are as follows:
Cellular Mobile phones, headsets and audio-related
Non-cellular PC, Automotive and Consumer applications
The Group has identified business segments based on internal reporting within the Group and has chosen to aggregate the Mobile Handsets 
and Mobile Headsets operating segments as the Cellular reportable segment.
Segment revenues and results
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue and results by reportable segment:
     Cellular Non-cellular Unallocated Consolidated 
53 weeks ended 2 January 2009    $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Revenue    
Total segment revenue     552,750 142,115 – 694,865
Result
Underlying operating profit*     53,761 11,483 – 65,244
Operating loss / segment result    (14,901) 9,643 (3,257) (8,515)
Investment income (note 5)     – – 6,139 6,139
Finance costs (note 10)     – – (4,075) (4,075)
Loss before tax     (14,901) 9,643 (1,193) (6,451)
*Underlying operating profit excludes amortisation of acquired intangible assets, the non cash impairment charge of $52.9 million, the 
restructuring charge of $14.4 million and the adjustment to goodwill of $1.0 million as a result of the recognition of tax losses.
Investment income and finance costs are not allocated to reportable segments for the purposes of reporting to the Group’s Chief Executive 
Officer and Board of Directors.
The accounting policies for the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies as described in note 3. The segment  
result represents operating (loss) profit earned by each segment without the allocation of the $3.3 million of hedge ineffectivess as a result of the 
restructuring and in 2007 the $15.0 million patent dispute settlement. Costs are allocated to segments based on levels of R&D and marketing 
activity in the period. This is the measure reported to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors for the purposes of resource 
allocation and assessment of segment performance.
     Cellular Non-cellular Unallocated Consolidated 
52 weeks ended 28 December 2007    $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Revenue
Total segment revenue     660,594 188,028 – 848,622
Result
Underlying operating profit*     118,674 53,312 – 171,986
Operating profit / segment result    112,043 53,055 (15,000) 150,098
Investment income (note 5)     – – 7,938 7,938
Finance costs (note 10)     – – (2,437) (2,437)
Profit before tax     112,043 53,055 (9,499) 155,599
*Underlying operating profit excludes amortisation of acquired intangible assets the patent dispute settlement of $15.0 million and the 
adjustment to goodwill of $0.3 million as a result of the recognition of tax losses. 77
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
6 Segmental reporting (continued)
Segment assets
        2 January 2009 
        $’000
Cellular        267,374
Non-cellular        39,362
Total segment assets        306,736
Deferred tax asset        6,481
Other receivables        16,566
Treasury deposits        81,000
Cash and cash equivalents        180,898
Total assets        591,681
Assets allocated to reportable segments are goodwill (allocation is described in note 13), property, plant and equipment, intangible assets,  
trade receivables and inventory. All other assets are unallocated. Assets are allocated to the segment which has responsibility for their control.
        28 December 2007 
        $’000
Cellular        362,483
Non-cellular        38,688
Total segment assets        401,171
Deferred tax asset        7,021
Cash flow hedges        696
Other receivables        15,566
Treasury deposits        52,065
Cash and cash equivalents        193,311
Total assets        669,830
No information is provided for segment liabilities as this measure is not provided to the chief operating decision maker.
Other segment information
      Cellular Non-cellular Consolidated 
53 weeks ended 2 January 2009     $’000 $’000 $’000
Depreciation and amortisation of intangible assets    20,148 5,037 25,185
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets     5,311 107 5,418
Share option expense      6,600 986 7,586
Capital expenditure      18,451 4,613 23,064
Asset impairment (note 29)      52,918 – 52,918
      Cellular Non-cellular Consolidated 
52 weeks ended 28 December 2007     $’000 $’000 $’000
Depreciation and amortisation of intangible assets    23,664 4,190 27,854
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets     6,352 257 6,609
Share option expense      8,036 1,239 9,275
Capital expenditure      48,878 6,345 55,223
Revenues from major products and services
The Group’s revenues from its major products and services were as follows:
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Sale of integrated circuits       683,520 838,115
Sale of software       10,178 8,716
Royalties       1,167 1,791
Consolidated revenue (excluding investment income)     694,865 848,622
  NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
78
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
6 Segmental reporting (continued)
Geographical information
The Group operates in four principal geographical areas – the UK (country of domicile), Europe, the Americas and Asia. The Group’s revenue 
from external customers and information about its segment assets (non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets and other financial assets) 
by geographical location is detailed below:
       Revenue from external customers
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
UK       967 1,777
Rest of Europe
– Finland       6,305 15,416
– Hungary       36,535 46,287
– Other       19,951 11,520
USA       34,584 54,039
Americas (excluding USA)       10,564 13,324
Asia    
– China and Hong Kong       232,699 298,882
– Taiwan       100,024 127,779
– Korea       95,987 104,817
– Japan       121,838 159,604
– Other Asia Pacific       35,411 15,177
       694,865 848,622
Revenues are attributed to geographical areas on the basis of the customer’s manufacturing location.
       Non-current assets
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
UK       75,167 131,648
Rest of Europe       73,122 75,636
USA       14,467 16,224
Asia       12,536 18,767
       175,292 242,275
Non-current assets being goodwill, property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets are attributed to the location where they  
are situated.
Information about major customers
Included in revenues arising from Cellular and Non-cellular are revenues of approximately $135.0 million (19% of revenues)  
(2007: $220.1 million, 26% of revenues) which arose from sales to the Group’s largest customer. In the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009, 
revenues of approximately $75.6 million (11% of revenues) were included within both the Cellular and Non-cellular segments which arose 
from sales to the Group’s second largest customer. In 2007, only the largest customer of the Group exceeded 10% of revenue in the period. 
Revenue from the top five customers represents 50% of revenues (2007: 52%).
7 (Loss) profit for the period
(Loss) profit for the period has been arrived at after charging:
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Net foreign exchange losses        4,466 1,500
Research and development costs      158,167 147,541
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment      20,135 17,427
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment     545 75
Loss on disposal of intangible assets      186 93
Patent dispute settlement       – 15,000
Restructuring (see note 30)       14,445 –
Impairment of assets (see note 29)      52,918 –
Amortisation of intangible assets      10,468 17,036
Staff costs (see note 9)       130,006 121,278
Cost of inventories recognised as expense      362,527 432,106
Write downs of inventories recognised as an expense     5,085 4,598
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services (see note 8)     360 357
Deferred tax adjustment to goodwill (see note 13)     978 279 79
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
8 Auditors’ remuneration
The analysis of auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts  93 92
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for other services to the Group
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation    267 265
Total audit fees       360 357
Other services pursuant to legislation      34 34
Tax services       130 146
Total non-audit fees       164 180
Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be separately disclosed because  
the consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Significant non-audit services require pre-approval by the Audit Committee.
9 Staff costs
The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) was:
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       Number Number
Research and development       697 670
Sales and marketing       240 232
General and administrative       112 110
       1,049 1,012
   
       $’000 $’000
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
Salaries       104,720 96,921
Social security costs       10,479 9,147
Other pension costs       7,221 5,935
Share option charges*       7,586 9,275
       130,006 121,278
*Share option charges include $0.2 million included within ‘Restructuring charges’.
10 Finance costs
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Interest expense and similar charges      286 237
Unwinding of discount on contingent consideration     1,141 1,602
Interest payable on acquisition loan notes      – 100
Foreign exchange losses       2,648 498
       4,075 2,437
Included within the Restructuring costs (note 30) is $3.3 million related to hedge ineffectiveness on cash flow hedges arising as a result of the 
restructuring programme. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
80
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
11 Taxation
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Current income tax payable for the year      5,517 38,311
Current income tax benefit recognised in equity (note 26)     1,359 5,511
Current income tax charge       6,876 43,822
Adjustment in respect of current income tax of prior years     (1,835) 1,195
Total current income tax charge       5,041 45,017
Deferred tax (credit) charge       (3,086) 322
Deferred tax rate change impact      – (1,088)
Adjustment in respect of deferred tax of prior years     (1,467) (1,456)
Total deferred tax credit (note 20)      (4,553) (2,222)
Total tax charge       488 42,795
Corporation tax is calculated at 28.5% (2007: 30%) of the estimated assessable (loss) profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the (loss) profit per the income statement as follows:
      53 weeks ended   52 weeks ended 
      2 January 2009  28 December 2007 
     $’000 % $’000 %
(Loss) profit before tax     (6,451) 100.0 155,599 100.0
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28.5% (2007: 30%)   (1,839) 28.5 46,680 30.0
Tax benefit of additional specific tax reliefs    (6,020) 93.3 (5,628) (3.6)
Non taxable income on intercompany financing    (3,154) 48.9 – –
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions  707 (11.0) 539 0.3
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years   (3,302) 51.2 (261) (0.2)
Impairment of goodwill     10,804 (167.5) – –
Deferred tax rate adjustments     – – (1,088) (0.7)
Non-deductible expenses     3,292 (51.0) 2,553 1.7
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the period   488 (7.6) 42,795 27.5
In March 2007, the UK Government announced that they would introduce legislation that reduced the corporation tax rate to 28% from 1 April 
2008. This legislation was fully enacted. The deferred tax assets and liabilities, previously stated at 30% of the temporary differences were 
remeasured to 28% of those amounts. In addition, the blended current tax rate for the period reduced to 28.5%.
12 Earnings per share
The calculations of earnings per share are based on the following data:
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
Earnings       $’000 $’000
Underlying earnings for the period      56,644 128,209
Patent dispute settlement, net of tax      – (10,500)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets, net of tax     (3,901) (4,626)
Asset impairment, net of tax       (48,376) –
Restructuring, net of tax       (10,328) –
Deferred tax adjustment to goodwill      (978) (279)
(Loss) earnings for the period       (6,939) 112,804
Number of shares       Number of shares Number of shares 
Weighted average number of shares:
For basic earnings per share       128,617,601 130,690,101
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares – share options     – 4,906,720
For diluted earnings per share       128,617,601 135,596,821 81
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
12 Earnings per share (continued)
The dilutive effect of potential ordinary shares is nil as a loss has been made in the period. Underlying diluted earnings per share is based on a 
diluted share count of 130,610,753 as underlying earnings are a profit for the period with 1,993,152 potentially dilutive options at  
2 January 2009.
Earnings per share       $ $
Underlying basic earnings per share      0.44 0.98
Patent dispute settlement, net of tax      – (0.08)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets, net of tax     (0.03) (0.04)
Asset impairment, net of tax       (0.37) –
Restructuring, net of tax       (0.08) –
Deferred tax adjustment to goodwill      (0.01) –
Basic (loss) earnings per share       (0.05) 0.86
Underlying diluted earnings per share      0.43 0.94
Patent dispute settlement, net of tax      – (0.08)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets, net of tax     (0.03) (0.03)
Asset impairment, net of tax       (0.37) –
Restructuring, net of tax       (0.08) –
Deferred tax adjustment to goodwill      – –
Diluted (loss) earnings per share       (0.05) 0.83
13 Goodwill
        $’000
Cost and carrying amount
At 30 December 2006        51,952
Recognition on acquisition of subsidiaries       92,534
Adjustment for recognition of deferred tax asset       (279)
At 28 December 2007        144,207
Impairment losses for the period       (36,907)
Adjustment for recognition of deferred tax asset       (978)
At 2 January 2009        106,322
During the period, goodwill amounting to $36.9 million in relation to goodwill arising on the acquisition of UbiNetics (VPT) Limited was impaired 
(see note 29). This goodwill was allocated to a separate cash generating unit that was part of the Cellular reportable segment.
At the time of the acquisitions in 2005 and 2007, the acquired entities included brought forward tax losses. These were not recognised at the 
time of the acquisition as it was not considered probable that taxable profit would be available against which these losses could be utilised. 
During 2007 and 2008, a deferred tax asset was recognised for some of these losses, related to Clarity Technologies Inc, and NordNav 
Technologies AB, and, in accordance with IFRS 3, an equivalent adjustment was made to goodwill. This resulted in a charge of $978,000 
(2007: $279,000) that was included within administrative expenses.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units that are expected to benefit from that 
business combination. The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
Reportable segment   Cash Generating Unit    $’000 $’000
Cellular   Mobile Handsets    91,835 129,441
   Mobile Headsets    5,795 5,906
   
Non-cellular   Automotive     8,692 8,860
       106,322 144,207 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
82
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
13 Goodwill (continued)
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. Following the 
annual impairment test which takes place in the fourth quarter of each year, no further impairment of goodwill is required.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is determined from a value in use calculation. The key assumptions for the value in use 
calculations are those regarding the discount rates, terminal growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the 
period. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to CSR. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on historical information and expectations of future changes in the 
market.
For all cash generating units the Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budget approved by management 
for the next year and extrapolates cash flow forecasts for the following four years, based on long range plans. These long range plans are based 
on recent reports on the markets we operate in produced by independent analysts. Management uses this information to produce realistic 
plans when combined with internal and customer specific information. A terminal value is included for the period beyond five years from the 
balance sheet date based on the cash flow in the fifth year and a terminal growth rate of 2.5%. This terminal growth rate does not exceed the 
average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets. 
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows is 9.3% (2007: 9.3%).
14 Other intangible assets
    Purchased     
    in process Customer  Assets  
    research and contracts and Software in the course of  
    development relationships licences construction Total 
    $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost
At 29 December 2006    13,400 2,000 34,964 – 50,364
Additions    – – 7,087 – 7,087
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries   23,500 – – – 23,500
Disposals    – – (1,183) – (1,183)
At 28 December 2007    36,900 2,000 40,868 – 79,768
Additions    – – 2,419 1,345 3,764
Disposals    – – (8,940) – (8,940)
At 2 January 2009    36,900 2,000 34,347 1,345 74,592
Amortisation
At 29 December 2006    1,940 1,036 15,702 – 18,678
Charge for the year    5,942 667 10,427 – 17,036
Disposals    – – (1,090) – (1,090)
At 28 December 2007    7,882 1,703 25,039 – 34,624
Charge for the year    5,121 297 5,050 – 10,468
Disposals    – – (3,900) – (3,900)
Impairment losses    9,603 – 3,000 – 12,603
At 2 January 2009    22,606 2,000 29,189 – 53,795
Carrying amount
At 2 January 2009    14,294 – 5,158 1,345 20,797
At 28 December 2007    29,018 297 15,829 – 45,144
Leased assets included above:
At 2 January 2009    – – 211 – 211
At 28 December 2007    – – 3,209 – 3,209
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets is included within ‘Research and development’ in the income statement.
The impairment losses of $12.6 million are included within ‘Administrative expenses’ in the income statement and relate to acquisition-related 
intangible assets and software licences which have been written off as the result of the Operational Assessment (see note 29). The impairment 
losses are recorded within the Cellular operating segment (note 6). At 2 January 2009, the Group had entered into contractual commitments  
for the acquisition of other intangible assets amounting to $nil (2007:$nil).
  83
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
15 Property, plant and equipment
       Assets  
  Test Leasehold Furniture Computer Office in the course of  
  equipment improvements and fittings equipment  equipment construction Total 
  $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost
At 29 December 2006  49,837 3,593 3,585 20,316 2,373 – 79,704
Additions  15,634 3,687 642 3,147 589 937 24,636
Disposals  (1,099) (27) (583) (2,362) (100) – (4,171)
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 701 – 283 327 56 – 1,367
At 28 December 2007  65,073 7,253 3,927 21,428 2,918 937 101,536
Additions  11,988 389 567 5,944 412 – 19,300
Disposals  (494) – (43) (3,841) (149) – (4,527)
Transfers  937 – – – – (937) –
At 2 January 2009  77,504 7,642 4,451 23,531 3,181 – 116,309
Depreciation
At 29 December 2006  18,226 823 1,313 12,765 1,123 – 34,250
Charge for the year  9,451 1,276 545 5,474 681 – 17,427
Disposals  (1,082) (8) (560) (2,350) (96) – (4,096)
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 545 – 279 194 13 – 1,031
At 28 December 2007  27,140 2,091 1,577 16,083 1,721 – 48,612
Charge for the year  12,133 2,000 757 4,566 679 – 20,135
Disposals   (320) – (37) (3,618) (44) – (4,019)
Impairment losses  3,408 – – – – – 3,408
At 2 January 2009  42,361 4,091 2,297 17,031 2,356 – 68,136
Carrying amount
At 2 January 2009  35,143 3,551 2,154 6,500 825 – 48,173
At 28 December 2007  37,933 5,162 2,350 5,345 1,197 937 52,924
Leased assets included above:    
   
Carrying amount
At 2 January 2009  – – – – 981 – 981
At 28 December 2007  – – – – 6 – 6
At 2 January 2009, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to  
$nil (2007:$4,386,000).
The impairment losses of $3.4 million are included within ‘Administrative Expenses’ in the income statement and relate to tangible assets which 
have been written down to their recoverable amount as a result of the Operational Assessment (note 29). Their recoverable amount was the 
fair value of the assets less their costs to sell, being determined by reference to an active market for those assets. The impairment losses are 
recorded within the Cellular operating segments (note 6).
16 Subsidiaries
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in 
Note 40 to the Company’s separate financial statements.
17 Inventories
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Raw materials       37,403 16,819
Work in progress       1,765 10,724
Finished goods        27,033 49,713
       66,201 77,256 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
84
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
18 Other financial assets
Trade and other receivables
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Amounts receivable for sale of goods and software     64,971 81,593
Amounts receivable for royalties       272 47
Total trade receivables        65,243 81,640
Corporation tax       1,392 187
VAT       1,649 1,696
Other receivables       2,819 5,067
Prepayments and accrued income      10,706 8,616
       81,809 97,206
The average credit period taken on trade receivables is 58 days (2007: 37 days). An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable 
amounts within trade receivables of $3,000 (2007: $3,000). This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience.  
An allowance for credit notes and price adjustments has also been made within trade receivables of $1,902,000 (2007: $150,000).
Before accepting any new customers, the Group uses a credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s credit quality and define 
credit limits by customer. Credit limits and credit quality are regularly reviewed.
It is the policy of the Group to only transact with creditworthy entities to mitigate the risk of default associated with trade receivables. The Group 
provides for trade receivables based on amounts estimated as irrecoverable determined by reference to past default experience.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents
Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the Group and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.  
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
Treasury deposits
Treasury deposits represent bank deposits with an original maturity of over three months.
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, treasury deposits and trade and other receivables.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is actively managed to limit the associated risk and counterparties are banks 
with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting  
date was:
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Total trade receivables       65,243 81,640
Cash and cash equivalents       180,898 193,311
Treasury deposits       81,000 52,065
Derivative financial instruments       – 696
       327,141 327,712
The maximum exposure to credit risk for total trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was:
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Europe       10,815 13,906
USA       11,623 6,540
Asia       41,527 60,438
Other       1,278 756
       65,243 81,640
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is spread over a number of counterparties and customers, with limited concentrations.
The Group’s largest customer accounts for $7.5 million of trade receivables at 2 January 2009 (28 December 2007: $18.4 million). 85
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
18 Other financial assets (continued)
Credit risk (continued)
Impairment losses
The aging of total trade receivables at the reporting date was:
     Gross Impairment Gross Impairment 
     2008 2008 2007 2007 
     $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Not past due     59,155 (1,502) 79,071 (150)
Past due 0-30 days     6,964 (100) 2,654 –
Past due 31-60 days     500 – 5 –
Past due 61-90 days     529 (303) – –
Past due 91-120 days     – – – –
More than 121 days past due     – – 63 (3)
     67,148 (1,905) 81,793 (153)
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the period was as follows:
       2008 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Balance at the beginning of the period      153 242
Utilised in the period       (403) (3,211)
Additional provisions in the period      2,155 3,122
Balance at the end of the period       1,905 153
Included in the Group’s trade receivables balance are debtors with a carrying amount of $7,590,000 (2007: $2,719,000) which are past due 
but for which the Group has not provided, as there has been no significant change in the credit quality of the receivables and the amounts are 
still considered recoverable. $6.0 million of the past due but not provided trade receivables were received within two weeks of the balance 
sheet date (2007: $1.9 million). The Group has standby letters of credit in place to support the overdue balances.
Based on past experience, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables not past due, other 
than for credit notes or price adjustments.
19 Derivative financial instruments
Currency derivatives
The Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows. The instruments purchased are denominated  
in GBP.
At the balance sheet date, the total notional amount of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts that the Group has committed is  
as below:
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts      121,640 178,628
These arrangements are designed to address significant exchange exposures for the next 13 months (2007: 15 months) and are renewed on a 
rolling basis to cover between 11 and 15 months forward.
At the balance sheet date, the fair value of the Group’s currency derivatives is shown below:
Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging instruments carried at fair value
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts – assets      – 696
 – liabilities      (29,597) (1,080)
       (29,597) (384)
The fair value of currency derivatives that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges amounting to a liability of $29,597,000  
(2007: liability of $384,000) has been deferred in equity. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
86
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
19 Derivative financial instruments (continued)
Currency derivatives (continued)
Net amounts of $3,876,000 (2007: $748,000) and $183,000 (2007: $88,000) respectively have been transferred to operating expenses in the 
income statement and fixed assets in respect of contracts matured in the period.
Financial liabilities carried at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts      (2,465) –
       (2,465) –
The forward foreign exchange contracts carried at FVTPL were previously designated as effective cash flow hedges but became ineffective as 
part of the October 2008 restructuring programme (note 30). Further details of derivative financial instruments are given in note 33.
20 Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the period and prior 
reporting period.
    Fair value   Other  
  Accelerated tax Share-based adjustments  Hedging temporary  
  depreciation payment on acquisition Tax losses differences differences Total 
  $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
At 29 December 2006  (10,507) 17,376 (3,587) 3,368 – 4,700 11,350
Credit (charge) to income  2,301 2,051 1,741 (1,036)  (3,923) 1,134
(Charge) credit to equity  – (7,840) – 606 206 – (7,028)
Acquisition of subsidiary  – – (6,948) – – – (6,948)
Deferred tax rate adjustment to income 547 – 586 – – (45) 1,088
Deferred tax rate adjustment to equity – (772) – – (11) – (783)
At 28 December 2007  (7,659) 10,815 (8,208) 2,938 195 732 (1,187)
Credit (charge) to income  3,533 (917) 4,206 (2,297) – 28 4,553
(Charge) credit to equity  – (8,644) – 879 6,878 – (887)
At 2 January 2009  (4,126) 1,254 (4,002) 1,520 7,073 760 2,479
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where required as relating to the same tax authority. The following is the analysis  
of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Deferred tax liabilities       (4,002) (8,208)
Deferred tax assets       6,481 7,021
       2,479 (1,187)
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of $126,588,000 (2007: $175,564,000) available for offset against future profits. 
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of $4,146,000 (2007: $7,793,000) of such losses. No deferred tax asset has been 
recognised in respect of the remaining $122,442,000 (2007:$167,771,000) due to the unpredictability of future profit streams within certain 
subsidiary entities. Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of $34,381,000 (2007: $47,819,000) that will expire in 16-18 years. The 
figure is lower than prior periods due to a significant change in the GBP to USD exchange rate. Other losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary timing differences related to undistributed earnings of overseas subsidiaries 
was $22,974,000 (2007: $14,754,000). No deferred tax liabilities have been recognised in respect of these unremitted earnings because the 
Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
21 Obligations under finance leases
  Present value of  
 Minimum minimum  
 lease payments lease payments
     2 January 28 December 2 January 28 December 
     2009 2007 2009 2007 
     $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year     1,057 3,109 1,057 3,108
In the second to fifth years inclusive    293 142 293 142
     1,350 3,251 1,350 3,250
Less: future finance charges     – 1 – –
Present value of lease obligations    1,350 3,250 1,350 3,250
Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities)   (1,057) (3,108)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months      293 142 87
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
21 Obligations under finance leases (continued)
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its equipment under finance leases and purchase certain software licences under agreements 
containing deferred payment terms. The average lease term is 2.0 years. Interest rates are fixed at the contract date; all of the agreements 
containing deferred payment terms are interest free. For the period ended 2 January 2009, the average effective borrowing rate was 0.14% 
(2007: 0.03%). All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
Lease obligations with a present value of $1,350,000 (2007: $1,045,000) are denominated in Sterling. All other obligations are denominated in 
US Dollars.
The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ right over the leased assets.
22 Other financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Trade payables       37,451 62,681
Other taxation and social security       2,809 2,923
Other payables       87 3,778
Accruals and deferred income       21,823 23,994
       62,170 93,376
Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period  
taken for trade purchases is 64 days (2007: 54 days).
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
For most suppliers, no interest is charged on trade payables. The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all 
payables are paid within the credit time-frame.
23 Contingent consideration
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Amounts included within current liabilities      753 25,988
Amounts included within non-current liabilities      16,747 –
       17,500 25,988
The contingent consideration relates to milestone payments for the acquisition of NordNav Technologies AB. The consideration is due to be 
settled in instalments once certain performance criteria have been achieved. In the previous reporting period, it was believed these performance 
criteria would be met within one year from the balance sheet date and the liability was included within current liabilities.  
24 Provisions 
       Returns and  
      Onerous lease warranty  
      provision provision Total 
      $’000 $’000 $’000
At 29 December 2007      274 2,140 2,414
Additional provision in the period     3,264 1,157 4,421
Utilised in period      (125) (507) (632)
At 2 January 2009      3,413 2,790 6,203
Included within current liabilities        4,408
Included within non current liabilities       1,795
        6,203
Onerous lease provision
The Group has provided for the discounted anticipated costs of satisfying the terms of any onerous leases, less any anticipated income from 
subletting the buildings. It is anticipated that the provision will be used over the remaining lease terms (eight years).
Returns and warranty provision
The Group provides for the anticipated costs associated with contractual liabilities returns under standard warranty terms. It is anticipated that 
the provision will be utilised within one year. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
88
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
25 Called-up share capital
Company
Authorised share capital:
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       £’000 £’000
185,000,000     Ordinary Shares of £0.001 each - equity 185 185
Allotted, called-up and fully paid:
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
 132,890,821(2007 – 132,073,576)    Ordinary Shares of £0.001 each - equity 238 236
Changes to share capital:
Equity shares:
817,245 Ordinary Shares were issued from employee option exercises between 29 December 2007 and 2 January 2009. Consideration was 
$1,523,904, at a premium of $1,522,345.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
There are 7,500 deferred shares of £0.00067 each. These shares have no rights. 
The following options and share awards over Ordinary Shares of £0.001 have been granted and were outstanding at the end of the period:
     Number of shares subject to Exercise price 
Grant date      option or share award per share £ Vesting period
1 September 1999 to 25 November 1999     507,024  0.05367  5 years
9 February 2000      43,450  0.15633  5 years
21 February 2000 to 16 October 2000     472,822  0.50333  5 years
30 October 2000 to 8 July 2002      510,820  2.38500  5 years
30 September 2002 to 10 November 2003     235,685  1.01000  5 years
18 November 2003 to 2 February 2004     236,483  1.02500  5 years
26 February 2004      423,330  2.35000  3 years
26 February 2004      111,012  2.35000  3 years
2
26 February 2004      151,500  2.00000  3 years
26 February 2004      366,673  2.00000  3 years
2
30 June 2004      10,000 4.02000 3 years
2
30 September 2004      20,000 3.62500 3 years
2
5 May 2005      379,500  3.21000  3 years
2
5 May 2005      117,101  0.00100  3 years
5 May 2005      166,574  0.00100  3 years
1
6 October 2005      135,449  4.52870  3 years
3
1 March 2006      18,393 0.00100 3 years
1
1 March 2006      45,718 9.05000 3 years
1 March 2006      24,525 9.99000 3 years
2
31 March 2006      15,238 7.81070 3 years
3
3 May 2006      13,931 12.9200 3 years
25 May 2006      214,450 12.4100 3 years
2
25 May 2006      424,220 0.00100 3 years
1
25 May 2006      535,960 12.4100 5 years
25 May 2006      51,931 0.00100 3 years
2 August 2006      24,764 11.0967 5 years 
1 November 2006      2,509 9.08800 3 years
3
15 November 2006      109,291 6.27000 5 years
28 February 2007      54,403 7.68000 5 years
28 February 2007      25,122 0.00100 3 years
1
28 February 2007      57,399 7.68000 3 years
2
28 March 2007      80,840 5.84800 3 years
3
9 May 2007      58,594 7.57000 5 years
5 June 2007      151,935 0.00100 3 years
1
5 June 2007      386,459 7.86000 3 years
2
5 June 2007      111,040 0.00100 3 years
1 August 2007      71,843 7.2900 5 years
14 November 2007      186,190 6.4450 3 years
2
14 November 2007      112,842 6.4450 5 years
14 November 2007      93,603 0.00100 3 years
1
14 November 2007      25,000 0.00100 3 years  89
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
25 Called-up share capital (continued)
     Number of shares subject to Exercise price 
Grant date      option or share award per share £ Vesting period
10 December 2007      57,924 5.156 3 years
3
5 March 2008      79,021 3.160 5 years
5 March 2008      315,202 3.160 3 years
3
5 March 2008      173,510 0.00100 3 years
1
28 March 2008      798,723 2.528 3 years
3
11 June 2008      353,787 0.00100 3 years
1
11 June 2008      659,963 3.110 3 years
2
11 June 2008      244,018 0.00100 3 years
11 June 2008      200,569 0.00100 2 years
11 June 2008      38,621 3.110 5 years
4 August 2008      15,584 0.00100 3 years
1
12 August 2008      103,463 3.2875 3 years
2
25 September 2008      80,789 2.7850 3 years
2
4 November 2008      35,348 0.00100 3 years
4 November 2008      16,746 2.045 3 years
      9,956,891 
1 These options have vesting conditions based on the Company’s performance against comparator companies based on TSR rankings over the vesting period.
2 These options have vesting conditions based on EPS growth over the vesting period.
3 These options have been issued as part of the Company’s SAYE scheme.
Exercise period: Vested options and share awards are exercisable within ten years from the grant date, SAYE options are exercisable within  
six months of the vesting date.
26 Reserves
  Share Capital  Employee  Share-based   
  premium redemption Merger Benefit Trust Hedging payment Tax Retained  
  account reserve reserve Reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings Total 
  $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
At 30 December 2006 84,111 950 61,574 – 3,171 11,003 36,647 208,521 405,977
Share issues 5,815 – – – – – – – 5,815
Share-based payment – – – – – 9,275 – – 9,275
Deferred tax benefit on  
share option gains – – – – – – (7,234) – (7,234)
Current tax benefit taken  
directly to equity on share option gains – – – – – – 5,511 – 5,511
Purchase of own shares – – – (20,025) – – – – (20,025)
Current tax on hedging reserve – – – – – – 951 – 951
Deferred tax on hedging reserve – – – – – – 206 – 206
Effective tax rate adjustment – – – – – – (783) – (783)
Loss on cash flow hedges – – – – (4,906) – – – (4,906)
Transferred to income statement  
in respect of cash flow hedges – – – – 836 – – – 836
Retained profit for the period – – – – – – – 112,804 112,804
At 28 December 2007 89,926 950 61,574 (20,025) (899) 20,278 35,298 321,325 508,427
Share issues 1,522 – – – – – – – 1,522
Share-based payment – – – – – 7,586 – – 7,586
Deferred tax benefit on  
share option gains – – – – – – (7,765) – (7,765)
Current tax benefit taken  
directly to equity on share option gains – – – – – – 1,359 – 1,359
Purchase of own shares – – – (20,199) – – – – (20,199)
Deferred tax on hedging reserve – – – – – – 6,878 – 6,878
Loss on cash flow hedges – – – – (31,677) – – – (31,677)
Transferred to income statement  
in respect of cash flow hedges – – – – 7,316 – – – 7,316
Loss for the period – – – – – – – (6,939) (6,939)
At 2 January 2009 91,448 950 61,574 (40,224) (25,260) 27,864 35,770 314,386 466,508
A tax reserve has been included to show movements in equity caused by tax adjustments reflecting movements in tax not recorded in the 
income statement. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
90
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
26 Reserves (continued)
The share premium account, capital redemption reserve and hedging reserve are not distributable. The merger reserve arose on the 
combination of CSR plc and Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited and is not distributable.
The Employee Benefit Trust Reserve represents the cost of shares in CSR plc purchased in the market and held by the CSR plc Employee 
Benefit Trust to satisfy options under the Group’s share option schemes. Between 18 March 2008 and 25 March 2008, the CSR Employee 
Benefit Trust purchased 3,222,813 ordinary shares at prices between £3.37 and £3.03. On 3 May 2007, the CSR Employee Benefit Trust 
purchased 334,890 ordinary shares at an average price of £7.41 pence per share. Between 6 June 2007 and 7 June 2007, the CSR Employee 
Benefit Trust purchased 336,425 ordinary shares at an average price of £7.38 per share. Between 26 September 2007 and 28 September 
2007, the CSR Employee Benefit Trust purchased 795,452 ordinary shares at an average price of £6.24 per share. 
The shares acquired by the Trust do not represent Treasury shares for the purposes of the Companies Act and therefore remain as issued 
share capital. For accounting purposes, the treatment of the shares acquired by the Trust is different. In preparing the consolidated CSR plc 
Group accounts, the shares held by the Trust are treated as a deduction in shareholders’ equity.
27 Notes to the cash flow statement
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Operating (loss) profit from continuing operations     (8,515) 150,098
  
Adjustments for:  
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment      20,135 17,427
Amortisation of intangible assets      10,468 17,036
Impairment of assets       52,918 –
Deferred tax transfer to goodwill       978 279
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment     545 75
Loss on disposal of intangible assets      186 93
Share related charges       7,586 9,275
Increase (decrease) in provisions      3,789 (1,814)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital    88,090 192,469
Decrease in inventories       11,055 29,319
Decrease in receivables       17,253 8,173
(Decrease) increase in payables       (20,063) 22,394
Cash generated by operations      96,335 252,355
Foreign taxes paid       (1,290) (1,117)
Corporation tax       (28,738) (28,702)
Interest paid       (326) (358)
R&D tax credit received       320 –
Net cash from operating activities      66,301 222,178
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of asset on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and other 
short term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
Acquisition of subsidiaries in 53 weeks to 2 January 2009 represents payments of contingent consideration arising from prior period 
acquisitions.
28 Operating lease arrangements
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the income statement for the year  10,311 6,955
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows:
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Within one year       8,799 6,924
In the second to fifth years inclusive      9,041 16,590
After five years       – 4,180
       17,840 27,694
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties, office equipment and software licences 
Leases are negotiated for an average term of 3.98 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 3.98 years. 91
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
29 Impairment of assets
During 2008, a non-cash impairment charge of $52.9 million was recorded. This resulted from the decision to discontinue investment in 
UbiNetics’ protocol software development programme following the recommendations of the Operational Assessment.
During the Assessment, the Group looked at its market in great detail and consulted widely to review the opportunities for winning the global 
market for wireless solutions. The Group undertook in-depth discussions with customers on all continents, and asked the leading customers 
where they anticipated the most growth. The Group also carried out an analysis of its own capabilities and identified strengths and weaknesses 
to determine future strategy.
The impairment is charged to administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
30 Restructuring
In October 2008, CSR plc announced a restructuring programme, with the aim of reducing ongoing operating expenses by around $20 million 
in 2009. This has been successfully completed, and is expected to deliver the predicted savings. Approximately 100 employees left the Group 
as part of the restructuring programme spread through all functions mostly in the UK, US and Sweden. A one time restructuring charge of 
$14.4 million was recorded, including $5.6 million of severance, $3.3 million of currency hedging charges (due to the reduction in Sterling 
requirements in 2009) and $3.9 million of onerous lease and building-related charges for buildings being vacated as part of the restructuring. 
At the balance sheet date, there were no payments remaining to be made to employees under the restructuring programme; cash outflows 
relating to the onerous leases of building being vacated are expected to occur over the next two years.
31 Share-based payments
CSR plc has grants and awards in the following Share Schemes which result in charges to the Income Statement:
Global share option scheme
The Company has a share option scheme for all employees of the Group, under which share options were issued prior to flotation, at a price 
based on the most recent private funding round. All employees were granted options on joining CSR. These options have a vesting period of 
five years, with 20% of options vesting one year after grant, then the remainder vesting in equal quarterly instalments over the remaining four 
years. Other options (in addition to those related to employees joining) were also granted under this scheme. In all cases if the options remain 
unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options lapse. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before 
the options vest. No grants have been made under this scheme since flotation.
Company Share Option Plan (CSOP)
The Company introduced a new scheme at flotation called the CSR plc Share Option Plan. The following grants have been made under the 
scheme:
Flotation grant
On the Company’s flotation in February 2004, the Company issued share options to all employees, at a price based on the share price on 
the day of flotation. The vesting period is three years. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the 
options lapse. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Performance grants
On the Company’s flotation in February 2004, and in May 2005, May 2006, May 2007, June 2008 and certain other dates (relating to 
employees joining) the Company issued share options at a price based on the average share price over the preceding three days. The vesting 
period of these grants is three years and vesting is dependent upon meeting certain EPS based performance conditions. If the options remain 
unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options lapse. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before 
the options vest.
Starter Grants
The Company grants options to new starters to assist in recruitment. Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average share price on the 
three days preceding the grant date. The vesting period of the options is over a period of five years with 40% vesting after two years and 5% 
vesting each quarter thereafter. If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options lapse. Grants 
are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest. The Company has also issued starter grants to senior employees that 
vest after three years. 
CSR Share Award Plan
In May 2005, following approval of shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, the Company introduced the CSR plc Share Award 
Plan, which allows for options to be granted for exercise at a future date at a price equivalent to the nominal value of the Company’s shares of 
£0.001. The following awards have been made:
Retention Awards
The Company issues certain employees with rights to purchase shares at nominal value (£0.001) as a method of staff retention. The vesting 
period of these share awards is either two or three years. If the share awards remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of 
grant, the awards lapse. Awards are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
92
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
31 Share-based payments (continued)
CSR Share Award Plan (continued)
Performance awards
The Company issues certain employees with rights to purchase shares at nominal value (£0.001) as a method of staff incentivisation.  
The vesting period of these share awards is three years. The vesting of the awards is also subject to the Group satisfying two performance 
conditions. The first is the Total Shareholder Return of the Company’s shares when compared to a group of companies selected at the time 
an award is first granted. The second is improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group. In order for the shares to vest, the 
Group must have met or exceeded certain TSR thresholds when compared with the TSR performance of the group of other companies. In the 
event the Group satisfies any one of the TSR thresholds, the Remuneration Committee then considers the extent of any improvement in the 
underlying financial performance of the Group.
Starter awards
The Company grants rights to new starters to purchase shares at nominal value (£0.001) to assist recruitment. The vesting period of these 
awards is two years. If the share awards remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the awards lapse. Awards are 
forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
SAYE schemes
The Company operates a SAYE scheme, whereby employees are allowed to subscribe to a monthly savings amount for a period of three 
years; at the end of the three year period, the employee is allowed to either receive their saved amount plus interest or purchase shares in the 
Company at a price based on the average share price on the three days prior to commencement of the SAYE scheme, discounted by 20%. 
This scheme is open to all employees subject to Inland Revenue approved limits on total investment, and invitations are issued at regular 
intervals. Employees have a period of six months following the conclusion of the scheme to exercise their option to purchase shares.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
 2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
      Weighted  Weighted 
      average  average 
     Number of exercise price Number of exercise price 
     share options  (in £) share options (in £)
Outstanding at beginning of period    8,726,947 3.62 9,225,832 2.96
Granted during the period     3,279,870 1.94 2,260,514 5.20
Forfeited during the period     (1,232,681) 5.17 (892,031) 1.21
Exercised during the period     (817,245) 0.95 (1,867,368) 1.56
Outstanding at the end of the period    9,956,891 3.12 8,726,947 3.62
Exercisable at the end of the period    5,671,192 3.63 3,579,373 1.38
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £3.56. The options outstanding 
at 2 January 2009 had a weighted average exercise price of £3.12, and a weighted average remaining contractual life of nine years. In 2008, 
options were granted on 5 March, 28 March, 11 June, 4 August, 12 August, 25 September and 4 November. The aggregate estimated fair 
value of the options granted on those dates is $9,504,000. The weighted average fair value of these options was $3.01. In 2007, options 
were granted on 28 February, 28 March, 9 May, 5 June, 1 August, 14 November and 10 December. The aggregate estimated fair value of the 
options granted on those dates is $10,567,000. The weighted average fair value of these options was $5.25. 
The fair values of the share option and share award grants were based on the following inputs:
The inputs to the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
      53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
      2 January 2009 28 December 2007
Weighted average share price (£)     3.24 6.40 – 5.89 
Weighted average exercise price (£)     2.53 5.84 – 5.16
Expected volatility      54% 50% – 51%
Expected life      3 years  3 years
Risk free rate      4.32% 4.93% – 4.72% 
Expected dividends      0% 0%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over a three year period, equivalent to the 
vesting period of the options. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of 
non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 93
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
31 Share-based payments (continued)
Company Share Option Plan (CSOP)
The inputs to the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
      53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
      2 January 2009 28 December 2007
Weighted average share price (£)     2.86 – 3.33 6.16 – 7.65 
Weighted average exercise price (£)     2.78 – 3.29 6.45 – 7.86
Expected volatility      54% – 58% 49% – 51% 
Expected life      3 – 4 years 3 – 4 years
Risk free rate      4.18% – 5.20% 4.24% – 5.40% 
Expected dividends      0% 0%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over a time period equivalent to the vesting 
period of the options. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-
transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. The adjustments for the performance conditions are reflected in the 
proportion of options anticipated to vest.
Starter grants
The inputs to the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
      53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
      2 January 2009 28 December 2007
Weighted average share price (£)     2.12 – 3.33 6.16 – 7.50
Weighted average exercise price (£)     2.04 – 2.12 6.45 – 7.57
Expected volatility      56% – 60% 53% – 54%
Expected life      3 – 5 years 3 – 5 years
Risk free rate      4.02% – 5.20% 4.80% – 5.25%
Expected dividends      0% 0%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over a time period equivalent to the vesting 
period of the options. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-
transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
Retention awards and starter awards
The fair value was based upon the share price on the date of grant.
Performance awards
The fair value was based upon Monte-Carlo simulation of the performance of the 38 comparator companies included in the TSR conditions of 
the award. 
Expected volatility for each Company was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the individual Company’s share price over the  
three years from the date of grant.
Share option charges
The Group recognised total expenses of $7,586,000 (2007: $9,275,000) related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
32 Retirement benefits scheme
The Group operates a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme for all qualifying employees. The assets of the scheme are held separately 
from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees. 
The total cost charged to income of $7,221,000 (2007: $5,935,000) represents contributions payable to this scheme by the Group at rates 
specified in the rules of the plan. As at 2 January 2009, contributions of $nil (2007: $nil) due in respect of the current reporting period had not 
been paid over to the scheme.
33 Financial instruments
Financial risk management
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
	 •	 Credit	 risk
	 •	 Market	 risk
	 •	 Liquidity	 risk
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these 
consolidated financial statements. NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
94
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
33 Financial instruments (continued)
Financial risk management (continued)
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework.  
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities.
The Group’s Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management framework in relation to  
the risks faced by the Group.
 
Capital risk management
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. CSR intends to reinvest its cash balances in the business either through higher levels of investment in working 
capital and fixed assets or through further M&A activity to support the long-term ambitions of the Group. The capital structure of the Group 
consists of cash and cash equivalents, treasury deposits and equity attributable to the equity holders of CSR plc, comprising issued share 
capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 25 and 26.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
As a result of the funds raised through the initial public offering in March 2004 and the subsequent positive operating cash flows, the Group has 
a total of $261.9 million of treasury deposits and cash and cash equivalents as at 2 January 2009 (2007: $245.4 million).
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the 
basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are 
disclosed in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
       Carrying value
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Financial assets
Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents and treasury deposits)   333,000 333,966
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships    – 696
       333,000 334,662
Financial liabilities
Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships    (29,597) (1,080)
Amortised cost       (75,828) (113,731)
Fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL)      (2,465) –
       (107,890) (114,811)
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate risk will affect the Group’s income 
or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures 
within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk. 
Market risk exposures are mesured using sensitivity analysis. 
Foreign currency risk management
Substantially all of the Group’s sales and costs of sales are denominated in US Dollars, the Group’s functional currency. A majority of 
the Group’s fixed costs are denominated in Sterling. This exposure to different currencies would result in gains or losses with respect to 
movements in foreign exchange rates and the impact of such fluctuations could be material. Accordingly, the Group enters into hedging 
transactions pursuant to which it purchases Sterling under forward purchase contracts in order to cover the majority of its Sterling exposure.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date are as follows:
      Liabilities  Assets
     2 January 2009 28 December 2007 2 January 2009 28 December 2007
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
GBP Sterling     (9,092) (9,051) 3,833 7,669
The following significant exchange rates applied during the period:
 Weighted average forward  
 contract rate  
 (contracts maturing in the period) Period end spot rate
US Dollars     2 January 2009 28 December 2007 2 January 2009 28 December 2007
GBP      1.9830 1.8877 1.4521 1.9905 95
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
33 Financial instruments (continued)
Market risk (continued)
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
A ten percent strengthening of the US Dollar against GBP Sterling would have decreased equity and profit or increased loss after tax by the 
amounts shown below as at the reporting date shown. In management’s opinion, this is a reasonably possible change given current market 
conditions. Although fluctuations in the US Dollar to GBP Sterling rate have been significantly greater than this percentage in the reporting 
period, management believes ten percent is likely to be representitve of future movements. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in 
particular interest rates and other foreign currencies, remain constant. The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2007.
       Equity Profit or loss 
2 January 2009       $’000 $’000
GBP       (5,624) (716)
       Equity Profit or loss 
28 December 2007       $’000 $’000
GBP       (10,919) (1,052)
A ten percent weakening of the US Dollar against GBP Sterling would have had the equal but opposite effect, on the basis that all the other 
variables remain constant. 
A thirty percent strengthening of the US Dollar against GBP Sterling as at 2 January 2009 would result in a $16.9 million decrease in equity and a 
$2.7 million increase in loss for the period.
Although Management believes a ten percent movement is the most representative movement in the US Dollar to GBP Sterling rate, given 
market conditions a thirty percent movement has been shown to aid understanding of the Group’s market risk. The movement in profit for the 
period is mainly attributable to the Group’s exposure to exchange movements in Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities. The 
movement in equity is mainly as a result of the changes in fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Forward foreign exchange contracts
The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur:
   Carrying  Expected cash    More than 
   Amount flows 3 months or less 3-6 months 6-12 months one year 
Cash flow hedges   $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
2 January 2009   
 Forward foreign exchange contracts $’000  (29,597) 120,979 31,602 30,752 53,319 5,306
Forward foreign exchange contracts £’000  – 63,500 16,000 16,000 28,000 3,500
28 December 2007      
Forward foreign exchange contracts $’000  (384) 178,628 35,853 35,636 71,568 35,571
Forward foreign exchange contracts £’000  – 90,090 18,090 18,000 36,000 18,000
The Directors consider the periods in which the cash flows associated with the derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur 
approximates the periods when the cash flows associated with those cash flows are likely to impact profit or loss.
Interest rate risk management
The Group has no significant direct exposure to fluctuations in interest rates other than those on interest-bearing cash balances. The majority of 
cash balances are held at fixed rates of interest and the effective rate of interest on those cash balances in the period was 4.67% (2007: 5.16%).
Credit risk
Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group has 
adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate, as a means of mitigating 
the risk of financial loss from defaults. The Group only transacts with entities that are rated the equivalent of investment grade and above. This 
information is supplied by independent rating agencies where available and if not available, the Group uses other publicly financial available 
information and its own trading records to rate its major customers. The Group’s exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are 
continuously monitored and credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned 
by international credit rating agencies.
For cash and cash equivalents and treasury deposits, the Company only transacts with entities that are equivalent to investment grade and 
above.
Disclosures related to the credit risk associated with trade receivables are in note 18.  96
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued
33 Financial instruments (continued)
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk management
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and 
matching the maturity of financial assets and liabilities. The Group has no significant borrowings from third parties and therefore liquidity risk is 
not considered a significant risk at this time.
   Less than one month 1 – 2 months 2-3 months 3-6 months More than 6 months Total 
2 January 2009   $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Obligations under finance leases  – – 766 – 584 1,350
Contingent consideration (note 23) (undiscounted) – – – – 17,500 17,500
Other payables   376 – 649 – 381 1,406
Onerous lease provision (undiscounted)  – 9 467 436 3,328 4,240
   376 9 1,882 436 21,793 24,496
   Less than one month 1 – 2 months 2-3 months 3-6 months More than 6 months Total 
28 December 2007   $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Obligations under finance leases  – 131 – 1,256 1,864 3,251
Contingent consideration (note 23) (undiscounted) – 9,625 – – 17,500 27,125
Unsecured loan notes issued on acquisition  – 1,865 – 257 – 2,122
Other payables   6 – 1,239 – 424 1,669
Onerous lease provision (undiscounted)  – – – – 545 545
   6 11,621 1,239 1,513 20,333 34,712
Fair value of financial instruments
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined as follows:
Trade receivables and trade payables: The carrying amount of these short-term financial instruments approximates their fair value.
Derivatives: The fair value is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the 
residual maturity of the contract using an appropriate discount rate. 
The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements approximates their fair values.
34 Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
disclosed in this note. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are disclosed in the Company only financial statements in  
note 48.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the 
categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the 
audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 59.
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January  28 December 
       2009 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Short-term employee benefits       3,444 2,976
Post-employment benefits       241 166
Other long-term benefits       – 299
Termination benefits       – 991
Share-based payment       537 67
       4,222 4,499
By way of compensation for the termination of his employment, it was agreed that John Scarisbrick would receive a lump sum payment which 
was, deferred until 2 July 2008 of £360,100 and $245,000.
During 2007, an escrow payment of $11,158 was made to John Scarisbrick in relation to the 2005 acquisition of UbiNetics (VPT) Limited.
On 12 January 2007, the Company paid John Scarisbrick $49,477 for 2,388,188 E shares in Cambridge Positioning Systems Limited as part  
of the acquisition of Cambridge Positioning Systems Limited.
35 Events after the balance sheet date
On 9 February 2009, the Group entered into a conditional agreement with SiRF Technology Holdings Inc. (‘SiRF’) under which SiRF and the 
Group will become a single group (‘the transaction’). SiRF is a global leader in GPS location platforms. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, 
SiRF shareholders will receive 0.741% of an ordinary share in CSR for each SiRF share, which as at close of business on 9 February 2009 values 
SiRF at approximately £91 million ($136 million). The completion of the transaction is subject to shareholder consent of both SiRF and CSR and 
to regulatory clearance. Assuming all conditions are satisfied, the Group expects the transaction to complete in the second quarter of 2009.
At the time of approval of the Financial Statements, it is too early to give an indication of the financial impact likely to arise as a result of this 
transaction. This is because the date of the combination has not yet passed. 97
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
      Notes $’000 $’000
At beginning of period       104,787 97,330
Loss for the period       (51,671) (7,637)
Issue of share capital      25 1,524 5,819
Share-based payments       7,586 9,275
At end of period       62,226 104,787
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET  2 January 2009
       Notes 2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Non-current assets   
Subsidiaries      41 132,822 174,555
Current assets
Other receivables      42 29,429 20,313
Treasury deposits      42 81,000 52,065
Cash and cash equivalents       42 64,000 85,000
       174,429 157,378
Total assets       307,251 331,933
   
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables      43 227,525 201,158
Contingent consideration      44 753 25,988
       228,278 227,146
Net current liabilities       (53,849) (69,768)
Non-current liabilities
Contingent consideration      44 16,747 –
       16,747 –
Total liabilities       245,025 227,146
Net assets       62,226 104,787
Equity
Share capital      25 238 236
Share premium account      26 91,448 89,926
Capital redemption reserve      26 950 950
Share-based payment reserve      26 27,864 20,278
Retained losses      45 (58,274) (6,603)
Total equity       62,226 104,787
These financial statements were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 9 February 2009. 
They were signed on its behalf by:
Will Gardiner Ron Mackintosh
9 February 2009 9 February 2009
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANgES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009 98
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
      Notes 2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Net cash from operating activities     46 9,255 111,611
Investing activities
Interest received       4,111 4,454
Purchase of treasury deposits       (28,935) (22,065)
Acquisition of subsidiary       (11,689) (81,946)
Net cash used in investing activities      (36,513) (99,557)
Financing activities
Proceeds on issue of share capital      1,524 5,824
Net cash from financing activities      1,524 5,824
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents     (25,734) 17,878
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period     85,000 65,000
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes      4,734 2,122
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period      64,000 85,000
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
36 Significant accounting policies
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985. As permitted by that Act, the 
separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. 
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis. The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those set 
out in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
37 Loss attributable to CSR plc
The loss for the financial year dealt with in the Financial Statements of the parent Company, CSR plc, was $51,671,000 (2007 : $7,637,000).  
As permitted by s230(3) of the Companies Act 1985, no separate income statement is presented in respect of the parent Company.
Loss is stated after charging (crediting):
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Net foreign exchange (gains) losses       (4,739) 301
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services      93 92
The Company had three employees during the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009 (2007: one) who were the Directors of CSR plc.
The Directors’ remuneration in both years was borne by Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited. Details of the directors’ remuneration is given 
between pages 58 and 60.
38 Investment income
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Income from bank deposits       4,084 4,503
39 Finance costs
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Interest payable on acquisition loan notes      8 100
Unwinding of discount on deferred consideration     1,141 1,602
Interest on intercompany balance      5,663 6,749
Foreign exchange gains       (6) (2,122)
       6,806 6,329 99
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
40 Taxation
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Total tax charge       – –
Corporation tax is calculated at 28.5% (2007: 30%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the loss per the income statement as follows:
      53 weeks ended  52 weeks ended 
      2 January 2009  28 December 2007 
     $’000 % $’000 %
Loss before tax     (51,671) (100.0) (7,637) 100.0
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28.5% (2007: 30%)   (14,726) 28.5 (2,291) (30.0)
Impairment of investment (note 40)    14,056 (27.2) – –
Non-deductible expenses     324 (0.6) – –
Group relief surrendered to other Group companies for nil consideration  346 (0.7) 2,291 30.0
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the period   – – – –
In March 2007, the UK Government announced that they would introduce legislation that reduced the corporation tax rate to 28% from 1 April 
2008. This legislation is fully enacted. The deferred tax and liabilities, previously stated at 30% of the temporary differences were remeasured to 
28% of those amounts. In addition, the blended current tax rate for the period reduced to 28.5%.
41 Subsidiaries
Details of the Company’s subsidiaries at 2 January 2009 are as follows:
     Place of Proportion of Proportion of  
     incorporation ownership voting Method used 
     (or registration) interest power held to account for
Name     and operation % % investment
Direct ownership
Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited    UK 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics VPT Limited      UK 100 100 Acquisition
Cambridge Positioning Systems Limited    UK 100 100 Acquisition
NordNav Technologies Aktiebolag    Sweden 100 100 Acquisition
Indirect ownership
Cambridge Silicon Radio Inc.     USA 100 100 Acquisition
CSR China (Shanghai) Co. Limited    China 100 100 Acquisition
CSR KK     Japan 100 100 Acquisition
CSR Korea Limited     Korea 100 100 Acquisition
CSR Sweden AB     Sweden 100 100 Acquisition
Cambridge Silicon Radio Sarl     France 100 100 Acquisition
Cambridge Silicon Radio (UK) Limited    UK 100 100 Acquisition
Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Inc.    Delaware 100 100 Acquisition
Clarity Technologies, Inc.      Michigan 100 100 Acquisition
CSR (India) Private Limited     India 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics Wireless Technologies (Shenzen) Company Limited   China 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics (Cayman Islands) Ltd     Cayman Islands 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics (Hong Kong) Limited     Hong Kong 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics (North America) Inc.     USA 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics (IP) Limited     UK 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics 3G Limited     UK 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics Module Limited     UK 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics Technology Limited     UK 100 100 Acquisition
UbiNetics Designs Limited     UK 100 100 Acquisition
Coverge Limited     UK 100 100 Acquisition
C.P.S. Ltd     UK 100 100 Acquisition 100
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
41 Subsidiaries (continued)
Investments in subsidiary undertakings  
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
Cost and net book value       $’000 $’000
At the beginning of the period       174,555 61,314
Acquisition of subsidiaries       – 103,966
Capital contributions arising from IFRIC 11 charges     7,586 9,275
Impairment of investment in UbiNetics VPT Limited     (49,319) –
At the end of the period       132,822 174,555
During 2008, the investment in UbiNetics VPT Limited was written down to $nil. This resulted from the decision to discontinue investment in the 
UbiNetics protocol software development programme following the recommendations of the Operational Assessment carried out to determine 
future strategy. The impairment is charged to Administrative Expenses in the Company only income statement.
42 Financial assets
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
Other receivables       $’000 $’000
Prepayments and accrued income      405 432
Amounts receivable from other Group undertakings     29,024 19,881
       29,429 20,313
The directors consider that the carrying amount of other receivables approximates their fair value.
Amounts receivable from other Group undertakings are neither past due or impaired as management considers that the CSR Employee  
Benefit Trust has sufficient assets to fulfil its future obligations.
Cash and cash equivalents
Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the Company and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
Treasury deposits
Treasury deposits represent bank deposits with an original maturity of over three months.
43 Financial liabilities
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
Trade and other payables       $’000 $’000
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings      227,515 199,049
Accruals and deferred income       10 44
Other payables       – 2,065
       227,525 201,158
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
44 Contingent consideration
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Amounts included within current liabilities      753 25,988
Amounts included within non-current liabilities      16,747 –
       17,500 25,988
The contingent consideration relates to milestone payments for the acquisition of NordNav Technologies AB. The consideration is due to be 
settled in instalments once certain performance criteria have been achieved. In the previous reporting period, it was believed these performance 
criteria would be met within one year from the balance sheet date and the liability was included within current liabilities.   101
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
45 Reserves
        Retained earnings 
        $’000
Balance at 29 December 2006        1,034
Net loss for the period        (7,637)
Balance at 28 December 2007        (6,603)
Net loss for the period        (51,671)
Balance 2 January 2009        (58,274)
The movements on the other reserves are disclosed in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
46 Notes to the cash flow statement
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Operating loss from continuing operations       (48,947) (5,812)
Adjustments for:  
Impairment of investment in subsidiary      49,319 –
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital    372 (5,812)
Increase in receivables       (8,995) (19,970)
Increase in payables       17,878 137,393
Cash generated by operations being net cash from operating activities    9,255 111,611
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of asset on the face of the balance sheet) comprise cash at bank and other 
short term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
Acquisition of subsidiaries in the 53 weeks to 2 January 2009 represents payments of contingent consideration arising from prior period 
acquisitions.
47 Financial instruments
Capital risk management
The Company manages its capital to ensure that a strong capital base is maintained to sustain the future growth and development of the Group.
The capital structure of the Company consists of debt in the form of contingent consideration disclosed in note 44, cash and cash equivalents, 
treasury deposits and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed 
in note 45.
There are no externally imposed capital requirements on the Company.
Categories of financial instruments
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Financial assets
Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents and treasury deposits)   174,429 157,378
Financial liabilities  
Amortised cost       245,025 227,146
At the reporting date there are no loans and receivables designated at fair value through profit and loss. The carrying amount reflected above 
represents the Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk for such loans and receivables. 102
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  For the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009
Continued  
47 Financial instruments (continued)
Financial risk management objectives
The Group Treasury function provides services to the Company, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial markets and 
monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Company.
The main risks the Company is exposed to are the currency risk component of market risk, credit risk, and liquidity risk. 
Foreign currency risk management
The Company does not seek to manage the currency risk component of market risk as these risks are managed on a Group level.  
The Company does not enter into any financial derivative contracts. The Company does not enter into, or trade financial instruments,  
including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure of the Company to foreign currency movements for its  
non-derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
If the US Dollar had strengthened by ten percent against GBP Sterling, the Company’s:
	 •	 	 loss	 for	 the	 53	 week	 period	 ended	 2	 January	 2009	 would	 have	 decreased	 by	 $1,017,000.	 The	 loss	 for	 the	 52	 week	 period	 ended	 28	
December 2007 would have decreased by $1,267,000. In both periods, this is mainly attributable to the Company’s exposure to foreign 
exchange movements on Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities;
	 •	 there	 is	 no	 impact	 on	 other	 equity	 reserves	 (2007:	 $nil).
A ten percent weakening of the US Dollar against GBP Sterling would have had the equal but opposite effect, on the basis that all the other 
variables remain constant.
A thirty percent strengthening of the US Dollar against GBP as at 2 January 2009 would have had a $3,559,000 decrease in loss for the period 
and no impact on equity reserves.
In management’s opinion, this is a reasonably possible change in currency rates given current market conditions. This analysis assumes all  
other variables, in particular interest rates and other foreign currencies, remain constant. The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2007.
Although Management believes a ten percent movement is the most representative movement in the US Dollar to GBP Sterling rate, given 
market conditions, a thirty percent movement has been shown to aid understanding of the Company’s market risk. 
Interest rate risk management
The company has no significant direct exposures to fluctuations in interest rates other than those on interest bearing cash balances.  
The majority of cash balances are held at fixed rates of interest and the effective rate of interest on those balances in the period was 4.67% 
(2007: 5.16%).
Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that counterparties will default on their contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Company.  
The Company has adopted a policy of only dealing with credit worthy counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss.  
This information is supplied by independent rating agencies where available and if not available, the Company uses other publicity available 
financial information and trading records. For cash and cash equivalents and treasury deposits, the Company only transacts with entities that 
are equivalent to investment grade and above. Other financial assets consist of amounts receivable from related parties. The Company’s 
exposure to significant concentration of credit risk on receivables from related parties is detailed in note 48.
Liquidity risk management
Ultimate responsibility for the liquidity risk management of the Company rests with the Board of Directors which manages the liquidity 
requirements of the Company in terms of short, medium and long-term funding requirements. The Company manages liquidity risk via the 
Group’s Treasury function using sources of financing from other Group entities and investing liquidity. The Company manages excess reserves 
by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. 103
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
47 Financial instruments (continued)
Liquidity risk management (continued)
The following tables detail the Company’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities. The tables have been drawn  
up based on the earliest date on which the Company can be required to pay. The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
   Less than    More than   
   one month 1 – 2 months 2-3 months 3-6 months 6 months Total 
2008   $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Contingent consideration (undiscounted)  – – – – 17,500 17,500
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings  – – – – 227,515 227,515
   – – – – 245,015 245,015
   Less than    More than   
   one month 1 – 2 months 2-3 months 3-6 months 6 months Total 
2007   $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Contingent consideration (undiscounted)  – 9,625 – – 17,500 27,125
Unsecured loan notes issued on acquisition  – 1,865 – 257 – 2,122
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings  – – – – 199,049 199,049
   – 11,490 – 257 216,549 228,296
Management do not expect amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings to be repaid in the next operating cycle.
Fair value of financial instruments
Details of the methods of determining the fair values of the Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities are discussed in notes 42 and 43.
The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities are recorded at amortised cost in the Financial Statements which approximates their fair  
values in the opinion of the Directors’.
48 Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, are disclosed below:
       53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 
       2 January 2009 28 December 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited  
- Funding received from Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited     9,086 118,779
- Services received from Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited     13,725 14,149
- Interest charged on intercompany balance      5,663 6,749
CSR Employee Benefit Trust  
- Funding provided       (9,143) (19,881)
Balances between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, are disclosed below:
       2 January 28 December 
       2009 2007 
       $’000 $’000
Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited      (227,515) (199,041)
CSR Employee Benefit Trust       29,024 19,881 104
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
    2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 
    $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Results     
Turnover    253,146 486,531 704,695 848,622 694,865
Underlying operating profit*    58,457 112,851 151,801 171,986 65,244
Operating profit (loss)    58,457 111,936 148,995 150,098 (8,515)
Profit (loss) before tax    58,980 114,366 154,397 155,599 (6,451)
Taxation    2,579 (31,210) (43,200) (42,795) (488)
Profit (loss) for the financial year    61,559 83,156 111,197 112,804 (6,939)
Assets employed
Non-current assets    20,937 118,883 140,442 249,296 181,773
Net current assets    137,314 160,133 269,000 267,717 307,810
Non-current liabilities    (1,160) (1,979) (3,233) (8,350) (22,837)
Long term provisions    (1,606) – – – –
Net assets    155,485 277,037 406,209 508,663 466,746
Key statistics    $ $ $ $ $
Earnings (loss) per share    0.53 0.67 0.86 0.86 (0.05)
Underlying diluted earnings per share*   0.48 0.63 0.83 0.94 0.43
Diluted earnings (loss) per share    0.48 0.62 0.82 0.83 (0.05)
*Excluding the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, in 2008, the asset impairment charge of $52.9 million, the restructuring charge of 
$14.4 million and the deferred tax adjustment to goodwill of $1.0 million (2007: $0.3 million; 2006: $0.7 million) and, in 2007, the patent dispute 
settlement of $15.0 million.
The principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRS that resulted in a restatement of the 2004 financial statements on transition were as 
follows:
•	 A	 charge	 was	 recognised	 in	 respect	 of	 share	 options	 falling	 under	 the	 scope	 of	 IFRS	 2;
•	 The	 deferred	 tax	 asset	 was	 increased	 as	 a	 result	 of	 the	 additional	 tax	 benefit	 in	 the	 year	 from	 the	 recording	 of	 share-based	 payment	 charges;
•	 Computer	 software	 was	 reclassified	 on	 the	 balance	 sheet	 so	 as	 to	 be	 intangible	 assets;
•	 Amounts	 were	 reclassified	 on	 the	 balance	 sheet	 between	 treasury	 deposits	 and	 cash	 and	 cash	 equivalents;
•	 Tax	 liabilities	 were	 shown	 separately	 on	 the	 balance	 sheet;
•	 Liabilities	 related	 to	 the	 purchase	 of	 intangible	 licences	 under	 payment	 plans	 were	 reclassified	 as	 finance	 leases;
•	 Provisions	 were	 split	 between	 those	 greater	 than	 one	 year	 and	 less	 than	 one	 year.	
The only period effected by the transition was 2004; 2005 was presented under IFRS.
Detailed disclosures for the effect of the transition to IFRS were given in the 2005 financial statements.
 
FIVE YEAR SUMMARY 105
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
CSR plc
Unit 400
Cambridge Science Park
Milton Road
Cambridge
CB4 0WH
Registered in England and Wales number 4187346
www.csr.com
Advisors
Auditors  Deloitte LLP
Corporate brokers JPMorgan Cazenove Limited, UBS Limited
Solicitors  Slaughter and May
Bank  Lloyds TSB Bank plc
Share information at 17 March 2009
Shares outstanding 133,326,572
Trading symbol CSR
Country of register Great Britain
Market London Stock Exchange
SEDOL 3414738
Registrar Equiniti 
  Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, 
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Shareholder information
  % of issued 
  ordinary share 
 Disclosed holding
†
 capital
Schroders Plc 16,100,819 12.08%
The BlackRock Group 12,751,403 9.56%
Lazard Asset Management 8,552,425 6.41%
Aberforth Partners LLP 7,454,010 5.59%
Fidelity 6,665,681 5.00%
Legal & General Group PLC  
and its subsidiaries 5,973,594 4.48%
†
at 17 March 2009
Share capital structure
 Number of  % age of total  
Holding shareholders shareholders
1 – 1,000 555 44.87
1,001 – 5,000 304 24.58
5,001 – 10,000 92 7.44
10,001 – 50,000 134 10.83
50,001 – 100,000 32 2.59
100,001 – 250,000 42 3.40
Over 250,000 78 6.31
Total 1,237 100.00
SHARE AND CORPORATE INFORMATION 106
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
gLOSSARY OF INDUSTRY TERMS
A-GPS: assisted GPS: an augmentation to GPS where 
the mobile phone network can provide the almanac and 
ephemeris data. By using the mobile phone network, the 
GPS receiver does not need to decode data from the 
satellites, thus both speeding up acquisition of a fix and 
allowing fixes to be made in areas where GPS signals are 
too weak to allow decoding of data but are nonetheless 
strong enough to be used to measure time of arrival (see 
also ‘GPS’)
AMP: stands for Alternate MAC/PHY, which is an 
architecture being specified by the Bluetooth SIG to 
allow faster throughput of a Bluetooth link. PHY and 
MAC refer to the PHYsical and the Media Access Control 
that are two parts of a multi-tiered system comprising 
the communication system between devices. Within 
AMP, Bluetooth is used firstly to create the wireless 
communication link between two devices in the normal 
way. Bluetooth then decides whether the form of 
connection between the two devices needs to change 
from Bluetooth to a higher data rate wireless connectivity 
such as 802.11 or UWB, based on the size of the data file 
being transmitted between the devices (where for example 
the file is a video sequence). The Bluetooth seamlessly 
uses the AMP architecture to switch to a higher data 
rate channel such as 802.11 or UWB, which the two 
devices share without the need for the consumer to make 
the decision. The AMP specification is expected to be 
published in mid 2009 
analogue: a continuous representation of phenomena 
in terms of points along a scale, each point merging 
imperceptibly into the next; analogue signals vary 
continuously over a range of values; real world phenomena,  
such as sound, light and touch, are analogue 
application software: software that is written  
specifically to address a real-world problem or task 
attach rate: represents the rate of adoption of additional 
products or technologies on to the primary or ‘hosting’ 
product 
audio router: a phone can incorporate a number of 
different features for receiving and transmitting sound, 
be it voice or music which can be routed by various 
systems, including for example, the phone network, Wi-Fi 
or Bluetooth. The audio router is the management system 
within a phone which ensures that sound received by 
the mobile device is routed via the correct system and 
is received by the appropriate application (for example 
the phone loudspeaker, a connected headset or wired 
headphones)
baseband: describing that part of a radio 
telecommunication system in which information is 
processed before modulating on to, or after demodulating 
off, a radio frequency (RF) carrier wave
baseband processor: that part of a chip which is 
designed to implement in a digital format the algorithms, 
protocols and logic required to implement, for example,  
a standard such as the Bluetooth wireless standard 
bit: a unit of information; a computational quantity that can 
take one of two values, such as true and false or 0 and 1; 
also the smallest unit of storage sufficient to hold one bit, 
kbt or Mbt 
bill of materials: a list of the individual parts (or material) 
which comprise a finished product and the cost of each  
of those individual parts 
BlueCore: means the CSR family of single chip CMOS 
based (see below) Bluetooth solutions which integrate 
onto one chip the Radio Frequency (RF), baseband and 
communications protocol stack 
Bluetooth low energy: is designed to work side-by-side 
with and complement Bluetooth. It operates in 2.4 GHz 
ISM band. Devices using Bluetooth low energy will be 
smaller and more energy-efficient than their Bluetooth 
counterparts 
Bluetooth protocol stack: the communications  
software which is required together with the baseband 
processor and other subsystems, to implement the 
Bluetooth standard 
Bluetooth qualified: certified by one of a number  
of organisations approved by the SIG as meeting  
the Bluetooth specification and ‘Bluetooth qualified 
products’ are end products and modules which are 
Bluetooth qualified 
Bluetooth specification: the specification determined 
by the SIG which defines the parameters which a device 
providing a Bluetooth system must meet; different versions 
of the Bluetooth specification are designated v1.0, v1.1, 
v1.2 and v2.0 
CDMA: code division multiple access is the means by 
which many users of radio waves can communicate using 
the same frequency but different (unique) codes so that  
the only people able to understand the communication  
are the sender and receiver 
cellular/cellular device: derives from ‘cellphone’ 
and means a mobile phone or other device which 
communicates through a network of radio ‘cells’ 
CMOS: Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor 
technology: a semiconductor process technology that 
uses planar transistors to make chips that consume 
relatively low power and permit a high level of integration 
chip: short for a microchip; semiconductor device  
or integrated circuit 
chipset: the term chipset is commonly used to refer to 
a set of specialised chips that work together on a host 
platform, such as the ‘motherboard’ of a PC 
co-exist/co-existence: means the ability of two systems 
to operate in parallel without interfering with the other 
communications protocol stack: communications 
software, which is required, together with the baseband 
processor and other subsystems, to implement a wireless 
communications standard 
connectivity: enabling two electronic devices  
to communicate with each other and transfer data  
(voice /audio/music/picture/word files) using radio waves 
connectivity centre: a term first promulgated by CSR 
in its application to wireless connectivity solutions; the 
Connectivity Centre brings together many aspects of 
short range wireless connectivity products with excellent 
co-existence capable of operating concurrently without 
degradation in optimum performance of each of the 
individual functions. Bluetooth, FM radio, Wi-Fi, UWB high 
quality audio for music, GPS location finding technology 
and Near Field Communications can all ultimately co-exist 
alongside each other
converged phones: phones capable of 
switching between fixed broadband and wireless 
telecommunications networks automatically without 
interruption in the reception or transmission of voice  
or data
CSP: Chip-Scale Package: a semiconductor package 
which is as small as the semiconductor chip and is used 
for small form factor applications such as mobile phones, 
PDAs and wireless devices 
customer applications software: software that is  
not generic and which is written to specifically address  
a customer-defined problem or task 
DSP: Digital Signal Processor: a device which enables 
computer manipulation using processing elements or 
stored programmes of analogue signals which have been 
sampled and converted to digital form 
designed-in: where an ODM or OEM adopts into its 
product design a solution provided by a third party supplier 
design win: CSR records a design win when a product 
using one of its IC’s becomes Bluetooth qualified 
die: another word for chip: often used to refer to the  
‘chips’ whilst they are still an integral part of the silicon 
‘wafer’ or where they have been cut from the ‘wafer’  
but are, as yet, unpackaged 
digital: the representation of data by a series of bits  
or discrete values such as 0s and 1s 
dongle: an electronic device that is usually plugged  
into the USB port of a computer in order to provide  
added functionality 
download: to receive data from a remote or central 
system. A download is any file that is offered for 
downloading or that has been downloaded 
DRM: digital rights management: the process which 
controls access to music files only to those who have paid 
the required subscription fee
EDR: Enhanced Data Rate is an extension of the  
Bluetooth standard enabling faster communication  
of larger files (videos and music) by a rate of up to three 
times faster than conventional methods
E-GPS: enhanced GPS: as the name suggests an 
enhancement to GPS whereby measurements are made 
by the GPS receiver on the signals received from the 
mobile phone network which allow both fine time and 
frequency assistance to the GPS receiver. This further 
accelerates acquisition of a fix, as well as allowing, when 
GPS signals are unavailable, fall-back to a fix made solely 
from the measurements made on the cellular network (see 
also ‘GPS’)
embedded solution: a system in which all processing  
is carried out on-chip without the need for an external  
host processor
end products: products from a manufacturer which are 
in their final form and ready for the user, examples include 
PCs and mobile phones 
fab: short for silicon fabrication facility, manufacturing plant 
or foundry
fabless: short for fabricationless, a business model used 
in the semiconductor industry, where the manufacture  
(or fabrication) of IC’s is subcontracted to a foundry
fabless semiconductor company: company that 
uses a third party semiconductor fabrication service 
to manufacture silicon chips as opposed to fabrication 
facilities owned directly
feature phone: a mobile phone which has added 
functionality over and above a base model designed 
specifically to meet the requirements of a particular market 
segment. Typically these ‘features’ can include a digital 
camera, Bluetooth connectivity, FM radio or MP3 player. 
These phones are intended to occupy the mid-market 
segment
firmware: software which interfaces with and typically 
configures and manages the hardware in a system
flash memory: electronic memory where the contents 
(usually an applications programme) may be programmed 
prior to use and which retains its contents irrespective  
of applied power
FM: frequency modulation: a technique of broadcasting 
radio signals which modulates (adjusts) the pitch of the 
radio wave to communicate the wanted signal 
foundry: a semiconductor manufacturing site that makes 
integrated circuits
GHz: giga-Hertz 
GPS: Global Positioning Systems: a satellite based 
radio navigation system that allows receiving devices to 
take an accurate location fix of the device on the surface 
of the earth. Positions are derived by measuring the time 
of arrival of signals broadcast from the constellation of 
satellites, and knowledge of the instantaneous positions 
of the satellites. (The information required to calculate this 
being broadcast at a very low data rate by the satellites 
themselves, and is known as almanac and ephemeris data)
GSM/GPRS: GSM (Global System for Mobile 
Communications) the most common digital mobile 
standard; GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) a digital 
mobile standard designed to send and receive voice  
and data such as email information from the web and 
which is able to transmit data at higher rates than the  
GSM standard 
hardware solution: a solution where data is manipulated 
by a series of gates and registers whose function is not 
modified through programmable instructions 
host software: software running on the system in which 
the device is embedded  107
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
OEM: or Original Equipment Manufacturer:  
a manufacturer that sells equipment to retail  
and wholesale outlets 
PAN: Personal Area Network: a short distance wireless 
network specifically designed to support portable and 
mobile computing devices
PC: personal computer
PDA: personal digital assistant: a pocket-sized  
personal computer 
Personal Navigation Device or PND: is a portable 
electronic product which combines a positioning capability 
(such as GPS) and navigation functions and enables the 
user to find out where they are located and get directions 
to move from one place to another 
package: the package of a semiconductor is the  
physical and electrical interface between the chip  
and the system in which it operates 
playback: the characteristic of a device to be able to play 
selected music or video tracks which are stored on that 
device
PMP or Portable Music Player: describes any digital 
portable music player which allows users to download or 
save digital music files (in MP3 format) from their computer 
to play on their PMP. Some examples of a PMP would be 
the iPod, iRiver, and the NOMAD to name a few
product qualification: the approval of a product  
or process for use by an ODM or OEM 
profile: a set of specifications defined by the SIG aimed  
at facilitating communication between classes of 
Bluetooth-enabled devices; examples include the  
headset and hands-free profiles 
protocol: a method by which two dissimilar systems  
can communicate 
push to fix: used in conjunction with PND to represent  
the act of making an ad hoc estimate of a users’ location  
ie to obtain a location ‘fix’
RAM: random access memory 
RF: radio frequency: frequencies of electromagnetic 
waves between approximately 3 kHz and 300 GHz 
ROM: read only memory 
radio modulation: dynamic modification of the 
characteristics of a radio (electromagnetic) wave in order  
to convey information 
SIG: the Bluetooth Special Interest Group 
sampling: the process of shipping small quantities of a 
new IC to a customer in order to allow the customer to test 
the IC in its product prior to adoption of that IC into the 
customers finished product
semiconductor: a material, typically crystalline,  
that can be altered to allow electrical current to flow or  
not flow in a pattern; common semiconductors are silicon, 
germanium and gallium-arsenide and the term is also used 
to apply to IC’s made from these materials 
silicon: a semiconducting material used to make wafers, 
widely used in the semiconductor industry as the basic 
material for integrated circuits 
short range: Bluetooth is principally used for 
communicating over ranges of up to ten metres 
sniffer: software that is combined with hardware for 
monitoring data and voice traffic on a network over the air
smartphones: a mobile phone using an advanced 
Operating System such as Windows Mobile, Symbian 
or Android and usually offering 3rd generation (3G) data 
network connectivity. Beyond the features of a typical 
mobile phone these ‘devices’ offer PC-like functionality and 
enhanced applications such as e-mail and web-browsing. 
They also provide the user with additional capabilities such 
as a digital still and video camera, MP3 & media playback 
and can include GPS & Wi-Fi connectivity. A smartphone 
allows more than one such function to be operating at the 
same time. Generally smartphones are regarded as being 
at the ‘high end’ of the market
IC or integrated circuit: a semiconductor device 
consisting of many thousands or millions of interconnected 
transistors and other components
ISO: International Standards Organisation: the 
international organisation responsible for developing and 
maintaining worldwide standards for manufacturing, 
environmental management systems, computers, data 
communications, and many other fields 
ISO 9000: a series of international standards for quality 
assurance in business practices, ratified by the ISO 
beginning in 1987. Certification of ISO 9000 compliance 
is important for selling many types of goods and services 
including data-communications equipment and services 
internet protocols: the communications protocols  
used over the Internet 
kbs: 1kbs is a unit of 1024 ‘bits’ per second 
location-based service (LBS): is an information and 
entertainment service, accessible with mobile devices 
through the mobile network and utilising the ability to make 
use of the geographical position of the mobile device. LBS 
services include services to identify a location of a person 
or object, such as discovering the nearest banking cash 
machine or the whereabouts of a friend or employee 
low latency: refers to the period of delay (usually 
measured in milliseconds) required for the conversion 
between analog and digital representations of the sound 
data. Devices such as computers can only process digital 
data. Thus, the analog data it receives on microphone 
or line-in inputs must be converted to digital data. After 
processing of data, the processed data must be converted 
back to an analog signal before it can be output to 
speakers and played back. Low latency thus means  
a lower period of delay for this process to take place 
Mb or Mega Byte: 1024 times 1024 bytes where  
1 byte is equal to 8 ‘bits’ 
memory: any device that can store data in machine-
readable format which may include RAM, ROM and Flash 
microcontroller: often defined as being a microprocessor 
together with its memory and a means of allowing input 
and output 
microprocessor: a computer with its entire CPU 
contained on one integrated circuit 
modem: A device that enables electronic equipment  
to transmit and receive data over a network
mono-headset: a mobile headset which connects to 
a mobile phone, PDA, MP3 player or other device using 
Bluetooth and sits in one ear of the user 
motherboard: the principal printed circuit board 
embedded within an electronic product 
MP3: a file format which compresses or ‘shrinks’ voice  
and music files for transfer between one electronic device 
to another whilst retaining CD quality audio
NAND or NAND Flash architecture: is one of two 
flash technologies used in memory cards such as the 
CompactFlash cards and is also used in MP3 players. 
NAND is best suited to flash devices requiring high 
capacity data storage. NAND flash devices offer storage 
space of up to 512-MB and offers fast erase, write, and 
read capabilities 
non-cellular /non-cellular device: as used by CSR 
means an electronic device which uses Bluetooth but  
is not a cellular device 
NFC or Near Field Communication: is a short-range 
high frequency wireless communication technology which 
enables the exchange of data between devices over a 
distance of about four centimetres. Its application includes 
secure payment transactions using the customers mobile 
phone or transfer of files for example photo images from  
a digital camera to a PC 
ODM: or Original Design Manufacturer: a 
manufacturer that designs and manufactures equipment 
for another company who will, in turn sell this to the end-
user 
skype: is a software programme that allows users to make 
telephone calls over the internet 
stereo headset: a mobile headset which connects to 
a mobile phone, PDA, MP3 player or other device using 
Bluetooth and sits on both ears of the user 
SOC: System on chip is a technology that takes  
all the necessary electronic circuits and parts for a 
complete system and integrates them into a single  
circuit (Silicon chip)
software solution: a solution where instructions and 
data are read from memory (or memories) and then the 
instructions interpreted and executed by a microprocessor 
to modify the data in the intended way 
software stack: software required to implement  
the Bluetooth standard
tape out: in electronics design tape-out is the final  
stage of the design cycle of integrated circuits or printed 
circuit boards, the point at which the description of a  
circuit is sent for manufacture. The roots of the term are 
traced back to early ways of printed circuit board design, 
when the enlarged (for higher precision) ‘artwork’ of PCBs 
was manually ‘taped out’ of tape and adhesive-covered 
PCB footprints
tier one: a description of a leading, normally global 
manufacturer that supplies products in high volume to end 
user markets
total addressable market: the size of a potential market 
for a given product, normally assessed in potential financial 
value or the number of units of a product which could be 
sold to that market 
transistor: the basic building block of modern 
semiconductor microelectronics; a transistor regulates 
current flow or voltage 
Unlicensed Mobile Access: (UMA – also known  
as GAN Generic Access Network) is the technology  
that enables GSM voice and GPRS data services  
to be provided over unlicensed radio interfaces such  
as Wi-Fi
urban canyon: is a built up urban environment similar  
to a natural canyon which interrupts radio signals.  
It is caused by streets cutting through dense blocks of 
structures, especially skyscrapers or other tall buildings 
USB: Universal Serial Bus: an interface between a 
computer and add-on devices 
UWB: Ultra wideband, a wireless technology for 
transmitting large amounts of digital data over a  
wide spectrum of frequency bands with very low power  
for a short distance 
VoIP: Voice over Internet Protocol: The technology 
used to transmit voice conversations over the packet 
based protocol at the heart of the internet
Wi-Fi: Wi-Fi short for ‘wireless fidelity’ (also known as 
IEEE 802.11a/b/g/n) is an 1155 Mbs raw radio bit rate 
data centric wireless communication standard typically 
associated with wireless computer networks at home and 
in the office and public spaces
wafer: a disc made of a semiconducting material such  
as silicon, usually between 150mm (6’) and 300mm (12’)  
in diameter, in which integrated circuits are manufactured; 
a wafer may contain several thousand individual  
integrated circuits 
WLCSP: Wafer Level Chip Scale Packaging:  
the technology of packaging a chip at the wafer level 
instead of the traditional process of assembling the 
package after the wafer has been diced into individual 
chips (see CSP)
wireless modem: a modem that accesses  
a wireless network
yield: when used in connection with manufacturing,  
the ratio of the number of usable products to the total 
number of products on a wafer 108
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
United Kingdom
Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited
Unit 400
Cambridge Science Park 
Milton Road
Cambridge
CB4 0WH
UK
Tel: +44 1223 692000
Fax:+44 1223 692001
www.csr.com
Churchill House
Cambridge Business Park
Cowley Road
Cambridge
CB4 0WZ
UK
Tel: +44 1223 692000
Fax:+44 1223 692001
www.csr.com
Selwyn House
Cambridge Business Park
Cowley Road
Cambridge
CB4 0WZ
UK
Tel: +44 1223 692000
Fax:+44 1223 692001
www.csr.com
St John’s House
St John’s Innovation Park
Cowley Road
Cambridge 
CB4 0WS
UK
Tel: +44 1223 692000
Fax:+44 1223 692001
www.csr.com
Abbey Business Centre
Abbey House
83 Princes Street
Edinburgh
Mid Lothian 
EH2 2ER
UK
Tel: +44 131 718 0850
Fax:+44 131 718 0851
www.csr.com
China
CSR (Shanghai) Co., Ltd
Rm 2201-05 
Platinum Building
No. 233 Taicang Road 
Luwan District 
Shanghai 
P.R.C. 200020
Tel: +86 21 6135 2100
Fax: +86 21 6135 2199
www.csr.com
CSR’S SUBSIDIARIES, BRANCHES AND OFFICES 
UbiNetics Wireless Technologies (Shenzhen) 
Company Ltd
Unit 2, 12th Floor
Tower 2
Kerry Plaza
No.1 Zhong Xin Si Road
Futian District
Shenzhen
Guangdong Province
P.R.C.518048
Tel: +86 755 2151 6000
Fax: +86 755 2151 6019
www.csr.com
Denmark
CSR Denmark
NOVI Science Park
Niels Jernes Vej 10
9220 Aalborg East
Denmark 
Tel: +45 99 324 100
Fax: +45 99 324 101
www.csr.com
France
Cambridge Silicon Radio SARL
Les Deux Arcs
Bâtiment B
1800 route des Crêtes
Sophia Antipolis
06560 Valbonne
France
Tel : +33 489 737 000
Fax : +33 489 737 001
www.csr.com
India
CSR India Pvt Ltd
11th Floor
Tower ‘C’
IBC Knowledge Park
No. 4/1 Bannerghatta Main Road
Bangalore 560 029
Karnataka
India
Tel: +91 80 2518 3000
Fax:+91 80 2518 3001
www.csr.com
Japan
CSR KK
9F Kojimachi KS Square
5-3-3 Kojimachi 
Chiyoda-ku
Tokyo 102-0083
Japan
Tel: +81 3 5276 2911
Fax: +81 3 5276 2915
www.csr.com
South Korea
Cambridge Silicon Radio Korea Ltd
15F West Wing POSCO Center
892 Daichi-Dong
Gangnam-Gu
Seoul 135-777
South Korea
Tel: +82 264 442 000
Fax:+82 264 442 001
www.csr.com
Cambridge Silicon Radio Korea Ltd
3F Sinwon Building
275-28 Hwangsang-Dong 
Gumi 730-932
Gyungsangbuk-Do 
South Korea 
Tel: +82 544 709 400
Fax: +82 544 768 680
www.csr.com
Sweden
NordNav Technologies AB
Stadsgården 10
S-116 45 
Stockholm
Sweden
Tel: +46 839 0000
Fax:+46 841 247 40
www.csr.com
Taiwan
CSR Taiwan
6F No.407 Ruey Kuang Road
Neihu 
Taipei 11492
Taiwan
R.O.C.
Tel: +886 2 2650 2000
Fax: +886 2 2650 2099
www.csr.com
CSR Taiwan
11F, No.146 Jhongshan Road
Chungli
Taoyuan 32041
Taiwan 
R.O.C
Tel: +886 3 426 7000
Fax:+886 3 426 7001
www.csr.com
USA
Cambridge Silicon Radio, Inc.
2425 N. Central Expressway
Suite 1000
Richardson 
Dallas
Texas 75080
USA
Tel: +1 214 540 4300
Fax:+1 972 231 1440
www.csr.com
Clarity Technologies, Inc.
1740 Opdyke Court
Auburn Hills 
Detroit
Michigan 48326
USA
Tel: +1 248 409 1400
Fax:+1 248 409 1401
www.csr.com Forward looking statements
This Annual Report contains forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Rather they 
are based on current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results 
to differ from any future results or developments expressed or implied from the forward looking statements. Each forward looking statement 
speaks only as of the date of the particular statement.
Revive 50:50 Silk contains 50% de-inked post consumer waste and 50% FSC certified and ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) virgin pulp. This document is 100% Recyclable.
Designed and produced by Imagination. Printed by CTD an ISO 14001 and FSC certified printer, using vegetable oil based inks. CSR plc 
Unit 400 
Cambridge Science Park 
Milton Road  
Cambridge 
CB4 0WH 
www.csr .com
