 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Annual Report and Accounts
29th September, 2002
Providing media products and
services to meet the needs of
our customers
dmgt.co.uk dmgtopportunities.com Associated Newspapers Buy&Sell Daily Mail Evening Standard The Mail on Sunday Metro Loot
Ireland on Sunday buyandsell.ie dailymail.co.uk femail.co.uk irelandonsunday.com loot.com metro.co.uk thisislondon.com
thisismoney.com thisistravel.co.uk zoom.co.uk Front of Mind frontofmind.co.uk answerbank.com realslimmers.com Northcliffe
Newspapers Aberdeen Citizen Aberdeen Evening Express Aberdeen Press and Journal Advertiser Series (Hull) Ashby and Coalville
Mail Axholme Herald Bath Chronicle Bath Times Brentwood Gazette Bridgewater Times Bristol Evening Post Bristol Observer Series
Bristol Western Daily Press Burnham and Highbridge Times Cannock Mercury Carmarthen Herald Carmarthen Journal Cheadle Post
and Times Cheltenham News Clevedon Mercury Congleton Biddulph Adnews Cornish Guardian Derby Evening Telegraph Derby
Express Series Doncaster Ad-Mag East Grinstead Courier Essex Chronicle Exeter Express and Echo Exeter Leader Gainsborough
Target Gloucester Citizen Gloucester News Gloucestershire Echo Great Barr Observer Grimbsy Evening Telegraph Grimbsy Target
Hereford Admag Hull Daily Mail Kent & Sussex Courier Leek Post and Times Leicester Ad-Mag Leicester Mail Series Leicester
Mercury Lichfield Mercury Series Lincoln Ad-Mag Lincoln Target Lincolnshire Echo Llanelli Star Series Loughborough Mail Mansfield
and Ashfield Recorder Mansfield Ad-Mag Mid Devon Gazette Series Mid Somerset Series Mid Somerset Times Neath Courier News in
Focus North Devon Journal Herald North Staffs Advertiser Nottingham Ad-Mag Nottingham Evening Post Nottingham Recorder
Plymouth Evening Herald Plymouth Extra Port Talbot Courier Retford Times, Gainsborough & Worksop Times Scot Ads Scunthorpe
Evening Telegraph Scunthorpe Target Sentinel on Sunday Sevenoaks Chronicle Sheffield Ad-Mag Shewsbury Admag Standard &
Guardian Weekly Series (Somerset) South Lincs Target Group South Wales Evening Post Stoke The Sentinel Sutton Coldfield Observer
Swansea Herald of Wales Tamworth Herald Series Tamworth Herald Leader Taunton Times Telford Admag The Cornishman The
Forester Torbay Weekender Series Torquay Herald Express Uttoxeter Post and Times Walsall Advertiser Wellington Weekly News
West Briton West Wiltshire Advertiser Western Gazette Western Morning News Weston and Worle News Why Publications – Coventry
Why Publications – Evesham Why Publications – Gloucestershire Why Publications – Grimsby Why Publications – North
Birmingham/Staffs Why Publications – Redditch & Bromsgrove Why Publications – Solihull & Birmingham Why Publications –
Stafford Why Publications – Stratford Why Publications – Warwick & Leamington Why Publications – Worcestershire Yeovil Times
nep.co.uk thisisnorthcliffe.co.uk fish4.co.uk thisisbristol.co.uk thisiscornwall.co.uk thisisderbyshire.co.uk thisisessex.co.uk (50%
owned) thisisexeter.co.uk thisisgloucestershire.co.uk thisisgrimsby.co.uk thisishull.co.uk thisiskentandeastsussex.co.uk
thisisleicestershire.co.uk thisislincolnshire.co.uk thisisnorthdevon.co.uk thisisnorthscotland.co.uk thisisnottingham.co.uk
thisisplymouth.co.uk thisisscunthorpe.co.uk thisissomerset.co.uk thisissouthdevon.co.uk thisissouthwales.co.uk thisisstaffordshire.co.uk 
Euromoney Institutional Investor adhes.com aircrafteconomics.com airfinancejournal.com airtrafficmanagement.net asialaw.com
asiamoney.com assetfinance.com batteriesinternational.com biotechnology-investor.com business-meetings.co.uk
businesstraveller.com businesstravellerasia.com businesstravelerusa.com businesstraveller.de capitaldata.com capitalnet.com
chinalawandpractice.com clrsonline.com coaltrans.com corporatefinancemag.com emergingmarkets.org eurofood.org.uk
euromoney.com euromoneybooks.com euromoney-yearbooks.com euromoneyconferences.com euromoneydirectory.com
euromoneyfunds.com euromoneyit.com euromoneyleasetraining.com euromoneyplc.com euromoneyseminars.com
euromoneytraining.com euroweek.com ew-sfi.com expertguides.com financialdirectories.com globalinvestormagazine.com gulfpub.com 
hydrocarbonprocessing.com iflr.com iflr1000.com iiconferences.com iijournals.com iimemberships.com iinews.com iisearches.com
imperator.co.uk institutionalinvestor.com international-ceramics.com internationalglassreview.com internationaltaxreview.com
isfmagazine.com latinfinance.com legalmediagroup.com managingip.com misti.com onboard-online.com operationsmanagement.com 
opi.net petroleum-economist.com pharmalive.com projectfinancemagazine.com reactionsnet.com sbi-w.com selfstudysolutions.com
sfidirectory.com strategicdirectinvestor.com tradefinancemagazine.com travelretailworld.com worldlawbusiness.com worldoil.com
DMG Broadcasting Teletext teletext.co.uk teletextholidays.co.uk DMG Television British Pathe Performance Channel britishpathe.com
performance-channel.com DMG Radio DMG Radio Australia New South Wales 2AY Albury Star FM Albury Star FM Coffs Harbour 2CS
Coffs Harbour Star FM Dubbo Star FM Griffith 2RG Griffith 2MC Port MaCquarie Star FM Port MaCquarie Star FM Orange 2GZ Orange
2WG Wagga Star FM Wagga Star FM Young 2LF Young Nova 969 Sydney Queensland Hot FM Mareeba 4AM Mareeba 4CA Cairns Hot
FM Cairns Hot FM Charters Towers 4GC Charters Towers Hot FM Emerald 4HI Emerald 4MK Mackay Hot FM Mackay 4LM Mount ISA
Hot FM Mount ISA Hot FM Rockhampton 4CC Gladstone 4ZR Roma Hot FM Roma Hot FM Townsville 4TO Townsville Brisbane’s 4BH
Brisbane’s 97.3FM (Joint venture) South Australia Star FM Mt Gambier 5SE Mt Gambier FIVEaa Adelaide Victoria Star FM Bendigo
3BO Bendigo Star FM Mildura 3MA Mildura Nova 100 Melbourne Western Australia Hot FM Albany 6VA Albany 6BY Bridgetown Hot
FM Bridgetown Hot FM Bunbury 6TZ Bunbury HOT FM Esperance 6SE Esperance Hot FM Kalgoorlie 6KG Kalgoorlie Hot FM Katanning 
6WB Katanning 6MD Merredin Hot FM Merredin Hot FM Narrogin 6NA Narrogin Hot FM Northam 6AM Northam Nova 937 (Joint
venture) dmgradio.com.au fiveaa.com.au hotfm.com.au nova100.com.au nova969.com.au starfm.net.au nova937.com.au dmg world
media Home & Garden Trade Exhibitions and Consumer Shows Auckland Home Show Capital Home & Garden Show Daily Mail Ideal
Home Show GMC Southern California Home & Garden Show Indianapolis Home Show Index Interior Designex Melbourne
Home Show Metro Home Show Minneapolis Home & Garden Show Montreal National Home Show National Home Show New England
Home Show Philadelphia Home Show Scotland Ideal Home Show Sydney Home Show Publications Kitchen Bedrooms and Bathrooms
KBB Review Sports & Leisure Trade Exhibitions and Consumer Shows Big Boy Toys Daily Mail Ski & Snowboard Show Mind Body and
Spirit Festivals Surfexpo Publications Daily Mail Ski & Snowboard Show Magazine Hospitality Trade Exhibitions Dubai Hotel Show
Foodpro Industrial & Technical Trade Exhibitions Aluminium Asia Pacific Coatings Show Big 5 Chemspec Europe Fire Show Glassman
Asia Global Petroleum Show Intermodal Smart Show World Tobacco Show Publications Communicate Dredging & Port Construction
ERT Weekly Fire Foundry Trade Journal International Broadcast Engineer Polymers, Paint & Colour Journal Speciality Chemicals
Gift & Crafts Trade Exhibitions and Consumer Shows Alberta Gift Show Autumn Gift Fair California Gift Show Harvest Festivals
Montreal Gift Show New York International Gift Fair (George Little Management) San Francisco International Gift Fair (Western
Exhibitors) Toronto International Gift Fair Vancouver Gift Show Whereoware.com Art & Antiques Trade and Consumer Fairs Ardingly
Las Vegas Jewelry & Watch Show Le Bourget International Antiques Trade Fair Metrolina Miami Beach Antique Jewelry & Watch
Show Newark New York Fall Fair Palm Beach International Art & Antiques Fair Publications Antiques Trade Gazette Antique Week
antiquestradegazette.com antiqueweek.com bigboystoysnz.com californiagiftshow.com californiamarketcenter.com commsnow.com
cscinet.co.uk dmgantiquefairs.com dmgfiregroup.com dmgindex.com dmgworldmedia.co.nz dmgworldmedia.com
dmgworldmedia.com.ar dmgworldmedia.com.au ertweekly.com farmworldonline.com glassmediaonline.com glmshows.com
harvestfestival.com homeentertainmentshow.com homeshows.co.nz ibeweb.com idealhomeshow.co.uk ifae.com intermodal.com.br
nationalhomeshow.com petroleumshow.com piccadillypromos.com ski-show.co.uk specchemonline.com surfexpo.com
sydhomeshow.com thegiftdirectory.com tourismshow.com westernexhibitors.com westpalmbeachhomeshow.com whereoware.com
p
owned) thisisexeter.co.uk thisisgloucestershire.co.uk thisisgrimsby.co.uk
thisisleicestershire.co.uk thisislincolnshire.co.uk thisisnorthdevon.co.uk th
thisisplymouth.co.uk thisisscunthorpe.co.uk thisissomerset.co.uk thisissouthdevon.
Euromoney Institutional Investor adhes.com aircrafteconomics.com airfinancej
asiamoney.com assetfinance.com batteriesinternational.com biotechn
businesstraveller.com businesstravellerasia.com businesstravelerusa.com bu
chinalawandpractice.com clrsonline.com coaltrans.com corporatefinancem
euromoney.com euromoneybooks.com euromoney-yearbooks.com euromo
euromoneyfunds.com euromoneyit.com euromoneyleasetraining.com 
euromoneytraining.com euroweek.com ew-sfi.com expertguides.com financialdirec
hydrocarbonprocessing.com iflr.com iflr1000.com iiconferences.com iijournals.c
imperator.co.uk institutionalinvestor.com international-ceramics.com internat
isfmagazine.com latinfinance.com legalmediagroup.com managingip.com misti.co
opi.net petroleum-economist.com pharmalive.com projectfinancemagazine.com 
sfidirectory.com strategicdirectinvestor.com tradefinancemagazine.com travelre
DMG Broadcasting Teletext teletext.co.uk teletextholidays.co.uk DMG Television B
performance-channel.com DMG Radio DMG Radio Australia New South Wales 2AY
Coffs Harbour Star FM Dubbo Star FM Griffith 2RG Griffith 2MC Port MaCquarie S
2WG Wagga Star FM Wagga Star FM Young 2LF Young Nova 969 Sydney Queensl
FM Cairns Hot FM Charters Towers 4GC Charters Towers Hot FM Emerald 4HI Em
Hot FM Mount ISA Hot FM Rockhampton 4CC Gladstone 4ZR Roma Hot FM Roma
Brisbane’s 97.3FM (Joint venture) South Australia Star FM Mt Gambier 5SE Mt G
3BO Bendigo Star FM Mildura 3MA Mildura Nova 100 Melbourne Western Austra
FM Bridgetown Hot FM Bunbury 6TZ Bunbury HOT FM Esperance 6SE Esperance H
6WB Katanning 6MD Merredin Hot FM Merredin Hot FM Narrogin 6NA Narrog
venture) dmgradio.com.au fiveaa.com.au hotfm.com.au nova100.com.au nova96
media Home & Garden Trade Exhibitions and Consumer Shows Auckland Home S
Home Show GMC Southern California Home & Garden Show Indianapolis H
Home Show Metro Home Show Minneapolis Home & Garden Show Montreal Natio
Home Show Philadelphia Home Show Scotland Ideal Home Show Sydney Home S
KBB Review Sports & Leisure Trade Exhibitions and Consumer Shows Big Boy Toy
Spirit Festivals Surfexpo Publications Daily Mail Ski & Snowboard Show Magazi
Foodpro Industrial & Technical Trade Exhibitions Aluminium Asia Pacific Coating
Asia Global Petroleum Show Intermodal Smart Show World Tobacco Show Public
ERT Weekly Fire Foundry Trade Journal International Broadcast Engineer Poly
Gift & Crafts Trade Exhibitions and Consumer Shows Alberta Gift Show Autum
Montreal Gift Show New York International Gift Fair (George Little Manageme
Exhibitors) Toronto International Gift Fair Vancouver Gift Show Whereoware.com
Las Vegas Jewelry & Watch Show Le Bourget International Antiques Trade Fair
Show Newark New York Fall Fair Palm Beach International Art & Antiques Fair 
antiquestradegazette.com antiqueweek.com bigboystoysnz.com californiagiftsho
cscinet.co.uk dmgantiquefairs.com dmgfiregroup.com dmgindex.com
dmgworldmedia.com.ar dmgworldmedia.com.au ertweekly.com farmworldo
harvestfestival.com homeentertainmentshow.com homeshows.co.nz ibeweb.com
nationalhomeshow.com petroleumshow.com piccadillypromos.com ski-s
sydhomeshow.com thegiftdirectory.com tourismshow.com westernexhibitors.co Corporate Review
01 Corporate Profile and
Financial Highlights 
02 106 years
04 Chairman’s Statement
06 10 years
08 Chief Executive’s Review
10 24 hours
12 Associated Newspapers
14 Northcliffe Newspapers
16 Euromoney Institutional Investor
18 Broadcasting: Teletext
20 Broadcasting: DMG Radio
22 dmg world media
24 DMG Information
26 DMGT and the Community
28 Financial and Treasury Review
32 Board of Directors
Financial Review
33 Directors’ Report
34 Corporate Governance
36 Remuneration Report
45 Report of the Independent Auditors
46 Group Profit and Loss Account
47 Group Cash Flow Statement
48 Group Balance Sheet
49 Statement of Group Total
Recognised Gains and Losses
50 Company Balance Sheet
51 Accounting Policies
53 Notes to the Profit and Loss Account
61 Notes to the Cash Flow Statement
63 Notes to the Balance Sheets
83 Principal Subsidiaries
86 Five Year Financial Summary
88 Shareholder Information
90 Websites and Products 01 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Corporate Profile
Daily Mail and General Trust is one of the longest-
established and most successful media companies 
in the UK. Its origins date back to the launch in1896 
of the Daily Mail and it now has interests around the
world in national and regional newspapers, business
publishing, television, radio, exhibitions, business 
to business information and careers. 
Recent investments put DMGT at the forefront 
of new and exciting media developments. It is our
intention to build on our long-standing commitment
to quality and our unrivalled editorial excellence 
and experience to create the best media products 
of tomorrow.
Financial Highlights 2002 2001 Change
Turnover £1,945m £1,963m -1%
Adjusted operating profit * £241.6m £238.9m +1%
Adjusted profit before tax * £182.5m £177.5m +3%
Adjusted earnings per share * 31.0p 29.4p +5%
Dividend per share 9.2p 8.6p +7%
*(before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items) 02 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
1997 DMG Radio investment in Australia
1908 dmg world media launch of Ideal Home Show 1989 initial expansion of the exhibition division
1969 Euromoney was founded with an investment of £6,000 1990 was listed on the Stock Exchange 1997 Institutional Investor was acquired
1922 DMGT was incorporated 1933 was listed on the London Stock Exchange 1988 became a media group, fully acquiring Associated Newspapers Holdings 1999 entered the FTSE 100 index 2000 four for one share split
1896 Associated Newspapers the Daily Mail was founded 1982 launched The Mail on Sunday 1988 moved from Fleet Street to Kensington 1989 Harmsworth Quays Printing, the London Docklands plant, was officially opened
1928 Northcliffe Newspapers was created 1982 began to build new publishing centres 1990 acquired Kisalfold in Hungary 1995 acquired the Nottingham Evening Post
1990 DMG Information new division established with acquisition of Hobsons
1992 DMG Broadcasting Teletext secured ITV1 and Channel 4 licence
106 years
From past to future achievements – DMGT has
developed its core newspaper businesses, whilst
establishing new divisions to expand its media
interests, building market leading positions which
will enable it to continue to grow over the long term.
Group Structure National Newspapers
and Related Activities
Associated Newspapers is the
publisher of the Daily Mail, The Mail
on Sunday, the Evening Standard,
Metro, Ireland on Sunday and Loot.
It is also responsible for overseeing
and developing the Group’s mass
market internet properties, This
is London, This is Money, This is
Travel and Femail.
UK and Ireland
Northcliffe House
2 Derry Street
London W8 5TT, England
Tel  +44 (0)20 7938 6000
Regional Newspapers
and Related Activities
Northcliffe Newspapers is one
of the largest regional newspaper
publishers in the UK. Operating from
38 centres, its 20 daily titles have
a combined sale of 1,054,000 copies
whilst its 24 paid-for weeklies have
a sale which is in excess of 484,000
copies. Northcliffe also distributes
2.4 million copies of its free titles every
week and, in addition, derives part
of its revenue from contract printing
of other titles, paid-for and free,
and from the ownership of 62 retail
outlets. It also looks after the Group’s
Hungarian newspaper interests. 
UK
31/32 John Street
London WC1N 2QB, England
Tel  +44 (0)20 7400 1100
Euromoney Institutional Investor
Euromoney was founded in 1969
and is listed on the Stock Exchanges
in London and Luxembourg. It is
a leading international business
to business publisher, focused
primarily on international finance. It
publishes more than 100 magazines,
newsletters and journals as well
as surveys, directories, books and
maps. Euromoney also runs business
conferences, seminars and training
courses, and is a leading provider
of electronic business information
through its capital market databases
and through its internet-based
emerging markets information service.
Worldwide
Nestor House, Playhouse Yard
London EC4V 5EX, England
Tel  +44 (0)20 7779 8888
Broadcasting
The main business of DMG
Broadcasting is Teletext, which holds
the licence for the commercial public
teletext services broadcast on ITV1,
Channel 4 and commercial additional
services licence for Channel 5. The
company also operates commercial
information services on the digital
terrestrial, satellite and cable platforms,
as well as on the internet and on
mobile phones. 
UK
101 Farm Lane, Fulham
London SW6 1QJ, England
Tel  +44 (0)20 7386 5000
Broadcasting
DMG Radio owns 29.97% of GWR
Group plc, a listed company in the UK.
DMG Radio Investments Pty operates
61 radio stations across Australia,
including the Nova metropolitan
stations in Sydney and Melbourne. 
It also owns a 50% interest in an FM
station in Brisbane and a 50% interest
in an FM licence in Perth, which is to
be launched later in 2002 as Nova 937.
DMG Radio Investments will also
launch its new Central Coast FM
licence in 2003. 
Australia
49 Angas Street
Adelaide SA 5000, Australia
Tel 00 618 8415 5240
Exhibitions and Related Activities
dmg world media organises consumer
and trade exhibitions and produces
related publications. It operates in
the Home Interest, Gift, Art &
Antiques and Business to Business
Trade markets, organising over 300
exhibitions globally including the
Daily Mail Ideal Home Show and
the California Gift Show. 
UK, North and South America,
Australasia and United Arab
Emirates
Equitable House, Lyon Road
Harrow HA1 2EW, England
Tel  +44 (0)20 8515 2000
Business-to-Business
Information and Careers
DMG Information has two divisions.
The Business-to-Business division
operates in real estate, insurance
mapping and geo-spatial information
markets and in health and safety.
Within the careers division, Hobsons
is an international publisher and
event organiser in graduate and
education student recruitment
markets. Study Group is a provider
of academic, English language and
vocational education and student
exchange on a worldwide basis. 
UK, USA, France, Germany,
Australia and India
2 Stamford Landing
68 Southfield Avenue, Stamford
Connecticut CT 06902, USA
Tel 001 203 973 2940 05 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
We continue to develop our radio network in Australia.
The launch of Nova 100 in December 2001 in Melbourne
was one of the most successful in radio history. I hope
that the launch of Nova 93.7 in Perth, which I will have
the pleasure to attend, proves to be equally successful.
Most of our business to business internet sites are profitable
and our consumer internet offerings are seeing larger
audiences and revenues. Our focus here is on the classified
advertising markets.
But the resilience of our Group in difficult times is based
on the strength of our established businesses. Associated
Newspapers has weathered a substantial fall in advertising
revenues by cutting costs and increasing the circulations
of its national titles. They did this despite cover price
increases, while others were cutting theirs. Associated
would have increased its profits but for the investment
in a new title, Ireland on Sunday.
Euromoney Institutional Investor has done very well in
increasing profits, despite a 12% fall in revenues. Teletext
has also been successful in defending its profitability,
despite the contraction of its core holiday advertising market.
Early in 2002, Pierre Côté retired from the Board. He has
been involved with the Group for many years and served as
a Director for seven of them. I thank him for his wise counsel
and wish him a long and happy retirement. Sir Patrick
Sergeant has announced that he will retire from the Board
early in 2004 – I will pay tribute to his contribution to the
Group nearer that time. Charles Dunstone, Chief Executive
of Carphone Warehouse, joined the Board in December
2001. He is already making a valuable contribution. I am
also pleased to welcome to the Board Francisco Balsemão,
Chairman and Chief Executive of Impresa SA.
I said a year ago that our people were by far our best asset.
This last turbulent period has again shown their quality
and, because of them, I am confident that our Group will
continue to thrive. I am sure all shareholders are most
grateful for their hard work and commitment.
The Viscount Rothermere
Chairman
04 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Chairman ’s Statement
The resilience of our Group in difficult
times is based on the strength of our
established businesses.
After a year of big falls in the world’s equity and
advertising markets, I am glad to report higher Group
profits. This testifies both to the strength of our titles
and our businesses, and to the excellence of our editorial
and management teams.
Our strategy of investing in revenues other than advertising
has again paid off. DMG World Media had a marvellous
year, as have the business to business activities of DMG
Information. Two of our newer businesses, Metro and
Euromoney Institutional Investor’s Internet Securities, have
achieved break even towards the end of the year despite
the challenges in their markets. They will do much better
in the years to come.
DMGT has always believed in investing in its businesses.
Never is this more important than when times are hard.
This year we have continued the substantial investment
programme in our UK press capacity which should come
to fruition late in 2004. It is on time and within budget. We
have also chosen to invest more in the editorial, marketing
and distribution of our regional newspapers in order to
reverse the decline in their circulations. Early signs are
encouraging. These investments are why Northcliffe
Newspapers recorded marginally reduced profits, although
its spread of titles around the UK and the resilience of
advertising outside London have served it well.
Lord Rothermere
Chairman 07 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 06 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
10 years
Over the last ten years, DMGT has sought to reduce its
dependence on the UK, newspapers, and newsprint, the
price of which fluctuates. We have continued to invest in
and maintain the quality of our newspapers, but the rules
and regulations have made it difficult to expand in our
core UK markets. 
To grow as we wish, we have expanded geographically and into other media areas,
principally Teletext, Australian radio, exhibitions, business to business information and
careers. Over this period, we have invested the substantial cash flows of our core newspaper
businesses both to strengthen those businesses and to develop new divisions. In total,
more than £1.5 billion has been spent on acquisitions. A year after the Group returned to
its traditional strength of growing our businesses organically and, where appropriate, by
fill-in acquisitions, we set out below the key events and acquisitions of the last ten years.
1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
Associated
Newspapers
Since 1992 the 
Daily Mail and Mail
on Sunday have
increased circulation
to become the
second biggest
selling newspapers 
in the UK.
1994 the Daily Mail
launched Weekend
magazine and
The Mail on Sunday
launched Night & Day . 
1997 Associated
launched
thisislondon,
the internet site.
Northcliffe
Newspapers
Since 1992
Northcliffe has
participated in the
consolidation of the
UK regional press.
1995 the 
Nottingham 
Evening Post
was acquired.
1996 Aberdeen
Journals was
acquired.
Euromoney
Institutional
Investor plc
1997 Institutional
Investor was
acquired.
DMG 
Broadcasting
1992 the Group 
won the licence to
transmit its analogue
service on ITV1
and Channel 4.
Teletext became
a subsidiary.
dmg world media Since 1992,
dmg world media
has expanded
its home interest
business, also
moving into the
Art & Antiques
and Gift sectors.
1993 International
Antiques and
Collectors Fairs
was acquired.
1995 Antiques
Trade Gazette
was purchased.
1996 dmg world
media expanded
overseas with
the acquisition 
of a group of trade
and consumer
exhibitions in
North America.
DMG Information Since 1992, Hobsons’
careers business 
has expanded
internationally , and
DMGI has moved into
business to business
information.
1993 initial
investment in
CollegeView, 
now Hobsons USA.
1995 first business to
business investment
in Cartograph,
subsequently
merged into Risk
Management
Solutions. 
1996 an initial
interest was taken
in Study Group.
1997 Study Group
acquisition
programme in
USA and Australia
commenced.
1999 Metro, the free
morning newspaper
for commuters, was
launched and is now
in profit.
2000 the Soccernet
internet website was
sold for £25 million.
2001 £96 million
four-year press
enhancement
project started.
Ireland on Sunday
was acquired.
October 2001
Loot was acquired.
Acquisitions in
the period totalled
£70 million.
1998 Ad-Mag 
East Midlands/
South Yorkshire
was acquired.
1999 Central
Independent
Newspapers
was acquired.
2000 Bristol United
Press was fully
acquired.
2002 The Leek
Post and Times
was acquired.
Acquisitions in
the period totalled
£350 million.
1999 80% of ISI
was acquired.
Gulf Publishing
was acquired.
ISI moved into profit. Acquisitions in the
period exceeded
£130 million.
2000 T eletext was
launched on digital
terrestrial television.
teletextholidays.co.uk
a dedicated holiday
website, was launched.
2001 T eletext launched
a holiday offers’ service
on digital satellite.
2002 T eletext
started transmission 
on Channel 5.
Teletext cost
£35 million.
2000 won the 
Nova FM licences
in Sydney and
Melbourne.
2001 a 50% joint
venture won
an FM licence
in Brisbane.
April 2001 Nova 96.9
launched in Sydney.
Dec 2001 Nova 100
launched in Melbourne.
2002 a 50% joint
venture won an
FM licence in Perth.
Investment in GWR
Group plc increased
to 29.97%.
Acquisitions in
Australia in the
period totalled
£210 million.
1998 Index was
acquired in Dubai.
1999 the California
Gift Show and Surf
Expo were acquired. 
2000 25% of George
Little Management
was acquired.
2001 Fourteen separate
acquisitions were
made in core sectors.
2002 concentration on
encouraging organic
growth. 
Acquisitions in
the period totalled
£300 million.
1998 Risk Management
Solutions and
Landmark acquired.
1999 Environmental
Data Solutions,
Sanborn, and Prodat
which was merged into
Landmark, acquired.
2000 Hobsons
expanded into
Europe by acquiring
Verlagsgruppe Forum.
2001 Sanborn acquired
the Colorado Springs
office of AST, and
Hobsons acquired
Editions Go.
2002 Environmental
Data Resources
expanded its
environmental 
media assets.
Acquisitions in
the period totalled
£320 million.
CRAFTS
DMG Radio Over recent years,
DMG Radio has
become the largest
operator of radio
licences in Australia.
1996 DMG Radio 
entered Australia 
acquiring Broadcast
Media Group
and 5AA.
1997 acquisition
of Regional
Broadcasters. 
FIVEaa 09 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
for debt owed to us, of the 25% of DMG Radio Australia we
did not already own. Other transactions have been relatively
small and designed to augment our existing businesses.
Generally we are finding that the prices asked for good media
assets are not reducing in line with stock markets, so we have
to look hard for value.
As regards the disposal of non-core assets, we have been able
to take advantage of strong property markets to sell a number
of properties that were surplus to requirements.
It seems appropriate for me to refer to the much publicised
issue of pensions. More employers have chosen to close
defined benefit schemes and to offer defined contribution
schemes to their employees. We aim to offer what we believe
to be the most appropriate form of pension benefit to our
employees, be that defined benefit or defined contribution.
We have had an actuarial valuation of our defined benefit
schemes carried out during the year and reviewed as at
September 2002; this showed the schemes remaining in
surplus and not requiring any increase in contributions.
We have also been required to undertake a valuation under
the rules set by the new accounting standard, FRS 17 and,
in common with most defined benefit schemes, ours showed
a substantial deficit as at September 2002. This is only for
accounting purposes and has no impact on the funding of our
schemes. Importantly, our schemes have more cash coming
in from contributions and investment income than is being
paid out in benefits, and so there is no need to sell assets at
what we hope are today’s depressed prices. We have no plans
to close any of our pension schemes.
Over the next 12 months, we will continue to invest in our
businesses and to look for suitable acquisitions to strengthen
them. We are quite comfortable with our current level of debt,
but in the current uncertain trading environment, would not
wish to see a substantial weakening of our debt ratios. We are
also likely to see the passing of the new Communications Act,
which will open up new possibilities for us.
I hope that you find the reviews interesting and informative.
Charles Sinclair
Chief Executive
08 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Chief Executive’s Review
On the following pages you will find a detailed
review of the past year’s activities of each of the
Group’s divisions. As the Chairman has said in his
statement, it has been a challenging year, but one
in which the resilience of the Group as a whole has
been demonstrated.
Despite reporting profits higher this year than last, our share
price has not escaped the general weakness in the world’s
stock markets. As you can see from the graph above, the
DMGT ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting share price is currently
around 5% lower than this time last year, following a fall 
of 28% the previous year. The media sector has performed
substantially worse than the broader market, as it has fallen
from its “dot.com” inspired highs achieved early in 2000. It 
is some consolation that the DMGT share price has modestly
outperformed the media sector over that period and, as you
can see from the graphs on pages 40 and 44 continues to
outperform the market substantially over longer periods.
Over the last five years, DMGT has invested substantial
amounts of money in establishing new business divisions,
as well as strengthening our core newspaper operations.
It has been good to see these beginning to pay dividends
as with the profit improvement from our exhibition business,
dmg world media, and the business-to-business operations
of DMG Information.
As I indicated last year, the pace of making acquisitions has
slowed significantly, with the total amount spent reduced to
£119 million. The only substantial transactions have been the
purchase of Loot in October 2001, a business which fits well
with our other London titles, and the repurchase, in exchange
Charles Sinclair
Chief Executive
0
3
6
9
12
15
Sept, 02
Mar, 02
Sept, 01
Mar, 01
Sept, 00
Mar, 00
Sept, 99
Mar, 99
Sept, 98
Mar, 98
Sep, 97
Mar, 97
Sep, 96
Mar, 96
Sep, 95
Mar, 95
Sep, 94
Mar, 94
Sep, 93
Mar, 93
Sep, 92
Mar, 92
Sep, 91
Mar, 91
Sep, 90
Mar, 90
Sep, 89
Mar, 89
Sep, 88
Performance of DMGT ‘A’ 
relative to FT All-Share Index
DMGT ‘A’ (monthly closing price)
Relative 11 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 10 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
24 hours
Every day we make a difference, serving the
local customer worldwide.
2:00pm Hong Kong
Convenient 24/7 access to
extensive emerging markets
business intelligence is
paramount for this investment
company to ensure a quick
decision – buy or sell.
(Euromoney)
6:00pm Melbourne
Amanda gets to the gym on time,
avoiding the rush hour traffic
congestion through listening to
Nova 100’s regular traffic reports.
(Broadcasting – DMG Radio)
7:30pm London
Alan and Elaine, in the comfort
of their home, explore Teletext’s
holiday pages for their family’s
next summer break – sun, sea
and fun for the kids.
(Broadcasting – DMG Broadcasting)
5:00pm Toronto
Lee gives his home a fresh 
look, inspired by the exhibitions
at North America’s National
Home Show.
(DMG World Media)
7.00am Devon
James has finished milking 
his dairy herd. Over breakfast, 
he reads articles of importance 
to his business in today’s
Western Morning News 
– the market reports, prices 
and weather forecasts.
(Northcliffe Newspapers)
11:00am Bermuda
Philip with his RMS Account
Manager discuss the analysis
of his business’s exposure
to catastrophe risk using 
RMS local catastrophe models
and information.
(DMG Information)
7:30am Brighton
Mr. Baird has his Daily Mail
delivered, ensuring he has
the day’s news as he leaves
for work. Part of the Daily Mail’s
circulation of 2.4 million.
(Associated Newspapers) 13 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
by 14 months to November 2004. From this date the
Daily Mail and Evening Standard will have a maximum
pagination of 128 pages with 64 pages of colour and
the Mail on Sunday 160 pages with 128 pages of colour.
During the year production of Associated’s titles started
in two parts of Southern Spain, Greece and Ireland.
Usage of Associated New Media’s sites grew 36% in
the year and ANM achieved revenue growth of 18%.
This is Travel was launched in January 2002, with the
site differing from others in the market by being editorially
led and focusing on searchable travel classifieds, rather
than on-line bookings. The classified section of the site,
TravelAds was launched in April and has made an
encouraging start. Following a strategic review of ANM’s
activities, UK Plus, the UK search directory, was sold to
BT Looksmart. This is London, the oldest site in ANM’s
portfolio was re-launched in September with a new
enhanced look complemented by several new sections
and a wealth of new functionality and content.
Ireland on Sunday is the latest recruit to the DMGT
national newspapers’ stable. The newspaper was acquired
in September 2001, when its weekly circulation stood
at 46,200. The title was successfully re-launched on the
12th May, 2002. Since then, circulation has averaged
154,000 copies per week, an increase of 233%, which
represents an unprecedented achievement in what is
arguably the most competitive newspaper market in
Europe. Ireland on Sunday is now the third biggest
selling Irish newspaper.
Loot, the free ads paper, was acquired by Associated
Newspapers in October 2001. During the last twelve
months the paper has gone through a major transition
with a new management team installed and a re-launch
incorporating a new design, improved layout, editorial
features and increased colour availability. As a result,
advertising revenues grew by over 10% year-on-year.
Circulation remains a challenge but the increased
investment in marketing is beginning to show tangible
results. The website, Loot.com is starting to make a
significant profit contribution. Overall the business
looks set to deliver good growth in profits.
The new financial year has started encouragingly for
Associated Newspapers with circulation strong and
advertising showing modest growth on the previous year.
Although the advertising market is still volatile, with strong
circulation and readership figures, coupled with stringent
control of expenditure, the outlook for the new financial
year for Associated Newspapers is cautiously optimistic.
12 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Associated Newspapers
The Group’s national newspaper division performed
strongly in a very competitive market.
Associated Newspapers had a good year, despite
unprecedented challenges in the advertising market, which
saw both display and classified revenues down year-on-year.
Given that and the first year investment in Ireland
on Sunday, the division performed extremely well to achieve
a trading profit only 3% down on the previous year. This
was as a result of management actions taken early in the
financial year when it was obvious that there was to be
no recovery on the advertising front. The Daily Mail and
the Mail on Sunday once again recorded circulation growth
despite Saturday and Sunday cover price increases in
an overall declining market and against the background
of a tabloid cover price war from mid-April onwards.
The Daily Mail increased its circulation for the tenth
successive year, despite intense competition and increasing
the cover price of the Saturday product by 10p in October
2001. The average daily sale of 2,437,000 was up 6,000
copies year-on-year and further consolidated the Daily
Mail’s position as the second highest selling national
daily newspaper.
The Mail on Sunday managed to increase its sale by
1,000 copies to 2,360,000, a new record circulation figure.
This was achieved after increasing the cover price by
10p on 30th September, 2001, and in an overall market
showing an annual decline of 1.6%, the Mail on Sunday
increased its market share to 16.5%. During the year, the
newspaper attracted more ABC1 readers than any other
Sunday newspaper and You Magazine achieved the same
status against all other Sunday supplements and reviews.
The Evening Standard average daily sale of 417,000 declined
by 3.2% in the year, although this was to a great extent as
aresult of the decision to move away from price cutting
as a means of stimulating sales growth on a one-day basis.
News continues to be the key sales driver for the Evening
Standard and coverage of the Soccer World Cup and the
funeral of the Queen Mother, were perfect examples
where the timing of events allowed the paper to service
the public’s hunger for news.
Metro had a very successful year, culminating in it 
reporting a profit nationally in the final quarter of the
financial year. The circulation grew by 0.7% in the year,
retaining its position as the sixth largest circulation
national newspaper. More importantly, the ABC1 profile
of the readership increased from 64% last year to 66% 
in the latest available figures.
Total advertising revenues were down 6.2%, with display
down 8.6% and classified up 1.5%. All titles had a very
difficult year with display, and recruitment was down 38%
year-on-year in the Evening Standard. Nevertheless the
Daily Mail and the Mail on Sunday managed to increase
their classified revenue by 5.5% and 12.3% respectively
and Metro increased its display advertising revenue by 3.8%.
Press 80 is back in production and running well at
Harmsworth Quays, providing more flexo printed copies for
the South of England. The Press Enhancement project to
provide increased pagination and colour capacity has been
rescheduled, with the completion date brought forward
Chairman
Lord Rothermere
Managing Director
Murdoch MacLennan
Editor-in-Chief
Paul Dacre
July 2002
Metro moved into profit,
increasing its ABC1 profile
to 66% of the readership.
October 2001
Loot was acquired by Associated
Newspapers. Relaunched with a
new design, advertising revenue
grew by 10% year-on-year.
233%
Acquisition of Ireland on Sunday
In its first full year within
Associated, circulation
has increased from 
46,200 to 154,000.
h
2.4m
The circulation of the Daily Mail
has recorded the highest sales
since records began in 1935.
h 15 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Afurther development is a joint venture with Associated
Newspapers in establishing ‘thisisclassifieds’, to sell
on-line recruitment listings to recruitment consultancies
and specific direct clients.
During the first quarter of the year, Northcliffe’s ‘thisis’
internet sites were re-launched with a new look and feel
resulting in increased usage by their local communities.
The number of unique visits doubled alongside a 50%
increase in page impressions. The sites currently enjoy
400,000 visits per week. Local content on each site enables
the local newspaper to extend its service to readers whilst
enticing non-readers. The websites are complementary
to the newspapers and offer users the facility of sending
letters to the editor, voting on opinion polls and ordering
photographs or subscription copies of the paper on-line.
Traffic is driven through joint campaigns and promotions
with the newspapers. Much has been achieved in 2002
whilst at the same time reducing the cost of running
the internet operation by around 35%.
Contract printing profits fell in 2002 as other large publishers
of regional newspapers withdrew work from some of
Northcliffe’s presses so as to fill their own spare capacity.
This resulted in the decision to rationalise production
capacity by closing the ageing press in Chelmsford in
October 2002 and reducing Lincoln to one shift from
December 2002. All of the work from these presses has been
accommodated at other Northcliffe sites. Closure costs were
provided in the 2002 results. Despite this loss of third party
printing, Northcliffe’s presses continue to be heavily utilised.
Production quality and service remain paramount. IFRA
Colour Club membership, acknowledging exceptional
printing standards, has been awarded to Plymouth and
Exeter, the only regional printers in the country to be
so recognised. Service standards for Northcliffe’s own
publications have improved resulting in newspapers being
delivered consistently on time to readers. This contributes
to the drive to improve circulation.
The project to provide enhanced capacity at Stoke and
Derby for DMGT’s national titles is slightly ahead of
schedule and on budget. These presses will come on line
progressively from January 2003. Readers and advertisers
of the Stoke Sentinel and the Derby Evening Telegraph 
will also benefit from access to more colour. Projects to add
colour capacity, to meet advertising demands in Aberdeen
and Swansea, are also on target for completion by the end
of December 2002.
At the end of July, one of Northcliffe’s titles, the Sentinel,
which serves the community of Stoke on Trent, acquired
the Leek Post and Times for just over £6 million. This
acquisition will be earnings’ enhancing from 2003.
In Hungary, the group’s two regional daily newspapers
and three ‘Loot-type’ classified publications all performed
strongly in 2002. Profits were ahead of the previous year
by over 50%. Northcliffe continues to look for suitable
acquisition opportunities in the area.
The start to the new financial year has so far been
encouraging. Circulation trends continue to improve
despite recent price increases on seven daily titles.
Advertising revenues are up 6% with all categories,
except retail, showing growth. 
14 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Northcliffe Newspapers
The communities which Northcliffe serves continue
to have a healthy demand for the printed word. Each
week, Northcliffe sells around 7 million copies of its
paid-for titles and distributes 2.4 million copies of its
free newspapers. In addition, Northcliffe publishes
highly targeted niche titles covering a variety of
interests and geographically targeted advertising
only products. On average, 650,000 copies of these
are distributed each week.
Despite increasing globalisation, greater social mobility
and ever more exposure to international culture through
travel and television, individuals and their families
continue to anchor themselves firmly in the communities
in which they live. In general, people work, shop and
seek entertainment within just a few miles of their homes.
Against this backdrop, it is no accident that those local
newspapers, which remain in tune with the needs and
aspirations of readers and advertisers, continue to enjoy
high household penetrations and market shares. This is
the context in which all of Northcliffe’s daily, weekly and
niche publications, together with its comprehensive
range of web channels, work.
During 2002, Northcliffe embarked upon a programme of
additional substantial investment in editorial, marketing and
circulation, which will be sustained so as to publish better
and more relevant newspapers and deliver more potential
customers for advertisers. This investment contributed to
an improvement in the sales trend of the daily newspapers
which was down just under 3% in the January to June 2002
ABC period against a decline of 4.7% the previous year.
The sale of weekly titles continues to go from strength to
strength, recording an increase of 1.5%. Northcliffe’s sale
was marginally ahead of the regional press industry in the
January to June 2002 period.
Profits were down 4% in 2002 due to a lower contribution
from contract printing and additional investment in the
newspapers. Advertising revenues were up by 1.3% with
growth from property, motors and other classifieds offset
in part by a decline of 3% in recruitment advertising.
Nationally booked revenues proved to be particularly
resilient with growth of 4%. Only new homes’ advertising
was down year-on-year. Geographically, advertising
revenue growth was robust in the Midlands, the
West country and Humberside. However, the titles
in the south east showed no growth and Bristol,
Bath and Aberdeen recorded year-on-year declines.
Given an ever evolving and demanding media landscape
in the UK, Northcliffe has continued to address how it serves
its advertising customers. During the year, there was further
progress in providing clients with creativity and innovation
through the advertising design studio. This is an electronic
library of finished advertisements, visuals, photographs and
advertisements created throughout the group. It is accessed
by advertising staff through the group’s intranet. This
creativity played a part in Northcliffe winning almost 50%
of the creative awards at this year’s Newspaper Society
Advertising Conference.
Northcliffe also recognises that advertising supplements
and platforms must appeal to readers. During the year,
two new platforms were launched using quality editorial
provided by Associated Newspapers: thisismoney
and thisistravel. They add to readers’ enjoyment of the
newspapers and thus the reaction from advertisers has
been encouraging. During 2003, further investments
will be made in additional editorial for the important
advertising platforms of jobs, motors and property.
Commercially, greater focus was given to building
advertising revenues on the web. For a relatively modest
additional charge, recruitment advertisers can elect to have
their advertisements published on Northcliffe’s network
of ‘thisis’ websites. Customers have responded positively
with over 70% of local advertisers opting for this package.
Chairman
Ian Park
Managing Director
Kevin Beatty
Award-winning publishing 
Northcliffe titles were, again,
successful in winning some of the
industry’s most coveted awards for
editorial, advertising, circulation,
promotions and electronic
publishing.
Northcliffe
Daily
Newspaper
Centres
Regional Coverage
Aberdeen 
Bath 
Bristol 
Cheltenham
Derby 
Exeter 
Gloucester
Grimsby
Hull 
Leicester 
Lincoln 
Nottingham 
Plymouth
Scunthorpe 
Stoke
Swansea 
Torquay
Successful relaunch of ‘thisis’
resulted in the number of visits
per week increasing – it currently
enjoys 400,000 visits per week.
Community Spirit
Local newspapers remain in tune
with the needs and aspirations of
readers and advertisers. 17 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
of £2.7million. ISI achieved its target of moving into profit
by the end of the year, contributing a saving of £3.7 million.
Headcount was reduced from 1,684 at the beginning of the
year to 1,358 at the end of September, giving rise to one-off
costs of nearly £1 million. Most of this 20% reduction in
headcount was completed during the first half. Space
commitments were cut and other costs were reduced
through re-negotiation of rates. 
Euromoney’s operating margin improved from 13.7% to
16.2%. Profits from financial publishing fell from £20.1 million
to £13.8 million due to the fall in financial advertising. But
even in these tough conditions, titles such as Euroweek,
Global Investor and Project Finance managed to grow
their profits. 
Business Publishing, which mainly covers the legal, energy,
pharmaceutical and travel sectors, performed much better.
Profits increased 6% to £6.3 million. Both Legal Publishing
and Engel Publishing, our pharmaceutical marketing
business, increased second half profits after a difficult start
to the year. Gulf Publishing contributed a profit of £200,000
after a first half loss. The Business Traveller group of titles
recovered well after the impact of 11th September and also
increased profits.
Training businesses are very sensitive to delegate numbers.
Travel concerns, budget cuts and headcount reductions
badly affected course numbers at both our financial and
audit and IT security training businesses. As a result,
Training profits fell £2.3 million to £4.4 million. 
Conferences and seminars were the best performing part
of the business. Profits increased £2.4 million to £8.4 million,
most of the improvement coming in the first half when the
group runs four of its five largest events including Vinisud,
the biennial wine exhibition in France. Many of our
conferences follow the sponsorship model rather than
relying on paying delegates. Sponsorship has proved to be
a surprisingly robust revenue stream, reflecting in part the
quality of large annual repeat events such as the Euromoney
Bond Investors Congress, the Euromoney Global Borrowers 
& Investors Forum and the Coaltrans annual coal conference.
During the last couple of years we have invested in two new
event streams, business meetings and awards dinners, and
both these achieved strong revenue growth.
Databases and information services contributed a profit
of £1.8 million after a loss last year of £2.7 million. Most of
the improvement came from ISI, the emerging markets
information provider, which broke into profit at the end of
the year as forecast. ISI suffered during the year from high
cancellations from financial institutions but still managed to
increase its subscription revenues by 8%. The performance
in the second half was much stronger than the first.
Government agencies and corporates have been the main
source of growth and financial customers now only account
for 45% of the total. The cost base of ISI is relatively fixed and
the infrastructure is in place to develop quickly and cheaply
new revenue streams from industry and sector products.
Other database products, particularly the capital market
databases run through the joint venture with Dealogic,
continued to grow. 
16 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Euromoney Institutional Investor
Adjusted operating profits of Euromoney Institutional
Investor, the separately listed international publishing,
conference and training group of which the Group holds 
71%, increased 3.5% to £29.1 million. These results have 
been achieved against a background of some of the worst
trading conditions ever. 
Revenues for the year fell 12% to £180 million driven by
the worldwide downturn in markets and corporate activity;
the huge marketing spend and headcount reductions
implemented by the global investment banks; the loss of
investor confidence following the high profile accounting
scandals in the US; and continued fears since
11th September of terrorist activity and possible war
which have badly affected air travel.
Euromoney derives approximately two thirds of its revenues
from the financial sector. As a result the financial publishing
and training businesses were hit hardest by the downturn.
Advertising revenues fell 11% to £66 million and advertising
into the group’s financial titles fell 20%. Institutional
Investor, with its heavy dependence on Wall Street, suffered
a 30% fall in advertising. Euromoney magazine, which is
more dependent on emerging markets, fell 22%. Training
revenues were down 20% to £22 million. In sharp contrast,
advertising into business titles increased by 2% to
£27 million, helped by the full year inclusion of Gulf
Publishing acquired in August 2001. The group’s continued
focus on subscription products, such as ISI’s emerging
markets information service, is highlighted by the fact
that subscription revenues (excluding titles closed at the
beginning of the year) fell by just 1%. Event sponsorship was
the strongest revenue stream, increasing 5% to £13 million.
The increase in profits was achieved largely as a result
of strategic initiatives taken by management at the end
of 2001 and continued with a rigorous cost reduction
programme implemented during the first half. The closure
of certain loss-making businesses at the end of last year,
the restructuring of under-performing businesses and
the elimination of loss-making and low margin products,
particularly anything internet related, contributed savings
Chairman
Padraic Fallon
Managing Director
Richard Ensor
Profits Up
Euroweek, Global Investor and
Project Finance grew profits in
tough conditions.
£27m
The full year inclusion of Gulf
Publishing, acquired in August
2001, supported the increase of
advertising revenues into
business titles.
£13m
Event sponsorship was the
strongest revenue stream
increasing 5% to £13 million.
Leading the way in 
annual branded events
Annual repeat events such as
the Euromoney Bond Investors
Congress, the Euromoney Global
Borrowers & Investors Forum 
and the Coaltrans conference 
have proved to be robust
revenue streams. 
hh
h
100+
72 19 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
In spite of the difficulties brought about by testing
market conditions we have continued to invest in those
initiatives which we regard as key to the growth and
prosperity held by the business.
Our travel website, ‘Teletextholidays.co.uk’ had an
outstanding year with page impressions in July exceeding
20 million and unique users approaching one million. During
the high season we were one of the top three holiday travel
sites in the UK. Our interactive satellite service, Teletext
Holidays, launched in July 2001, has continued to build its
user base and by August was being used regularly by over
one million Sky viewers, almost 10% of the Sky audience.
The analogue service has, inevitably, seen some softening
as a result of both more households moving to digital and
a decline in the viewing share of ITV . However usage
remains very strong with some 19 million adults using the
service every week. We also successfully bid for the licence
to provide the text service on Channel 5, giving us the
‘full set’ of analogue commercial services. Channel 5
brings an audience demographic that we believe will
be attractive to our advertisers. 
Our mobile services, launched just last year, have
continued to flourish and we now have almost 60,000
subscribers across three of the four major cellular networks.
The exception, T-Mobile, is not yet able to support the
billing system favoured by the industry.
By contrast, the television platforms provided by ITV Digital
and by the cable companies had a troubled year, which led
ultimately to ITV Digital losing its licence. In view of these
difficulties, we reduced our rate of investment in services
for these platforms. We are reviewing the position following
the launch of the new BBC/BSkyB Freeview digital
terrestrial service.
In addition to these services we have continued to develop
the tools and infrastructure we need to publish across a
diverse range of electronic networks at the lowest cost.
Many of our key advertising clients have now been
equipped with these tools and systems and been trained
in their use. This enables them to interact more efficiently
with our various services. This capability is central to our
strategy and to the facility we offer our advertisers and
business partners.
In conclusion, 2002 has been a challenging year.
Nonetheless our staff have responded with determination
and vigour and given the strength of our brand and
our key services on analogue, web and satellite we
are confident that our market position remains strong.
18 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Broadcasting: Teletext
Teletext recorded only a small reduction in operating
profit, despite enduring a most challenging year.
Teletext
This was a particularly challenging year for Teletext.
The terrorist attack of 11th September, 2001 had a profound
and sustained impact on the travel industry, which is
Teletext’s primary source of revenue. In the first three
months of the year travel related revenues were down
by 15% year-on-year. Coupled with this, the broader
economic softening led to a weakening of our non-travel
revenues. In common with others, we saw a significant
drop in financial and general display advertising that has
remained throughout the year. As a result, and in spite of a
revenue performance that improved as the year progressed,
we finished the year with revenues down 6% year-on-year. 
During the year we concluded the re-negotiation of our
public service broadcasting licence with the Independent
Television Commission. The terms of the new licence
recognise the range of revenue generating services
we now deliver and allow us to exclude revenues not
attributable to our public service licence. The effect is
to reduce the fee significantly and this, in conjunction
with action taken to reduce costs, allowed us to offset
the impact of the revenue weakening.
DMG Broadcasting Chairman
Roger Gilbert
Teletext Managing Director
Mike Stewart
24 hours a day 
across six platforms
At the forefront of New Media
Teletext offers consumers an
opportunity to obtain information
24 hours a day, via the web,
television and mobile phone
(via sms), whether in the comfort of
their home, at work or on the move.
TV
analogue
satellite
cable
digital terrestrial
web mobile phones
Teletext teams up
with Ron Atkinson
Teletext is well known for its
sporting heritage, and has recently
teamed up with ‘Big Ron’ to
provide the latest insight into
the world of football. 21 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
DMG Radio, in a 50% joint venture with Australian Radio
Network, was successful in its bid to win the new FM licence
in Perth in February 2002. The station, Nova 937 is to be
managed by DMG Radio and is preparing to revitalise the
Perth radio market in a December 2002 launch. DMG and
ARN also jointly own Brisbane’s newest FM station, 97.3FM,
which has exceeded its first year projections since launching
in October 2001.
DMG Radio’s first purchase in Australia back in 1996,
Adelaide’s 5AA, has capped a remarkable year
by consistently improving its programming and profit
performance and has been the highest rating commercial
talk station in Australia in every official Neilsen Media
Research survey released this year.
Despite a slower than expected turnaround in economic
conditions in regional Australia, accentuated now by
worsening drought conditions, our regional stations were
able to increase both revenues and profits, while also
strengthening our portfolio of stations. 
DMG Radio was successful in its bid to win the new
FM licence on the New South Wales Central Coast, and in
October 2002 announced a joint venture with RG Capital
extending its penetration into this high growth region.
Earnings from our associate GWR Group, in which
DMGT has a 29.97% interest, continue to be affected by
the advertising downturn. Revenues are flat on last year’s
figures, in a market showing poor forward visibility.
GWR has embarked on a vigorous programme of restructuring
and is concentrating on its UK business. Substantial
reductions in costs and debt have been achieved.
Audiences remain strong, with Classic FM reporting record
results in six successive quarters to take the total weekly
audience to 6.7 million. GWR’s local stations are maintaining
their audience in an increasingly competitive market, and
the Group’s digital radio interests are progressing as the
cost of digital radio receivers falls. GWR operates three
national stations on digital radio, and is second only to
the BBC.
20 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Broadcasting: DMG Radio
DMG Radio Australia recorded a small and reduced
loss. The recently launched Nova station in Melbourne
and 5AA in Adelaide performed particularly well and
the regional stations experienced some recovery in
difficult trading conditions.
DMG Radio
DMG Radio is the largest radio network in Australia and
continues to grow, with 61 radio stations currently operating
across five states and two more planned for launch in
the coming year. In September, it became wholly owned
again when the Group acquired the 25% interest of
GWR Group plc.
Following on from last year’s highly successful launch of our
Sydney FM station Nova 969, the Group launched Nova 100,
its Melbourne FM station in December 2001. Nova 100’s
immediate success was unprecedented in Australian
broadcasting, with it achieving the Number One rating
in its second Neilsen Media Research official survey after
only 15 weeks on air. Nova 100 continues to outperform all
expectations and, along with Nova 969, breaks traditional
radio rules to ensure listeners and advertisers alike
encounter cutting edge radio.
Chairman
Roger Gilbert
Managing Director
Paul Thompson
61 stations
Making DMG Radio the
biggest radio network 
in Australia.
October 2001
Successful launch
of Brisbane’s 97.3fm
A 50% joint venture with
ARN was launched.
December 2001
Radio Nova 100 revolutionises
Australian radio
After its extremely successful
launch, Nova 100 in Melbourne,
clinched the number one rating
after only 15 weeks on air
–an unprecedented feat. 
No 1
Adelaide’s 5AA has been the
highest rating commercial talk
station in Australia this year.
February 2002
Purchase of new
FM licence in Perth
Nova 93.7FM is a 50% joint venture
to launch in December. The station
will be managed
by DMG Radio. 23 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
This strong mix of revenues from different regions combined
with a mix of different revenue streams, from exhibition
stand sales, advertising, on-line revenue, and growing visitor
and reader revenues has been behind the company’s
resilience in the face of difficult market conditions. 
dmg world media operates predominantly in the B2B and
B2C products sector. The fact that consumer spending has
remained strong in most markets over the last year has
enabled the company to produce some of its largest shows
ever. These include the Index and Big 5 shows in Dubai,
Surfexpo in Orlando, the California Gift Show in Los Angeles
and the Daily Mail Ideal Home Show in London.
The collapse of the Argentine economy early in 2002
decimated the country’s exhibition industry. A decision
to exit our operations in Argentina before the collapse and
an exit from one of two Brazilian businesses was made
at the same time. As a result of exiting loss-making
businesses, the Latin American operations produced
strong year-on-year growth in 2002.
dmg world media’s on-line strategy has been to develop
and provide additional value and services to its existing
customers, only scaling up as demand requires.
Whereoware is a good example of this strategy, serving
customers in the gift and home accessories markets where
we already have considerable customer contact.
dmg world media is forecasting continued strong
underlying growth in 2003, but underlying profits are
projected to be lower next year as many large non-annual
shows, such as the Global Petroleum Show and Metals
Engineering, do not take place in 2003.
dmg world media now has a world-class platform of
market leading trade shows and complementary media
from which to continue growing the business organically.
Its focus in the coming year will be on stepping up its
launch programme and continuing to invest in its products
and service quality to produce long-term sustainable growth.
22 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
dmg world media
dmg world media is one of the world’s leading international
exhibition companies. We aim to be our customers’ first choice,
helping them to do business together and make informed
choices through our range of exhibitions and related print
and new media products. We organise more than 300 market
leading trade exhibitions, consumer shows and fairs around
the world, supported by 85 related magazines, newspapers,
directories, market reports and industry databases.
dmg world media, the Group’s exhibition division, had an
excellent year and improved its adjusted operating profit
by 44% on turnover up 5%. 2002 was a year of consolidation,
rationalisation and tight cost control, but not at the expense
of developing the underlying business, which continued to
show strong revenue and profit growth.
All in all, 2002 was an important year for dmg world media.
One of its major priorities was to integrate the twelve
acquisitions that had been made in the previous year
and to concentrate on managing three new investments,
with which it formed business partnerships. These were
George Little Management, Western Exhibitors and
Whereoware. 2002 also marked a change in dmg world
media’s growth strategy away from being highly acquisitive
and towards rationalising and investing in its existing
business to encourage organic growth. 
dmg world media successfully launched a number of new
events this year, of which all but one will be held again next
year. These included a new home show in Palm Beach,
Florida, an office equipment show in Dubai, an antiques fair
in Cagnes sur Mer (France), a fine art fair in New York and
a Mind, Body and Spirit Show in Adelaide, Australia.
The events of 11th September, 2001 had an immediate
adverse impact at the beginning of the 2002 financial
year. However, dmg world media’s strategy has been
to concentrate on developing customer value and focusing
the business on building market-leading products in
exhibition-led market places where customers rely on
exhibitions as a place to trade. This has meant that despite
September 11th and a sluggish economy in the company’s
main market, North America, demand for exhibitor space
has remained strong. This is also due to the strength of
exhibitions as a medium. Exhibitions have much longer
cycles than most other media, which allow them to weather
short term economic downturns.
Almost a half of dmg world media’s revenue is now
generated in North America, with the balance coming from
the UK, France, Australia, New Zealand, UAE and Brazil.
Chairman
Roger Gilbert 
Managing Director
Mike Cooke
44%
Arts & Antiques
Operating profits increased
by 44%.
h
50%
Almost a half of revenue is
generated in North America.
Worldwide
The company maintains its
worldwide presence through
more than 30 offices around
the world in England, France,
Dubai, Canada, the United
States, Argentina, Brazil,
Australia and New Zealand. 
h 25 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Rapidly weakening demand was experienced by Sanborn
in its geographic information and photogrammetry markets,
mainly caused by the tightening of fiscal conditions
amongst State and municipal governments in the USA
and their changed priorities following the terrorist attacks.
This adverse trend was partially offset by increased Federal
government agency security related work, although budget
appropriations have been slow to materialise.
Careers
Weak demand for graduate recruitment in the UK and
Germany had a significant adverse impact on Hobsons’
results. Advertising and other recruitment related revenue
fell by approximately 20%, compared to an already
depressed prior year.
As a result, a restructuring of UK operations was announced
at the end of September with the closure of Hobsons’
Cambridge office and a consolidation into the London office.
Redundancies equivalent to approximately 35% of the UK
workforce are being made. A reduction of the product range
has been carried out to enable a concentration on the more
profitable titles with good long-term prospects.
The performance of Éditions Go in France, which completed
its first full year under Hobsons’ management, was pleasing.
In Germany and Switzerland, VerlagsGruppe Forum
maintained its market leading position, albeit on lower
revenues, and a second graduate recruitment exhibition
was launched in Germany. Hobsons invested in a German
student market research company, Trendence GmbH.
In the US, profits were maintained in a market affected
by budget cuts at State funded universities, whilst
Australia made satisfactory progress.
At Study Group the events of September, 2001 had a severe
and immediately negative impact on student volumes in
US language programmes. Costs were cut back rapidly and
a recovery in booking trends was experienced in the second
half, but not enough to recoup the short falls in the first half.
By contrast, the UK posted record trading profits,
benefiting in part from a diversion of business from the
US, but also due in part to improvements in operating
efficiencies and overseas marketing. In Australia, profits
were maintained at the prior year’s record level, despite
Australian government changes to student visa regulations
which negatively affected the vocational training market.
The investment programme in the worldwide sales
and marketing operation was maintained and helped
the company improve its competitive position.
24 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
DMG Information
DMGI’s two divisions produced contrasting trading
results. The Business to Business division had
an outstanding year, nearly doubling profits over
the prior year, whilst the Careers division suffered
from a very weak graduate recruitment market
and the adverse impact of the events of September,
2001 on its US English language training market.
Business to Business
Risk Management Solutions (RMS) recovered quickly
from the hiatus amongst its insurance clients following
the events of 11th September, 2001, and achieved a
record level of new sales bookings. Particularly noteworthy
were sales to the newly created Bermudan based
(re)insurance companies, all of which adopted RMS
models and information.
RMS had an active year in new product development.
A new model was launched in response to insurers’
heightened interest in evaluating the risks associated
with workers compensation aspects of catastrophes.
A consortium of clients was formed to underwrite a
significant investment being made by RMS to build
a geographic database to measure US urban risk
concentration, a project being undertaken jointly with
DMGI’s Sanborn company. A terrorism model was
launched for the US market.
The Catalyst catastrophe modelling unit of the reinsurance
broker, Benfield Blanch, was acquired and merged into
RMS operations, with the vendor becoming, together with
other major brokers, one of RMS’s top worldwide clients.
DMGI’s real estate information companies also had a
good year, albeit in rather different market conditions on
either side of the Atlantic. In the USA, Environmental
Data Resources saw the US commercial real estate market
continue its decline in transaction volumes, but tight cost
controls and investment in product development paid
off by enabling the company to increase profits and gain
market share. The assets of the environmental property
information unit of a competitor were acquired and
integrated successfully.
Shortly after the year end, Boston-based Portfolio & Property
Research (PPR) was acquired to expand DMGI’s investment
in commercial real estate information. PPR’s market trend
information and forecasting models will complement EDR’s
extensive databases of property specific information. 
In the UK, EDR Landmark Information Group grew strongly,
as the market for property related environmental due
diligence expanded in the home conveyancing market,
and as the company introduced new database products,
such as on planning.
Dolphin Software had a good year and achieved respectable
growth in what was a tight market with US companies
constraining capital expenditure. The recently launched
subscription business model has been well received and
increased outsourcing to India has been a success.
RMSI maintained profits in a market which experienced
adownturn in the second half, partly as a result of weaker
demand in geographic information markets and partly
due to caution on the part of potential new customers in
outsourcing to India following the tensions over Kashmir.
Chairman
Charles Sinclair
Managing Director
Martin Morgan
850%
Hobsons unrivaled access to a
world-wide student audience. The
database has grown by 850% in 2
years to 2.4 million students.
Study Group
Study Group has become 
the single largest independent
source of international 
students to both UK and 
Australian universities.
RMS – Addressing New Risks
Based on the application of
game theory, RMS has released
a new model for managing
terrorism risk, following the
World Trade Center catastrophe.
h
1.5m
Dolphin Software’s database of
hazardous chemical information
has grown from 15,000 in
1992 to 1,500,000 in 2002 –
the world’s largest collection.
h
5m
Environmental Data Resources
have geocoded over 5 million
toxic sites from hundreds of
individual databases. 27 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Energy and water consumption at the printing operations
is also monitored and this has remained relatively static
in comparison with the previous financial year. Energy
consumption has fallen slightly (1%) to approximately
119,000MWh, whilst water consumption has fallen by
2% to 202,400m
3
.
Greenhouse gas emissions are monitored too and are a key
focus of the UK’s environmental strategy. The direct and
indirect emissions of CO2 from our printing operations 
were static in the year, reflecting minor variations in the
proportions of electricity and gas used as energy sources.
In the coming year we will be identifying more formal
environmental performance targets and improving
the sharing of best practice across our businesses.
The Group has a central Newsprint Committee and paper
is purchased centrally for all of the Group’s newspaper
operations, allowing coordinated review of the
environmental credentials of paper suppliers and the
sourcing of their products. A significant proportion of the
newsprint purchased by the Group incorporates recycled
paper and, where virgin fibres are used, these are sourced
only from sustainable forestry. Both Associated and
Northcliffe pay particular attention to waste management
and performance in this area is reported monthly at the
appropriate Board level.
We are pleased to report that all our printing paper
waste is recycled, amounting to almost 28,000 tonnes
in the current year.
Many of the Group’s titles and products deal with subjects
and campaign on issues related to the environment.
DMGT in the Community
The Group is a member of the Per Cent Club and annually
pays a minimum of 
1
/2% of its dividend to charity. Charitable
donations are allocated by a Charities Committee at DMGT,
as well as being made on a smaller scale by divisional and
local managements. Charities involving the media and
relevant to the communities within which the Group
operates are favoured. Some examples of our involvement
during the year include:
– DMG Radio Australia – provides a A$5,000 scholarship
to the Charles Sturt University in Bathurst NSW.
This is awarded yearly to support the Communications
degree course;
– Teletext – in November 2001, launched ‘Timestars’ in joint
partnership with the Media Trust (a body which forges links
between charities and the Media). Teletext donates pages,
which are devoted to highlighting the work of charities and
community volunteers, and are updated by a dedicated
journalist based at the Media Trust. As well as the work of
the general public, the Timestar initiative looks at the role of
showbusiness and other celebrities involved in charity work,
to encourage others to follow their example. The business
has received many favourable comments on the impact of
this initiative;
– Teletext – in January 2002, the business donated a page
to give details of the Disaster Emergency Committee appeal
for the victims of the volcanic eruption in the town of Goma
in the Democratic Republic of Congo, when up to 60,000
people were forced to flee their homes.
26 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
DMGT and the Community
The DMGT Group owes much of its success to the
entrepreneurial ability of the management teams
leading its various media divisions. The businesses
have thrived by allowing local management to take
local decisions in a local context, whilst benefiting
from the global outlook as well as from the financial
resources of the wider Group.
This approach has delivered benefits to a wide range
of stakeholders. The success of many of the Group’s
businesses is inextricably linked with understanding and
engaging with the communities that they serve, and this
allows them to identify needs and to campaign effectively
on the issues relevant to their customer base. This principle
is as relevant to the Daily Mail, serving the whole of the
United Kingdom, as to the North Devon Journal Herald,
serving the population of Barnstaple in Devon and to 6KG,
one of our two radio stations serving the remote mining
town of Kalgoorlie in Western Australia.
Last year we reported that we were undertaking an
independent review of our activities against emerging
corporate social responsibility best practice. At the same
time, environmental and social matters were adopted
as one of the focus areas for the Group’s Risk Committee.
Following these steps, there have been a number of
actions taken, for example:
– we have carried out a fundamental review of our health
and safety management processes. Many areas of good
practice were identified, and we are now developing a
Corporate Health and Safety Policy to add more consistency
to the management and measurement of our performance
across the Group;
– we have strengthened the monitoring and internal
reporting of a number of our environmental impacts
and this is covered further below.
All of the Group’s UK newspapers observe the Press
Complaints Commission Code of Practice. The Press
Complaints Commission is an independent organisation
set up in 1991 to ensure that British newspapers and
magazines follow the letter and spirit of an ethical code
dealing with issues such as inaccuracy, privacy,
misrepresentation and harassment. The Commission
adjudicates on complaints about possible breaches of the
code and gives general guidance on related ethical issues.
The code sets the benchmark for the professional and
ethical standards that all members of the press have
a duty to maintain.
Environment
The Group’s activities are diverse, with more than 18,000
employees worldwide. Whilst managing environmental
issues is the responsibility of the management of individual
businesses, we are starting to develop a Corporate
Environmental Policy to provide greater consistency
and visibility of environmental issues across the Group.
Whilst all businesses have an environmental impact, our
efforts are concentrated within Associated Newspapers
and Northcliffe Newspapers, particularly in respect of the
printing operations (Associated Newspapers’ main plant
at Harmsworth Quays and twelve Northcliffe plants), as
these generate the majority of our impact.
Management of environmental issues is fundamental to
these operations and includes a focus on energy and water
consumption, and paper use (and recycling), together with
the consumption of inks and plates. These issues are key
components of the cost base of the businesses and effective
management practice has a direct impact on profitability.
During the year, an Energy Committee has been established
with representatives of both printing operations to facilitate
sharing of best practice.
Harmsworth Quays, the largest single printing site in the
Group, has carried out a detailed environmental review of
operations which covered utilities, raw materials, effluent,
solid waste and transport issues.
Launch of ‘Timestars’
In partnership with the Media
Trust, Teletext donates pages to
highlight the work of charities and
community volunteers.
28,000 tonnes
All our printing paper
waste is recycled.
A$120,000
During 2002 a regional radio
station assisted the local Junior
Tennis Association to raise over
A$120,000 for re-laying courts.
+ 29 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
new media ventures, particularly Zoom and Fish4, offset
by a lower contribution from GWR Group plc. GWR’s
contribution for the year fell significantly due to the effects
of the continued weak advertising market.
Income from fixed asset investments fell due to a reduction
in the level of dividends received from Reuters Group plc.
Profit on sale of fixed assets arose mainly from the sale
of surplus properties. Profit on disposal of businesses
comprised that on sale of Eastern Counties Radio, a further
profit-related payment for the earlier sale of an exhibition
by Euromoney and the Group’s share of GWR’s profit
on disposal of businesses, net of its loss on sale of its 25%
interest in DMG Radio Australia to DMGT. These profits
were offset by a loss on sale of dmg world media’s South
American operations. 
Net interest payable and similar charges rose by £1 million
to £69 million: net interest payable was higher due to a
higher average level of debt, whilst other financing charges
fell due to lower deferred consideration outstanding, offset
by a premium on redemption of debt. 
The reported profit before tax of £107 million was 30% higher
than last year’s figure. Excluding amortisation and other items
which we regard as exceptional, the adjusted profit figure
was £183 million, up 3% on last year.
Taxation
The tax charge of £17.8 million represents 16.6% of profit
before tax and 10.9% of profit before amortisation. The
underlying rate of tax was 27.1%, lower than last year’s level
and a little below the UK corporate tax rate, where the Group
currently makes most of its profit. The Group’s effective
tax rate in the UK is higher than this due to expenditure
disallowed for tax purposes. This is offset by a lower rate
of tax on our US profits, largely due to deductions for
amortisation of acquired goodwill. The reported tax rate
was lower due to the release of prior year provisions of
£30 million, primarily relating to agreement of open items
with the UK Inland Revenue. The effect on 2002’s profits
was to reduce the underlying tax charge by 3.8% from
2001’s rate, a reduction that should largely remain in place
in future years.
Cash Flow and Net Debt
Net debt rose during the year from £875 million to
£922 million, an increase of £47 million. 
Graph 4 summarises the Group’s sources and use of
funds during the year. The net cash inflow from trading
was £265 million, which represented 86% of operating profit
before depreciation and amortisation of the intangible
assets. This reflects the timing of the year end which ended
on 29th September this year, as against 30th September last
year, with significant advertising revenues being receivable
on the last day of the month. Had it fallen a day later, these
receipts would have increased operating cash flow to 96%
and net debt would have been reduced by £34 million. 
Capital expenditure of £90 million was similar to last
year’s level, at a continuing high level during the second
year of the programme to enhance the Group’s presses.
Acquisitions and investments, net of disposal proceeds,
cost £119 million, the largest item being the £45 million
purchase of Loot. Net tax payments fell by £19 million
to £25 million, reflecting the end of the transitional move
to quarterly current year tax payments in the UK.
28 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Accounts
No new accounting standards have been published this
year. This means that the accounts have been prepared
without the need for any prior year adjustments, caused
by changes in accounting policies. Additional disclosures
have been included in the notes to the accounts in order
to comply with the second year of the transitional
arrangements for the implementation of FRS 17, Retirement
Benefits. Last year, this resulted in disclosure of the main
financial assumptions made in valuing the liabilities of the
Group’s pension schemes and the fair value of net assets
held. This year disclosure has been made of amounts that
would be reflected in the accounts, together with an
analysis of the movement in scheme surpluses or deficits
which would result. As permitted by FRS 17, the primary
statements continue to be prepared under SSAP 24
‘ Accounting for Pension Costs’.
Turnover
The Group’s turnover in the year was £1,945 million, a
decrease of 1% on the previous year. The level of acquisitions
of subsidiaries has been modest this year and this fall
in turnover is due to a reduction in advertising revenues.
The analysis of turnover by activity, illustrated in graph 1,
shows that there has been little overall change in the shape
of the graph. Graph 2 shows the geographic split of turnover. 
Operating Profit
The Group’s adjusted operating profit before amortisation
and impairment of intangible assets amounted to
£242 million, a 1% increase on last year’s equivalent figure.
This year’s figure is stated before charging £9 million of
exceptional operating costs, compared to £10 million of
such costs in 2001. Amortisation rose from £47 million to
£55 million, reflecting acquisitions made both in the current
and prior years. In the prior year, we also charged £17 million
in respect of impairments of intangible assets.
The analysis of adjusted operating profit by activity is shown
in graph 3. This shows that the exhibitions, broadcasting
and Euromoney divisions achieved increases in profitability.
Within the exhibition division, the home interest sector
grew strongly in the year, whilst the division benefited
overall from a number of non-annual shows. Broadcasting
increased its profits due to a reduction in revenue
investment at DMG Broadcasting and in start up losses
at new radio stations in Australia. Euromoney increased
its profits as a result of strategic initiatives implemented
towards the end of the prior year, involving the closure
of loss-making businesses, together with an extensive
cost cutting programme, which mitigated the impact of
the savage downturn in the financial advertising markets.
The other divisions had reduced profitability: for the national
newspapers, the effect of the reduction in advertising
revenues was offset largely by management action early in
the year; for the regional newspapers, profits were lower due
to a lower contribution from contract printing and to revenue
investment in the product. The two components of the
business to business information and careers’ division had
sharply conflicting fortunes: whilst the former nearly
doubled its profits, the latter suffered from a very weak
graduate recruitment market and the adverse impact of the
events of 11th September, 2001 on its US English language
training market.
Profit before Tax
The contribution from joint ventures and associates rose
from £0.4 million to £5.1 million due to reduced losses in
Financial and Treasury Review
The purpose of this review is to outline
key aspects of the Group’s performance over
the last year and of its financial position.
Finance Director
Peter Williams 
Graph 1  Turnover by Activity £m
National newspapers and related activities
Regional newspapers and related activities
Euromoney
Broadcasting
Exhibitions and related activities
Business to business information and careers
Other activities 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
 Graph 2  Turnover by geographical area £m
UK
Rest of Europe
North America
Rest of World
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
1800 31 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
(b) Foreign Exchange Risk
(i) Transaction Risk
Most of the Group’s businesses do not transact cross-border:
hence multi-currency transaction risk is not substantial.
The main exception is Euromoney and its subsidiaries
whose receipts are mainly US dollars and payments
principally sterling. Euromoney has a series of US dollar
forward sale contracts in place up to 12 months forward,
partially to hedge its dollar revenues into sterling. Other
than Euromoney there were no foreign currency contracts
in existence that hedge revenues or costs.
The sterling value of capital expenditure in foreign currency
is fixed using forward currency purchases. 
(ii) Translation Exposure
Borrowings are principally incurred in sterling, US dollars
and Australian dollars. Generally, the proportion of foreign
currency debt (after allowing for any hedging instrument)
to total net debt was approximately equal during the year
to the proportion of foreign operating profit, compared to
total Group operating profit. This is expected to continue. 
(c) Interest Rate Risk
The Group aims to have approximately 70% to 80% of its
net debt as fixed interest rate liabilities. The predictability
of interest costs is deemed to be more important than
the possible opportunity cost foregone of achieving lower
interest rates. Borrowings are made in a small number of
desired currencies at either fixed or floating rates. Interest
rate swaps, caps and collars are used to help attain the
Group’s target level of fixed interest rate debt. The maturity
dates are spread in order to avoid basis, or interest rate,
risk and also to negate short-term changes in interest rates. 
At the year end, fixed interest rate debt represented
approximately 72% of total net debt. 
(d) Counterparty Risk
The Group has a policy for net deposit exposure whereby
limits are set for banks with long-term credit ratings of
‘AA’ or better, and a lower limit for single ‘ A ’ rated banks.
Institutions below this rating are not usually used for
deposits. As regards other financial instruments, the
Group is exposed to credit related losses in the event of 
non-performance by its counterparties; the Group does
not expect any counterparties to be unable to meet their
obligations. Counterparties and their credit ratings are
regularly reviewed by Group Treasury.
Introduction of the Euro
The replacement of the local currencies of most European
Union countries by the Euro on 1st January, 2002 had
minimal impact on the Group. Euromoney is the only Group
business with significant European cross-border trade and
with a ‘Euroland’ subsidiary, its Adhesion convention
business. Most of the Group’s other businesses trade
primarily within their own borders.
Going Concern
The Directors have continued to adopt the going concern
basis for the preparation of the accounts. This has been
done since, after considering relevant information, they
have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future.
Peter Williams
Finance Director
30 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
In summary and adjusting for the year end date working
capital movement, the Group generated free cash flow
of £106 million which it used to fund net acquisitions
of £119 million.
Despite the higher level of debt, the Group’s interest cover
ratio remained at 4.7 times this year which we consider to
be a comfortable ratio (see Graph 5). This is a little below
our internal target of 5 times cover but well above our debt
covenant level of 2.5 times. The Group’s Standard & Poor’s
rating has remained unchanged at BBB. 
The Group has sufficient committed debt facilities to
meet its foreseeable requirements. It had surplus facilities
of £174 million at the year end, £60 million of which were
used in October 2002 to repay its 2.5% Exchangeable Bonds.
Following this repayment the Group has £480 million of
Bonds and bank facilities maturing in 2005 and £485 million
of Bonds due for repayment in 2013 and 2021.
Treasury Policies
The following paragraphs are a summary of the Group’s
treasury policies. Detailed information is given in Note 28 to
the balance sheets. DMGT aims to have sufficient liquidity
to meet both operational and capital cash flows and to
impose the minimum cash constraints on the management
and operation of the Group. Financial instruments,
including derivatives, are used by the Group in order to
manage the principal financial risks that arise in the course
of business. These risks are liquidity or funding risk, foreign
exchange risk, interest rate risk and counterparty risk.
The instruments are used within the parameters set by
the Finance Committee of the Board, and are not traded
for a profit.
Overview
The Group has adequate committed debt finance to
meet current trading requirements, with over £100 million
of unutilised facilities with terms largely of three years.
Foreign exchange risk is not a large issue for the Group as
the majority of its businesses are domestic. A prudent level
of fixed interest rate debt reduces the impact of interest
rate fluctuations.
(a) Liquidity Risk
It is the Group’s policy to have sufficient surplus borrowing
headroom such that its development is not constrained.
The Group is funded by a mixture of equity, debt, and
retained profits. Debt consists mainly of committed bank
facilities and bonds. The bank facilities provide the Group
with flexibility for operational requirements and acquisitions.
Uncommitted and overdraft facilities are also utilised. The
bonds currently in issue consist of three tranches of sterling
Eurobonds. A further sterling deep-discount bond issue,
exchangeable for shares in Reuters Group plc, was redeemed
shortly after the year end. Maturities of debt are spread in
order to avoid the requirement for significant repayments
at any point in time, as shown in Graph 6. Surplus funds are
kept to a minimum; when they do arise, they are generally
deposited in money market accounts with banks that provide
bilateral credit lines. 
Covenants on debt instruments are kept to a minimum,
even if this results in marginally higher interest costs.
External finance is unsecured and is usually an obligation
of the central holding companies rather than of trading
subsidiaries. This gives management maximum flexibility
to run the business without the distraction of meeting 
short-term financing requirements.
Graph 3 Trading profit by activity
National newspapers and related activities
Regional newspapers and related activities
Euromoney
Broadcasting
Exhibitions and related activities
Business to business information and careers
Unallocated central costs, rental income
and other activities
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
Graph 4 Cash Flows A Inflows £295
B Outflows £341.4
Interest and dividends
Taxation
Debt & Lease finance
Acquisitions
Investments
Capital expenditure
Other Non Cash
Disposals
Operating activities
050 100 150 200 250 300 350
Graph 5 Ratio of Earnings before interest, tax  
 and depreciation and amortisation 
 to net interest payable
EBITDA: Net interest in £m
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2002 2001 2000 1999 1998
Graph 6 Maturity Profile of Group Net Debt
0
200
400
600
800
1000
2025
2024
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2002
2003
£m 32 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Board of Directors
1. The Viscount Rothermere ‡§
Chairman
Aged 35. Joined the Board in
1995 and the Group in 1994. He
was appointed Chairman in 1998.
He is a non-executive director
of Euromoney Institutional Investor
plc and of the Fleming Mercantile
Investment Trust plc. He was
formerly managing director of the
Evening Standard and of the Courier
Printing & Publishing Company.
2. C J F Sinclair §
Chief Executive
Aged 54. Joined the Board in 1988.
He was appointed Chief Executive
in 1989, having joined the Group in
1975. He is a non-executive director
of Euromoney Institutional Investor
plc, Reuters Group plc, and of
Schroders plc.
3. J P Williams, FCA §
Finance Director
Aged 49. Joined the Board as Group
Finance Director in 1991 and the
Group in 1982 as a Chartered
Accountant. He is a non-executive
director of GWR Group plc and of
Euromoney Institutional Investor plc.
4. J G Hemingway *†‡
Aged 71. Joined the Board in 1978.
He is an independent solicitor.
5. Sir Patrick Sergeant*
Aged 78. Joined the Board in
1983. He was City Editor of the
Daily Mail from 1960 to 1984 and
formerly chairman of Euromoney
Institutional Investor plc of
which he is now president
and a non-executive director.
6. S M Gray *†‡§
Aged 68. Joined the Board
in 1985. He was senior partner
of Dixon Wilson, Chartered
Accountants, and is chairman
of the Audit Committee. 
7. N H Hakkarainen *‡
(Finnish)
Aged 74. Joined the Board in 1990.
He was formerly managing director
of United Paper Mills in Finland.
8. I G Park, CBE *†
Aged 67. Joined the Board in
1994. He is chairman of Northcliffe
Newspapers. He was formerly
President of the Newspaper
Society and chairman of the
Press Association.
9. F P Lowy, AO *
(Australian)
Aged 72. Joined the Board in
1994. He is chairman of Westfield
Holdings, a major shopping centre
company with interests primarily
in Australia, the United States and
the United Kingdom. He is also a
member of the Board of the Reserve
Bank of Australia.
10. D M M Dutton §
Aged 60. Joined the Board in 1997.
He advises the Group on property
matters. He is also chairman of
a number of mainly early stage
companies.
11. Professor K Schwab *
(German)
Aged 64. Joined the Board
in 1998. He is president of the
World Economic Forum, a not-
for-profit foundation, based in
Geneva, Switzerland.
12. P M Dacre
Aged 54. Joined the Board in 1998.
He has been editor of the Daily Mail
since 1992 and editor-in-chief of
Associated Newspapers since 1998.
13. P M Fallon
(Irish)
Aged 56. Joined the Board in
1999. He is chairman of Euromoney
Institutional Investor plc and a
non-executive director of Allied Irish
Banks plc. He joined Euromoney as
editor in 1974 and was managing
director from 1985 to 1992.
14. C W Dunstone*†
Aged 38. Joined the Board in
December 2001. He is founder and
chief executive of the Carphone
Warehouse Group plc and a non-
executive director of HBOS plc.
15. F P Balsemão*
(Portugese)
Aged 65. Joined the Board in
November 2002. He is Chairman
and chief executive of IMPRESA,
S.G.P .S, Chairman of the European
Publishers Council and a former
Prime Minister of Portugal. 
16. N D Jennings, FCA
Secretary
Aged 42. Appointed Company
Secretary in 1999, having joined
the Group in 1988.
* Non-executive
† Member of the Audit Committee
‡ Member of the Remuneration
and Nominations Committee
§ Member of the Risk Committee
1 5 10 14
2 6 11 13
379 15
48 12 16 33 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Directors’ Report
The Directors present their Report and Accounts for the year ended
29th September, 2002.
Trading Results and Dividends
The profit after taxation of the Group amounted to £89.6 million.
After charging minority interests of £6.8 million, the Group profit
for the year amounted to £82.8 million.
An interim dividend of 2.95 pence per share was paid on the Ordinary
and ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares, and the Directors recommend that
a final dividend of 6.25 pence per share be paid on 14th February, 2003
making 9.2 pence per share for the year (2001 8.6 pence).
Activities
The principal activities of the Group are set out on pages 2 and 3.
The analyses of turnover and operating profit for the years ended
29th September, 2002 and 30th September, 2001 are included as Notes
1 and 2 to the Profit and Loss Account. A review of the development
of the business of the Group during the year, of its position at the end
of the year and of likely future developments in its business is given
in the Chief Executive’s Review of Operations on pages 8 to 25 and
in the Financial and Treasury Review on pages 28 to 31.
Directors
Biographical details of the Directors of the Company at 27th November,
2002 are set out on page 32. The Directors remained unchanged
throughout the year, with the exception of Mr Dunstone who was
appointed to the Board on 12th December, 2001 and the retirement
of Mr Côté on 13th February, 2002. Mr Balsemão was appointed to the
Board on 27th November, 2002.
The number of shares of the Company and of securities of other Group
companies, in which the Directors or their families had an interest at
the year end, are stated in the Remuneration Report on page 41.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Messrs Sinclair,
Park and Fallon and Sir Patrick Sergeant retire by rotation at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Each, being eligible, offers
himself for re-election with special notice being given that the
re-election of Sir Patrick Sergeant who is over 70 years of age, will
be proposed, given his continuing relevant experience and helpful
contribution to the Board. Shareholders will be asked to confirm
the appointment of Mr Balsemão.
Post Balance Sheet Events
On 4th October, 2002, DMG Information acquired Property & Portfolio
Research, an independent commercial real estate research business
based in Boston, Massachusetts, USA. The initial consideration was
US$18 million (£11.5 million) and additional consideration of up to
US$17 million (£10.8 million) is payable in three years depending on
the performance of the business. 
On 18th October, 2002, the Company redeemed its outstanding 2.5%
Exchangeable Bonds for cash.
Tangible Fixed Assets and Investments
Changes in tangible fixed assets and investments (other than
associates and joint ventures) during the year are set out in Notes 21,
24 and 25 to the balance sheets.
Share Capital
Details of allotments in share capital during the year, which arose
solely from the exercise of options, are given in Note 33.
Employees
Under the Group’s general policy of decentralised management, it is
the responsibility of the management in each subsidiary to encourage
the involvement and participation of employees in their company. The
methods used depend on the wide variety of the companies but the
linking to performance targets of a significant portion of remuneration
is one widely used means.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to suitable applications
from disabled persons for employment. If existing employees become
disabled they will continue to be employed, wherever practicable, in the
same job or, if this is not practicable, every effort will be made to find
suitable alternative employment and to provide appropriate training.
Policy on Payment of Suppliers
The Group’s policy on supplier payments varies across its subsidiaries.
These companies have no formal code or standard which deals
specifically with the payment of suppliers. However, their policy
is to ensure that the terms of payment, as specified by, and agreed
with the supplier at the outset, are not exceeded.
The Company had no trade creditors at the year end date.
The Group’s average payment period, calculated on the basis of
year end trade creditors, is 52 days (2001 53 days), although this
is dependent on the year end date and cannot therefore be regarded
as meaningful.
Donations
Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted
to £330,000 (2001 £608,000).
Substantial Shareholdings
As set out in Note 33, the Company has two classes of share capital
–Ordinary shares and ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares. On
27th November, 2002 the following were interested in more than
3% of the issued Ordinary shares:
Rothermere Continuation Limited (and other parties to an agreement 
which comes within section 204 of the Companies Act 1985) 63.1%
Codan Trust Company Ltd and Rothschild Trust (Bermuda) Ltd
(trustees of the Esmond Harmsworth 1998 Settlement) 25.2%
There is no Companies Act requirement to disclose substantial
interests in the ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
Auditors
The auditors, Deloitte & Touche, have indicated their willingness
to continue in office and, in accordance with section 385 of the
Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing their reappointment
will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on
12th February, 2003 at 11.00 am in the Garner Room at the
Commonwealth Institute, 230 Kensington High Street, London W8.
Details of resolutions to be put as special business are set out in the
Notice of Meeting included in the enclosed circular to shareholders.
By Order of the Board
N D Jennings, FCA
Secretary
27th November, 2002 35 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Corporate Governance
continued
A Risk Manager assists the Risk Committee and the divisions in the
overall risk management process and in its continued improvement.
In the year to 29th September, 2002, the Risk Committee has enhanced
the current divisional risk reporting processes by a formalisation of
the review by the divisional boards of the quarterly risk reports and
through a rotational programme of presentations on risk management
issues to the Risk Committee.
The Group’s Audit Committee, which has been in existence for
many years, comprises four non-executive directors: Messrs Gray
(its Chairman), Hemingway, Park and Dunstone. Only Mr Dunstone
is considered to be independent in the sense used by the Combined
Code, but the Board believes that the Committee nevertheless
operates independently. 
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has maintained
responsibility for the review of financial risk management and of
internal financial controls during the year, as these directly relate to
the quality of financial reporting. In addition, the Committee reviews 
a summary of all letters to management prepared by the Group’s
external auditors following their audit procedures, receives reports
from divisional finance directors on an ad hoc basis, throughout the
year, and approves any changes to Group accounting policies, which
are set centrally. Apart from these specific responsibilities, the
Committee is mandated to review all announcements of results issued
by the Group and to advise the Board on the appointment of external
auditors and on their remuneration.
The Board has commissioned a report from an independent firm of
accountants to assess whether it would be appropriate for the Group to
adopt a formal internal audit function to co-ordinate activities, carried
out across the Group. Its recommendations have been considered by
the Audit Committee and a decision will be taken in due course. In the
meantime, the Board has taken the view that control processes already
in place remain adequate. The Group does not maintain common
detailed accounting or operations manuals. Where applicable, divisions
maintain their own manuals and undertake regular internal audit work
as part of their control process.
One of the Group’s subsidiaries, Euromoney Institutional Investor plc,
is subject to the requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance in its own right. As disclosed in its latest annual
report, it has in place its own system of internal control and risk
management processes.
The joint ventures and associates of the Group are also not included
in the Group’s system of internal control described above. The most
significant associate, GWR Group plc, is also a listed company and its
own processes for the identification, evaluation and management of
significant risks are disclosed in its own annual report.
Directors’ Responsibilities for the Preparation of Accounts
The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare accounts for
each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs
of the Company and of the Group as at the end of the financial year
and of the profit or loss, total recognised gains and losses and cash
flows of the Group for that period.
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been
used and applied consistently, and that reasonable and prudent
judgements and estimates have been made in the preparation of
the financial statements for the year ended 29th September, 2002.
The Directors also confirm that applicable accounting standards have
been followed and that it is appropriate that the financial statements
have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records,
for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the
Company and of the Group and for taking reasonable steps to prevent
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
On behalf of the Board
Rothermere
Chairman
27th November, 2002 
34 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Corporate Governance
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate
governance. The Combined Code on Corporate Governance, based
on the report of the Hampel Committee, is part of the listing rules of
the Financial Services Authority. It applied to the Company throughout
the year. 
The paragraphs below and in the Remuneration Report on pages 36
to 44 set out how the Company has applied the principles laid down
by the Code. The Company has substantially complied with the
provisions of the Code, except where stated below or in the
Remuneration Report.
The Board
The Board comprises six executive Directors, including the Chairman
and the Chief Executive, and nine non-executive Directors. The Board
considers that five non-executive Directors may be considered to be
independent in the sense used in the Combined Code, namely 
Messrs Hakkarainen, Lowy and Dunstone, Professor Schwab and 
Mr Balsemão. This represents a majority of the non-executive directors
as recommended by the Code. The Board has not, as required by the
Code, identified a senior independent non-executive Director since it
believes that to identify such an individual is potentially divisive to a
unitary body, as the Board is, and disruptive to the role of the Chairman.
The Company’s Articles of Association were amended in February
1999 to meet the requirement of the Combined Code that all
Directors should submit themselves for re-election at least once
every three years.
The Board meets at least on a quarterly basis and at such other times
as are necessary. There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
Procedures are established to ensure that the Board receives timely
and appropriate information both for those meetings and regularly
between meetings. 
The Board has established a number of committees with mandates to
deal with specific aspects of its business. Details of the membership of
these committees are included on page 32. All Directors have access to
the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are offered such
training as is considered necessary, both on appointment and at any
subsequent time. There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense,
if necessary.
Relations with shareholders
The Company maintains a regular programme of contact with its
institutional shareholders. In the past year, this has included meetings
in London, Scotland and the US. Partly to assist private shareholders,
the Company operates a website at www.dmgt.co.uk on which it posts
all announcements and general presentations given to analysts and
institutions.
Ordinary shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General
Meeting, of which 20 working days’ notice is given.
Internal controls and management of risk
The Group adopts a prudent risk strategy, weighing opportunities
for potential gain against threats to overall business objectives and
profitability. Senior management addresses the opportunities and
uncertainties relating to the business activities of the Group. The risk
management process consists of the identification, evaluation and
control of risks, which could threaten the achievement of the Group’s
strategic, operational and financial objectives, as well as the active
management of opportunities.
The Group operates on a divisional basis with each of the divisions
described on pages 2 and 3 having considerable autonomy as regards
its operation and establishment of control systems. Overseeing the
divisional structure is a central management responsible to the Board.
Certain functions are undertaken centrally, notably newsprint buying,
insurance, treasury, tax and pensions.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Group’s
system of internal control and has a schedule of matters reserved
for its consideration. This system is designed to provide reasonable
assurance of the safeguarding of assets and shareholders’ investment
and the reliability of financial information. Any such system can,
however, provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance of
these matters. The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the
effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the evaluation of the
benefits and risks of investment opportunities and financing proposals
to an executive committee, the Finance Committee. Above certain
defined levels, however, the Board must approve programmes relating
to acquisition and divestment proposals and capital expenditure.
The Board has established a process for the management of
significant risks across the Group. This has been in place for the year
under review and up to the date of approval of these accounts and
accords with the guidance provided by the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance.
Whilst the ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control
and the review of its effectiveness resides with the Board, a Risk
Committee assists the Board by giving assurance on risk management
issues and processes.
The Risk Committee considers reports prepared by central
management, by each of the divisions of the Group and by central
functions, on a quarterly basis. These reports identify business risks for
the Group as a whole and within the divisions and assess the controls
in place to manage those risks.
Members of the Risk Committee also maintain direct links with each
of the main divisions through attendance at divisional Board meetings.
The Committee reports regularly to the Group Board on the results
of these processes to enable the Board to determine the overall
effectiveness of the system of internal control.  37 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Remuneration Report
continued
Non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms and are
subject to re-election by the shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting following appointment, and thereafter every three years.
Each appointment can be terminated before the end of the three year
period, with no notice or fees due. The dates of the appointment or
subsequent re-appointment of the non-executive Directors are set
out below:
Date of appointment/
re-appointment
Sir Patrick Sergeant 16 Feb, 00
I G Park 16 Feb, 00
N H Hakkarainen 14 Feb, 01
F P Lowy 14 Feb, 01
C W Dunstone 12 Dec, 01
J G Hemingway 13 Feb, 02
S M Gray 13 Feb, 02
K Schwab 13 Feb, 02
F P Balsemão 27 Nov, 02
Directors retiring by rotation and standing for re-election at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting are shown in the Directors’
Report on page 33. Sir Patrick Sergeant will stand down at the
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in February 2004.
Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration
Fees payable to non-executive Directors are reviewed annually,
including a comparison with the level of fees paid by other companies
of similar size and complexity; these fees are shown in the table below.
A recommendation to the Board on this subject is then made. Fees
were last raised with effect from 1st October, 1999 and an increase in
the basic Director’s fee from £18,000 p.a. to £24,000 p.a. has been made
with effect from 1st January, 2003.
36 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Remuneration Report
The Remuneration and Nominations Committee of DMGT, established
in 1993, is responsible inter alia for overall Group remuneration policy
and for setting the remuneration, benefits and terms and conditions
of employment of the Company’s executive Directors.
The members of the Committee are the Viscount Rothermere,
its chairman, Mr S M Gray, Mr N H Hakkarainen and
Mr J G Hemingway. The Combined Code recommends that a
remuneration committee should be composed entirely of independent
non-executive directors. The Board considers it wholly appropriate that
the Viscount Rothermere, as Chairman of the Board and as the
Company’s largest shareholder, is a member of the Committee. He
does not participate in discussions regarding his own remuneration.
While Mr Gray and Mr Hemingway are not considered by the Board
to be independent by virtue of their professional involvement with
the Chairman’s family interests, the Board does consider them to act
independently as regards remuneration issues.
Remuneration Policy
The Committee seeks to structure remuneration packages on an
individual basis appropriate to the level of responsibility, but generally
designed to retain and motivate the individual. In carrying out this
function, the Committee makes reference, where appropriate,
to external evidence of remuneration levels in other companies,
particularly in the media field, and to advice sought from leading
compensation consultancies. External consultants are appointed
directly by the Committee. It also seeks the recommendations of the
Chief Executive, who usually attends meetings of the Committee other
than when his own remuneration is being discussed, as regards the
remuneration of the other executive directors and of the divisional
managing directors.
The main components of the remuneration package for executive
Directors are:
(i) basic salary, reviewed annually;
(ii) where appropriate, annual performance related bonus. For the
Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, this is related to the
performance of the Group as a whole and paid in DMGT ‘ A ’ Ordinary
shares through the Executive Bonus Scheme, details of which are
given on page 37. For the year to 29th September, 2002, no bonus was
earned under this scheme. This scheme reaches the end of its ten-year
life this year and a similar scheme is being proposed to shareholders
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. For other executive
directors, bonuses are paid at the discretion of the Remuneration
and Nominations Committee to reward individual performance;
(iii) share options, since 1997 only exercisable on achievement
of demanding performance criteria as set out on page 43, to
provide a long term incentive which aligns their interests to those
of shareholders. Options granted until December 1994 under the
1989 Scheme were not subject to performance criteria as this was
not standard practice. Options are granted in phased blocks over
a number of years; and
(iv) where appropriate, a long term incentive plan. Under this
scheme, established in February 2001, executives are invited to
commit shares in the Company at a market price equal to a maximum
of twice the value of their basic annual salary. If they hold those shares
for five years, they will be eligible to receive matching shares on a
sliding scale up to 200% of the value of the shares held, dependent
on the total shareholder return of the Company compared with a peer
group. The peer group which operates was chosen to reflect a range of
listed companies in the businesses and locations principally occupied
by DMGT. No award will be made if performance is below median
level. Further details are given on pages 38 and 39.
In the case of Mr Fallon, the Committee considers that his
remuneration as executive chairman of Euromoney Institutional
Investor plc, a separately listed company, should be set by the
remuneration committee of that company. The report on this
is set out in Euromoney’s Annual Report.
The Committee also sets the remuneration packages for the managing
directors of the Company’s operating divisions and oversees the bonus
arrangements established in each division. These are individually
designed to reflect the targets and objectives of each division. The
Committee does not expect to change the overall remuneration policy
in the current or subsequent years.
Pensions
The Group operates a two-tier, non-contributory defined benefit
pension scheme for senior employees (including most of the
Company’s Executive Directors), details of which are given on
page 39. One of the Company’s Executive Directors is subject to the
Inland Revenue pensionable earnings’ cap and a funded unapproved
retirement benefits scheme has been put in place for him on the
same terms as for other capped senior executives. The assets of this
Scheme are held independently from the Group’s finances and are
administered by Trustees. It is the Company’s policy that annual
bonuses, payments under the Executive Bonus Scheme and benefits
in kind are not pensionable.
Non-Executive Directorships
The Company allows its Executive Directors to take a very limited
number of outside directorships.
Individuals retain the payments received from such services since
such appointments are not expected to impinge on their principal
employment.
Service Contracts
Contracts of service are negotiated on an individual basis as part
of the overall remuneration package and their length is inevitably
conditioned by competitive pressures in the media industry. For this
reason, the contracts of some of the executive directors exceed the
one year recommended in the Combined Code. The Chairman and
Mr Dutton have contracts of up to one year in duration. Messrs
Sinclair, Williams, Dacre and Fallon have rolling two year contracts.
Details of these service contracts are set out below:
Date of Notice
Contract Period
The Viscount Rothermere 17 Oct, 94 1 month
C J F Sinclair 15 Oct, 96 2 years
J P Williams 8 Jun, 93 2 years
D M M Dutton 27 Nov, 02 1 year
P M Dacre 13 Jul, 98 2 years
P M Fallon 2 Jun, 86 2 years
In the event of earlier termination of their contracts, each Director
is entitled to compensation equal to their basic salary for the notice
period. Mr Sinclair has undertaken that he would seek to mitigate any
such payment by obtaining alternative employment and repaying to
the Company an amount equal to any remuneration earned therefrom.
There is no entitlement to compensation for bonuses which might
have been earned during the notice period. Share options would be
treated as for any member of the scheme, depending on the reason
for termination of the contract. Mr Sinclair is entitled, on a change
of control of the Company, to give notice under his contract within
60 days of the change of control, and to receive compensation for
this notice period as set out above.
Notes to Directors’ Remuneration
(i) The figure given for ‘fees and salary’ for The Viscount
Rothermere includes £47,000 (2001 £45,000) paid to him as part of
the Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme (see Note ii
to Directors’ Pension Entitlements on page 39).
(ii) Benefits in kind include the taxable value of company cars, fuel
allowances, company contributions to medical insurance plans and,
in the case of Mr Dacre, of accommodation provided for him in
Central London.
(iii) The Viscount Rothermere, Mr Sinclair and Mr Williams are
members of the DMGT Executive Bonus Scheme (‘the Scheme’).
The Scheme, introduced in 1993, is intended to reward executives
for excellent growth in earnings per share by the Group. Earnings per
share each year are compared with the equivalent figure three years
earlier indexed up by reference to the RPI. A bonus, calculated as a
percentage of salary, is paid for growth in real terms with a higher
percentage for higher growth. The maximum bonus which can be
earned is 50% of salary for which real growth in earnings per share
of 52% over the three years must be achieved. In addition, earnings
per share have to increase over the previous year; if they do not, the
earned bonus is frozen until there is an increase. The bonus is paid,
net of the amount required to meet the related PAYE liability, in the
form of ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares of DMGT, which must be
retained for three years. 
Directors’ Remuneration
The emoluments of the Directors of the Company for the years ended 29th September, 2002 and 30th September, 2001 are shown below.
2002 2002 2002 2002 2002 2001
Fees and Benefits Bonus/Profit Pension
Salary in kind share Contributions
(Note i) (Note ii) (Note iii) (Note iv)
Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
The Viscount Rothermere i 450 1 – 69 520 518
C J F Sinclair 691 1 – – 692 691
J P Williams 396 18 – – 414 410
D M M Dutton 176––– 176 126
P M Dacre 760 74 – – 834 754
P M Fallon iii 173 16 1,638 139 1,966 1,767
J G Hemingway 66––– 66 66
Sir Patrick Sergeant v 77 22 – – 99 92
S M Gray 75––– 75 75
N H Hakkarainen 26––– 26 26
I G Park v 146 14 – – 160 124
F P Lowy 18––– 18 18
K Schwab 18––– 18 18
C W Dunstone 17––– 17 –
P Côté 7––– 7 26 
Sir Ronald Grierson ––––– 7
3,096 146 1,638 208 5,088 4,718 39 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Remuneration Report
continued
38 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Remuneration Report
continued
Group earnings per share, calculated on a consistent basis with
previous years, before amortisation of intangible assets, have shown
areal decrease of 20% which, under the Scheme, results in no bonus
payment to Scheme members.
Mr Fallon is entitled to a share of the pre-tax profit earned by
Euromoney Institutional Investor plc, which has a comprehensive
profit sharing scheme that links the pay of executive directors to
the profits of Euromoney.
(iv) Pension contributions are those made to money purchase
schemes as set out on page 39. The prior year figures in the table
also include such contributions made last year.
(v) In addition to their fees as Directors of the Company, Sir Patrick
Sergeant also receives a fee as president of Euromoney Institutional
Investment plc and Mr Park as chairman of Northcliffe Newspapers.
(vi) In February 2001, ordinary shareholders approved the
introduction of the Daily Mail and General Trust Long Term
Incentive Plan (the ‘LTIP’). The LTIP is designed to align the interests
of participants and shareholders by requiring participants to make a
substantial investment in the Company as a condition to participating
in the LTIP . Further, the LTIP will only provide rewards for participants
if the Company achieves exceptional returns for shareholders; this
is achieved by calibrating participants’ rewards by reference to
the Company’s performance against a peer group of comparable
media companies.
The LTIP is supervised by the Committee and is operated in
conjunction with an employee discretionary trust (the ‘Trust’).
The Trust will acquire ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting Shares in
the Company (‘shares’) to satisfy awards under the LTIP .
The Committee intends to operate the LTIP annually.
Prospective participants are invited by the Committee to agree to
commit shares to the LTIP . Usually invitations are made in tranches
over a period of one to four years, and individuals are given six months
to make commitments in order to allow for them to make purchases of
shares, where appropriate. Once an individual has agreed to commit
shares which are owned by him or by his close family, the Trustee of
the Trust (‘the Trustee’) decides whether to make an award of an equal
number of shares to those committed.
Awards under the LTIP have been made to four executive directors.
In July 2001, Messrs Sinclair, Williams and Dacre were invited to
commit 177,600, 98,100 shares and 185,600 shares respectively in two
equal annual tranches in the case of Messrs Sinclair and Dacre, and
in three equal annual tranches in the case of Mr Williams. In June 2002,
Mr Dutton was invited to commit 30,282 shares in three equal tranches.
In July 2002, the Viscount Rothermere was invited to commit
115,200 shares in four equal tranches. Having received agreements
to commit shares, the Trustee has made the awards set out in the
table below.
Awards under the LTIP are subject to stringent performance
conditions, which will determine whether, and to what extent, shares
under awards will vest. The performance conditions relate to the total
shareholder return (‘TSR’) of the Company initially over a five-year
period against a peer group of UK and overseas companies determined
by the Committee. TSR is the aggregate of share price growth and
dividends paid (assuming that such dividends are reinvested in shares
during the five year period), and is commonly adopted as a measure
of comparative performance. 
Daily Mail and General Trust Long-Term Incentive Plan
‘A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting At Awarded Vested At Award Date End of initial
shares in award 1st October, during year during year 29th September, Price of award performance
2001 2002 £ period
The Viscount Rothermere – 28,800 – 28,800 6.45 01 Jul, 02 31 Dec, 06
C J F Sinclair 88,800 – – 88,800 7.43 18 Jul, 01 31 Dec, 05
– 88,800 – 88,800 7.43 28 Aug, 02 31 Dec, 06
88,800 88,800 – 177,600
J P Williams 32,700 – – 32,700 7.43 18 Jul, 01 31 Dec, 05
– 32,700 – 32,700 7.43 28 Aug, 02 31 Dec, 06
32,700 32,700 – 65,400
P M Dacre – 63,093 – 63,093 7.43 02 Nov, 01 31 Dec, 05
– 29,707 – 29,707 7.43 11 Jan, 02 31 Dec, 05
– 92,800 – 92,800 7.43 19 Sep, 02 31 Dec, 06
– 185,600 – 185,600
121,500 335,900 – 457,400
On 10th October, 2002, Mr Dutton was awarded 10,094 shares at £7.43; the initial performance period ends on 31st December, 2006.
This comparator peer group is as follows:
Emap plc
Independent News and Media plc
Pearson plc
Reed Elsevier plc
SMG plc
The News Corporation Ltd
The Thomson Corporation plc
Trinity Mirror plc
United Business Media plc
Gannett Co inc.
New York Times Co
Tribune Co 
Awards will be realisable after the performance period to the extent
of the percentage in the right-hand column below according to the
Company’s place in the list of comparator companies as indicated
in the left-hand column below:
TSR Ranking within the list of % of Award capable
Comparator companies of realisation
First 200%
Second or third 100%
Fourth, fifth, sixth or seventh 50%
Below seventh (i.e. below median) 0%
At the end of the five year performance period, participants may elect
either to realise their awards at that time or to extend the performance
period to seven years. If they elect to extend the performance period,
the level of committed shares must be maintained throughout the
extended period. At the end of the seven year performance period,
the Company’s TSR performance will be measured. The awards will be
realisable after the performance period to the extent of the percentage
in the right-hand column below according to the Company’s place
in the list of comparator companies as indicated in the left-hand
column below:
TSR Ranking within the list of % of Award capable
Comparator companies of realisation
First 300%
Second or third 150%
Fourth, fifth, sixth or seventh 75%
Below seventh (i.e. below median) 0%
In the period from 1st January, 2001, the date on which the
performance comparison begins for awards made during 2001, to
29th September, 2002 DMGT ranked tenth within the comparator
group. In the period from 1st January, 2002, the date on which
the performance comparison begins for awards made during 2002,
to 29th September, 2002 DMGT ranked ninth within the
comparator group.
Graphs of DMGT’s performance against each of its comparators
for the periods from 1st January, 2001 and 1st January, 2002 to
29th September, 2002 are set out on page 40.
The graphs on page 40 compare the DMGT total shareholder return
with that of the FTSE 100 index and of the media index over a period
of five years. As a constituent of both indices, the Directors regard
them as the most appropriate indices for purposes of comparison
of the Group’s performance. The graphs on page 44 illustrate
performance over a ten year period.
Directors’ Pension Entitlements
Age at Increase in Accumulated
29th September, deferred deferred
2002 pension pension at
during year 29th September,
2002
£000 £000 £000
The Viscount Rothermere (Note ii) 34 2 15
C J F Sinclair 54 8 366
J P Williams 49 6 160
P M Dacre 53 47 401
Notes to Directors’ Pension Entitlements
(i) The DMGT Senior Executives’ Pension Fund, of which certain
executive directors are members, is non-contributory for members.
The normal retirement age under the Fund for this group is 60. The
deferred pension is the pension reflecting service to the relevant
date and based on pensionable earnings at that date. A spouse’s/
dependant’s pension equal to two thirds of the director’s pension is
incorporated and the director can elect to receive the pension from
age 50, subject to a discount if retirement takes place before 60. The
pension, when in payment, will receive annual increases in line with
inflation, which may be limited when inflation exceeds 5% per annum.
The increases in the deferred pension and the transfer value during
the year are calculated excluding the effect of inflation.
(ii) The Viscount Rothermere is subject to the Inland Revenue
pensionable earnings cap. To mitigate the impact of this pension
restriction, the Company has formulated a policy under which assets
are being held under trust and invested in a funded unapproved
retirement benefits scheme. During the year, £69,225 (2001 £70,050)
was paid into this trust on his behalf.
(iii) Mr Fallon waived profit share in respect of the current year and
of future years of £138,800 (2001 £138,800). This waived profit share
was paid into a pension scheme on Mr Fallon’s behalf. 
(iv) The Company does not make any pension contributions on
behalf of Mr Dutton. 41 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Remuneration Report
continued
40 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Remuneration Report
continued
Sep, 02
Jun, 02
Mar, 02
Dec, 01
Sep, 01
Jun, 01
Mar, 01
Dec, 00
Sep, 00
Jun, 00
Mar, 00
Dec, 99
Sep, 99
Jun, 99
Mar, 99
Dec, 98
Sep, 98
Jun, 98
Mar, 98
Dec, 97
Sep, 97
0
50%
100%
150%
200%
250%
300%
Total Shareholder Return 
DMGT vs FTSE 1997-2002
DMGT TSR
FTSE 100 TSR
0
50%
100%
150%
200%
250%
300%
Sep, 02
Jun, 02
Mar, 02
Dec, 01
Sep, 01
Jun, 01
Mar, 01
Dec, 00
Sep, 00
Jun, 00
Mar, 00
Dec, 99
Sep, 99
Jun, 99
Mar, 99
Dec, 98
Sep, 98
Jun, 98
Mar, 98
Dec, 97
Sep, 97
Total Shareholder Return 
DMGT vs Media Sector 1997-2002
DMGT TSR
Media Sector TSR
Jan, 01
Mar, 01
Jul, 01
May, 01
Sep, 01
Nov, 01
Jan, 02
Mar, 02
May, 02
Jul, 02
Sep, 02
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
140%
Total Shareholder Return 
DMGT vs Media Comparators 2001-2002
DMGT ‘ A’
EMAP
Independent News & Media
Pearson
Reed Elsevier
SMG
News Corporation
Thomson Corporation
Trinity Mirror
United Business Media
Gannett Co
New York Times Co
Tribune Co
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
110%
120%
130%
Sep, 02
Aug, 02
Jul, 02
Jun, 02
May, 02
Apr, 02
Mar, 02
Feb, 02
Jan, 02
Total Shareholder Return 
DMGT vs Media Comparators 2002
DMGT ‘ A’
EMAP
Independent News & Media
Pearson
Reed Elsevier
SMG
News Corporation
Thomson Corporation
Trinity Mirror
United Business Media
Gannett Co
New York Times Co
Tribune Co
Directors’ Interests
The number of shares of the Company and of securities of other Group companies in which Directors or their families had an interest at the dates
shown are stated below.
Holdings of 12.5 pence
Ordinary and ‘ A ’ Ordinary At 29th September, 2002 At 30th September, 2001
Non-Voting shares in Ordinary ‘ A ’ Ordinary Ordinary ‘ A ’ Ordinary
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Note Non-Voting Non-Voting
Beneficial
The Viscount Rothermere xiv, xv 11,827,632 76,821,754 11,817,632 76,821,754
C J F Sinclair xiv, xv –264,691 – 264,691
J P Williams xiv, xv – 79,517 – 82,017
J G Hemingway 4,000 200,000 4,000 200,000
Sir Patrick Sergeant 4,000 90,000 4,000 90,000
S M Gray 4,000 84,000 4,000 84,000
N H Hakkarainen –– –– 
I G Park 4,000 4,000 4,000 4,000
F P Lowy –– –– 
D M M Dutton – 60,497 – 50,497
K Schwab –– –– 
P M Dacre xiv –187,574 – 63,093
P M Fallon 4,000 36,000 4,000 36,000
C W Dunstone* –– –– 
11,847,632 77,828,033 11,837,632 77,696,052
Non-Beneficial
The Viscount Rothermere 674,208 5,540,000 674,208 5,540,000
J G Hemingway –5,540,000 – 5,540,000
S M Gray xvi –3,046,687 – 2,801,871
N H Hakkarainen xvi –3,027,687 – 2,782,871
674,208 17,154,374 674,208 16,664,742
Total Directors’ interests 12,521,840 94,982,407 12,511,840 94,360,794
Less: duplications (8,000) (8,567,687) (4,000) (8,322,871)
12,513,840 86,414,720 12,507,840 86,037,923
* as at date of appointment 43 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Remuneration Report
continued
(i) The table opposite sets out options granted: under the DMGT
1989 Executive Share Option Scheme from January 1993 to December
1994; and under the DMGT 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme from
June 1997. All options under both schemes were granted at market
value at the date of grant and none required any payment. They are
not normally exercisable before the third anniversary of the date of
grant and in all circumstances will lapse if not exercised within
ten years. 
(ii) No Directors’ options lapsed or had their terms and conditions
varied during the year. 
(iii) The mid-market price of the ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares
was £5.015 at 29th September, 2002 and £5.75 at 30th September,
2001. It ranged from £4.605 to £8.05 during the year.
(iv) Options outstanding under the 1989 Scheme were granted
from January 1993 to December 1994 at prices ranging from £1.9625
to £3.1125 per share. These options have all vested and are exercisable
before December 2004.
(v) Since June 1997, all grants have been made under the DMGT
1997 Executive Share Option Scheme at prices ranging from £4.070625
to £10.295. These options are normally exercisable only when two
demanding performance conditions have been met. The first condition
is that, in respect of four out of six consecutive monthly calculation
dates (which start in the thirtieth month following the date of grant of
a particular option), the total shareholder return (‘TSR’) of the Company
must exceed that of the FTSE 100 index. Secondly, there must be real
growth in earnings per share over a period of three consecutive
financial years. 
(vi) Options granted in June 1997 under the 1997 Scheme at
£4.070625 per share are exercisable as both performance criteria have
been met. On 31st October, 2001, the TSR condition was also met in
respect of the options granted in December 1998 at £6.475 per share,
but since real growth in adjusted earnings per share was not achieved
in the prior year, nor in the year ended 29th September, 2002,
compared to that of three years previously, there will be a further
minimum delay of approximately one year before those options
become exercisable. Neither of the performance conditions has
been met yet in respect of the options granted in December 1999 at
£10.295 per share. Accordingly, there will also be a minimum delay
of approximately one year before those options become exercisable.
(vii) Gains made by Directors from exercises of options in the
Company are included in the analysis of Directors’ emoluments,
required by the Companies Act, in Note 11 to the Profit and Loss
Account. On 16th July, Mr Dacre exercised options over 40,000 shares,
retaining the shares when the mid-market price was £4.99; this
resulted in a gain of £36,775. 
(viii) There were 3,647,500 options outstanding under both 
schemes at the end of the year, as set out in Note 33 (iii) to the
Balance Sheets Note viii. This represents 0.91% of the Company’s 
total issued share capital.
(ix) The Company has been notified that, under sections 198 and
204 of the Companies Act 1985, each of the Viscount Rothermere,
Mr Hemingway and Mr Gray were deemed to have been interested
as shareholders in 12,556,764 Ordinary shares at 29th September, 2002
and at 30th September, 2001.
(x) At 29th September, 2002 and at 30th September, 2001, the
Viscount Rothermere was beneficially interested in 756,700 ordinary
shares of Rothermere Continuation Limited, (‘RCL’), the Company’s
ultimate holding company.
(xi) Directors’ shareholdings in Euromoney Institutional Investor plc
(‘Euromoney’) were as follows:
29th September, 30th September,
2002 2001
Beneficial
The Viscount Rothermere 17,470 17,470
C J F Sinclair 7,494 7,494
J P Williams 1,825 1,825
Sir Patrick Sergeant 317,804 317,804
P M Fallon 901,061 901,061
1,245,654 1,245,654
Non-Beneficial
Sir Patrick Sergeant – 82,900
(xii) The Viscount Rothermere was beneficially interested in
68 ordinary shares in Associated Newspapers North America Inc.
at 29th September, 2002 and at 30th September, 2001.
(xiii) At 29th September, 2002, Mr Fallon, held options in Euromoney,
normally exercisable as follows:
29th September, 30 September,
2002 2001
At £3.54 before June 2005 346,268 346,268
At £3.9575 before February 2009 85,000 85,000
At £4.3125 before June 2009 255,000 255,000
686,268 686,268
The mid-market price of Euromoney’s shares was £2.05 at
29th September, 2002 and £2.115 at 30th September, 2001.
It ranged from £2.05 to £3.80 during the year.
42 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Remuneration Report
continued
Options to acquire At Granted Exercised At Market price Normal date
‘A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting 1st October, during during 29th September, Exercise on date from which Expiry
shares in the Company Note 2001 year year 2002 Price of exercise exercisable date 
££
The Viscount Rothermere 60,000 –– 60,000 6.475 15 Dec, 2001 15 Dec, 2008
36,000 –– 36,000 10.295 23 Dec, 2002 23 Dec, 2009
30,000 –– 30,000 8.34 18 Dec, 2003 18 Dec, 2010
– 30,000 – 30,000 6.45 14 Dec, 2004 14 Dec, 2011
126,000 30,000 – 156,000
C J F Sinclair 58,000 –– 58,000 1.9625* 25 Jan, 1996 25 Jan, 2003
24,000 –– 24,000 3.1125* 21 Jan, 1997 21 Jan, 2004
32,000 –– 32,000 2.445* 16 Dec, 1997 16 Dec, 2004
28,000 –– 28,000 4.070625* 12 Jun, 2000 12 Jun, 2007
20,000 –– 20,000 6.475 15 Dec, 2001 15 Dec, 2008
43,000 –– 43,000 10.295 23 Dec, 2002 23 Dec, 2009
70,000 –– 70,000 8.34 18 Dec, 2003 18 Dec, 2010
– 50,000 – 50,000 6.45 14 Dec, 2004 14 Dec, 2011
275,000 50,000 – 325,000
J P Williams 90,000 –– 90,000 1.9625* 25 Jan, 1996 25 Jan, 2003
52,000 –– 52,000 2.445* 16 Dec, 1997 16 Dec, 2004
20,000 –– 20,000 4.070625* 12 Jun, 2000 12 Jun, 2007
10,000 –– 10,000 6.475 15 Dec, 2001 15 Dec, 2008
15,000 –– 15,000 10.295 23 Dec, 2002 23 Dec, 2009
20,000 –– 20,000 8.34 18 Dec, 2003 18 Dec, 2010
– 30,000 – 30,000 6.45 14 Dec, 2004 14 Dec, 2011
207,000 30,000 – 237,000
D M M Dutton 20,000 –– 20,000 8.34 18 Dec, 2003 18 Dec, 2010
P M Dacre vii 40,000 – (40,000) – 4.070625* 4.99 12 Jun, 2000 12 Jun, 2007
60,000 –– 60,000 6.475 15 Dec, 2001 15 Dec, 2008
30,000 –– 30,000 10.295 23 Dec, 2002 23 Dec, 2009
25,000 –– 25,000 8.34 18 Dec, 2003 18 Dec, 2010
60,000 –– 60,000 7.25 11 Jul, 2004 11 Jul, 2011
– 60,000 – 60,000 6.45 14 Dec, 2004 14 Dec, 2011
215,000 60,000 (40,000) 235,000
843,000 190,000 (40,000) 973,000
* vested/exercisable 44 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Remuneration Report
continued
(xiv) The figures in the table on page 41 include ‘ A ’ shares awarded
to executives under the DMGT Executive Bonus Scheme. For the
Viscount Rothermere and Messrs Sinclair and Williams respectively,
20,336, 37,967 and 20,621 of these shares were subject to restrictions,
explained on page 37, at 29th September, 2002. The comparable
figures at 30th September, 2001 were 20,336, 64,635 and 34,245 shares
each respectively.
(xv) The figures in the table on page 41 include ‘ A ’ shares committed
by executives under the LTIP , details of which are set out on page 38.
For the Viscount Rothermere, Messrs Sinclair, Williams, Dutton and
Dacre such committed shares amounted to 28,800, 176,600, 65,400,
10,094 and 185,600 at 29th September, 2002. The comparable figures
at 30th September, 2001 were nil, 88,800, 32,700, nil and 63,093 shares
each respectively.
(xvi) Messrs Gray and Hakkarainen, as directors of DMGT Trustees
Limited, are deemed to have a non-beneficial interest in ‘ A ’ Ordinary
Non-Voting shares, purchased by DMGT Trustees Limited, the Trustee
of the DMGT Share Trust. 3,027,687 ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares
were held at 29th September, 2002 and are included in the figures in the
tables on page 41 for each of these Directors. At 30th September, 2001,
the comparable figure was 2,782,871 ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
(xvii) All shareholdings were unchanged at 27th November, 2002.
(xviii) No Director of the Company has or had a disclosable interest in
any contract of significance subsisting during or at the end of the year.
(xix) Disclosable transactions by the Group under FRS 8, Related
Party Transactions, are set out in Note 41. There have been no other
disclosable transactions by the Company and its subsidiaries with
directors of Group companies and with substantial shareholders
since the publication of the last Annual Report. 
On behalf of the Board
Rothermere
Chairman of the Remuneration 
and Nominations Committee
27th November, 2002
45 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Report of the Independent Auditors
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Daily Mail
and General Trust plc
We have audited the financial statements of Daily Mail and General
Trust plc for the year ended 29th September, 2002 which comprise the
profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement,
the statement of total recognised gains and losses, note of Group
historical cost profit and losses, reconciliation of movement in Group
shareholders’ funds, the accounting policies and the related Notes
1 to 42. These financial statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
As described in the statement of directors’ responsibilities, the
Company’s Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and
accounting standards. Our responsibility is to audit the financial
statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and
regulatory requirements, auditing standards, and the Listing Rules
of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements
give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985. We also report if, in our opinion, the
Directors’ Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if
the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not
received all the information and explanations we require for our audit,
or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding
Directors’ remuneration and transactions with the Company and
other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the
Company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report
if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form
an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors’ Report and the other information contained
in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents
section and consider the implications for our report if we become
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies
with the financial statements.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing
standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. It also includes an assessment
of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors
in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion,
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the Company and of the Group at 29th September,
2002 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended and have
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Chartered Accountants 
and Registered Auditors
London
27th November, 2002
0
100%
200%
300%
400%
500%
600%
700%
800%
900%
Sep, 02
Mar, 02
Sep, 01
Mar, 01
Sep, 00
Mar, 00
Sep, 99
Mar, 99
Sep, 98
Mar, 98
Sep, 97
Mar, 97
Sep, 96
Mar, 96
Sep, 95
Mar, 95
Sep, 94
Mar, 94
Sep, 93
Mar, 93
Sept,92
Total Shareholder Return 
DMGT vs FTSE 1992-2002
DMGT TSR
FTSE 100 TSR
0
100%
200%
300%
400%
500%
600%
700%
800%
900%
Sep, 02
Mar, 02
Sep, 01
Mar, 01
Sep, 00
Mar, 00
Sep, 99
Mar, 99
Sep, 98
Mar, 98
Sep, 97
Mar, 97
Sep, 96
Mar, 96
Sep, 95
Mar, 95
Sep, 94
Mar, 94
Sep, 93
Mar, 93
Sept, 92
Total Shareholder Return 
DMGT vs Media Sector 1992-2002
DMGT TSR
Media Sector TSR 47 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Group Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 29th September, 2002
2002 2001
Note £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 16 264.6 312.1
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 6.9 6.0
Returns on investments and servicing of finance 17 (64.7) (62.7)
Taxation (net) 17 (24.9) (43.7)
Capital expenditure and financial investment (net) 17 (84.4) (98.1)
Acquisitions and disposals 17 (101.0) (184.8)
Equity dividends paid (35.0) (32.8)
Management of liquid resources 18 3.6 (12.7)
Net cash inflow from financing 17 3.1 130.1
(Decrease)/increase in net cash (31.8) 13.4
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
(Decrease)/increase in net cash 18 (31.8) 13.4
Cash inflow from change in debt and lease finance 18 (8.9) (118.3)
Cash (inflow)/outflow from change in liquid resources 18 (3.6) 12.7
Change in net debt from cash flows (44.3) (92.2)
Loan notes issued and loans arising from acquisitions 18 (1.2) (0.5)
Loan notes cancelled arising on disposals 18 3.0 –
Other non-cash items 18 (3.9) 2.4
Increase in net debt in the year (46.4) (90.3)
Net debt at beginning of year 18 (875.4) (785.1)
Net debt at end of year 18 (921.8) (875.4)
46 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Group Profit and Loss Account
for the year ended 29th September, 2002
2002 2002 2002 2001
Before Amortisation
amortisation and impairment
and impairment of intangible
of intangible and
assets and exceptional
exceptional items
items Total Total
Note £m £m £m £m
Turnover
Continuing operations 1,912.6 – 1,912.6 1,962.7
Acquisitions 31.9 – 31.9 –
1 1,944.5 – 1,944.5 1,962.7
Operating profit before amortisation and impairment
of intangible assets and exceptional items
Continuing operations 237.8 _ 237.8 238.9
Acquisitions 3.8 – 3.8 –
2 241.6 – 241.6 238.9
Operating exceptional items – continuing operations 2 – (8.8) (8.8) (10.2)
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets
Continuing operations – (52.9) (52.9) (64.0)
Acquisitions – (2.6) (2.6) –
2 – (55.5) (55.5) (64.0)
Operating profit
Continuing operations 237.8 (61.7) 176.1 164.7
Acquisitions 3.8 (2.6) 1.2 –
2 241.6 (64.3) 177.3 164.7
Share of operating profits and losses of joint ventures and associates 4 5.1 (21.7) (16.6) (13.8)
Total operating profit – 
Group and share of joint ventures and associates 246.7 (86.0) 160.7 150.9
Profit on sale of fixed assets 5 – 3.5 3.5 1.2
Profit/(loss) on disposal and closure of businesses 6 – 8.6 8.6 (5.9)
Income from other fixed asset investments 7 5.2 – 5.2 6.7
Amounts written off investments 25 – (1.2) (1.2) (1.5)
Profit on ordinary activities before interest and finance charges 251.9 (75.1) 176.8 151.4
Net interest payable 8 (67.6) – (67.6) (65.6)
Other finance charges (net) 9 (1.8) – (1.8) (2.9)
Net interest payable and similar charges (69.4) – (69.4) (68.5)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 182.5 (75.1) 107.4 82.9
Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 10 (49.5) 31.7 (17.8) (37.2)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 133.0 (43.4) 89.6 45.7
Equity interest of minority shareholders (9.6) 2.8 (6.8) (2.8)
Profit for the financial year 123.4 (40.6) 82.8 42.9
Dividends 13 (36.6) (34.2)
Retained profit 34 46.2 8.7
Basic earnings per share 14 20.8p 10.8p
Diluted earnings per share 14 20.8p 10.7p
Adjusted earnings per share 14 31.0p 29.4p
(before amortisation and impairment of 
intangible assets and exceptional items) 49 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Statement of Group Total Recognised Gains and Losses
for the year ended 29th September, 2002
2002 2001
£m £m
Group profit for the financial year 82.8 42.9
Unrealised loss on revaluation of investments (46.6) (62.4)
36.2 (19.5)
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments (10.0) (4.1)
Taxation on translation differences 5.7 (1.8)
Minority interests (1.9) 0.2
Total gains and losses recognised in the year 30.0 (25.2)
Note of Group Historical Cost Profits and Losses 
for the year ended 29th September, 2002
2002 2001
£m £m
Reported profit on ordinary activities before taxation 107.4 82.9
Realisation of investment revaluation gains of previous years 2.0 2.7
Historical cost profit on ordinary activities before taxation 109.4 85.6
Historical cost profit for the year retained after taxation,
minority interest and dividends 48.2 11.4
Reconciliation of Movement in Group Shareholders’ Funds
for the year ended 29th September, 2002
2002 2001
£m £m
Group profit for the financial year 82.8 42.9
Dividends (36.6) (34.2)
46.2 8.7
Other recognised gains and losses (52.8) (68.1)
New share capital subscribed 0.3 0.5
Adjustment to goodwill in respect of deferred consideration (0.5) (1.9)
Goodwill written back on disposals and closures – 5.8
Net movement in shareholders’ funds (6.8) (55.0)
Opening shareholders’ funds 299.6 354.6
Closing shareholders’ funds 292.8 299.6
48 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Group Balance Sheet
as at 29th September, 2002
Note 2002 2001
£m £m
Fixed Assets
Intangible assets 20 652.6 633.7
Tangible assets 21 476.4 470.8
Investments
Joint ventures:
Share of gross assets 23.8 7.9
Share of gross liabilities (0.5) (0.3)
23 23.3 7.6
Associates 23 143.9 211.7
Own shares 24 24.4 22.8
Other investments 25 61.6 101.6
253.2 343.7
1,382.2 1,448.2
Current Assets
Stocks 26 27.3 30.9
Debtors 27 381.8 354.6
Short-term investments 29 10.3 13.9
Cash at bank and in hand 69.7 104.9
489.1 504.3
Creditors
Amounts falling due within one year 30 (576.2) (572.2)
Net Current Liabilities (87.1) (67.9)
Total Assets less Current Liabilities 1,295.1 1,380.3
Creditors
Amounts falling due after more than one year 30 (964.3) (1,004.5)
Provisions for Liabilities and Charges 31 (53.0) (56.1)
Net Assets 277.8 319.7
Capital and Reserves
Called up share capital 33 50.1 50.1
Share premium account 34 6.6 6.3
Revaluation reserve 34 63.2 111.8
Profit and loss account 34 172.9 131.4
Equity Shareholders’ Funds 292.8 299.6
Equity minority interests (15.1) 5.6
Non-equity minority interests 0.1 14.5
277.8 319.7
The financial statements on pages 46 to 85 were approved by the Directors on and signed on their behalf by:
Rothermere
C J F Sinclair
Directors 51 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Accounting Policies
Basis of Accounting
The financial statements have been prepared:
(a) under the historical cost convention modified to include the
revaluation of certain assets;
(b) in accordance with Section 227 of, and Schedule 4 to, the
Companies Act 1985; and
(c) in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the
United Kingdom.
Basis of Consolidation
(a) The Group financial statements comprise a consolidation of the
accounts of the Company and of all its subsidiaries, together with the
Group’s share of its interest in its joint ventures and associates.
(b) All major Group undertakings present accounts up to a date
within seven days of 30th September. Results of subsidiaries acquired
or disposed of during the year are incorporated from the effective date
of acquisition or up to the date of their disposal.
(c) The net assets of subsidiaries acquired are recorded at their fair
values, reflecting their condition at that date, which gives rise to
purchased goodwill.
Changes in Presentation of Financial Information
The Group has adopted the transitionary arrangements of FRS 17,
Retirement Benefits, which have no impact on the Group’s 
primary statements.
Other than the further adoption of this new accounting standard,
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the
accounting policies adopted last year, as amended in order to discount
deferred taxation. The prior year effect of this amendmant is not
material and consequently no adjustment has been made to the prior
year primary statements.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
(a) Goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions, prior to
the adoption of FRS 10 on 28th September, 1998, was written off against
reserves in the year of acquisition. On disposal or closure of businesses,
goodwill previously written off against reserves is taken through the 
profit and loss account in arriving at the gain or loss on disposal.
(b) Goodwill arising on consolidation, in respect of acquisitions
made since 28th September, 1998, is capitalised and amortised
through the profit and loss account over the lower of their useful
economic lives and a period of 20 years.
(c) In calculating the goodwill, the total consideration, both actual
and deferred, is taken into account. Where the deferred consideration
is payable in cash, the liability is discounted to its present value.
Where the deferred consideration is contingent and dependant upon
future trading performance, an estimate of the present value of the
likely consideration payable is made. This contingent deferred
consideration is re-assessed annually and corresponding adjustment
is made to the goodwill arising on acquisition. The difference between
the present value and the total amount payable at a future date gives
rise to a finance charge which is charged to the profit and loss account
and credited to the liability over the period in which the consideration
is deferred. The discount used approximates to market rates.
(d) Impairment reviews of goodwill and other intangible assets are
carried out at the end of the first financial year after acquisition and
where there is any indication of impairment.
(e) Purchased intangible assets relating to newspaper publishing
rights, titles, radio licences and certain other intangible assets are
capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account over the
lower of their useful economic lives, if any, and a period of 20 years.
Foreign Exchange
(a) Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into
sterling at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Revenue items
are translated at average rates for the year, except where they are
covered by forward contracts in which case the forward rate is used.
Differences on exchange, arising from the re-translation of the opening
net investment in subsidiaries and associates and from the translation
of the results of those undertakings at average or forward rates, are
dealt with as movements on reserves.
(b) Foreign currency borrowings are matched against net assets
(adjusted to include goodwill arising on acquisitions) and the resulting
translation differences are dealt with as movements on reserves.
(c) Translation differences on the excess of foreign currency
borrowings over matching net assets (adjusted to include goodwill
arising on acquisitions) are taken to the profit and loss account.
(d) All other exchange differences are taken to the profit and 
loss account.
Tangible Fixed Assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated
depreciation, adjusted for revaluations of certain properties at
30th September, 1994.
Specialised buildings, being those constructed specifically for 
use in the business, are carried at historical cost less 
accumulated depreciation.
Non-specialised buildings are carried at their frozen 1994 valuations,
as permitted by FRS 15, Tangible Fixed Assets, as adjusted for
subsequent additions, disposals, depreciation and impairment, if any.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of tangible fixed assets
by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Freehold buildings and long leasehold properties 10 to 50 years
Short leasehold properties Period of lease
Plant and equipment 3 to 25 years
Depreciation on freehold buildings and leasehold properties is based
on cost, or valuation where properties have been revalued. Freehold
land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.
50 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Company Balance Sheet
as at 29th September, 2002
2002 2001
Note £m £m
Fixed Assets
Intangible fixed assets 20 125.0 –
Investments
Group undertakings 22 1,715.3 1,321.7
Other investments 25 1.5 42.1
1,841.8 1,363.8
Current Assets
Debtors 27 81.9 371.4
Creditors
Amounts falling due within one year 30 (278.5) (55.1)
Net Current (Liabilities)/Assets (196.6) 316.3
Total Assets less Current Assets 1,645.2 1,680.1
Creditors
Amounts falling due after more than one year 30 (633.6) (644.1)
Provisions for Liabilities and Charges 31 (0.3) (0.3)
Net Assets 1,011.3 1,035.7
Capital and Reserves
Called up share capital 33 50.1 50.1
Share premium account 34 6.6 6.3
Revaluation reserve 34 – 29.6
Profit and loss account 34 954.6 949.7
Equity Shareholders’ Funds 1,011.3 1,035.7
The financial statements on pages 46 to 85 were approved by the Directors on and signed on their behalf by:
Rothermere
C J F Sinclair
Directors 53 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Profit and Loss Account
1 Segmental Information
By activity
The Group’s main businesses are segmented below. Each segment includes its respective associated electronic products. Broadcasting
comprises the Group’s teletext, television and radio interests.
Turnover comprises Group sales excluding value added tax, less discounts and commission where applicable. The share of the turnover of joint
ventures has not been disclosed separately on the face of the Profit and Loss Account since it is immaterial.
Net Assets Turnover Operating Profit
2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
National newspapers and related activities 276.1 202.6 827.8 833.7 72.0 78.4
Regional newspapers and related activities 440.1 435.4 472.3 477.0 74.9 75.4
Euromoney Institutional Investor 79.0 84.5 179.7 204.8 20.9 20.2
Broadcasting 157.5 147.3 114.7 111.6 12.6 10.8
Exhibitions and related activities 81.7 95.3 141.0 133.9 10.4 (12.7)
Business to business information and careers 137.2 166.6 209.0 201.5 – 6.2
Unallocated central costs and other activities (20.1) (4.8) – 0.2 (13.5) (13.6)
Turnover 1,944.5 1,962.7
Operating profit 2 177.3 164.7
Net operating assets 1,151.5 1,126.9
Investments in joint ventures and associates 167.2 219.3
Net non-operating liabilities (1,040.9) (1,026.5)
Net assets 277.8 319.7
Turnover of regional newspapers and related activities excludes intra-Group turnover of £11.4 million (2001 £10.4 million).
Associates and joint ventures together comprise more than 20% of Group net assets and hence have been segmented in accordance with SSAP 25,
as follows:
Net assets Operating profit/(loss)
2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m
Associates:
National newspapers and related activities 6.2 5.0 (4.5) (1.9)
Regional newspapers and related activities – – (1.8) (3.8)
Euromoney Institutional Investor 0.1 0.4 0.4 0.2
Broadcasting 87.4 148.2 (9.0) (0.5)
Exhibitions and related activities 49.8 57.6 0.5 (3.1)
Business to business information and careers 0.4 0.5 (0.2) (0.7)
143.9 211.7 (14.6) (9.8)
Joint ventures:
National newspapers and related activities 5.1 7.1 (2.2) (4.3)
Broadcasting 18.2 0.5 0.2 0.3
23.3 7.6 (2.0) (4.0)
167.2 219.3 (16.6) (13.8)
The Group’s results have not been segmented below total operating profit since such analysis would not be meaningful.
52 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Accounting Policies
continued
Leased Assets
Where assets are financed by leasing agreements which give rights
approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had been
purchased. The present value of minimum lease payments payable
during the lease term is capitalised as a tangible asset and the
corresponding leasing commitment is included in obligations under
finance leases. Rentals payable are apportioned between interest,
which is charged to the profit and loss account, and capital, which
reduces the outstanding commitment.
Rentals payable relating to all other leases are charged to the profit
and loss account on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Joint Ventures and Associates
Joint ventures are those entities in which the Group holds a long-term
interest and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or
more venturers under a contractual arrangement. Joint ventures are
accounted for using the gross equity method of accounting.
Associates are those undertakings, other than subsidiaries and joint
ventures in which the Group holds a long-term participating interest
and exerts a significant influence. The Group’s share of profits less
losses of associates is included in the Group’s profit and loss account
and the Group’s share of their net assets, together with goodwill
arising on acquisition, is included in the Group balance sheet.
The basis in which these joint ventures and associates are equity
accounted is set out in Note 23.
Investments
Listed investments, which are held for the long term, are included
at their market value at the year end date. Any change in value is
credited or charged as appropriate to the revaluation reserve, except
that a deficit against the original cost of an investment is charged
to the profit and loss account. The profit or loss on disposal of
investments is calculated by reference to their carrying value.
Unlisted investments are held at cost, less any provision for impairment.
Investments in the Company’s own shares, held within the
DMGT Share Trust, are included on the Group balance sheet at
cost. Investments in Group undertakings are held by the Company
at cost, less any provision for impairment.
Stocks and Work in Progress
Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and
net realisable value. Cost of work in progress includes overheads
attributable to the cost of production.
Deferred Taxation
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that result in
an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to
pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they
crystallise, based on current tax rates and on law. Timing differences
arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation
computations in periods different from those in which they are
included in financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the
revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the
asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where
there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as
more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets
and liabilities are not discounted.
Following an updated review of FRS 19, timing differences arising
on tax deductible goodwill written off to reserves are now recognised. 
Due to the indefinite nature of these timing differences the Group
believes it appropriate to discount the resultant deferred tax assets and
liabilities as they arise on businesses expected to be held for the long
term. As a consequence, all other deferred tax assets and liabilities are
also discounted. The prior year effect of these changes is not material.
Pension Costs
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional arrangements
of FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, which permit the costs, accruals and
prepayments recorded in the financial statements to be reported under
the requirements of SSAP 24, Accounting for Pension Costs. This is
consistent with the basis adopted last year. The cost of providing
pensions is calculated using actuarial valuation methods, which
reflect the long-term costs of providing pensions.
Thus, the amount charged to the profit and loss account is calculated
so as to produce a substantially level percentage of the current
and future pensionable payroll. Variations from the regular cost
so calculated are allocated to the profit and loss account over the
average remaining service lives of employees.
The additional disclosures required by FRS 17 are explained in Note 39.
Financial Instruments
The Group uses various derivative financial instruments to manage
its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks. These have
included currency swaps, forward foreign currency contracts, interest
rate swaps, interest rate caps and interest rate floors. The Group
considers its derivative financial instruments to be hedges and
matches them with the relevant hedged item.
Cash flows relating to these derivative financial transactions are netted
against hedged transactions in the Cash flow statement within net
cash inflow from operating activities, or returns on investment and
servicing of finance, or disclosed within financing, as appropriate.
Where forward foreign exchange contracts or cross currency swaps are
used to hedge borrowings, the borrowings hedged are translated at the
year end at the exchange rate implicit within the respective derivative.
Any exchange differences arising are taken to the profit and loss
account to match the accounting treatment of exchange gains or
losses on the borrowings.
Where forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge future
revenues or costs, the gain or loss is not recognised until the revenues
arise or the costs are incurred.
Payments or receipts on interest rate swaps, caps or floors are accrued
with interest payable. The derivatives are not revalued. Arrangement
fees on Eurobonds are amortised over the estimated life of the Bonds. 55 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Profit and Loss Account
continued 
2 Operating profit continued
2002 2002 2002 2002 2002 2002
Continuing Acquisitions Before Exceptional Amortisation Total
amortisation items of intangible
and impairment assets
of intangible
assets and
exceptional items
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Operating profit
National newspapers and 
related activities 78.9 1.4 80.3 (2.0) (6.3) 72.0
Regional newspapers and 
related activities 90.1 0.1 90.2 (3.9) (11.4) 74.9
Euromoney Institutional Investor 29.1 – 29.1 – (8.2) 20.9
Broadcasting 16.7 – 16.7 – (4.1) 12.6
Exhibitions and related activities 24.8 – 24.8 – (14.4) 10.4
Business to business information 
and careers 11.7 2.3 14.0 (2.9) (11.1) –
Unallocated central costs and 
other activities (13.5) – (13.5) – – (13.5)
237.8 3.8 241.6 (8.8) (55.5) 177.3
Less: amortisation of intangible assets (52.9) (2.6) (55.5)
Less: exceptional items (8.8) – (8.8)
176.1 1.2 177.3
Exceptional operating items comprise reorganisation and redundancy costs of £8.8 million. 
Operating profit for 2001 is analysed further by segment as follows:
2001 2001 2001 2001 2001
Before Exceptional Impairment Amortisation Total
amortisation of items of intangible of intangible
intangible assets assets assets
£m £m £m £m £m
Operating profit
National newspapers and related activities 82.9 – – (4.5) 78.4
Regional newspapers and related activities 97.3 (5.7) (4.5) (11.7) 75.4
Euromoney Institutional Investor 28.1 – – (7.9) 20.2
Broadcasting 12.4 – – (1.6) 10.8
Exhibitions and related activities 17.2 (4.5) (12.4) (13.0) (12.7)
Business to business information and careers 14.6 – – (8.4) 6.2
Unallocated central costs and other activities (13.6) – – – (13.6)
238.9 (10.2) (16.9) (47.1) 164.7
In the prior year exceptional operating items comprised redundancy and reorganisation costs of £8.3 million and a provision of £1.9 million
in respect of the fine by the Office of Fair Trading against Aberdeen Journals, and the associated appeal costs.
3 Employees
2002 2001
Number Number
Average number of persons employed by the Group by activity:
National newspapers and related activities 3,502 2,927
Regional newspapers and related activities 8,230 8,346
Euromoney Institutional Investor 1,585 1,880
Broadcasting 1,147 1,070
Exhibitions and related activities 817 1,190
Business to business information and careers 3,496 3,972
Other activities 75 67
18,852 19,452
54 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Profit and Loss Account
continued 
1 Segmental Information continued
By geographical area
The figures for each geographical area show the net operating assets owned by, and the turnover and profits made by, companies located in that
area; export sales and related profits are included in the areas from which those sales are made. Turnover in each geographical market in which
customers are located is not disclosed as there is no material difference between the two.
Net operating assets Turnover Operating profit
2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m £m £m
UK 653.3 696.7 1,560.9 1,603.3 179.9 152.3
Rest of Europe 36.6 6.8 40.9 29.5 (5.0) 4.1
North America 299.8 259.9 257.8 245.0 1.4 6.4
Rest of the World 161.8 163.5 84.9 84.9 1.0 1.9
1,151.5 1,126.9 1,944.5 1,962.7 177.3 164.7
2 Operating profit
2002 2002 2002 2001
Continuing Acquisitions Total Total
Note £m £m £m £m
Turnover 1,912.6 31.9 1,944.5 1,962.7
(Decrease)/increase in stocks of finished goods
and work in progress (2.3) – (2.3) 1.6
Raw materials and consumables (307.0) (1.2) (308.2) (345.9)
Other external charges (385.0) (4.1) (389.1) (396.5)
Staff costs 3 (545.1) (12.6) (557.7) (530.4)
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 21 (74.2) (0.5) (74.7) (69.8)
Amortisation of intangible assets 20 (52.9) (2.6) (55.5) (47.1)
Impairment of intangible assets 20 ––– (16.9)
Rental of property (23.7) – (23.7) (26.1)
Rental of plant and equipment (8.1) (0.5) (8.6) (5.4)
Foreign exchange translation differences (0.2) – (0.2) (1.8)
Other operating charges (335.2) (9.2) (344.4) (356.7)
Auditors’ remuneration for the Group (1.8) – (1.8) (1.8)
Group auditors’ fees for other services (1.0) – (1.0) (1.2)
176.1 1.2 177.3 164.7
There were no material discontinued activities in the year.
The Group audit fee includes £34,000 (2001 £39,000) in respect of the Company’s audit.
Other fees earned by the Group’s auditors arise principally from circulation audits, tax advice and consultancy fees. 
The choice of firm to carry out non-audit work is determined on the basis of expertise and competitiveness.
Turnover and operating profit for 2002 are analysed further by segment as follows:
Continuing Acquisitions Total
£m £m £m
Turnover
National newspapers and related activities 801.8 26.0 827.8
Regional newspapers and related activities 469.5 2.8 472.3
Euromoney Institutional Investor 179.7 – 179.7
Broadcasting 114.7 – 114.7
Exhibitions and related activities 141.0 – 141.0
Business to business information and careers 205.9 3.1 209.0
1,912.6 31.9 1,944.5 57 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Profit and Loss Account
continued 
7 Income from Other Fixed Asset Investments
2002 2001
£m £m
Reuters Group plc 1.3 2.1
The Press Association Limited 3.9 4.3
Other investment income – 0.3
5.2 6.7
8Net Interest Payable
2002 2001
£m £m
Interest on loans and Eurobonds (67.6) (68.5)
Share of interest payable by joint ventures and associates (1.7) (2.0)
Interest payable on finance leases (2.2) (3.0)
(71.5) (73.5)
Interest receivable from short-term deposits 3.4 7.7
Share of interest receivable by joint ventures and associates 0.5 0.2
(67.6) (65.6)
9 Other Finance Charges (Net)
2002 2001
£m £m
Premium on repurchase of Exchangeable Bonds (1.3) –
Finance credit on discounting of deferred proceeds 1.9 –
Finance charge on discounting of deferred consideration (2.4) (2.9)
(1.8) (2.9)
The premium on repurchase of Exchangeable Bonds arose as a result of their being acquired for a price in excess of their par value.
The finance credit on the discounting of deferred proceeds arises from the requirement under FRS 7 to discount deferred proceeds, deferred
in respect of disposals, back to current values.
The finance charge on the discounting of deferred consideration arises from the adoption of the same treatment in respect of acquisitions, back
to the current values.
10 Taxation on Profit on Ordinary Activities
2002 2001
Note £m £m
The charge on the profit for the year consists of:
UK
Corporation tax at 30% (2001 30%) (39.7) (51.7)
Adjustments in respect of prior year iv 29.9 14.3
Share of associates and joint ventures (1.1) (0.6)
(10.9) (38.0)
Overseas taxation
Corporation taxes (8.9) (2.1)
Adjustments in respect of prior year iv (0.1) 1.5
Total current taxation (19.9) (38.6)
Deferred tax
Origination and reversals of timing differences (6.1) (2.0)
Increase in discount 4.5 3.4
Adjustments in respect of prior year 1.3 –
Adjustments in respect of prior year discount 2.4 –
(17.8) (37.2)
56 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Profit and Loss Account
continued 
3Employees continued
2002 2001
£m £m
Total staff costs comprised:
Wages and salaries 494.8 468.3
Social security costs 41.4 41.8
Pension contributions 21.5 20.3
557.7 530.4
4 Share of Operating Profits and Losses of Joint Ventures and Associates
2002 2001
£m £m
Share of operating profits/(losses) of joint ventures 0.2 (1.9)
Share of operating profits of associates (before amortisation and exceptional items) 4.9 2.3
Before amortisation and impairment of goodwill and exceptional items 5.1 0.4
Share of amortisation of goodwill of associates (3.1) (2.5)
Share of impairment of goodwill in associates (6.5) –
Amortisation of goodwill of joint ventures and associates (12.1) (8.9)
Share of operating exceptional losses of associates – (2.8)
(16.6) (13.8)
5 Profit on Sale of Fixed Assets
2002 2001
£m £m
Profit on sale of tangible fixed assets 3.5 1.1
Profit on sale of investments – 0.1
3.5 1.2
6 Profit/(Loss) on Disposal and Closure of Businesses including Associates
2002 2001
Note £m £m
Loss on closure of businesses (0.2) (7.1)
Profit on sale of businesses 36 6.8 0.9
Profit on sale of associates 0.5 –
Share of associates’ profit on sale of businesses 1.5 0.3
8.6 (5.9)
The profit on sale of businesses comprises a final tranche of unprovided, contingent proceeds on Euromoney’s sale of 100% Design Limited
combined with a profit on sale of Eastern Counties Radio Limited. The share of associates’ profit on sale of businesses comprises the Group’s
share of the profits on disposal of London News Radio Limited and Vibe Radio Services Limited by GWR, offset by the loss on disposal by GWR
of its 25% interest in DMG Radio Australia to the Group.
Profit on sale of businesses in the prior year comprised that on the sale of Johansens in August, offset by a loss on the disposal of the Power
and Handling division in the Exhibitions’ division in September. The prior year loss on closure of businesses relates to the closure of four non-
performing Euromoney businesses in the US and UK, together with that within the Exhibitions division. The loss on closure of businesses in
the prior year includes £5.8 million of goodwill, previously written off against reserves. 59 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Profit and Loss Account
continued 
12 Profit for the Financial Year
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, a separate profit and loss account for the Company has not been included in these
accounts. The Company’s profit after tax for the year was £10.7 million (2001 loss £31.7 million).
13 Dividends
2002 2001
Pence Pence
per share £m per share £m
Interim paid
Ordinary shares 2.95 0.6 2.75 0.5
‘A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares 2.95 11.1 2.75 10.4
11.7 10.9
Final proposed
Ordinary shares 6.25 1.3 5.85 1.2
‘A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares 6.25 23.6 5.85 22.1
24.9 23.3
9.20 36.6 8.60 34.2
All shares in issue are equity shares.
14 Earnings per Share
Basic earnings per share of 20.8p (2001 10.8p) are calculated, in accordance with FRS 14, on Group profit for the financial year of £82.8 million
(2001 £42.9 million) and on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, as set out below.
Diluted earnings per share of 20.8p (2001 10.7p) are calculated, in accordance with FRS 14, on an unchanged earnings numerator and on
the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, as set out below.
As in previous years, adjusted earnings per share have also been disclosed since the Directors consider that this alternative measure gives a more
comparable indication of the Group’s underlying trading performance. Adjusted earnings per share of 31.0p (2001 29.4p) are calculated on profit
before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items, after charging the taxation and minority interests associated
with those profits, of £123.4 million (2001 £117.3 million), as set out in Note 15 below, and on the basic weighted average number of ordinary
shares in issue during the year.
2002 2001
pence pence
per share per share
Basic earnings per share 20.8 10.8
Adjustments:
Amortisation of intangible assets 17.8 14.7
Impairment of intangible assets 1.6 4.2
Exceptional items (0.5) 4.8
Taxation on exceptional items (8.0) (4.3)
Interest of minority shareholders (0.7) (0.8)
Adjusted earnings per share
(before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items) 31.0 29.4
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year for the purpose of these calculations is as follows:
2002 2001
No No
million million
Weighted average number of shares
Number of ordinary shares in issue 401.0 400.9
Shares held by the DMGT Share Trust (3.1) (2.6)
Basic earnings per share denominator 397.9 398.3
Effect of dilutive share options 0.3 1.3
Dilutive earnings per share denominator 398.2 399.6
58 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Profit and Loss Account
continued 
10 Taxation on Profit on Ordinary Activities continued
(i) The tax charge for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2001 30%). 
The differences are explained below:
2002 2001
£m £m
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 107.4 82.9
Profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of 30% (32.2) (24.9)
Effect of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes:
Amortisation of intangible assets (9.3) (11.5)
Impairment of intangible assets – (3.7)
Other expenses not deductible for tax purposes (5.3) (6.9)
Additional items deductible for tax purposes 10.7 –
Accelerated capital allowances and other timing differences 3.3 (1.4)
Capital gains rolled over – 0.4
Non taxable income 1.5 2.0
Effect of overseas tax rates (2.4) 7.5
Effect of associates tax (5.9) (4.1)
Tax losses unrelieved (13.4) (10.4)
Write off/disposal of subsidiaries 3.2 (1.9)
Prior year tax credit 29.8 15.8
Other 0.1 0.5
Current tax charge on the profit for the year (19.9) (38.6)
(ii) The underlying tax on profits before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items amounted to £49.5 million
(2001 £54.1 million) (Note 15) and the resulting rate is 27.1% (2001 30.5%). There was a tax credit of £31.7 million (2001 £16.9 million) relating to
exceptional items in the current and prior years. This included a charge of £0.8 million (2001 £14.3 million) which arose on the sale of fixed assets,
a credit of £nil (2001 £0.6 million) on the disposal and closure of businesses, a credit of £2.7 million (2001 £2.0 million) in respect of exceptional
operating items, a credit of £27.4 million (2001 £nil) following the agreement of certain prior year open issues with the UK Inland Revenue in relation
to the Group’s international structure, and a credit of £2.4 million (2001 £nil) relating to the prior year effect of discounting deferred tax.
(iii) The prior year items of £29.8 million (2001 £15.8 million) arose largely from a reassessment of tax provisions no longer required.
(iv) In subsequent years the Group’s tax charge may be affected by the movement in currently unrecognised deferred tax assets, the largest
of which relates to the Group’s accumulated tax losses in the US.
11 Directors
The emoluments of the Directors of the Company for the years ended 29th September, 2002 and 30th September, 2001 were as follows:
2002 2001
£000 £000
Aggregate emoluments 3,176 3,002
Gains on exercise of share options 37 –
Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes 1,638 1,441
Sums paid to third parties for Directors’ services 66 66
4,917 4,509
The emoluments of the Highest Paid Director in respective years were as follows:
£000 £000
Aggregate emoluments 189 187
Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes 1,638 1,441
1,827 1,628
Further details of the emoluments, share options, interests under long term incentive schemes and pension benefits of the Directors of the
Company, for the years ended 29th September, 2002 and 30th September, 2001 are set out in the Remuneration Report which forms part
of these accounts. 61 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Cash Flow Statement
16 Reconciliation of Operating Profit to Net Cash Inflow from Operating Activities
2002 2001
£m £m
Operating profit 177.3 164.7
Depreciation charge 74.7 69.8
Amortisation of intangible assets 55.5 64.0
Decrease/(increase) in stocks and work in progress 3.0 (1.4)
Increase in debtors (32.4) (6.8)
(Decrease)/increase in creditors and other provisions (13.5) 21.8
Net cash inflow from operating activities 264.6 312.1
The cash inflow noted above includes a cash outflow of £2.6 million (2001 £3.4 million) in respect of operating exceptional items.
17 Analysis of Cash Flows given in the Cash Flow Statement
2002 2001
Note £m £m
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 2.5 5.3
Interest paid (64.3) (65.4)
Interest element of finance lease rental payments (2.2) (3.0)
Issue costs of Eurobond – (1.0)
Premium on repurchase of Exchangeable Bonds (1.3) –
Dividends received from other investments 5.2 6.7
Dividends paid to minority shareholders (4.6) (5.3)
(64.7) (62.7)
Taxation
Tax paid (36.6) (49.1)
Tax repaid 11.7 5.4
(24.9) (43.7)
Capital expenditure and financial investment (net)
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (89.8) (93.8)
Purchase of investments (13.2) (15.2)
Disposal of tangible fixed assets 17.7 7.4
Disposal of investments 0.9 3.5
(84.4) (98.1)
Acquisitions and disposals
Purchase of businesses 19 (84.9) (91.7)
Purchase of Radio licences (5.0) (25.4)
Cash acquired with subsidiaries – 0.5
Investments in joint ventures and associates (13.2) (81.2)
Disposal of businesses 19 1.9 13.0
Disposal of associates 0.2 –
(101.0) (184.8)
Financing
Issue of Eurobonds – 167.7
Issue of share capital 0.3 0.5
Issue of shares by group company to minority shareholders – 11.1
Loans taken out 28.0 –
Repayment of loans by associates 0.4 –
Repurchase of Exchangeable Bonds (12.3) –
Repayment of other borrowings – (42.3)
Treasury hedging activities (6.5) (1.0)
Capital element of finance lease rental payments (6.8) (5.9)
Net cash inflow from financing 3.1 130.1
60 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Profit and Loss Account
continued 
15 Adjusted profit (before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items, 
after taxation and minority interests)
2002 2001
Note £m £m
Profit before tax 107.4 82.9
Add back:
Amortisation of intangible assets in Group operating profit and in joint ventures 70.7 58.5
Impairment of intangible assets 6.5 16.9
Operating exceptional losses 8.8 10.2
Share of operating exceptional losses in associates – 2.8
Profit on sale of fixed assets 5 (3.5) (1.2)
(Profit)/loss on disposal of businesses 6 (8.6) 5.9
Amounts written off investments 1.2 1.5
Profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, 
exceptional items and taxation 182.5 177.5
Taxation charge 10ii (49.5) (54.1)
Interest of minority shareholders i (9.6) (6.1)
Profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 
and exceptional items, after taxation and minority interests 123.4 117.3
(i) The adjusted minority charge for the year of £9.6 million (2001 £6.1 million) is stated after eliminating a credit of £3.3 million
(2001 £2.4 million), being the minority share of amortisation, and a charge of £0.5 million (2001 credit of £0.9 million) on exceptional items. 63 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
20 Intangible Assets
Other
Goodwill intangible Total
assets
£m £m £m
Note (Note i) (Note ii)
Group
Cost
At beginning of year 520.9 328.3 849.2
Additions 35 78.6 5.0 83.6
Adjustments to previous year estimate of deferred consideration (10.0) – (10.0)
Disposals (7.4) – (7.4)
Exchange adjustment – 5.0 5.0
At end of year 582.1 338.3 920.4
Other
Goodwill intangible Total
assets
£m £m £m
Accumulated amortisation
At beginning of year 74.1 141.4 215.5
Charge for the year 38.4 17.1 55.5
Disposals (4.8) – (4.8)
Exchange adjustment – 1.6 1.6
At end of year 107.7 160.1 267.8
Net book value – 2002 474.4 178.2 652.6
Net book value – 2001 446.8 186.9 633.7
(i) Goodwill is capitalised on new acquisitions made after 28th September, 1998. Such goodwill is amortised over the lower of its useful
economic life and a period of 20 years. Goodwill arising on acquisitions made prior to 28th September, 1998 was written off directly to reserves.
(ii) Other intangible assets comprise publishing rights, titles, radio licences and certain other intangible assets.These assets were valued by
the Directors and are stated at fair value on acquisition and are amortised over the lower of their useful economic life and a period of 20 years.
Trade Marks
Note £m
Company
Cost
At beginning of year –
Additions i 125.0
At end of year 125.0
Accumulated amortisation
At beginning of year and end of year –
Net book value – 2002 125.0
Net book value – 2001 –
(i) At the year end the Company acquired certain trade marks from Group companies. Under the terms of this acquisition the Company will
receive a royalty payment from these companies based on ABC circulation figures.
(ii) These trade marks will be amortised over the lower of their useful economic life and a period of 20 years.
62 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Cash Flow Statement
Continued
18 Analysis of Net Debt
At Cash Issued on Cancelled Foreign Other At end
beginning flow acquisition of on sale of exchange non-cash of year
of year subsidiaries subsidiaries movements changes
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash 104.9 (33.4) – – (1.8) – 69.7
Bank overdrafts (2.1) 1.6 – – – – (0.5)
102.8 (31.8) – – (1.8) – 69.2
Debt due within one year i (30.7) (19.4) (1.2) 3.0 (1.0) (7.5) (56.8)
Debt due after one year
Eurobonds (644.1) 12.3 – – – (1.8) (633.6)
Loans ii (279.3) (8.6) – – 10.9 (2.7) (279.7)
(954.1) (15.7) (1.2) 3.0 9.9 (12.0) (970.1)
Finance lease obligations (38.0) 6.8 – – – – (31.2)
(992.1) (8.9) (1.2) 3.0 9.9 (12.0) (1,001.3)
Short-term investments 29 13.9 (3.6) – – – – 10.3
Net debt (875.4) (44.3) (1.2) 3.0 8.1 (12.0) (921.8)
(i) Other non-cash movements in respect of debt due within one year comprise a settlement of deferred consideration by way of loan 
notes issued.
(ii) Other non-cash movements in respect of Eurobonds and loans include the unwinding of the premium on the issue of further 2021 10% bonds
in the year of £0.5 million and on the issue of further 2013 7.5% bonds of £0.2 million offset by the accretion to the principal of the 2.5% deep
discount Eurobond of £1.9 million and the amortisation of issue costs of Eurobonds of £0.6 million.
(iii) Other non-cash movements in respect of debt due after one year comprises 'rolled up' interest of £2.7 million.
(iv) Cash flows in respect of Eurobonds comprise redemptions totalling £12.3 million of the 9.75% 2005 Eurobond.
19 Analysis of Movements in Cash in respect of Acquisitions and Disposals
2002 2001
Note £m £m
Acquisitions
Cash consideration including acquisition expenses 35 72.8 77.1
Cash paid in respect of consideration deferred from prior years 12.1 14.6
84.9 91.7
Cash paid in respect of consideration deferred from prior years was mainly in respect of the education and information publishing division.
2002 2001
£m £m
Disposals
Cash consideration including disposal costs 36 1.9 5.3
Cash received in respect of consideration deferred from prior years – 7.7
1.9 13.0
The impact of operating cash flows from acquisitions and disposals made in the year was not material. 65 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
21 Tangible Assets continued
The historical cost and related depreciation of Group properties are set out below:
Freehold Leasehold Leasehold
Long Short
£m £m £m
Group
Historical cost at end of year 88.5 77.6 42.6
Aggregate depreciation based on historical cost (18.1) (24.0) (23.1)
70.4 53.6 19.5
22 Investments in Group Undertakings (as listed on pages 83 to 85)
Cost Provision Net book value
Note £m £m £m
Company
At beginning of year 1,326.5 (4.8) 1,321.7
Additions i 534.1 – 534.1
Disposals ii (140.5) – (140.5)
At end of year 1,720.1 (4.8) 1,715.3
Additions and disposals comprise intra-Group transfers of subsidiaries.
23 Investments in Joint ventures and Associates
Share of
Cost of post-acquisition
shares Loans retained reserves Total
£m £m £m £m
Joint ventures
Group
At beginning of year 13.1 4.9 (10.4) 7.6
Additions 4.5 1.3 – 5.8
Share of retained reserves – – (1.9) (1.9)
Adjustment to deferred consideration – – 0.1 0.1
Reclassifications iv 12.2 0.4 (0.9) 11.7
At end of year 29.8 6.6 (13.1) 23.3
Information on principal joint ventures from the latest available accounts 
(all incorporated in Great Britain and registered and operating in
England and Wales unless otherwise stated).
Principal Year Description Group
activity ended of holding interest %
Unlisted
Greenland Interactive Limited ii Telephone 31 Dec, 01 Ordinary 50.0%
information
services
Zoom.co.uk Limited ii E-commerce 31 Aug, 02 Ordinary 50.0%
internet portal
Brisbane FM Radio Pty Limited ii, iv Independent 30 Sep, 02 Ordinary 50.0%
(incorporated and operating in Australia) radio operator
DMG Radio (Perth) Pty Limited iv Independent 30 Sep, 02 Ordinary 50.0%
(incorporated and operating in Australia) radio operator
64 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
21 Tangible Assets
Freehold Leasehold Leasehold Plant and
Properties Properties Long Properties Short equipment Total
Note £m £m £m £m £m
Group
Cost or valuation i
At beginning of year 107.7 74.4 42.7 666.2 891.0
Owned by subsidiaries acquired 0.1 – – 3.9 4.0
Additions 4.9 4.7 4.6 75.6 89.8
Disposals (8.3) – (4.4) (56.6) (69.3)
Exchange adjustment 0.2 0.1 (0.3) (2.4) (2.4)
At end of year 104.6 79.2 42.6 686.7 913.1
Held at: Cost 93.2 78.2 42.6 686.7 900.7
Valuation 11.4 1.0 – – 12.4
104.6 79.2 42.6 686.7 913.1
Freehold Leasehold Leasehold Plant and
Properties Properties Long Properties Short equipment Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Accumulated depreciation
At beginning of year 17.1 21.7 25.2 356.2 420.2
Owned by subsidiaries acquired – – – 0.5 0.5
Charge for the year 2.2 2.3 2.3 67.9 74.7
Disposals (0.5) – (4.3) (51.8) (56.6)
Exchange adjustment – – (0.1) (2.0) (2.1)
At end of year 18.8 24.0 23.1 370.8 436.7
Net book value – 2002 iii 85.8 55.2 19.5 315.9 476.4
Net book value – 2001 90.6 52.7 17.5 310.0 470.8
(i) The Group’s properties, other than its specialised buildings, were revalued at 30th September, 1994, on the basis of external valuations and
are depreciated over their useful economic lives. Subsequent additions are carried at historical cost, less accumulated depreciation, in
accordance with FRS 15.
Specialised buildings, being those properties constructed specifically for use in the business, are carried at historical cost less accumulated
depreciation.
(ii) Group fixed assets include assets in the course of construction, made up as follows:
Freehold Leasehold Plant and
Properties Long equipment Total
£m £m £m £m
Assets in the Course of Construction
Group
Cost and net book value
At beginning of year 0.7 0.7 34.0 35.4
Additions – 2.8 24.6 27.6
Transfers 0.2 (1.5) (14.7) (16.2)
At end of year 0.9 2.0 43.9 46.8
No depreciation was charged on assets in the course of construction during the year (2001 £nil).
(iii) The net book value of Group plant and equipment includes £35.3 million (2001 £40.9 million) in respect of assets held under finance leases
in a number of the Group’s provincial newspaper centres. Depreciation of £4.9 million (2001 £5.2 million) was charged on such assets in the year.
(iv) No significant unprovided liability for taxation would have arisen, had the trading properties been sold at the balance sheet date for their
net book values, due to the availability of ‘roll-over’ relief. 67 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
24 Investments in Own Shares
Group
Note £m
Cost
At beginning of year 22.8
Additions ii 2.9
Disposals ii, iii (1.3)
At end of year 24.4
(i) Investments in own shares at the year end represent the cost of 3,027,687 ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares (2001 2,782,871 shares), purchased
by DMGT Trustees Limited, the Trustee of the DMGT Share Trust, for the purpose of meeting prospective exercises of options granted under the
DMGT 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme. As required by UITF 13, these are included as assets on the Group balance sheet.
The market value of these shares at 29th September, 2002 was £15.2 million (2001 £16.0 million). The DMGT Share Trust has waived its dividend
rights on these shares. 
(ii) Disposals reflect exercises of such options under the 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme, provision for the cost of which is made in the
year to which the award relates.
(iii) After adjusting for disposals and the cost of buying shares to match options, exercisable under the 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme,
in excess of the option exercise price, a provision of £2.1 million (2001 £2.1 million) has resulted (Note 31).
25 Other Investments
Group Company
£m £m
Cost or valuation
At beginning of year 101.6 42.1
Additions 10.6 0.7
Disposals (1.2) (40.1)
Provided during year (1.2) (1.2)
Deficit on revaluation (46.6) –
Exchange adjustment (1.6) –
At end of year 61.6 1.5
Investments are analysed as follows:
Group Company
2002 2001 2002 2001
Note £m £m £m £m
Listed i
Reuters Group plc 30.7 77.3 – 40.1
Unlisted i
XAP Corporation Inc 12.2 12.2 – –
Right to acquire 20% of California Mart, LLC 5.7 – – –
Other 13.0 12.1 1.5 2.0
30.9 24.3 1.5 2.0
61.6 101.6 1.5 42.1
66 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
23 Investments in Joint ventures and Associates continued
Share of post-
acquisition
Cost of retained
shares Loans reserves Total
Note £m £m £m £m
Associates
Group
At beginning of year 226.8 47.3 (62.4) 211.7
Additions iii, iv 10.5 2.4 – 12.9
Share of retained reserves – – (20.5) (20.5)
Reclassifications iv (11.3) (0.4) – (11.7)
Exchange and adjustment (4.6) – – (4.6)
Disposals iv (1.3) (44.1) 1.5 (43.9)
At end of year 220.1 5.2 (81.4) 143.9
Associates
Information on principal associates from the latest available accounts 
(all incorporated and operating in Great Britain unless otherwise stated)
Principal Year Description Group
Note activity ended of holding interest
Listed
GWR Group plc ii,iv Independent radio 31 Mar, 02 Ordinary 29.9%
operator Loan 100.0%
Unlisted
George Little Management LLC ii, iii Organisers of trade 30 Sep, 02 Class A and B 25.0%
(incorporated and operating in the USA) exhibitions membership 
interests
Independent Television News Limited ii Independent TV 31 Dec, 01 Ordinary 20.0%
news provider
Shopcreator plc ii, v Internet e-commerce 31 Dec, 01 Ordinary 17.0%
software provider
Western Exhibitors LLC ii Organisers of 30 Sep, 02 Membership 25.0%
(incorporated and operating in the USA) trade exhibitions interests
Whereoware LLC ii Business-to-business 30 Sep, 02 Class B 44.8%
(incorporated and operating in the USA) membership e-commerce
interests site for gifts
(i) The market value of the listed shares at 29th September, 2002 was £62.2 million (2001 £53.3 million).
(ii) Material joint ventures have been accounted for under the gross equity method and associates under the net equity method using
unaudited accounts to 29th September, 2002, provided in the case of listed associates that such information is public information at the
latest practicable date for inclusion by the Group.
(iii) As part of the prior year transaction to acquire a 25% interest in George Little Management LLC, the Group receives a preferred profit
distribution of US$1.5 million for the first five years to November 2005. The purchase agreement included ‘put and call options’ for the balance
of the shares. Details of these commitments are given in Note 37.
(iv) Principal additions in the year were the acquisition of a 50% interest in DMG Radio Perth and the increased equity investment of 3.1%
in GWR; this was part of the transaction to acquire GWR’s 25% interest in DMG Radio Australia which included the disposal of the Group’s
loan notes of £43.5 million. Following this acquisition, DMG Radio Australia became wholly owned and its 50% interests were reclassified
as joint ventures.
(v) The Group has significant influence in Shopcreator plc and participates in its direction through board representation, even though
its holding is below 20%.
(vi) Share of post-acquisition reserves is stated after deducting goodwill written off directly against reserves of £32.8 million (2001 £32.8 million).
The carrying value of joint ventures and associates includes goodwill on acquisition by the Group, less cumulative amortisation, of £130.0 million
(2001 £142.3 million). The charge for the year was £12.1 million (2001 £8.9 million) (Note 4). 69 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
28 Treasury Information
An overview of treasury policies is included within the Financial and Treasury Review on pages 28 to 31.
Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from all of the following disclosures, other than those relating to currency risk.
Currency exposures
The following table shows the degree to which companies within the Group have net monetary assets/(liabilities) in currencies other than their
functional currency. Translation differences are taken to the profit and loss account of both Group companies and of the Group.
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling US dollar Other Total
Functional currency of Group company £m £m £m £m
2002
Sterling – 7.4 0.2 7.6
Other (0.4) (0.2) 0.1 (0.5)
(0.4) 7.2 0.3 7.1
2001
Sterling – 11.0 0.9 11.9
Other 1.5 0.6 0.1 2.2
1.5 11.6 1.0 14.1
Currency and Interest Rate Composition of Financial Assets
These consist primarily of investments in Reuters shares and bank deposits.
Floating
rate
financial
Total assets
Currency £m £m
2002
Sterling 68.6 68.6
US dollar 58.4 58.4
Australian dollar 4.4 4.4
Canadian dollar 2.2 2.2
Other 8.0 8.0
141.6 141.6
Of which:
Reuters shares 30.7 30.7
Unlisted investments 30.9 30.9
Short-term investments 10.3 10.3
Cash 69.7 69.7
141.6 141.6
2001
Sterling 168.3 168.3
US dollar 38.1 38.1
Australian dollar 6.3 6.3
Canadian dollar 0.3 0.3
Other 7.4 7.4
220.4 220.4
Of which:
Reuters shares 77.3 77.3
Unlisted investments 24.3 24.3
Short-term investments 13.9 13.9
Cash 104.9 104.9
220.4 220.4
68 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
25 Other Investments continued
Information on principal investments, taken from latest published accounts (incorporated in Great Britain or registered in England and Wales unless
stated otherwise).
Class of Group
Note holding interest %
Reuters Group plc iii Ordinary 0.9%
The Press Association Limited Ordinary 15.6%
XAP Corporation Inc. (taken from the shareholders’ agreement; Preferred 18.5%
incorporated and operating in the USA)
(i) Listed investments are stated at their market value and unlisted investments at cost, less provision for any impairment, at the balance
sheet date.
(ii) The historical cost of investments is £38.1 million (2001 £28.9 million) for the Group and £1.5 million (2001 £12.4 million) for the Company.
(iii) At the beginning of the year, the Company had outstanding £65.3 million 2.5% Exchangeable Bonds 2004 (Note 30ii), exchangeable for
7.7 million shares of Reuters at an effective price of £8.29 per share. The bonds had been issued originally in May 1997 at 79.5% of their nominal
value and their redemption amount accretes to 100% over the life of the bonds. Accordingly, the exchange price for the shares rises to a
maximum of £9.75 in October 2004.
At 29th September, 2002, the effective exchange price was £9.11 per share. The shares have been valued at the year end price of £2.38 per share,
being the lower of the effective exchange price and the market price.
If all bonds in issue at 29th September, 2002 were exchanged, this would utilise 6.7 million shares, representing 51.9% of the Group’s holding of
Reuters shares at that date.
26 Stocks and Work in Progress
2002 2001
£m £m
Group
Raw materials and consumables 14.4 14.6
Work in progress 11.7 14.7
Finished goods 1.2 1.6
27.3 30.9
The replacement cost of stocks and work in progress is not materially different from that shown above.
27 Debtors
Group Company
2002 2001 2002 2001
Note £m £m £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade debtors 300.1 272.4 – –
Amounts owed by Group undertakings – – 54.3 341.8
Prepayments and accrued income 48.1 49.9 1.1 –
Corporation tax i – – 26.3 29.6
Other debtors 21.9 21.9 0.2 –
370.1 344.2 81.9 371.4
Amounts falling due after one year
Other debtors 11.7 10.4 – –
381.8 354.6 81.9 371.4
(i) The Company’s corporation tax debtor represents amounts due from subsidiaries for Group relief. 71 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
28 Treasury Information continued
Interest Rate Risk Profile of Fixed Rate Financial Liabilities
Weighted average Weighted average
interest rate period for which 
rate is fixed
Currency %Years
2002
Sterling 7.96% 10.8
US dollar 5.83% 2.4
Australian dollar 6.58% 2.0
2001
Sterling 8.05% 11.6
US dollar 6.41% 2.3
Australian dollar 6.58% 3.0
Floating rate financial liabilities comprise Sterling-denominated bank borrowings and lease finance that bear interest at rates based on LIBOR,
Sterling loan notes that bear interest at rates based upon LIBID and Australian and US dollar denominated borrowings that bear interest based
upon LIBOR. A bank loan also exists that carries interest, based upon US dollar Prime.
Fair value of Financial Assets and Liabilities
Where available, market prices have been used to derive fair value. Forward foreign exchange contracts have been valued, using the closing
forward rate of exchange on 29th September, 2002 and at 30 September, 2001 for the same forward value rate.
Book Value Fair Value
£m £m
2002
Primary financial instruments held or issued
to finance the Group’s operations
Short-term financial liabilities and current portion of long-term borrowings (64.3) (64.3)
Long-term borrowings and long-term element of deferred consideration (958.6) (1,035.6)
Financial Assets 141.6 141.6
Book Value Fair Value
£m £m
2001
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations
Short term financial liabilities and current portion of long-term borrowings (39.5) (39.5)
Long-term borrowings and long-term element of deferred consideration (999.9) (1,066.8)
Financial Assets 220.4 220.4
Derivative financial instruments, held to manage the interest rate and currency profile comprise interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency
contracts. The book value of these instruments at the year end was £nil (2001 £nil) and the fair value was a liability of £0.2 million (2001 liability
£4.3 million).
Hedges
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedging instruments and the movements therein are as follows :
Gains Losses Total
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges as at 30th September, 2001 – (3.6) (3.6)
Gains and losses arising in previous years that were recognised in 2002 – 2.9 2.9
Gains and losses arising before 30th September, 2001 that were not recognised in 2002 – (0.7) (0.7)
Gains and losses arising in 2002 that were not recognised in 2002 2.7 (2.2) 0.5
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges as at 29th September, 2002 2.7 (2.9) (0.2)
Of which:
Gains and losses expected to be recognised in the year ended 28th September, 2003 1.7 (1.5) 0.2
Gains and losses expected to be recognised in the year ended 3rd October, 2004 or later 1.0 (1.4) (0.4)
70 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
28 Treasury Information continued
6.7 million (2001 6.7 million) of the 12.9 million (2001 12.9 million) Reuters shares are potentially subject to call under the terms of the Company’s
£65.4 million 2.5% Exchangeable Bonds 2004, and these shares have been valued at their market price of £2.38, as set out in Note 25iii. All other
Reuters shares are valued at their market price at the year end.
Following the year end the Company exercised its option to redeem the 2.5% Exchangeable bonds at their amortised principal amount 
of £61.1 million.
Cash investments earn interest at floating interest rates in their local money markets.
Committed Borrowing Facilities
The following undrawn committed borrowing facilities were available to the Group on 29th September, 2002 
and at 30 September, 2001, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met:
2002 2001
£m £m
Expiring in one year or less – –
Expiring in more than two years 174.1 161.1
174.1 161.1
Financial Liability Maturity Profile
The maturity profile of the carrying value of the Group’s financial liabilities at the end of the year was as follows:
2002 2001
£m £m
In one year or less, or on demand 64.3 39.5
In more than one year but not more than two years 72.4 30.8
In more than two years but not more than five years 393.2 474.1
In more than five years 493.0 495.0
1,022.9 1,039.4
Financial Asset Maturity Profile
The maturity profile of the carrying value of the Group’s financial assets at the end of the year was as follows:
2002 2001
£m £m
In one year or less, or on demand 141.6 220.4
Currency Profile of Financial Liabilities
The currency profile of financial liabilities, stated after taking account of applicable derivative instruments as at 29th September, 2002 and
30 September, 2001, was as follows:
Floating rate Fixed rate
financial financial
Total liabilities liabilities
Currency £m £m £m
2002
Sterling (801.2) (167.6) (633.6)
US dollar (178.7) (143.3) (35.4)
Australian dollar (36.3) (32.8) (3.5)
Other (6.7) (6.7) –
(1,022.9) (350.4) (672.5)
2001
Sterling (843.2) (199.1) (644.1)
US dollar (186.8) (122.2) (64.6)
Australian dollar (9.4) (6.0) (3.4)
(1,039.4) (327.3) (712.1)
At the year end, the Group had a number of interest rate swaps outstanding. These amounted to US$55 million (2001 US$95 million) at
rates between 6.375% and 5.0025% (2001 6.375 % and 5.375%) and Aus$10 million (2001 Aus$10 million ) at a rate of 6.575% (2001 6.575%). 73 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
30 Creditors continued
Group Company
2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m
The nominal values of the bonds are as follows
2.5% Exchangeable Bonds 2004 65.3 65.3 65.3 65.3
9.75% Eurobonds 2005 87.7 100.0 87.7 100.0
7.5% Eurobonds 2013 300.0 300.0 300.0 300.0
10% Eurobonds 2021 165.0 165.0 165.0 165.0
618.0 630.3 618.0 630.3
(ii) The 2.5% Exchangeable Bond is a deep discount bond, the gross value of which increases on a daily basis for accretion to the principal
such that the bond would be valued at the end of its life in October 2004 at £75 million. During the year, such accretion amounted to £1.9 million
(2001 £1.7 million) which has been charged as interest and added to the book value of the bond in the balance sheet. Following the year end
the Company exercised its option to redeem these Exchangeable bonds at their amortised principal amount of £61.1 million.
(iii) During the year the Company redeemed £12.3 million of the 9.75% 2005 Eurobonds at a premium of £1.3 million to the carrying value,
a total payment of £13.6 million.
(iv) The Group’s bank loans, payable after more than one year, are denominated in US dollars, Australian dollars and sterling. The interest
rates on these borrowings ranged from 2.3% to 6.6% (2001 4% to 7.5%). The interest rates on finance leases were approximately 8% (2001 8%).
(v) The Group’s long-term borrowings are repayable as follows:
Other
long-term Finance
Eurobonds loans leases Total
£m £m £m £m
2002
Group
Between 1 – 2 years 61.1 0.1 7.7 68.9
Between 2 – 5 years 87.5 279.4 9.8 376.7
Over five years 485.0 0.2 6.7 491.9
633.6 279.7 24.2 937.5
2001
Group
Between 1 – 2 years – 10.1 7.1 17.2
Between 2 – 5 years 158.5 269.0 16.5 444.0
Over five years 485.6 0.2 7.7 493.5
644.1 279.3 31.3 954.7
Details of creditors not wholly repayable within 5 years are as follows:
2002 2001
Due after Due after
Total 5 years Total 5 years
£m £m £m £m
7.5% Eurobonds 2013 302.7 302.7 302.9 302.9
10% Eurobonds 2021 182.3 182.3 182.7 182.7
Bank loans 313.1 0.2 282.5 0.2
Obligations under finance leases 31.2 6.7 38.0 7.7
829.3 491.9 806.1 493.5
72 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
29 Short-Term Investments
2002 2001
£m £m
Group
Cost and valuation 10.3 13.9
These investments comprise bank deposits and other similar investments with original maturities exceeding one day.
30 Creditors
Group Company
2002 2001 2002 2001
Note £m £m £m £m
Due within one year
Bank overdrafts 0.5 2.1 – –
Short-term bank loans i 33.4 3.2 – –
Loan notes ii 23.4 27.5 4.5 5.3
Trade creditors 94.9 111.1 – –
Amounts owing to Group undertakings – – 222.9 1.9
Corporation tax 65.9 78.6 – –
Other taxation and social security 24.7 24.3 – –
Deferred consideration 15.2 15.1 – –
Other creditors 22.4 19.4 – –
Accruals and deferred income 263.9 260.9 26.2 24.6
Obligations under finance leases 7.0 6.7 – –
Dividend 24.9 23.3 24.9 23.3
576.2 572.2 278.5 55.1
(i) Short-term bank loans of £33.4 million (2001 £3.2 million) are drawn on bank facilities expiring within one year and have thus been classified
within creditors due within one year.
(ii) Loan notes attract interest at approximately LIBID to LIBID minus 1% and were issued as part of the consideration for various acquisitions.
The loan notes are repayable at the option of the loan note holder.
Group Company
2002 2001 2002 2001
Note £m £m £m £m
Due after more than one year
2.5% Exchangeable Bonds 2004 i, ii 61.1 58.8 61.1 58.8
9.75% Eurobonds 2005 i 87.5 99.7 87.5 99.7
7.5% Eurobonds 2013 i 302.7 302.9 302.7 302.9
10% Eurobonds 2021 i 182.3 182.7 182.3 182.7
Bank loans iv, v 279.7 279.3 – –
Long-term loans 913.3 923.4 633.6 644.1
Obligations under finance leases 24.2 31.3 – –
Deferred consideration 21.1 45.2 – –
Other creditors 5.7 4.6 – –
964.3 1,004.5 633.6 644.1
(i) In accordance with FRS 4, the Group’s Exchangeable Bonds (Note 25 (iii)) and its other Eurobonds have been adjusted from their nominal
values to offset the unamortised issue costs of £3.2 million (2001 £3.7 million). The issue costs are being amortised over the expected lives of
the bonds. 75 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
32 Deferred Taxation
Group Company
2002 2001 2002 2001
As re-analysed As re-analysed
Note £m £m £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 36.7 38.1 – –
Unamortised goodwill 3.6 2.7 – –
Unutilised tax losses from goodwill (3.6) (2.7) – –
Goodwill offset against reserves iv 16.3 13.0 – –
Other timing differences 1.9 1.2 – –
Undiscounted provision for deferred tax 54.9 52.3 – –
Discount iv (19.9) (13.0) – –
Discounted provision for deferred tax 35.0 39.3 – –
Movements on the provision for deferred taxation were as follows:
Group Company
£m £m
At beginning of year 39.3 –
Owned by subsidiaries acquired (0.2) –
Net release to profit and loss account (2.1) –
Reclassification (2.0) –
At end of year 35.0 –
Contingent (assets)/liabilities and gains in respect of deferred taxation, not included in the balance sheet, were as follows:
Group Company
2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 1.5 – – –
Other timing differences (35.2) (23.6) – –
(33.7) (23.6) – –
(i) No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of certain overseas tax losses as there is insufficient certainty that these losses will
be utilised within the immediate future.
(ii) No deferred tax has been provided on revalued assets due to the availability of realised capital losses for which no deferred tax asset
has been recognised.
(iii) There are additional unprovided capital losses carried forward which have not yet been agreed with the Inland Revenue.
(iv) The Group is able to obtain tax relief in some overseas territories for the cost of goodwill arising on its acquisitions of some businesses. 
In certain cases the goodwill was written off to reserves under the transitional rules set out in FRS 10. Utilisation of the available tax relief in the
overseas territories gives rise to a timing difference as set out above. The potential timing differences will only reverse on sale of the relevant
businesses. As the relevant businesses are considered core to the Group there is currently no intention to dispose of them. The potential reversal
is so far into the future that after discounting, the potential liability becomes insignificant. The effect of discounting the Group’s accelerated
capital allowances is a credit of £3.6 million (2001 as re-analysed £2.4 million). The effect of discounting the Group's other deferred tax assets
and liabilities is not material.
74 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
30 Creditors continued
(vi) Leases over five years are repaid by instalments.
(vii) The Company’s long-term borrowings are repayable as follows:
2002 2001
Eurobonds Eurobonds
£m £m
Company
Between 1 – 2 years 61.1 –
Between 2 – 5 years 87.5 158.5
Over five years 485.0 485.6
633.6 644.1
31 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges
Group Company
2002 2001 2002 2001
Note £m £m £m £m
Deferred taxation 32 35.0 39.3 – –
Other provisions 18.0 16.8 0.3 0.3
53.0 56.1 0.3 0.3
Movements on other provisions were as follows:
Share options Redundancy
(Note 24) and
Lease reorganisation Pensions Legal Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Group
At beginning of year 2.1 0.7 1.9 0.7 1.6 9.8 16.8
Owned by subsidiaries acquired ––––– 0.1 0.1
Charged during year – 0.1 3.4 – 2.8 9.3 15.6
Utilised during year – – (2.4) (0.3) (1.0) (10.8) (14.5)
At end of year 2.1 0.8 2.9 0.4 3.4 8.4 18.0
Other
Company
At beginning of year 0.3
Charged during year –
Utilised during year –
At end of year 0.3 77 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
33 Called Up Share Capital continued
(vi) Options granted in June, July and December 1997 at respective prices of £4.070625, £4.30 and £4.7375 per share are now exercisable
as both performance criteria have been met. On 31st October, 2001, the TSR condition was also met in respect of the options granted in
December 1998 at £6.475 per share, but since real growth in adjusted earnings per share was not achieved in the prior year, nor in the year
ended 29th September, 2002, compared to that of three years previously, there will be a further minimum delay of approximately one year
before those options become exercisable. As a consequence, 195,368 of such options lapsed in the year.
Neither of the performance conditions has been met yet in respect of the options granted in December 1999 at £10.295 per share and in June
2000 at £10.96 per share. Accordingly, there will also be a minimum delay of approximately one year before those options become exercisable.
As a consequence, 96,000 options, granted at £10.295 per share, will lapse in the year to 28th September, 2003.
Movements on the two executive share option schemes were as follows:
1989 Scheme 1997 Scheme Total
2002 2002 2002
No No No
At beginning of year 374,200 3,097,500 3,471,700
Granted – 709,000 709,000
Exercised (102,200) (204,632) (306,832)
Lapsed – (226,368) (226,368)
At end of year 272,000 3,375,500 3,647,500
34 Reserves
Group Company
Note £m £m
Share premium
At beginning of year 6.3 6.3
Issue of shares 0.3 0.3
At end of year 6.6 6.6
Revaluation reserve
At beginning of year 111.8 29.6
Revaluation of investments (46.6) –
Transfer to profit and loss account i (2.0) (29.6)
At end of year 63.2 –
Profit and loss account
At beginning of year 131.4 949.7
Retained profit/(loss) for the year 46.2 (25.9)
Transfer from revaluation reserve i 2.0 29.6
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments (10.0) 1.2
Taxation on translation differences 5.7 –
Minority interests (1.9) –
Adjustment to deferred consideration in respect of goodwill (0.5) –
At end of year 172.9 954.6
Total Reserves – 2002 242.7 961.2
Total Reserves – 2001 249.5 985.6
(i) The transfer from the revaluation reserve recognises the progressive realisation of a previously unrealised gain on disposal of businesses
to GWR Group plc as the goodwill on the interest in GWR is amortised.
(ii) At 29th September, 2002, cumulative goodwill of continuing businesses of £688.9 million (2001 £688.4 million) had been written off against
the profit and loss account.
76 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
33 Called Up Share Capital
Authorised Allotted and fully paid
2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m
Ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5
‘A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares of 12.5 pence each 48.5 48.5 47.6 47.6
51.0 51.0 50.1 50.1
Number of shares Number of shares
Note 2002 2001 2002 2001
Ordinary shares 20,000,000 20,000,000 19,886,472 19,886,472
A’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares i, ii, iii 388,000,000 388,000,000 381,129,648 381,027,448
408,000,000 408,000,000 401,016,120 400,913,920
(i) The two classes of shares are equal in all respects, except that the ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares do not have voting rights and hence their
holders are not entitled to attend or to vote at general meetings of the Company.
(ii) During the year, 102,200 ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares were allotted for aggregate consideration of £278,625 under the terms of
the Company’s 1989 Executive Share Option scheme.
(iii) At 29th September, 2002, options were outstanding under the terms of the Company’s 1989 and 1997 Executive Share Option Schemes
over a total of 3,647,500 (2001 3,471,700) ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares as follows:
Number of shares under option Option Normal
2002 2001 price per share Date of Exercise
1989 Executive Share 
Option Scheme 148,000 148,000 £1.9625 Before 25th January, 2003
24,000 24,000 £3.1125 Before 21st January, 2004
100,000 142,000 £2.445 Before 16th December, 2004
– 60,200 £2.9225 Before 2nd January, 2006
272,000 374,200
1997 Executive Share 
Option Scheme 302,000 488,000 £4.070625 Before 12th June, 2007
24,000 24,000 £4.30 Before 21st July, 2007
24,000 24,000 £4.7375 Before 12th December, 2007
– 4,632 £6.475 Before 28th February, 2002
– 149,368 £6.475 Before 15th June, 2002
758,000 818,000 £6.475 Before 15th December, 2008
96,000 38,000 £10.295 Between 23rd December, 2002 and 23rd June, 2003
647,000 713,000 £10.295 Between 23rd December, 2002 and 23rd December, 2009
44,000 44,000 £10.96 Between 16th June, 2003 and 16th June, 2010
15,000 – £8.34 Between 18th December, 2003 and 18th June, 2004
691,000 729,000 £8.34 Between 18th December, 2003 and 18th December, 2010
65,500 65,500 £7.25 Between 11th July, 2004 and 11th July, 2011
609,000 – £6.45 Between 14th December, 2004 and 14th December, 2011
10,000 – £6.48 Between 2nd January, 2005 and 2nd January, 2012
90,000 – £6.45 Between 21st January, 2005 and 21st January, 2012
3,375,500 3,097,500
3,647,500 3,471,700
(iv) These options were granted at market value at the date of grant and none required any payment. They are not normally exercisable before
the third anniversary of the date of grant and in all circumstances will lapse if not exercised within ten years.
(v) In the case of the 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme, they are normally exercisable only when the relevant performance conditions
have been met. The first condition is that, in respect of four out of six consecutive monthly calculation dates (which start in the thirtieth month
following the date of grant of a particular option), the total shareholder return (‘TSR’) of the Company must exceed that of the FTSE 100 index.
Secondly, there must be real growth in earnings per share over a period of three consecutive financial years. 79 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
36 Summary of the Effects of Disposals continued
The aggregate consideration for these and other businesses, was £4.9 million, £1.9 million of which was received in the form of cash.
The impact of disposals on net assets was:
Note £m
Net assets disposed of:
Intangible assets 2.6
Creditors and provisions (4.5)
(1.9)
Profit on disposal of businesses 6 6.8
4.9
Satisfied by:
Cash 1.9
Loan notes 3.0
4.9
37 Commitments
2002 2001
£m £m
Group
Tangible fixed assets:
Contracted but not provided in the financial statements 45.7 64.5
At 29th September, 2002 the Group had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
2002 2001
Plant and Plant and
Properties equipment Properties equipment
£m £m £m £m
Operating leases which expire:
Within one year 3.5 1.7 3.6 1.6
Between 2 – 5 years 4.9 3.0 8.6 3.4
Over 5 years 17.4 0.7 14.8 –
25.8 5.4 27.0 5.0
The Group has entered into arrangements with its ink suppliers to obtain ink for the next three years to 2005 at competitive prices and to secure
supply. At the year end, the commitment to purchase ink over the period was £31.2 million (2001 £43.9 million). 
Most property leases are subject to rent reviews. 
dmg world media USA acquired a 25% stake in George Little Management LLC in November 2000. The purchase agreement included
‘put and call’ arrangements to acquire the membership interests of the other members of GLM. The details are as follows :
(i) With effect from 1st October, 2005, the other members have the right to put their membership interests to the Group at a fair market value.
The initial put to the Group cannot be less than 50% of the total outstanding membership interest.
(ii) On 1st October, 2010, the Group will increase its membership interests in GLM to 51% subject to (i) above, by calling the appropriate
number of membership interests held by the other members, at fair market value.
(iii) At 1st October, 2014, the Group is required to acquire any remaining membership interests which it does not own in GLM, at
fair market value.
(iv) In certain circumstances, the Group is required to purchase the membership interests of individual members of GLM.
These circumstances include disability, death, retirement and termination of employment.
78 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
35 Summary of the Effects of Acquisitions
The principal acquisitions completed during the year and the dates of acquisition were:
Buy & Sell October 2001
Loot October 2001
Vista March 2002
Blanch March 2002
4BH Radio May 2002
Hill Brothers Group August 2002
The aggregate consideration for these and other businesses was £79.0 million, of which £72.8 million was paid during the year, £1.2 million issued
in the form of loan notes and an estimated amount of £5.0 million payable in the form of deferred consideration, dependent upon trading results.
This deferred consideration has been discounted back to current values in accordance with FRS 7. In each case, the Group has used acquisition
accounting to account for the purchase. The impact of acquisitions on net assets was:
Book value and
Fair value
Note £m
Net assets acquired:
Tangible fixed assets 3.5
Stocks 0.2
Debtors 3.7
Creditors and provisions (7.0)
0.4
Satisfied by:
Cash 71.8
Acquisition expenses 1.0
Deferred consideration 5.0
Loan notes 1.2
79.0
Less: goodwill acquired 20 (78.6)
0.4
In September GWR sold its 25% holding in DMG Radio Investments Pty Limited to the Group. Under the terms of the transaction GWR issued
5.8 million new ordinary shares of 5p to the Group. The consideration for the sale and the issue of the new ordinary shares was satisfied by the
cancellation of £39.8 million convertible subordinated unsecured loan notes of GWR held by the Group and a further £7.2 million of interest bearing
debt owed to the Group by GWR.
36 Summary of the Effects of Disposals
The principal disposals completed during the year and their dates of disposal were:
Welding and Cocoa divisions of DMG Business Media October 2001
DMG do Brazil March 2002
Unline March 2002
DMG Salones Especializados March 2002 81 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
An analysis of the amount which would be chargeable to operating
profit is shown below:
2002
£m
Current service cost 35.3
Past service cost –
Total operating charge 35.3
An analysis of the amount which would be credited to other finance
income is shown below:
2002
£m
Expected return on pension scheme assets 76.8
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (65.3)
Net return 11.5
An analysis of the amount which would be recognised in the
statement of total recognised gains and losses (STRGL) is shown
in the following table, together with the components shown as a
percentage of scheme assets or liabilities:
2002
£m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (193.9)
Percentage of scheme assets (19.7%)
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme liabilities 32.3
Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities 2.7%
Changes in assumptions underlying
the present value of the scheme liabilities (82.7)
Actuarial gain recognisable in STRGL (244.3)
Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities (20.3)
The movement in surplus during the year is shown in the
following table:
2002
£m
Surplus in scheme at beginning of year 29.5
Movement in year:
Current service cost (35.3)
Contributions 22.4
Other finance income 11.5
Actuarial gain (244.3)
Deficit in schemes at end of the year (216.2)
UK Defined Contribution Plans
A number of defined contribution pension plans are operated by
certain divisions of the Group where a business case exists for this
type of pension provision. The pension cost attributable to these plans
during the year amounted to £3.0 million (2001 £1.2 million).
An amount of £0.5 million (2001 £3.1 million) is included in provisions
representing outstanding contributions due at the balance sheet date.
Overseas Pension Plans
Overseas subsidiaries of certain Group divisions operate defined
contribution retirement benefit plans, primarily in North America and
Australia. The pension cost attributable to these plans during the year
amounts to £2.0 million (2001 £1.4 million).
Pension Arrangements for Executives
The Group operates a two-tier, non-contributory defined benefit
pension scheme for senior executives (including Executive Directors),
details of which are incorporated in the above disclosures. It is
the Company’s policy that annual bonuses, payments under the
Executive Bonus Scheme and benefits in kind are not pensionable.
Included in UK Defined Contribution Plans above are investments in
a funded unapproved retirement benefit scheme for certain executives
of the Group including one Executive Director who are subject to the
pensionable earnings cap imposed by the Inland Revenue. The assets
of this scheme are held under individual trusts independently from
the Group’s finances; investment during the year totalled £0.5 million
(2001 £0.4 million).
Stakeholder Pensions
DMGT provides access to a stakeholder pension plan for relevant
employees who are not eligible for the other pension schemes operated
by the Group.
40 Ultimate Holding Company
The Company’s ultimate holding company is Rothermere Continuation
Limited, a company incorporated in Bermuda.
41 Related Party Transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 8
‘Related Party Disclosures’, not to disclose related party transactions
between subsidiaries. The disclosures that are required under FRS 8
are set out below.
Ultimate Controlling Party
The Company’s ultimate controlling party is the Viscount Rothermere,
the Company’s Chairman. Transactions relating to the remuneration
and shareholdings of the Viscount Rothermere are given in the
Remuneration Report.
Transactions with Directors
On 21st June, 2002, Northcliffe Newspapers acquired Autorespond
Limited, a small company providing an electronic trade to trade
marketing service to the motor trade. One of the vendors was
Mr D M M Dutton who owned 15% of the company. The initial
consideration for the acquisition was £161,870, of which Mr Dutton
received £150,000, being full reimbursement of his investment and
of an interest bearing loan. The other vendor, a third party, received
the balance of the consideration and is the beneficiary of an earn-out
arrangement, based on the revenues from Autorespond. No further
consideration is due to Mr Dutton.
There were no other material transactions with Directors of the
Company, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings,
disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
Transactions with Joint Ventures and Associates
Associated Newspapers has a 50% joint venture interest in Zoom.
During the year, it funded its share of the operations of Zoom by way
of loans. The amount due from Zoom at 29th September, 2002 was
£4.9 million (2001 £4.9 million) which is included in investments in 
joint ventures (Note 23).
Associated Newspapers has a 17% investment in Shopcreator plc
which is an associate. During the year, the Group received
advertising revenue from Shopcreator of £0.2 million (2001 £0.2 million).
The amount due from Shopcreator at 29th September 2002 was
£nil (2001 £nil).
80 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
38 Contingent Liabilities
Four writs claiming damages for libel have been issued in Malaysia
against Euromoney Institutional Investor and three of its employees
in respect of an article published in one of Euromoney’s magazines,
International Commercial Litigation, in November 1995. The writs
were served on Euromoney in October, 1996. The total amount claimed
is 280 million Malaysian ringgits, £50.0 million (2001 £50.1 million).
No provision has been made in these financial statements since the
Directors do not believe that Euromoney has any material liability in
respect of these writs.
In August 2002, Euromoney successfully settled the £4 million claim
related to the article published in International Commercial Litigation
brought in England against it and three of its employees seeking 100%
contribution towards damages and legal costs incurred in Malaysia by
sources quoted in the article. The total cost to the Group including
legal fees, was £85,000.
At 29th September, 2002 the Group had outstanding commitments
under forward foreign exchange contracts amounting to £180.2 million
(2001 £81.4 million).
At 29th September, 2002, the Company had guaranteed borrowing
facilities and finance leases of subsidiaries under which £353.0 million
(2001 £312.0 million) were outstanding. The Company had also
guaranteed a subsidiary’s interest rate derivatives with a principal
value of £29.3 million (2001 £43.9 million) and letters of credit of 
£8.8 million (2001 £1.6 million).
39 Pension Arrangements
The Group operates several pension schemes covering most major UK
group companies under which contributions are paid by the employer
and employees.
The schemes for most employees are funded defined benefit pension
arrangements, providing service-related benefits, based on final
pensionable salary. The assets of the schemes are held independently
from the Group’s finances and are administered by trustee companies.
Pension costs are assessed on the advice of an independent qualified
actuary following triennial valuations using the projected unit method.
A valuation of the principal schemes was carried out as at 31st March,
2001. The assumptions having the most significant effect on the results
of the valuations are shown in the following table:
Price Inflation 2.5% p.a.
Salary Increases 4.3% p.a.
Pension Increases 2.5% p.a.
Investment Return 6.75% p.a.
Dividend Growth 3.5% p.a.
The contribution rate paid by employees in the principal schemes
is 5% of pensionable salaries and the company cash contribution
is 12% of pensionable salaries. These schemes are open to eligible 
new employees.
The pension charge for the year ended 29th September, 2002 was
£21.5 million (2001 £20.3 million). A prepayment of £0.4 million
(2001 £11.1 million) is included under debtors, representing the excess
of accumulated contributions paid over the equivalent pension charge.
Aprovision of £0.4 million (2001 £0.4 million) is included in provisions,
representing the excess of the accumulated pension charge over
pension contributions paid.
The surpluses identified from the valuation of the principal schemes
are amortised over a period of 11 years using the straight line method.
The pension cost to the Group of its principal schemes over the
estimated average service life of employees is currently between
8.1% and 10.4% of pensionable salaries. 
An interim valuation of the principal schemes as at 31st March, 2002
on the normal funding basis indicated only a marginal reduction in
solvency compared with a year earlier. Following this review, the
actuary confirmed that there was no particular need to adjust the
Company cash contribution rate of 12%. However, this position will
be closely monitored going forward.
The effect of UITF 6, ‘ Accounting for post-retirement benefits other
than pensions’, is not material.
FRS 17
In accordance with the requirements of FRS 17, Retirement Benefits,
this note discloses the main financial assumptions made in valuing the
liabilities of the schemes and the fair value of assets held. Additionally,
this note discloses the amounts that would be charged or recognised
in the financial statements under the requirements of FRS 17, together
with an analysis of the movement in scheme surpluses or deficits
which would result. However, as permitted by FRS 17, the costs,
accruals and prepayments recorded in the financial statements
continue to be reported under the requirements of SSAP 24
‘ Accounting for Pension Costs’.
Defined Benefit Schemes
The figures in this note are based on the calculations carried out in
connection with the formal actuarial valuation of the main schemes as
at 31st March, 2001 and an interim valuation as at 31st March, 2002,
updated to 29th September, 2002 by the actuary.
The main financial assumptions used for FRS 17 purposes are shown
in the following table:
Price inflation 2.3% 
Salary increases 4.1%
Pension increases 2.3%
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.5%
The fair value of the assets held by the pension schemes, the long-term
expected rate of return on each class of assets and the value of the
schemes’ liabilities assessed on the assumptions described above are
shown in the following table:
Long-term Value at Long-term Value at
rate of 29th rate of 30th
return September, return September,
expected at 2002 expected at 2001
29th £m 30th £m
September, September,
2002 2001
Equities 8.0% 675.9 7.5% 783.6
Bonds 4.5% 133.1 5.0% 155.2
Property 7.0% 93.2 7.0% 89.2
Other Assets 4.5% 83.0 5.0% 102.8
Total market value of assets 985.2 1,130.8
Present value of 
schemes’ liabilities (1,201.4) (1,101.3)
(Deficit)/surplus in 
the schemes (216.2) 29.5
Related deferred tax 
asset/(liability) 64.9 (8.9)
Net pension (liability)/asset (151.3) 20.6 83 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Principal Subsidiaries
Associated Newspapers Limited Publication of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday and the Evening Standard
Associated London Metro Limited Publication of Metro in London
Associated Metro Limited Provision of services to Metro franchisees
Harmsworth Quays Limited Procurement of materials and services for the national newspapers
Harmsworth Quays Printing Limited Printing of newspapers
Associated Newspapers (Ireland) Limited Publication of Ireland on Sunday
(Incorporated and operating in Ireland; managed in the UK)
Loot Limited Publication of Loot
Northcliffe Newspapers Group Limited Holding company of provincial newspaper group; companies below are 
all publishers of provincial newspapers except where stated.
Aberdeen Journals Limited
Admag Newspapers Limited
Alderton Limited 
Bath Newspapers Limited
Bristol United Press plc
Bristol Evening Post and Press Limited
Central Independent Newspapers Limited 
The Cheltenham Newspaper Company Limited
Cornwall & Devon Media Limited 
The Courier Printing & Publishing Company Limited
Derby Daily Telegraph Limited
Essex Chronicle Series Limited
Express & Echo Publications Limited
Forest of Dean Newspapers Limited
Gloucestershire Newspapers Limited
Grimsby & Scunthorpe Newspapers Limited
Herald Express Publications Limited
Hill Brothers Group Limited 
Hull Daily Mail Publications Limited
The Journal Company Limited
Leicester Mercury Group Limited 
Lincolnshire Publishing Company Limited
Northcliffe New Media Holdings Limited Holding company for new media interests 
Northcliffe Retail Limited Operation of newsagents and convenience stores
Nottingham Post Group Limited
The Printworks (Gloucester) Limited Web-offset printing company 
South West Wales Publications Limited 
Staffordshire Sentinel Newspapers Limited
Westcountry Publications Limited
Western Newspapers Printers Limited Printing company
The Western Morning News Company Limited
W.H.Y. Publications Limited Distributor of weekly advertising publications
Lapcom Kft Publication of newspapers in Gyor and Szeged, Hungary
(Managed, incorporated and operating in Hungary) 
82 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Notes to the Balance Sheets
continued
41 Related Party Transactions continued
Associated Newspapers has a 17% investment in Indigo Holidays
Limited which is an associate. During the year, the Group
received advertising revenue from Indigo Holidays of £1.8 million
(2001 £0.1 million). The amount due from Indigo Holidays at
29th September, 2002 was £0.2 million (2001 £nil). 
During the year, Northcliffe Newspapers Group Limited provided 
equity funding of £2.0 million (2001 £3.9 million) to Fish4 Limited, a
22.9% associate. Equity funding of £nil million (2001 £0.2 million) was also
provided to This is Britain Limited, a 25% associate. Full provision has
been made against this funding in these financial statements and these
associates have not been disclosed in Note 23 since they are not material.
Details of the Group’s principal joint ventures and associates are
set out in Note 23. 
All transactions with joint ventures and associates arose in the normal
course of business. Material transactions are set out as follows:
The Group has contracts with Greenland Interactive Limited, a joint
venture, whereby Greenland administers premium-rate telephone
lines and a customer care line. During the year, the Group received
£1.4 million (2001 £1.7 million) from Greenland in respect of premium
rate telephone revenue and paid £0.1 million (2001 £0.1 million)
to Greenland for administration fees. At 29th September, 2002,
£0.1 million was outstanding (2001 £0.1 million). 
Other Related Party disclosures 
At 29th September, 2002, there was an interest-free loan of £181,000
(2001 £301,000) made to Mr M MacLennan, Managing Director of
Associated Newspapers, to assist with relocation after joining the
Group. The maximum amount outstanding during the year
was £301,000. At 29th September, 2002, there was a further loan of
£105,344, made to Mr MacLennan on 17th July, 2002 to enable him to
purchase shares in the Company in order to commit them to the LTIP .
The loan bears interest at 6% per annum. The maximum amount
outstanding during the year was £105,846.
At 29th September, 2002 there was a loan of £205,072 (2001 £213,268)
made to Mr K J Beatty, managing director of Northcliffe Newspapers,
to assist with relocation after joining the Group. The loan bears interest
at 2
1
⁄ 2% per annum. The maximum amount outstanding during the year
was £213,268. At 29th September, 2002, there was a further loan
of £56,574, made to Mr Beatty on 17th July, 2002 to enable him to
purchase ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares in the Company in order
to commit them to the LTIP . The loan bears interest at 6% per annum.
The maximum amount outstanding during the year was £56,574.
At 29th September, 2002 the Group owed £4.4 million (2001
£3.1 million) to the pension schemes which it operates. This amount
comprised employees’ and employer’s contributions in respect of
September 2002 payrolls, which were paid to the pension schemes
in October 2002.
The Group recharges its principal pension schemes with costs of
investment management fees. The total amount recharged during
the year was £0.5 million (2001 £0.5 million).
42 Post Balance Sheet Events
Details of material post balance sheet events are given in the Directors’
Report on page 33. 85 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Principal Subsidiaries
continued
DMG World Media Limited continued
dmg world media (Dubai) Limited (formerly DMG Index Exhibitions Limited) Organisers of trade exhibitions 
(Incorporated in Jersey; managed and operating in Dubai)
dmg world media (Australia) Pty Limited Organisers of consumer and trade exhibitions 
(Incorporated and operating in Australia)
dmg world media (Vic) Pty Limited Organisers of trade exhibitions 
(Incorporated and operating in Australia)
dmg world media (New Zealand) Limited Organisers of consumer and trade exhibitions 
(Incorporated and operating in New Zealand)
DMG Information Limited Holding company
DMG Information, Inc. Holding company
(Incorporated in the USA)
Study Group US, Inc. Academic and language provider
(Incorporated and operating in the USA) 
Dolphin Software Inc. (71%) Provider of electronically delivered information 
(Incorporated and operating in the USA) on hazardous chemicals
Environmental Data Resources, Inc. Provider of geographic based real estate 
(Incorporated and operating in the USA) information services
EDR Landmark Information Limited Provider of property and mapping information
Hobsons plc Careers and education information publishing and services
Risk Management Solutions Inc. Provider of risk management information on 
(Incorporated and operating in the USA) natural and other related perils 
RMSI Pty Limited Information technology service provider, specialising in 
(Incorporated and operating in India) G.I.S. and special solutions, and software development
Sanborn, Inc. Provider of GIS and photogrammetric mapping services
(Incorporated and operating in the USA) for government and engineering markets
Study Group Australia Pty Limited Academic and language provider 
(Incorporated and operating in Australia)
Study Group International Limited Academic and language training provider
Central activities
Daily Mail and General Investments plc * Financing company
Daily Mail and General Holdings Limited * Holding company 
DMG Investment Holdings Limited Holding company
DMG Media Investments Limited Holding company
(Incorporated, managed and controlled in Jersey)
(i) Unless stated otherwise the whole of the ordinary share capital of subsidiary undertakings is held directly by Daily Mail and General
Trust plc (where marked*) or indirectly by one of the Company’s subsidiaries.
(ii) All subsidiaries, except where indicated, operate principally within the United Kingdom.
(iii) All principal subsidiaries have been included in the Group financial statements.
84 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Principal Subsidiaries
continued
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC (71%) Publication of Euromoney, other financial magazines and related activities
Adhesion et Associes SA (71%) Organiser of business conventions in the European Union
(Incorporated in France)
Business Traveller Holdings Limited (67%) Publishing in the business travel industry
Coaltrans Conferences Limited (67%) Conferences in the coal and energy industry
Engel Publishing Partners (64%) Publishing in the pharmaceutical industry
(Registered in the USA)
Euromoney Publications (Jersey) Limited (71%) Financial and legal publishing and training in Asia
(Incorporated in Jersey; operating in Hong Kong)
Euromoney Training, Inc. (71%) Financial training in the Americas
(Incorporated in the USA)
Gulf Publishing Company (71%) Publishing in the energy industry
(Incorporated in the USA)
Institutional Investor, Inc. (71%) Publication of Institutional Investor, newsletters and journals; 
(Incorporated in the USA) conferences and membership organisers
Internet Securities, Inc. (60%) An internet based provider of emerging markets financial, 
(Incorporated in the USA) economic and company information
Latin American Financial Publications, Inc. (71%) Financial publishing in the Americas
(Incorporated in the USA)
MIS Training, Inc. (71%) Training and conferences in the management information,
(Incorporated in the USA) audit and security industries
Mondiale Corporation Limited (70%) Publishing and conferences in the office products industry
The Petroleum Economist Limited (71%) Publishing and training in the energy industry
DMG Broadcasting Limited Holding company
Teletext Limited (90%) Provision of teletext services
DMG Television Limited Holding company
Arts and Entertainment Programming Limited Production of Performance: The Arts Channel
British Pathé Limited Newsreel archive
New Era Television Limited Production of television commercials
DMG Radio Investments Pty Limited Radio investment holding company
(Incorporated in Australia)
DMG Radio (Australia) Pty Limited Radio operating holding company
(Incorporated in Australia)
DMG Regional Radio Pty Limited Radio operating holding company for regional radio network
(Incorporated in Australia)
Festival City Broadcasters Pty Limited Commercial radio broadcaster of 5AA, Adelaide
(Incorporated in Australia)
Nova 96.9 Pty Ltd Commercial radio broadcaster of Nova 969, Sydney
(Incorporated in Australia)
Nova 100 Pty Limited (formerly Nova 91.5 Pty Limited) Commercial radio broadcaster of Nova 100, Melbourne
(Incorporated in Australia)
DMG World Media Limited Exhibition holding company
DMG World Media (UK) Limited Trade publishing and exhibition management 
DMG Angex Limited Organisers of public exhibitions and magazine publishers
DMG Antique Fairs Limited Organisers of antiques and collectors fairs
Metropress Limited Publisher of Antiques Trade Gazette
dmg world media (Canada) Inc. Organisers of consumer and trade exhibitions
(Incorporated and operating in Canada)
dmg world media (USA) Inc. (97%) Organisers of consumer exhibitions
(Incorporated and operating in USA) 87 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Five Year Financial Summary
continued
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
£m £m £m £m £m
Group Cash Flow Information
Net cash inflow from operating activities 288.3 283.4 283.6 312.1 264.6
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 12.2 5.7 3.9 6.0 6.9
Returns on investments and servicing of finance (47.3) (41.0) (56.4) (62.7) (64.7)
Taxation (40.2) (71.5) (51.3) (43.7) (24.9)
Capital expenditure and financial investment 46.6 (56.7) (52.0) (98.1) (84.4)
Acquisitions and disposals (141.0) (261.7) (242.9) (184.8) (101.0)
Equity dividends paid (24.0) (27.0) (30.0) (32.8) (35.0)
Management of liquid resources (20.8) 26.6 20.2 (12.7) 3.6
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing (69.9) 175.3 149.5 130.1 3.1
Increase in cash 3.9 33.1 24.6 13.4 (31.8)
Cash (inflow)/outflow from change in debt and lease finance 71.2 (174.3) (157.9) (118.3) (8.9)
Cash (inflow)/outflow from change in liquid resources 20.8 (26.6) (20.2) 12.7 (3.6)
Change in net debt from cash flows 95.9 (167.8) (153.5) (92.2) (44.3)
Loan notes issued and loans, lease finance and
liquid resources arising from acquisitions (9.0) (23.7) (9.0) (0.5) (1.2)
Other non-cash items 16.5 (1.1) (14.3) 2.4 (0.9)
(Increase)/decrease in net debt in the year 103.4 (192.6) (176.8) (90.3) (46.4)
Net debt at beginning of year (519.1) (415.7) (608.3) (785.1) (875.4)
Net debt at end of year (415.7) (608.3) (785.1) (875.4) (921.8)
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
Note £m £m £m £m £m
Group Balance Sheet information
Intangible assets (i) 161.5 385.2 584.0 633.7 652.6
Tangible assets 366.8 398.0 451.2 470.8 476.4
Investments 143.5 178.0 338.8 343.7 253.2
Fixed assets 671.8 961.2 1,374.0 1,448.2 1,382.2
Net current liabilities (93.1) (119.3) (109.0) (67.9) (87.1)
Long-term liabilities (585.3) (677.5) (892.3) (1,060.6) (1,017.3)
Net assets/(liabilities) (6.6) 164.4 372.7 319.7 277.8
Capital and Reserves
Called up share capital 50.0 50.1 50.1 50.1 50.1
Share premium account 4.8 5.7 5.8 6.3 6.6
Revaluation reserve 194.2 123.1 177.0 111.8 63.2
Profit and loss account (240.8) 0.8 121.7 131.4 172.9
Equity Shareholders’ Funds 8.2 179.7 354.6 299.6 292.8
Minority interests (14.8) (15.3) 18.1 20.1 (15.0)
(6.6) 164.4 372.7 319.7 277.8
(i) The Balance sheet for 1998 has been restated as a result of the adoption of FRS 10 and for the three years to 2000 has been further restated
for the adoption of FRS 19 in 2001.
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
Shareholder value
Dividend per share (ii) 6.5p 7.25p 8.0p 8.6p 9.2p
Price of ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares:
Lowest £4.20 £4.88 £7.59 £4.92 £4.61
Highest £7.93 £9.52 £13.23 £10.50 £8.05
(ii) Dividends per share and the share prices for the two years to 1999 have been adjusted for the effects of the four-for-one share split in February 2000.
86 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Five Year Financial Summary
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
Note £m £m £m £m £m
Group Profit and Loss Account
Turnover 1,417.8 1,620.0 1,859.8 1,962.7 1,944.5
Operating profit before amortisation
and impairment of intangible assets 213.6 232.0 247.7 228.7 232.8
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (13.0) (21.1) (38.0) (64.0) (55.5)
Operating profit 200.6 210.9 209.7 164.7 177.3
Share of operating profits and 
losses of joint ventures and associates 11.6 12.9 (0.8) (13.8) (16.6)
Total operating profit – Group and
share of joint ventures and associates 212.2 223.8 208.9 150.9 160.7
Profit on sale of fixed assets 14.3 6.4 19.4 1.2 3.5
Profit/(loss) on disposal and closure of businesses 3.7 14.3 13.2 (5.9) 8.6
Income from other fixed asset investments 3.6 3.0 4.3 6.7 5.2
Amounts written off investments – – – (1.5) (1.2)
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 233.8 247.5 245.8 151.4 176.8
and finance charges
Net interest payable (43.4) (40.3) (61.5) (65.6) (67.6)
Other finance charges (net) (6.0) (5.3) (8.3) (2.9) (1.8)
Net interest payable and similar charges (49.4) (45.6) (69.8) (68.5) (69.4)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 184.4 201.9 176.0 82.9 107.4
Taxation on profit on ordinary activities (51.1) (43.4) (60.8) (37.2) (17.8)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 133.3 158.5 115.2 45.7 89.6
Equity interests of minority shareholders (10.1) (6.8) (7.6) (2.8) (6.8)
Profit for the financial year 123.2 151.7 107.6 42.9 82.8
Dividends (26.0) (29.0) (31.9) (34.2) (36.6)
Retained profit 97.2 122.7 75.7 8.7 46.2
Profit before amortisation and impairment
of intangible assets and exceptional items,
after taxation and minority interests 188.6 205.0 191.5 177.5 182.5
Basic earnings per share (ii) 30.8p 38.0p 26.9p 10.8p 20.8p
Diluted earnings per share (ii) 30.7p 37.9p 26.9p 10.7p 20.8p
Adjusted earnings per share (ii) 30.3p 33.9p 30.2p 29.4p 31.0p
(before amortisation and impairment 
of intangible assets and exceptional items)
Dividends per share (iii) 6.50p 7.25p 8.0p 8.6p 9.2p
(i) The Profit and Loss account figures for 1998 have been restated for subsequent changes in accounting standards, arising from the adoption
of FRS 10 in 1999 and for the three years to 2000 have been further restated as a result of the adoption of FRS 19 in 2001.
(ii) Earnings per share for the two years to 1999 have been adjusted for the effects of the four-for-one share split in February 2000 and have been
restated as a result of the adoption of FRS 19 in 2001.
(iii) Dividends per share for the two years to 1999 have been adjusted for the effects of the four-for-one share split in February 2000. 89 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Shareholder Information
continued
Shareholdings at 29th September, 2002
Ordinary Shares
Number of Shares
Range of holdings shareholders % %
1 – 1,000 748 70.9 305,407 1.5
1,001 – 5,000 249 23.6 530,303 2.7
5,001 – 10,000 23 2.2 156,895 0.8
10,001 – 20,000 14 1.3 214,439 1.1
20,001 – 50,000 6 0.6 197,331 1.0
50,001 – 100,000 4 0.4 334,498 1.7
100,001 – 500,000 8 0.7 1,317,756 6.6
500,001 & over 3 0.3 16,829,843 84.6
1,055 100.0 19,886,472 100.0
‘A’ Ordinary Non-Voting Shares
Number of Shares
Range of holdings shareholders % %
1 – 1,000 1,314 32.6 622,245 0.2
1,001 – 5,000 1,092 27.1 2,822,277 0.8
5,001 – 10,000 503 12.5 3,696,909 1.0
10,001 – 20,000 381 9.5 5,499,119 1.4
20,001 – 50,000 288 7.1 8,925,021 2.3
50,001 – 100,000 128 3.2 9,219,205 2.4
100,001 – 500,000 213 5.3 48,280,381 12.7
500,001 – 1,000,000 45 1.1 33,967,296 8.9
1,000,001 – 5,000,000 51 1.3 115,627,170 30.3
5,000,001 & over 12 0.3 152,470,025 40.0
4,027 100.0 381,129,648 100.0
Advisers
Stockbrokers
Cazenove & Co. Limited
12 T okenhouse Yard
London EC2R 7AN
Telephone: 020 7588 2828
Auditors
Deloitte & Touche
180 Strand
London WC2R 1BL
Telephone: 020 7936 3000
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Telephone: 0870 600 3964
Facsimile: 0870 600 3980
88 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Shareholder Information
Company Secretary and Registered Office
N D Jennings, FCA
Northcliffe House
2 Derry Street
London W8 5TT
England
Telephone: 020 7938 6629
Facsimile: 020 7938 4626
Registered Number: 184594
Website
The Group has an internet website which gives information on
the Company and its operating subsidiaries and provides details
of significant Group announcements. It also has a site giving details
of job opportunities within the Group.
The addresses are: http://www.dmgt.co.uk
http://www.dmgtopportunities.com
Financial Calendar 2003
8th January Annual Report published
12th February Annual General Meeting
14th February Payment of final dividend
30th March Half year end
31st March Payment of interest on loan notes
29th May Half year results and dividend announced 
11th June Interim ex-dividend date 
13th June Interim record date 
11th July Payment of interim dividend
28th September Year end
30th September Payment of interest on loan notes
27th November Annual results and final dividend announced
Capital Gains Tax
The market value of both the Ordinary and ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting
shares in the Company on 31st March, 1982 (adjusted for the 1994
bonus issue of ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares and for the four-for-one
share split in 2000) was 9.75 pence.
Registrars
All enquiries regarding shareholdings, dividends, lost share
certificates, loan notes in the Company and in Daily Mail and General
Investments plc, or changes of address should be directed to Lloyds
TSB Registrars at the address set out on page 89. 
Electronic Communications
Our registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, have introduced a service to
provide shareholders with on-line internet access to details of their
shareholdings and to receive documentation from the Company
electronically. The service is free, secure and easy to use. Shareholders
may register for the service at www.shareview.co.uk, using their
shareholder reference number (which can be found on their dividend
counterfoil or on their share certificate).
Low Cost Share Dealing Service
The Company has arranged with its brokers, Cazenove & Co. Limited,
to provide a simple, low-cost share dealing service for Ordinary and
‘A’Ordinary Non-Voting shares in Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
The main features are: a basic commission of 1% on both purchases
and sales (subject to a minimum commission of £10 per transaction);
reduced commission rates for transactions over £5,000; and no
minimum investment. For further details, please contact Cazenove
& Co. Limited, Company Share Schemes, at 12 Tokenhouse Yard,
London, EC2R 7AN; the telephone number is 020 7606 1768.
Loan Notes
Loan notes issued by the Company and by Daily Mail and General
Investments plc, a subsidiary, are repayable in whole or in part at
the option of loan note holders every six months. Loan note holders
requiring repayment should complete the redemption section on
the back of their loan note and send it to reach the Registrars by
28th February or 31st August for repayments on 31st March or
30th September respectively.
Eurobond Paying Agent
The principal paying agent for the Company’s 10% Bonds due
2021 and the 7.5% Bonds due 2013 is Deutsche Bank AG London,
Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester St, London EC2N 2DB. The
principal paying agent for the 9.75% Bonds due 2005 is The Chase
Manhattan Bank, N.A., Woolgate House, Coleman Street, London
EC2P 2HD. Inquiries should be directed to John Donegan, Group
Accountant, who can be contacted on 020 7938 6627 and whose
e-mail address is john.donegan@dmgt.co.uk.
Share Price Information
The current price of the Company’s Ordinary and ‘ A ’ Ordinary
Non-Voting shares can be found on page 526 of Teletext on Channel 4
and on its website at teletext.co.uk/finance. The current share prices
are also available on the DMGT website at www.dmgt.co.uk/
investor_relations/index.htm. A graph, illustrating the recent
performance of the ‘ A ’ shares, is shown on page 8.
Crest
The Company’s Ordinary and ‘ A ’ Ordinary Non-Voting shares entered
CREST in September 1996. Shareholders have the choice either of
holding their shares in electronic form in an account on the CREST
system or of continuing to hold them in the physical form of share
certificates.
Investor Relations
Investor relations are the responsibility of Nicholas Jennings,
Company Secretary whose office is responsible for distribution of the
Annual Report. He is assisted by Fran Ranger who can be contacted
on 020 7938 6629. The investor relations’ e-mail address is
investor.relations@dmgt.co.uk. 91 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Websites and Products
continued
90 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Websites and Products
Daily Mail and General Trust
dmgt.co.uk
dmgtopportunities.com
Associated Newspapers
Daily Mail
Evening Standard
The Mail on Sunday
Metro
Loot
Buy&Sell
Ireland on Sunday
Websites
buyandsell.ie
dailymail.co.uk
femail.co.uk
irelandonsunday.com
loot.com
metro.co.uk
thisislondon.com
thisismoney.com
thisistravel.co.uk
zoom.co.uk
Front of Mind
frontofmind.co.uk
answerbank.com
realslimmers.com
Northcliffe Newspapers
Aberdeen Citizen 
Aberdeen Evening Express
Aberdeen Press and Journal
Advertiser Series (Hull)
Ashby and Coalville Mail
Axholme Herald
Bath Chronicle
Bath Times
Brentwood Gazette
Bridgewater Times
Bristol Evening Post
Bristol Observer Series
Bristol Western Daily Press 
Burnham and Highbridge Times
Cannock Mercury
Carmarthen Herald
Carmarthen Journal
Cheadle Post and Times
Cheltenham News
Clevedon Mercury
Congleton Biddulph Adnews
Cornish Guardian
Derby Evening Telegraph
Derby Express Series
Doncaster Ad-Mag
East Grinstead Courier
Essex Chronicle
Exeter Express and Echo
Exeter Leader
Gainsborough T arget
Gloucester Citizen
Gloucester News
Gloucestershire Echo
Great Barr Observer
Grimsby Evening Telegraph
Grimsby T arget
Hereford Admag
Hull Daily Mail
Kent & Sussex Courier
Leek Post and Times
Leicester Ad-Mag
Leicester Mail Series
Leicester Mercury
Lichfield Mercury Series
Lincoln Ad-Mag 
Lincoln T arget
Lincolnshire Echo
Llanelli Star Series
Loughborough Mail
Mansfield and Ashfield Recorder
Mansfield Ad-Mag 
Mid Devon Gazette Series
Mid Somerset Series
Mid Somerset Times
Neath Courier
News in Focus
North Devon Journal Herald
North Staffs Advertiser
Nottingham Ad-Mag 
Nottingham Evening Post
Nottingham Recorder
Plymouth Evening Herald
Plymouth Extra
Port T albot Courier
Retford Times, Gainsborough
&Worksop Times
Scot Ads
Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph
Scunthorpe T arget
Sentinel on Sunday
Sevenoaks Chronicle
Sheffield Ad-Mag
Shewsbury Admag
Standard & Guardian Weekly
Series (Somerset)
South Lincs Target Group
South Wales Evening Post
Stoke The Sentinel
Sutton Coldfield Observer
Swansea Herald of Wales
Tamworth Herald Series
Tamworth Herald Leader
T aunton Times
Telford Admag
The Cornishman
The Forester
Torbay Weekender Series
Torquay Herald Express
Uttoxeter Post and Times
Walsall Advertiser
Wellington Weekly News
West Briton
West Wiltshire Advertiser
Western Gazette
Western Morning News
Weston and Worle News
Why Publications – Coventry
Why Publications – Evesham
Why Publications –
Gloucestershire
Why Publications – Grimsby
Why Publications – 
North Birmingham/Staffs
Why Publications – 
Redditch & Bromsgrove
Why Publications – 
Solihull & Birmingham
Why Publications – Stafford
Why Publications – Stratford
Why Publications – 
Warwick & Leamington
Why Publications –
Worcestershire
Yeovil Times
Corporate websites
nep.co.uk
thisisnorthcliffe.co.uk
National websites
fish4.co.uk
Community websites
thisisbristol.co.uk
thisiscornwall.co.uk
thisisderbyshire.co.uk
thisisessex.co.uk (50% owned)
thisisexeter.co.uk
thisisgloucestershire.co.uk
thisisgrimsby.co.uk
thisishull.co.uk
thisiskentandeastsussex.co.uk
thisisleicestershire.co.uk
thisislincolnshire.co.uk
thisisnorthdevon.co.uk
thisisnorthscotland.co.uk
thisisnottingham.co.uk
thisisplymouth.co.uk
thisisscunthorpe.co.uk
thisissomerset.co.uk
thisissouthdevon.co.uk
thisissouthwales.co.uk
thisisstaffordshire.co.uk
Euromoney
Institutional Investor
Websites
adhes.com
aircrafteconomics.com
airfinancejournal.com
airtrafficmanagement.net
asialaw.com
asiamoney.com
assetfinance.com
batteriesinternational.com
biotechnology-investor.com
business-meetings.co.uk
businesstraveller.com
businesstravellerasia.com
businesstravelerusa.com
businesstraveller.de
capitaldata.com
capitalnet.com
chinalawandpractice.com
clrsonline.com
coaltrans.com
corporatefinancemag.com
emergingmarkets.org
eurofood.org.uk
euromoney.com
euromoneybooks.com
euromoney-yearbooks.com
euromoneyconferences.com
euromoneydirectory.com
euromoneyfunds.com
euromoneyit.com
euromoneyleasetraining.com
euromoneyplc.com
euromoneyseminars.com
euromoneytraining.com
euroweek.com
ew-sfi.com
expertguides.com
financialdirectories.com
globalinvestormagazine.com
gulfpub.com
hydrocarbonprocessing.com
iflr.com
iflr1000.com
iiconferences.com
iijournals.com
iimemberships.com
iinews.com
iisearches.com
imperator.co.uk
institutionalinvestor.com
international-ceramics.com
internationalglassreview.com
internationaltaxreview.com
isfmagazine.com
latinfinance.com
legalmediagroup.com
managingip.com
misti.com
onboard-online.com
operationsmanagement.com
opi.net
petroleum-economist.com
pharmalive.com
projectfinancemagazine.com
reactionsnet.com
sbi-w.com
selfstudysolutions.com
sfidirectory.com
strategicdirectinvestor.com
tradefinancemagazine.com
travelretailworld.com
worldlawbusiness.com
worldoil.com
DMG Broadcasting
Teletext
Websites
teletext.co.uk
teletextholidays.co.uk
DMG Television
British Pathe
Performance Channel
Websites
britishpathe.com
performance-channel.com
DMG Radio
DMG Radio Australia
New South Wales
2AY Albury
Star FM Albury
Star FM Coffs Harbour
2CS Coffs Harbour
Star FM Dubbo 
Star FM Griffith
2RG Griffith 
2MC Port MaCquarie
Star FM Port MaCquarie
Star FM Orange 
2GZ Orange 
2WG Wagga
Star FM Wagga
Star FM Young
2LF Young 
Nova 969 Sydney
Queensland
Hot FM Mareeba 
4AM Mareeba
4CA Cairns
Hot FM Cairns
Hot FM Charters Towers
4GC Charters Towers
Hot FM Emerald
4HI Emerald
4MK Mackay
Hot FM Mackay
4LM Mount ISA
Hot FM Mount ISA
Hot FM Rockhampton 
4CC Gladstone
4ZR Roma
Hot FM Roma
Hot FM Townsville
4TO T ownsville
Brisbane’s 4BH
Brisbane’s 97.3FM
(Joint venture)
South Australia
Star FM Mt Gambier
5SE Mt Gambier
FIVEaa Adelaide
Victoria
Star FM Bendigo
3BO Bendigo 
Star FM Mildura
3MA Mildura
Nova 100 Melbourne
Western Australia
Hot FM Albany
6VA Albany
6BY Bridgetown
Hot FM Bridgetown
Hot FM Bunbury
6TZ Bunbury
HOT FM Esperance
6SE Esperance
Hot FM Kalgoorlie
6KG Kalgoorlie
Hot FM Katanning
6WB Katanning
6MD Merredin
Hot FM Merredin
Hot FM Narrogin 
6NA Narrogin 
Hot FM Northam 
6AM Northam
Nova 937
(Joint venture)
Websites
dmgradio.com.au
fiveaa.com.au
hotfm.com.au
nova100.com.au
nova969.com.au
starfm.net.au
nova937.com.au 92 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Websites and Products
continued
dmg world media
Home & Garden 
Trade Exhibitions and
Consumer Shows
Auckland Home Show 
Capital Home & Garden Show 
Daily Mail Ideal Home Show
GMC Southern California Home
& Garden Show
Indianapolis Home Show
Index 
Interior Designex
Melbourne Home Show
Metro Home Show
Minneapolis Home & Garden
Show
Montreal National Home Show
National Home Show 
New England Home Show
Philadelphia Home Show
Scotland Ideal Home Show
Sydney Home Show
Publications
Kitchen Bedrooms and Bathrooms
KBB Review
Sports & Leisure
Trade Exhibitions and
Consumer Shows
Big Boy Toys
Daily Mail Ski & Snowboard Show
Mind Body and Spirit Festivals
Surfexpo
Publications
Daily Mail Ski & Snowboard Show
Magazine
Hospitality
Trade Exhibitions
Dubai Hotel Show
Foodpro
Industrial & Technical
Trade Exhibitions 
Aluminium
Asia Pacific Coatings Show
Big 5
Chemspec Europe
Fire Show
Glassman Asia
Global Petroleum Show
Intermodal 
Smart Show
World T obacco Show
Publications 
Communicate
Dredging & Port Construction
ERT Weekly
Fire
Foundry Trade Journal
International Broadcast Engineer
Polymers, Paint & Colour Journal
Speciality Chemicals
Gift & Crafts
Trade Exhibitions and
Consumer Shows
Alberta Gift Show 
Autumn Gift Fair
California Gift Show
Harvest Festivals
Montreal Gift Show
New York International Gift Fair
(George Little Management)
San Francisco International
Gift Fair 
(Western Exhibitors)
Toronto International Gift Fair
Vancouver Gift Show
Website
Whereoware.com
Art & Antiques
Trade and Consumer Fairs
Ardingly
Las Vegas Jewelry & Watch Show
Le Bourget International Antiques
Trade Fair
Metrolina
Miami Beach Antique Jewelry
&Watch Show
Newark
New York Fall Fair
Palm Beach International
Art & Antiques Fair
Publications
Antiques Trade Gazette
Antique Week
Websites
antiquestradegazette.com 
antiqueweek.com 
bigboystoysnz.com
californiagiftshow.com 
californiamarketcenter.com
commsnow.com
cscinet.co.uk 
dmgantiquefairs.com 
dmgfiregroup.com
dmgindex.com
dmgworldmedia.co.nz 
dmgworldmedia.com
dmgworldmedia.com.ar 
dmgworldmedia.com.au 
ertweekly.com
farmworldonline.com 
glassmediaonline.com
glmshows.com 
harvestfestival.com 
homeentertainmentshow.com
homeshows.co.nz
ibeweb.com 
idealhomeshow.co.uk 
ifae.com 
intermodal.com.br
nationalhomeshow.com
petroleumshow.com 
piccadillypromos.com 
ski-show.co.uk
specchemonline.com
surfexpo.com
sydhomeshow.com
thegiftdirectory.com
tourismshow.com
westernexhibitors.com 
westpalmbeachhomeshow.com
whereoware.com
DMG Information
Websites
dmginfo.com
dolphinmsds.com
edrisk.com
edrnet.com
ppr.info
rmsi.com
sanborn.com 
Hobsons websites
hobsons.com
asia.hobsons.com
apextraining.co.uk
boardingschools.hobsons.com
collegeview.com
distance-learning.hobsons.com
educationindex.com
e-go.fr
emt.hobsons.com
europe.hobsons.com
forum-jobline.de
future.finder.com.au
get.hobsons.com
graduateopportunities.com
gradview.com
hobsonsgpa.com
hobsonsstudentunion.com
jobguide.thegoodguides.com.au
latin.collegeview.com
mba.hobsons.com
moveup.be
postgrad.hobsons.com
schools.thegoodguides.com.au
springboard.co.uk
startonline.hu
studentpages.com
studyuk.hobsons.com
studyseries.com
thegoodguides.com.au
toolkit.collegeview.com
weathervane.hu
Landmark websites
envirosearch.info
landmark-information.co.uk
old-maps.co.uk
promap.co.uk
RMS websites
rms.com
climetrix.com
Study Group websites
studygroup.com
studygroup.biz
bellerbys.com
embassyces.com
go-study.com
language-study.com
martincollege.com
taylorscollege.com
worldhighschools.com Designed and produced by Façade International Ltd
Printed by Perivan Daily Mail and General Trust plc
Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street
London W8 5TT
Telephone +44 (0)20 7938 6000
Facsimile +44 (0)20 7938 4626
Website http://www.dmgt.co.uk
