 FIT FOR THE
 FUTURE   
Dairy Crest Group plc  
Annual Report 2010
Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey KT10 9PN
Company No: 3162897
Visit our website at 
www.dairycrest.co.uk
Dairy Crest Group plc  Annual Report 2010 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 113
Shareholders’ information
Company Registrar and Shareholder Enquiries
For administrative enquiries concerning your shareholdings in 
the Company, such as the loss of share certificates, change 
of address, dividend payment arrangements, amalgamation of 
accounts or requests for the report and accounts please contact 
the Company’s registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, 
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.  You can call Equiniti’s Contact 
Centre on 0871 384 2134 (overseas +44 (0)121 415 7047).  Calls 
from within the UK cost 8p per minute from a BT landline; other 
providers’ charges may vary.  Telephone lines are open 8.30am to 
5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Equiniti also provide online facilities for shareholders to check their 
holdings and update their details. Registering is easy and there is 
no fee involved, simply access www.shareview.co.uk
Payment of dividends
Shareholders may arrange to have their dividends paid directly into 
a bank or building society account using the Bankers Automated 
Clearing System (BACS). Bank Mandate forms are available from 
Equiniti whose details appear above.  
Gifting shares to charity
Shareholders who have a small holding of shares on the register 
whereby their value makes them uneconomic to sell, may donate 
these shares to charity under the Sharegift Scheme - administered 
by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation - a registered charity. 
Information can be found at www.sharegift.org
General information
General information about Dairy Crest can be found on our 
corporate website, www.dairycrest.co.uk
Investors who have questions relating to the Group’s business 
activities should contact: 
Investor Relations, Dairy Crest Group plc, Claygate House, 
Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN 
Telephone: 01372 472200  
email: investorrelations@dairycrest.co.uk 
  
Financial Calendar
Dividends Final
Ex-dividend Wednesday 23 June 2010
Record date Friday 25 June 2010 
Payment date Thursday 5 August 2010
Group results (Anticipated)
Half Year (Interims) November 2010
Preliminary Announcement  
of 2010/11 results May 2011
2010/11 Report and Accounts  
circulation June 2011
Analysis of ordinary shareholders at 14 May 2010  Holders
     Number % Shares %
Category
Individuals and other holders    18,698   87.65   31,042,639   23.29  
Insurance companies, pension funds, banks, 
 nominees and limited companies    2,635   12.35   102,221,005   76.71  
 
      21,333   100.00   133,263,644   100.00  
Size of holdings
Up to 5,000 shares    19,660   92.16   26,310,783   19.74  
5,001 – 20,000 shares    1,402   6.57   10,656,541   8.00  
20,001 – 100,000 shares    152   0.71   7,243,058   5.44  
Over 100,000 shares    119   0.56   89,053,262   66.82  
      21,333   100.00   133,263,644   100.00  
This Report is printed on Magno Satin paper.
This paper has been independently certified as meeting
the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC),
and was manufactured at a mill that is certified to
the ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards.
The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
Printed at The Midas Press plc.
Designed and produced by Tor Pettersen & Partners
Photographic direction by Hudson Wright Associates
Board photography by Ed Hill Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 1
Overview
  Who we are and what we do
 2 Dairy Crest at a glance
 4 Vision, values and measures
   Markets, people and 
performance
 6 Market analysis
 8 Our people
 10 The Directors
 12 Management team
 13  Chairman’s statement
 14  Chief Executive’s review
 16 Principal risks and uncertainties
Governance
  Governance
  38 Directors’ remuneration report
 45  Directors’ report
 48 Corporate governance
 54  Statement of directors’  
responsibilities
 
Business review
   The business in detail
 18 Foods
 20 Spreads
 22 Cheese
 24 Dairies
 26  Liquid Products
 28 Household
 29 Milk Procurement
 31 Corporate Responsibility
 34 Financial review
Contents
  Financial statements
 55 Consolidated income statement
 55  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
 56  Consolidated and Parent  
Company balance sheets
 57  Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
 58  Parent Company statement of 
changes in equity
 59  Consolidated and Parent 
Company statement of cash flows
 60 Accounting policies
 66 Notes to the financial statements
 111 Independent auditors’ report
 112 Group financial history
 113 Shareholders’ information
Dairy Crest Group plc 
Dairy Crest is the UK’s leading dairy company, processing  
and selling fresh milk and branded dairy products in the UK 
and Europe 
This year, in order to underpin the long term success of the 
business, Dairy Crest has increased investment in its brands, 
reduced its cost base, generated cash and delivered higher 
operating profits 
Dairy Crest has a clear strategy, a strong vision, robust values 
and good people – Dairy Crest is fit for an exciting future
The numbers
  A compelling investment proposition
• Well defined strategy
•  Sound, balanced customer base for both Liquid Products and Foods
•  5 key brands with good growth record and further potential
•  Direct access to 1.3 million consumers
•  Strong record of cost reduction and further potential
• Sound finances and strong cash generation 
•  Confirmed commitment to a progressive dividend policy
•  Experienced, well-motivated management team
  Underpinned by strong competencies
• Brand building
• Innovation
•  Chilled distribution
•  UK and Continental retailers
• Cost management
• Milk buying
• Corporate activity Spreads revenue
17% 51%
16% 16%
67% 33%
Spreads profit
Cheese revenue Cheese profit
Dairies revenue Dairies profit
% of total Group
(Excluding joint 
ventures and other)
2 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
At a glance
 Vision
•  We are proud of our links to the 
countryside, our dairy heritage and the 
part they play in everyday life
•  We want to earn the right to consumers’ 
loyalty by providing healthy, enjoyable, 
convenient products 
•  We aim to meet consumers’ needs and 
go where this takes us
•  As we grow, we will look after our people 
and the communities where we work
Who we are
Dairy Crest is the UK’s 
leading dairy company, 
processing and selling 
fresh milk and branded 
dairy products in the  
UK and Europe
Cheese
Dairies
 Strategy
•  Build market leading positions in branded 
and added-value markets
•  Focus on cost reduction and efficiency 
improvements
•  Reduce commodity risk to improve 
quality of earnings
•  Business acquisitions and disposals to 
generate growth and focus the business
Country Life milk Fresh milk  
to retailers
Doorstep delivery 
– ‘milk&more’
No1 UK 
branded cheese
No1 flavoured 
milk drink
No1 variant 
spread in France
Spreads
No1 UK 
dairy spread
Dairy Crest produces leading spreads 
and butter brands at two factories in 
UK and one in France. These brands 
have strong distribution through 
retailers in both countries. Our three 
key brands, St Hubert, Clover and 
Country Life have all grown sales 
ahead of the market in 2009/10
Dairy Crest has a world-class cheese 
supply chain. Milk from a dedicated 
pool of dairy farmers is turned into 
award winning cheddar at Davidstow 
in Cornwall. The cheese is matured 
for up to two years in Nuneaton and 
then packed at Nuneaton and Frome. 
Dairy Crest’s leading cheddar brand, 
Cathedral City dominates the UK 
branded cheese market
We process and deliver fresh 
conventional, organic and flavoured 
milk to major retailers, ‘middle ground’ 
customers ranging from coffee shops 
to hospitals and on the doorstep.
 We manufacture and sell FRijj, the 
leading fresh flavoured milk brand, 
cream and milk powders
Contribution to Group Products Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 3
Divisions
Foods 
Spreads 
(UK & France) 
Cheese
Dairies 
Liquid Products  
and Ingredients
Household
Overview
Kirkby
Crudgington
Nuneaton
Frome
Davidstow
Chard
Severnside Chadwell Heath
Hanworth
Fenstanton
Foston
Aintree
Ludres
France
Production sites
Markets Financial highlights
Highlights
06 Total grocery £91bn 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10
1,161
1,309
1,570
1,648
1,630
Segment profit** 
(£m)
Revenue 
(£m)
Dairy is one 
of the largest 
food categories 
worth £10bn*
68.8
80.0
104.5
101.7
105.8
280.0
451.0
474.8
415.8
337.2
Net debt
(£m)
Dairy
£10bn
* 
Source: TNS 52 w/e 
21 March 10
**
Before exceptionals 
and amortisation of 
acquired intangibles
•   Cathedral City annual retail sales reach 
record £214m 
•  Cathedral City value growth 67% 
over 3 years 
•  250,000 food miles saved through 
supply chain improvements 
•  Strong growth in Cathedral City and 
Davidstow lighter variants 
•   Strong financial performance  
underpinned by cost savings 
•  Milk sales to major retailers up 8% 
•  Achieved 250,000 
milk&more customers 
•  JUGIT milk in a bag launched  
nationally across the UK 
•   In France, St Hubert has become  
the largest spreads brand 
•  In UK, another year of record sales  
for Clover 
•  Country Life continues to grow  
strongly, outperforming the market 
•  Strong growth for reduced fat  
options of key UK brands 
•  Dairy Crest undisputed leader of  
Italian spreads market with Vallé 
  4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Our vision, values and measures
Our values
We are proud of our links to the 
countryside, our dairy heritage, and 
the part these play in everyday life
We want to earn consumers’ loyalty 
by providing healthy, enjoyable, 
convenient products
Our vision 
Value measures
WE RESPECT
We value our people and  
are stronger together
Improve our employee 
survey results
WE LISTEN
Consumers are at the heart 
of our business
Grow share of our 
consumers’ purse and be 
Number 1 or 2 in the markets 
we serve
WE LEAD
We value success and strive 
to be the best
Our proﬁt will grow every year
WE CREATE
We constantly look for new and 
better ways of doing things
10% of our annual turnover will 
come from consumer innovation. 
Internal innovation will reduce 
our cost base every year
WE CARE
We act responsibly with a 
passion to do the right thing
Improve our Corporate 
Responsibility survey results
Over recent years we have created a strong 
vision and robust values for the business. 
This year we have developed value measures 
supported by key performance indicators that 
give a clear indication of our progress 
We do not expect to achieve every value 
measure every year, but by making it clear what 
our targets are we believe that we have set a 
framework that will help us deliver continuous 
improvements in performance Core brand Market Market Brand Market
rank growth growth
2009/10* 2009/10**
Cathedral City UK Cheese No1 branded cheese 12% 3%
Clover UK Butter, Spreads, Margarine No1 dairy spread 5% 1%
Country Life UK Butter, Spreads, Margarine No3 UK butter 4% 1%
St Hubert Oméga 3 French non-butter spread No1 spread in France 9% -2%
FRijj Flavoured milk No1 flavoured milk drink 12% 7%
*Dairy Crest value sales 12 months to 31/3/10 v 12 months to 31/3/09 **ACN, IRI, TNS data 52 weeks to 21/3/2010
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 5
Overview
Key performance indicators
For further 
information
2009 Employee 
survey results:
Our people p8
Over 250,000 
registered milk&more 
customers
8% growth in 
retailer conventional 
milk volumes
Market analysis p6
Segmental reviews 
p18
Financial review 
p32
Segmental reviews 
p18
79.5
83.5
Adjusted profit 
before tax (£m)
79.8
119.0 10
09
Operating cash flow 
(£m)
10
09
We aim to meet consumers’ needs  
and go where this takes us
As we grow, we look after our  
people and the communities in  
which we work
Segmental reviews 
p18
924
878
Milk processed per 
production employee 
(000 litres)
10
09
7% of 2009/10 
revenue from 
innovation in the 
last 3 years
Cost base 
– new initiatives in 
2009/10 will deliver  
£20m 
annualised savings
Corporate 
Responsibility 
report p31
Accident Incident 
Rate fell by 
36% in the year
8% reduction 
in CO
2
 emissions 
per tonne of milk 
processed
Business in the 
Community ‘BITC’ 
to carry out a CR 
survey in 2010/11
Over 
£450,000 
raised for 
Macmillan Cancer 
Support
At end of year 
milk&more 
comprised  
15% of 
Household 
doorstep revenue
Overall employee 
engagement 
score improved by 
6% versus last 
time. Engagement 
7% above UK 
average
Response rate up 
10% versus 
last time
Positive responses 
up 10% versus 
last time 6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Market analysis
We listen to our consumers 
– to understand what they want 
and how they decide which 
foods are right for them and 
their families
We know from our research 
with consumers that health, 
pleasure and convenience 
are long-standing factors in 
their selection process. More 
recently, consumers are 
interested in the environment 
and the ethics behind food 
manufacture and concerned 
about issues affecting their 
home life and the origin of 
products
We supply products that aim 
to meet consumers’ needs 
and earn their loyalty. We will 
continue to listen to consumers 
and innovate in order to grow
WE LISTEN 
 CONSUMERS ARE AT THE 
HEART OF OUR BUSINESS
*Mintel Oxygen **Nielsen Homescan 
Health
Nearly a third of consumers are 
avoiding processed food* and are 
looking for more natural products 
such as dairy. Milk was the world’s 
first super food and consumers 
understand and trust the benefits 
of dairy products including calcium 
and protein. At the same time, 
some consumers want to reduce 
the amount of saturated fat in their 
family’s diet. 
 We ensure that any added 
ingredients in our products are as 
natural as possible and are committed 
to promoting the benefits of dairy. 
We have responded to consumers’ 
concerns about saturated fats 
by offering lighter variants of our 
core brands, by launching Weight 
Watchers cream and by championing 
1% fat milk. In total we estimate that 
we have saved British consumers 
6,400 tonnes of saturated fat.
 In France our St Hubert Oméga 3 
range has become the market leader 
as consumers look for better heart 
health and in Italy we make our fresh 
dough with no cholesterol and no 
hydrogenated fat.
Pleasure
Eating for pleasure is still the main 
reason why we choose to eat and 
drink what we do and 35%* of 
consumers are still willing to invest 
in quality products that deliver food 
pleasure despite tightened economic 
circumstances.
 Our products champion taste 
and quality. But it’s not just us that 
say so. Recently ‘Which?’ magazine 
rated Cathedral City Vintage 20 as 
the epitome of modern cheddar and 
Cornish Quartz Cheddar, which we 
make for Waitrose at our Davidstow 
creamery, won the gold medal for 
best hard cheese at the Grocer’s 
annual ‘Own Label Food & Drink 
Awards 2010’. 
 We have also seen the alcoholic 
cream category rejuvenated by 
consumer response to our indulgent 
Baileys cream and in France St 
Hubert and Le Fleurier spreads are 
consistently in the top three in blind 
taste tests. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 7
Overview
Ethics & Environment
Home & Local
Dairy for
pleasure
Dairy 
for now
Dairy for
health
Dairy 
for life
Convenience
A quarter of adults in the UK are 
cooking from scratch more often* 
and want conveniently packaged 
food to help them do this. We know 
that planned top-up trips are now a 
key part of shopping habits and the 
number one top-up item is milk.
 By their very nature many dairy 
products are easy to consume direct 
from the fridge and are a key ingredient 
for many family favourite meals. Our 
products are conveniently packed. 
In UK we led the way with resealable 
cheese packaging and offer cooking 
from scratch help through products 
such as Cathedral City grated. In Italy 
we produce Vallé ready made dough 
products and have recently started 
packing pies in single portions. 
 All our spreads and spreadable 
butters can be used straight from  
the fridge.
 For top-up shopping, milk&more 
couldn’t be easier. Consumers can 
order from a range of 200 products 
through the internet up to 9pm for 
their next doorstep delivery from  
their milkman.
Ethics and the Environment
There is increasing concern from 
consumers on both sides of the 
English Channel for ethical and 
environmental issues. In the UK 
44% of consumers say they are 
willing to make compromises for the 
environment* and in France retailers 
have collectively agreed to increase 
the weight of organic food sales by 
15% per annum. Consumers want to 
take positive steps and are looking to 
food manufacturers for help.
 Dairy Crest has pioneered more 
environmentally friendly milk packaging 
with its JUGIT milk in a bag and by 
using recycled material in its plastic 
milk bottles. We have also grown 
our organic milk sales and in France 
have launched St Hubert Bio, the first 
organic spread in the French market.
 We have a continuous programme 
of improving the efficiency of our 
manufacturing processes.
Home and Local
Consumers are increasingly interested 
in where their food comes from. In  
fact 62% of UK consumers actively try 
to buy British products. **
 In the UK, we only source 
milk from British farms. We have 
championed British butter with our 
Country Life advertisements and 
want the law to be changed so that 
consumers can more readily identify 
where the food they buy comes 
from. In France we are working with 
universities, hospitals and government 
on health and nutrition.
 Our milkmen visit 1.3 million 
homes and are seen by many as a 
key part of the local community. 8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Our people
WE RESPECT
      WE VALUE OUR PEOPLE AND 
ARE STRONGER TOGETHER
Employee survey
We conducted two employee surveys in 2007 and 2009 to get 
the views of all our staff on a range of areas including: strategy 
and leadership; values and corporate responsibility; customers 
and quality; learning, development and teamwork; well being and 
recognition; and workplace environment. Within this framework 
we are particularly interested in measuring employee engagement 
through questions around satisfaction, pride, referral and 
commitment and this comprises a key performance indicator for 
us as we measure our We Respect value (see page 4)
We are pleased that the 2009 survey resulted in a 10% increase 
in the response rate to 77%. The overall employee engagement 
score improved by 6% and was 7% better than the UK average. 
Furthermore, the percentage of overall favourable responses 
increased by 10%. We Respect is a core value for us and we are 
committed to further improving results in the next survey, which  
is planned for October 2010
People development
Our aim is to attract and retain the 
best staff, treat everyone fairly and 
with respect and to help all our 
people develop their potential.
 We have introduced a talent 
scheme that helps us identify staff 
who have the potential to do a 
bigger or different job. We give these 
people a range of support including 
mentoring from senior colleagues.
 As well as developing our 
leaders of tomorrow we recognise 
the importance of continuing to 
develop our leaders of today. To help 
us achieve this we ran a series of 
bespoke three-day ‘value leadership 
courses’ for our top 150 senior 
managers. Over the course of the 
last year we have also introduced 
competency-based frameworks for 
staff working as part of our marketing, 
commercial and supply chain teams.
 This year, as part of our drive to 
find better and more practical ways 
of learning we will be putting new and 
more courses online as part of our 
e-learning programme. This initiative 
follows in the footsteps of our online 
induction programme which is already 
available to all staff.
 Across many of our sites we have 
also organised English lessons for 
staff where English is their second 
language.
 As well as providing staff with 
the opportunity to take part in 
shorter training courses, a growing 
number of staff are studying for a 
foundation degree in dairy processing 
and manufacturing at Reaseheath, 
Shropshire which takes three years to 
complete.
Staff at our Yeovil depot successfully completed a   
Health and Safety NVQ Rewarding success
As the UK’s leading dairy foods 
company we want all of our staff to 
benefit from our success. To help 
us realise this we have extended our 
bonus schemes to a greater number 
of staff and we aim to include all staff 
in a bonus scheme in the future. In 
2009 we also invited all UK staff to 
participate in our three-year sharesave 
scheme.
 Being valued and recognised at 
work is important at Dairy Crest. To 
ensure we do this to the best of our 
ability we launched a brand new reward 
and recognition scheme in January 
2009, which gives staff the opportunity 
of nominating colleagues for an award. 
As well as celebrating individual 
achievements we also introduced a 
team of the year award, which was 
won by staff from our factory at Chard 
for developing and launching a retailer 
powder pouch to replace existing 
packaging, which saved hundreds of 
tonnes of cardboard.
Diversity and inclusion
At Dairy Crest we are committed 
to providing an inclusive working 
environment where everyone 
feels valued and respected. We 
recognise that people from different 
backgrounds, experiences and 
abilities can bring fresh ideas and 
innovations to improve our working 
practices and business, delivering 
commercial benefit and ultimately 
shareholder value. To help us achieve 
this we have set up a staff diversity 
steering group which will be charged 
with taking a leading role in shaping 
the future of our company.
Pension scheme
At times companies have to make very 
tough decisions and over the course 
of last year we closed the Group’s 
final salary pension scheme to future 
accrual and invited the scheme’s 
members to join our very competitive 
defined contribution stakeholder 
pension scheme. This decision 
affected 3,000 staff and was done 
following a full and open consultation 
with staff and trade unions. Clear, 
straightforward communication and 
a willingness to change following 
feedback helped ensure that this was 
implemented with little adverse effect 
on our relationship with our people.
Communications
Communication is crucial to the 
success of any company, and Dairy 
Crest is no exception. To help improve 
our communication channels we have 
introduced a new intranet that all staff 
can access at work or from home. 
The intranet, called ‘the gardens’, 
complements the bespoke staff 
briefings, a senior manager roadshow 
conference, newsletters, face-to-
face surgeries, table talkers, posters 
and monthly ‘Mark Lunches’ where 
members of staff can meet and pose 
questions to Mark Allen, the Group’s 
Chief Executive. Staff can also email 
Mark directly with ideas or queries via 
‘Let Mark Know’.
 We will be carrying out our third 
employee survey in October 2010 to 
get the views of our staff on the group 
and how it has moved over the last 
two years.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 9
Overview
Jason Edney was this year’s  
gold award winner  10 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Executive Directors
Chief Executive (50) ◊ Δ
Appointed a Director in July 2002 and became 
Chief Executive in January 2007. He joined Dairy 
Crest in August 1991 and was formerly with Shell 
U.K. Ltd. He is also Chairman of Dairy UK Ltd and 
a member of the leadership team and a trustee for 
the Prince’s Countryside fund.
Mark Allen
Alastair Murray
Finance Director (49) Δ
Appointed in September 2003. He was Finance 
Director of The Body Shop International plc 
from January 1999 and was previously Finance 
Director of Dalgety Food Ingredients Limited. 
Martyn Wilks
Executive Managing Director (52) Δ
Appointed in January 2008. He was President 
of the Snackfood Division of Masterfoods USA, 
and has held senior management positions within 
the Mars and Masterfoods Groups including 
Managing Director of Mars, France.
“ In my 19 years at Dairy Crest we have 
transformed the business from a commodity dairy 
company to a modern, innovative European food 
company. Since I took over as Chief Executive 
3½ years ago I have been determined to ensure 
that the business has a strong consumer focus. 
This has meant that innovation takes on a much 
more important role as support to our marketing 
and promotional campaigns. This focus will 
beneﬁt all our stakeholders. I am proud to be part 
of this process and look forward to the business 
building on the strong momentum we now have”
“ In my seven years at Dairy Crest we have made 
great strides to improve the quality of our earnings 
and reduce risk in the business. During my time 
as Finance Director we have disposed of the 
commodity businesses that made earnings so 
unpredictable and given ourselves much greater 
stability. Dairy Crest is now a broadly based 
business that is as likely to prosper whether milk 
prices go up or down. We have also made real 
progress in how we use information technology 
– as amply demonstrated by milk&more”
“ I joined Dairy Crest because I was excited by the 
challenge of developing some potentially strong 
food brands at an important time in their history. 
The progress we have made is most encouraging. 
We are doing the right thing by increasing our 
investment in marketing despite a challenging 
macro-economic background and in both UK and 
France our brands are well placed to continue to 
perform strongly. At the same time we continue to 
strengthen our manufacturing capability and our 
systems and processes for innovation” Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 11
Non-Executive Directors and Advisers
Overview
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
Solicitors
Eversheds LLP
Principal Bankers 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Rabobank International, London Branch 
Lloyds TSB plc
BNP Paribas
Corporate Brokers
Citigroup Global Markets Limited
RBS Hoare Govett Ltd
Registered Office
Claygate House, 
Littleworth Road, 
Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN
Registered in England No. 3162897
Chairman (54) ‡ ◊
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in July 
2007 and as Chairman on 1 January 2010. He 
is Senior Adviser of Evercore Partners in the 
firm’s London office. He has previously held 
senior appointments at Lehman Brothers, Credit 
Suisse and the Rothschild Group in a career 
in merchant banking which has spanned more 
than 30 years. He is currently a non-executive 
director of Control Risks and the BBC Trust 
and has served on the boards of Mowlem, The 
British Standards Institution and Southern Water 
as well as numerous not-for-profit organisations.
Anthony Fry
Non-Executive Director (56) 
* ‡ † ◊ 
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in 
August 2009. A Fellow of the Chartered Institute 
of Management Accountants he is Executive 
Chairman of Countryside Properties plc. He has 
previously held senior finance positions at 
Courtaulds Textiles, Diageo, Bowater Scott and 
Kodak and was Group Finance Director at 
George Wimpey plc until 2007. He has previously 
held non-executive directorships at Royal Mail 
Holdings, Venture Production and AWG.
Andrew Carr-Locke
Non-Executive Director (63) 
* ‡ † ◊
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in May 
2003 and was President and Chief Executive 
of McCain Foods Limited, Toronto, Canada 
from May 1995 to May 2004. He previously 
held a number of senior positions with Rank 
Hovis McDougall and has held non-executive 
directorships with The Body Shop International 
plc, Endurance Speciality Insurance (USA) and 
Wild Group GmbH (Germany). He is non-executive 
chairman of Reconomy Holdings Limited.
Howard Mann O.B.E
Non-Executive Director (48) 
* ‡ † ◊
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in 
July 2007 and is the Group Strategy Director 
of W H Smith. He was previously Head of 
UK Consumer and Retail Practice at Boston 
Consulting Group and BCG’s European 
Corporate Development practice. He was also 
chairman of WH Smith News until 2006.
Neil Monnery
Non-Executive Director (52) 
* ‡ † ◊
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in July 
2007. A member of the Bars of New York and 
of Paris, and Managing Director of Naxos UK. 
She is a non-executive director of Aviva and 
Toepfer, as well as a member of Monsanto’s 
Sustainable Yield Advisory Council. Previous 
senior appointments include chairmanship of 
Amylum and vice chairmanship of Tate&Lyle.
Carole Piwnica
Company Secretary and  
General Counsel (39) ◊ Δ #
Appointed in April 2008. He is a solicitor having 
worked in private practice and in-house in both 
retail and international manufacturing, latterly 
with Gallaher Group Plc.
Robin Miller
*
  Audit Committee Member
‡  Nomination Committee Member
†  Remuneration Committee Member
◊  Corporate Responsibility Committee 
Member
Δ  Member of the Management Board
# Not a Board member
 
Board and main Committee meetings
The following Directors held office during the year. The number of Board and main Committee meetings 
attended by Board or appropriate Committee members in the year is shown in the table below. The 
numbers in brackets show the maximum number of meetings members could have attended in the period.
1  Mr Allen was appointed a member of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee on 28 January 2010.
2  Mr Carr-Locke was appointed to the Board on  
1 August 2009.
3  Mr Fry was unable to attend the Board meeting on  
24 September 2009.
4  Mr Oliver retired from the Board on 31 December 2009.
5  Ms Piwnica was unable to attend the Board meeting on  
24 September 2009.
6  Mr Richardson resigned from the Board on 1 August 2009.
Board Audit CR Nomination Remuneration
Mr M Allen
1
8(8) – 1(1) – –
Mr A Carr-Locke
2
5(5) 2(2) 1(1) – 3(3)
Mr A Fry
3
7(8) 3(3) 1(1) 2(2) 5(5)
Mr H Mann 8(8) 4(4) 1(1) 2(2) 5(5)
Mr N Monnery 8(8) 4(4) 1(1) 2(2) 5(5)
Mr A S N Murray 8(8)––––
Mr S M D Oliver
4
6(6) – – 2(2) –
Ms C Piwnica
5
7(8) 4(4) 1(1) 2(2) 5(5)
Mr D H Richardson
6
3(3) 2(2) 0(0) 2(2) 2(2)
Mr M Wilks 8(8)–––– 12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Experienced and motivated management
Toby 
Brinsmead
Managing Director, 
Liquid Products
Appointed to current role in 
December 2008. He joined Dairy 
Crest in 1998 and held a number 
of finance roles before becoming 
Finance Director of Dairies Division. 
Previously worked in retail and 
healthcare sectors, most recently 
with PPP healthcare.
Mike Sheldon
Managing Director, 
Household
Worked for Dairy Crest for 17 years 
in senior roles in Purchasing and 
Liquids Products before being 
appointed to current position 
in 2006. Previously worked for 
Pepsico Foods International.
“ Dairy Crest has an established model that 
has enabled us to consolidate doorstep 
deliveries across England and Wales. Despite 
this, doorstep sales have been falling. In our 
milkmen we have a delivery capability that 
cannot be matched by anyone else in the 
country and milk&more, our internet-based 
doorstep delivery service, has the potential to 
reverse the downward trend, create growth 
and simplify the business”
Rob Tansey
Group HR Director
Appointed in October 2006, having 
previously been HR Director of 
Travis Perkins plc and Director of 
Personnel for Celesio AG.
Mark Taylor
Group Milk 
Procurement Director
Has spent career in food industry, 
covering roles from field to fork. 
After spells with Diageo and 
Northern Foods, joined Dairy Crest 
in 2000 and held a number of 
senior roles before being appointed 
to current role in February 2009.
“ I am confident that the UK can support 
a thriving dairy sector and believe that 
Dairy Crest, having been at the forefront 
of developing added value milk pools and 
as the largest purchaser of British milk, 
has an important role to play. My team 
and I are committed to finding innovative 
solutions that will continue to benefit both 
customers and suppliers” 
“ Four years ago we recognised that we 
needed to make improvements in cost, 
quality and service and we have done this, 
but there is more to do. I am delighted 
we have committed to a major capital 
investment programme in our dairies that 
will ensure continued progress and allow 
us to grow. I am also pleased with our 
increased focus on innovation in particular 
our flavoured milk brand FRijj and our milk 
bag packaging solution”
“ The need to drive efficiencies and to 
reduce the risks associated with the 
defined benefit pension scheme could 
have put a significant strain on our 
relationship with our employees. I am 
delighted that the work we have done 
to maintain a strong relationship with 
our workforce and their representatives 
has prevented this. I want to make Dairy 
Crest an employer of choice and we look 
to the future with hopes high” Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 13
Chairman’s statement
the effects of the economic recession 
on the consumer by increasing our 
investment in our brands. This additional 
expenditure on marketing and promotions 
has contributed to lower profits in our 
Spreads and Cheese divisions. 
  Overall, Group adjusted profit before 
taxation* increased 5% to £83.5 million. 
However, as expected, a higher tax charge 
led to reduced adjusted basic earnings per 
share* of 44.5 pence compared to 45.0 
pence last year. Reported Group profit 
before taxation fell 25% to £77.8 million 
(2009: £103.2 million). This reduction 
is principally due to the £50.4 million 
exceptional gain on the sale of our stake in 
Yoplait Dairy Crest last year.
  Importantly, we have generated cash 
ahead of our forecasts and this has allowed 
us to reduce our debt by more and sooner 
than we anticipated when we made our 
last major acquisition, that of St Hubert 
in France in 2007. As a result the Group’s 
financial position is much stronger than it 
was eighteen months ago. This underpins 
our ability to invest for the future.
  The strong financial performance of 
the business and our confidence in its 
future prospects has allowed the Board to 
recommend a final dividend of 13.6 pence 
per share, an increase of 5%. As a result, 
the total dividend for the financial year 
2009/10 will be 18.9 pence per share. The 
Board intends to maintain its progressive 
dividend policy and will seek to maintain 
dividend cover of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
  We have also made good progress in 
addressing the pension scheme issues 
that face us. The Board has approved the 
payment of additional cash contributions 
of £20 million per annum to the pension 
fund. These started in October 2009. We 
have also now closed the defined benefit 
pension scheme to future accrual. This 
significantly reduces future risk to the 
business. It is a credit to all concerned 
that the pension scheme changes were 
achieved with little adverse effect on the 
relationship with our employees.
Delivering against our strategy
I was delighted to take over as Chairman 
on 1 January 2010 and want to thank my 
predecessor, Simon Oliver, for all he did 
to transform the business. The Group has 
progressed enormously under Simon’s 
leadership over the last ten years, and he 
leaves the business very well positioned 
for the future. In his role as Honorary 
Group President following his retirement 
from the Board, he helps us to continue to 
develop our key relationship with the 1,350 
dairy farmers who supply milk directly to 
the Group, providing us with his extensive 
knowledge and experience of the dairy 
industry. We can demonstrate strong 
progress in this area over recent years and 
Simon’s involvement will help maintain  
the momentum that we and Dairy Crest 
Direct, our suppliers’ representative group, 
now have.
  This has been a good year for Dairy 
Crest in which we have delivered against 
the strategy that we put in place eighteen 
months ago. At that time, in an extremely 
uncertain and challenging environment, 
we set out the following priorities: to 
continue to develop market-leading 
positions in branded and added value 
markets; to focus on cost reduction and 
efficiency improvements; and to drive 
cash generation in order to reduce our 
debt. Eighteen months on, it gives me 
great pleasure to be able to report that we 
have delivered against all these strategic 
objectives. The strong performance 
seen last year places the business in a 
good position, and fit for future growth 
opportunities, both organically and by 
acquisition if suitable opportunities arise.
  Dairy Crest is a broadly based dairy 
business and the Group’s performance 
in 2009/10 demonstrates the benefits 
of this. Our Dairies division performed 
particularly well last year. This division has 
bounced back from a difficult 2008/09 
and is benefiting from a series of efficiency 
projects and higher cream prices. In 2008 
we made a conscious decision to combat 
Alongside the delivery of a strong financial 
performance, we have developed a 
corporate vision and set of core values 
that give everyone working in and with 
our business a clear and aligned sense 
of purpose. One of our core values is 
‘we care’ which takes in our corporate 
responsibility programme. This programme 
has gathered pace over the past year 
during which time we have made real 
progress on environmental improvements.
  Apart from Simon Oliver’s departure, 
there has been one other change to 
the Board this year. On 1 August 2009 
Andrew Carr-Locke was appointed as 
Non-executive Director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. In this role he 
succeeded David Richardson who left the 
Board on the same date. We welcome 
Andrew to the Board and thank David for 
his contribution to the business.
  Finally, the improvements we 
continue to make would not have been 
possible without the hard work of all our 
employees. We have a strong workforce, 
led by an experienced and well-motivated 
leadership team. We greatly value the 
work they have done and I would like to 
thank all employees for their contribution 
to the ongoing success of the Group.
  Overall I am pleased by the strong 
progress the Group has made over the 
past year, and am optimistic and excited 
about our future prospects. In summary, 
we are a broadly based dairy business 
with a clear strategy, a strong vision, 
robust values and good people. We are fit 
for the future.
  Anthony Fry Chairman
  17 May 2010
*
  Excludes exceptional items, amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and the interest charge / credit in respect 
of defined benefit pension schemes.
Overview
WE LEAD
WE VALUE SUCCESS 
 AND STRIVE  
 TO BE THE BEST 14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Chief Executive’s review
Fit for the future
This has been an exciting year for Dairy 
Crest. We have consistently delivered 
on our strategy of brand investment, 
cost reduction and cash generation, and 
have strengthened the business for the 
future. During the year, we have increased 
operating profits and significantly cut 
our borrowings, and at the same time 
continued to develop our key brands 
and other added value sales. We have 
demonstrated our commitment to our 
Dairies business by announcing a major 
capital investment programme. In addition 
we have continued to innovate with 
further developments in our new doorstep 
internet proposition. We have substantially 
reduced our pension scheme exposure 
and completed the important work we 
have been doing to set out our corporate 
Vision and Values. We believe we are in a 
strong position to continue this progress in 
the future.
 
Financial results
Strong growth in sales of key brands and 
liquid milk to retailers, which together 
increased by £52 million, were offset by 
planned lower sales of dairy ingredients 
and lower sales to doorstep and middle 
ground milk customers. The Group’s 
revenue for the year ended 31 March 2010 
was £1,630 million (2009: £1,648 million). 
 Adjusted Group profit before tax 
was up 5% at £83.5 million (2009: £79.5 
million). After adjusting for £4.0 million of net 
exceptional profit (2009: £26.4 million), £0.5 
million other finance expense (2009: £6.9 
million credit) and £9.2 million of acquired 
intangible amortisation costs (2009: £9.6 
million) reported profit before tax was down 
25% at £77.8 million (2009: £103.2 million). 
Adjusted basic earnings per share fell by 
1% to 44.5 pence (2009: 45.0 pence).
 Group net debt at 31 March 2010 
was £337.2 million, which was better than 
expected and £78.6 million lower than at 
31 March 2009 when the debt was  
£415.8 million. 
Increased profits and lower borrowings
Operating profits have increased and at 
the same time we have invested more in 
innovation and marketing our key brands. 
This has been possible because our focus 
on cost control has delivered efficiency 
improvements and strong cash generation. 
This in turn has led to lower borrowings 
and reduced interest costs.
 Our Dairies division has performed 
strongly and has benefited from lower 
costs and higher cream returns during 
the year. This has been partly offset by 
lower profits in our Spreads and Cheese 
divisions where, in line with our strategy to 
continue to grow our key brands, we have 
spent more on advertising and promotions 
during the year.
  We are confident that this ongoing 
marketing investment leaves our brands 
well placed for further profitable growth.
  It is particularly pleasing to be able to 
report overall profit growth without cheese 
stock profits, which in 2008/09 contributed 
around £10 million to operating profit. The 
increase has also been achieved without a 
contribution from our 49% stake in Yoplait 
Dairy Crest which was sold in March 2009.
 
Growing added value sales
We continue to grow sales in three areas 
of strategic importance.
 
1. Key brands – our five key brands 
(Cathedral City, Country Life, St Hubert 
Oméga 3, Clover and FRijj) have continued 
to perform strongly against very tough 
prior year comparatives. Together they 
have increased volume by 13% and value 
by 9%. Over recent years we have driven 
consistent growth in these combined 
brands and have outperformed the 
market. Our sales of these brands are 
nearly 50% higher than three years ago.
We have used a number of different 
methods of marketing our brands from 
‘traditional’ television advertisements 
to internet campaigns. The sustained 
increase in marketing investment has led 
to higher consumer awareness for all our 
brands and has helped us get our key 
messages across. For example more 
consumers now think that Cathedral City 
is one of the best cheeses money can 
buy (up 15% over the past two years), that 
Country Life is a superior tasting product 
(up 22%) and British (up 23%), that 
Clover is a good balance between health 
and taste (up 100%) and FRijj has cool 
packaging (up 33%).
 We are particularly pleased with the 
ongoing success of our French business, 
St Hubert, which has delivered ahead 
of expectations and has again made a 
significant contribution to the profitability of 
the Group. We have improved St Hubert’s 
performance under our ownership, sharing 
best practice with our UK businesses 
and driving purchasing synergies. It has a 
strong management team who are capable 
of generating further improvements.
 
2. Fresh milk to major retailers – we 
have maintained good year on year growth 
in milk sales to major retailers. These have 
grown by 9% in volume and 8% in value. 
Alongside a steady increase in conventional 
milk sales to these customers, sales of 
organic and flavoured milk have also grown 
strongly. During the year we have also made 
good progress in developing sales of milk 
in bags using our innovative patented jug, 
JUGIT. Sainsbury’s was the first retailer to 
launch national distribution of this product, 
which contains 75% less packaging than 
a standard 2 pint plastic milk bottle and 
we expect to gain listings with other major 
retailers. We have also trialled this concept 
successfully with our doorstep customers 
and expect to increase distribution of milk in 
bags through this channel during 2010/11.
WE CREATE
WE CONSTANTLY  
 LOOK FOR NEW 
AND BETTER WAYS  
OF DOING THINGS 3. milk&more – our doorstep delivery 
internet proposition, milk&more, continues 
to show strong momentum. We are 
delighted that we now have over 250,000 
registered customers, which is in line with 
the challenging target we set when we 
fully launched this service last September.  
The initial success of milk&more has 
already contributed to a lower decline in 
doorstep sales.
 
Cost reduction
Cost reduction remains a key part of 
our strategy. It has allowed us to grow 
underlying profits and increase investment 
across our business while at the same 
time maintain high levels of customer 
service. We continue to set ourselves 
challenging targets to reduce our costs 
and are confident further improvements 
remain possible.
 During 2009/10 we achieved cost 
reductions that in total will deliver 
annualised savings of approximately £20 
million. These range from appointing a 
new media-buying agency to redesigning 
our spreads tubs. We have also driven 
efficiencies in our dairies and distribution 
depots and continue to identify further 
opportunities. 
 
Strengthened financial position
As a result of the focus we have put on 
cash generation, our reported borrowings 
are the lowest they have been since 30 
September 2006.
 In addition we continue to reduce 
risk in order to stabilise and simplify the 
business.
 We have made significant progress 
in reducing the risks associated with our 
defined benefit pension scheme. This has 
now closed to future accrual.
 During 2009/10 we have processed 
significantly lower volumes of milk into 
commodity ingredients than we did 
in 2008/09 and are confident we can 
maintain this in the future. We are also in 
the process of reducing our stake in our 
Irish cheese business, Wexford Creamery 
Limited. The prospective purchaser, 
Wexford Milk Producers Limited, will be 
shortly seeking its members’ approval 
to the transaction. When completed, 
this transaction will largely complete our 
withdrawal from commodity cheddar.
 Finally, we have offered new longer 
term, fixed price contracts to some of our 
milk suppliers. Milk purchased under these 
contracts will be used to meet milk&more 
sales demand and will increase price 
stability between our suppliers and us.
 
Vision and Values
Although it is only fourteen years since we 
started life as a plc, we have a history that 
stretches as far back as the creation of 
the Milk Marketing Board in 1933. Today 
we buy milk directly from over 1,350 dairy 
farmers and have around 8,500 employees 
and franchised milkmen. We operate 
factories in rural areas where they play a 
significant role in the local economy. We 
aim to produce healthy and convenient 
products that are enjoyed by millions of 
consumers across Western Europe and 
they expect us to continue to innovate and 
develop our products and services, while at 
the same time caring for our environment.
 During the year we have completed 
the development of our corporate Vision 
and Values which recognises the needs 
of these different stakeholders in our 
business and sets out how we can do the 
best we can for them all – and as a result 
maximise returns for shareholders. I am 
really pleased with this. In particular we 
have linked our Vision and Values with key 
performance indicators which will allow us 
to monitor our progress.
 
Market environment
Retail markets in the UK and France 
remain dominated by concerns over 
consumers’ reaction to financial pressures 
caused by the global recession. We have 
reacted to this by promoting our brands 
more in order to provide value to our 
consumers. We expect this to continue 
during 2010/11.
 Dairy markets and UK milk prices have 
been relatively stable over the past year. 
Recently dairy commodity prices have 
started to increase and this may put upward 
pressure on milk prices in coming months.
 There are also signs that some other 
commodity costs are starting to increase. 
We continue to drive efficiencies to offset 
these and believe that our track record 
demonstrates that we can deal with this 
challenge.
 
Looking forward
This has been a year of progress for Dairy 
Crest in which we have strengthened 
the business for the future. Against this 
background we expect our key brands to 
continue to grow. As noted above, we have 
grown sales of these brands by nearly 50% 
over the past three years and consumers’ 
spontaneous awareness of these brands 
has increased significantly. We will maintain 
this momentum by continuing to invest in 
marketing and innovation. 
 The benefits from being a broadly 
based dairy business have been clearly 
demonstrated this year. We have taken 
the opportunity created by strong cash 
generation to initiate a £75 million capital 
investment programme in our dairies that 
will support our business with our key 
liquid milk customers. This expenditure 
will allow us to increase capacity, reduce 
costs and accelerate innovation. We 
expect to make this investment over the 
next three years and to achieve a minimum 
of a four-year payback on this investment. 
In addition, as we continue to improve all 
aspects of our Dairies Division, we would 
look to benefit by selling more milk to our 
key customers, who recognise that the 
cost, quality and service we provide is of 
the highest level.
 We are excited about the prospects of 
our doorstep delivery internet proposition, 
milk&more. Although we are breaking new 
ground here we have already achieved our 
first stretching target of 250,000 customers. 
We now want to grow the amount each 
customer buys from us and believe that we 
can do this. However it is difficult precisely 
to predict how milk&more will change our 
business. From what we know today it is 
possible that in the future milk&more could 
eliminate doorstep decline and eventually 
provide growth in total doorstep sales at 
acceptable margins.
 Supporting all these developments 
that will provide added value sales 
growth is an ongoing programme of cost 
reduction. In our Household business 
we have the opportunity to simplify and 
centralise our depot administration. This 
project is progressing well and will lead to 
substantial savings in our cost base.
 Additionally we continue to revisit 
our central overheads to reduce the 
administration costs for each litre of milk 
that we process.
 In 2010/11 we intend to continue to 
increase profits, generate cash and further 
reduce our borrowings. We anticipate that 
our borrowings at 31 March 2011 will be 
meaningfully lower than at 31 March 2010, 
despite planned higher capital expenditure 
and increased dividend payments.
 Trading at the start of the new year is 
in line with our expectations.
 Dairy Crest has changed from a 
predominantly commodity focused, UK 
based business to an added value dairy 
food company with a significant profit 
stream from continental Europe. We 
have shown that we can grow added 
value sales both organically and through 
acquisitions and we are well placed to do 
either or both. 
 We are fit for an exciting future.
Mark Allen Chief Executive
17 May 2010
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 15
Overview Risk register
Accounts reviews
Management board
Divisional boards
Threats to objectives identified
Performance monitored
Business objectives set or reviewed
Existing controls assessed
Threats quantified
Improvements implemented
Leadership teams
Group board
We manage risk to help us achieve our strategic objectives 
and protect our reputation. 
The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of the Group’s 
risk management processes and the Board is responsible for the 
appropriate identification of risks and the effective implementation 
of mitigating activities. During the year, as part of its regular review 
of internal controls, the Audit Committee reviewed the processes 
used to build and refresh the Group’s risk registers. It sought 
to enhance risk management systems and improve how risk 
registers are used in the business. 
 The Group’s Risk Register is compiled through a combination 
of business unit risk registers and Board input. The Board 
formally reviews the Group Risk Register when the annual budget 
is set and at each of the two forecast reviews throughout the 
year. The Company Secretary & General Counsel is responsible 
for highlighting to the Board any changes to the Group’s risk 
registers identified during the intervening periods. The process 
review conducted during the year helps to ensure that a model of 
continued risk appraisal is embedded in the Group. 
 The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set 
out in the table below. This is not intended to be an exhaustive 
analysis of all risks facing the Group. 
16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk area and potential impact Mitigating controls
Commercial risks 
Loss of key customer
There is strong competition between suppliers to our key 
customers. We face competition on both our branded and 
retailer branded products. To compete we have to purchase 
raw materials effectively, operate the supply chain efficiently, 
market and sell our products well and continually innovate.  
If we fail to do this we could lose sales.
No one customer accounts for more than 10% of our total 
revenues and we continue to seek to widen our customer 
base. We have increased our investment in marketing 
and innovation and have also announced a new capital 
expenditure programme for our liquid dairies which will 
drive further efficiencies in our milk supply chain. We closely 
monitor the service levels we provide to our customers. The 
Executive Board is involved in major customer negotiations.
Reduced demand from consumers
Consumers could move away from dairy products for 
economic, health or other reasons leading to lower sales  
and profits.
Consumers are at the heart of our business and we regularly 
monitor consumer trends. We continue to promote the 
health benefits provided by dairy products and develop 
healthier products. We react to other consumer trends - for 
example with more environmentally-friendly packaging and 
the increase in the use of the internet with milk&more. Dairy 
products are staple purchases for most households and 
we have responded to tougher economic conditions by 
promoting our key brands more.
Input cost inflation
Higher milk and non-milk costs (vegetable oils, diesel, 
electricity, gas and packaging) will reduce margins unless  
we can recover them from customers.
For more information refer to:
Chief Executive’s review
Segmental reviews
Milk procurement
Note 31 to the accounts
This area is closely reviewed by the Executive Board 
which has established a risk committee to monitor and 
hedge forward non-milk commodity prices if possible and 
appropriate. The risks associated with purchasing large 
volumes of milk have been reduced by establishing milk 
pools linked to major customers and longer-term fixed 
price milk contracts. We seek to absorb short term cost 
movements through supply chain efficiencies. Our purchasing 
and commercial teams have clear lines of communication 
between them to ensure customers are kept aware of 
changes to our cost base and requests for price increases 
can be fully justified. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 17
Overview
Not all of the risks listed are within the Group’s control and others 
may be unknown or may currently be considered immaterial but 
could turn out to be material in the future. The risks set out in this 
section, together with their associated mitigation activities, should 
be considered in the context of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control framework, details of which are set out in 
the Corporate Governance Report on pages 48 to 54 and the 
Cautionary Statement regarding forward looking statements at 
the start of the Directors’ Report on page 45
Risk area and potential impact Mitigating controls
Operational risks
Restricted milk supply
Restricted milk supply due to economic factors, weather or an 
epidemic which affects dairy cows could restrict milk supply. 
This in turn could lead to lower sales and profits. Consumer 
confidence in dairy products could also be adversely affected.
For more information refer to:
Milk procurement
We have a strong relationship with our milk suppliers and 
contracts which include a notice period of at least one year. 
Our experienced milk procurement team understand milk 
production and are alert to changes in supply. We closely 
monitor the milk price we pay to suppliers in order to ensure 
we can purchase the right quantity of milk to meet demand 
forecasts and have established procedures for allocating milk 
between our businesses if a short-term shortfall in supply 
does arise. We have contingency plans established for major 
incidents and work closely with DEFRA and industry bodies 
to ensure these are appropriate. These plans are regularly 
tested and reviewed with the Executive Board. We carry 
insurance against the risk of business interruption.
Other operational risks
An accident, the failure of equipment or systems or deliberate 
act could disrupt production, affect food safety, and/or 
cause reputational damage with adverse consequences. 
We are also exposed to losses in the event that information 
technology systems fail.
Dairy Crest takes product quality very seriously and has 
rigorous quality controls in place to minimise potential risks. 
All of our manufacturing sites have a trained engineering 
resource, are supported by our major equipment suppliers 
and hold appropriate stocks of spare parts. They also all 
have fire protection systems and regular fire drills. Our 
information technology systems are regularly backed up and 
key computer and network functions are duplicated. We 
have procedures in place to help us deal with major incidents 
and insurance cover for property damage and business 
interruption risks.
People risks
Recruitment and retention
We need high quality employees to provide customers and 
consumers with safe, high quality products and services.
For more information refer to:
Our people
We carry out rigorous selection procedures and benchmark 
pay and benefits to ensure we can attract and retain the best 
people. We have a wide bonus scheme and a range of other 
incentives to reward good performance and a performance 
review and talent management schemes to identify and 
develop our own people. We undertake regular surveys to 
monitor our relationship with our employees.
Financial risks
Liquidity
We have to ensure that we have the appropriate capital 
structure in place to allow us to run the business. 
For more information refer to:
Financial review
Note 31 to the accounts
We are comfortably within our debt headroom and covenants 
and have a good mixture of long term credit facilities with 
supportive banks who know our business. Increased funding 
requirements into the defined benefit pension scheme could 
reduce liquidity, but we have closed the scheme to future 
accrual and have taken out insurance to meet the liabilities 
associated with many of our retired members.
Legal and compliance risks
Our sector is subject to a number of complex statutory 
requirements. There is a risk of fines or lawsuits and 
reputational damage if we fail to comply.
We have a strong in-house legal function supported by 
external advisors. We have undertaken company-wide 
training in respect of competition law and actively monitor and 
adjust to ongoing legal and regulatory changes. 18 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Business review | Foods Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 19
Heading line
FOODS
The Foods Division manufactures and 
sells cheese and spreads in the UK 
and Europe. Over 80% of this Division’s 
sales are branded with a strong focus 
on marketing and innovation. 
 During the year, despite challenging 
economic conditions, we have chosen 
to increase our investment in brand 
development, strengthening the level 
of advertising and promotions, and 
driving innovation to build our market 
position. Marketing value for money 
has been achieved by focusing on 
a small number of key brands, by 
rigorous activity evaluation, and by 
improved media buying.
 Our investment has paid dividends, 
achieving share growth on Clover, 
Country Life, St Hubert Oméga 3, and 
Cathedral City; the latter reaching  
£214 million in consumer sales value.
 Our innovation continues to centre 
around developing and establishing 
healthier products that do not 
compromise on taste or quality. Our 
portfolio now offers consumers choice 
in all categories, with Cathedral City 
Lighter, Clover Lighter and Country  
Life Spreadable Lighter all 
representing over 10% of each brand’s 
total sales.
 We now report the financial 
results of our Spreads and Cheese 
businesses separately. Our profits 
in these businesses were depressed 
versus last year due to higher cream 
costs in Spreads, the absence of stock 
profits in Cheese, and our decision to 
increase investment in consumer value 
for money and communication.
Brands going from strength to strength
Business review grow by 4%, our leading brand variant, 
St Hubert Oméga 3, has strengthened its 
market leadership, with value growth of 
9% (volume +11%) to achieve an all time 
high value share of 21% of the French 
spreads market.
 Building on last year’s launch of two 
products targeted at health-conscious 
consumers, St Hubert Oméga 3 Leger 
in France and Vallé + Leggera in Italy, we 
have further expanded our offering this 
year. St Hubert Bio is the first mainstream 
organic spread in the French market and 
has been well received by both retail and 
consumers.
 St Hubert’s subsidiary, Vallé Italia, 
remains the undisputed leader of the 
Italian spreads market. With continued 
media support, Vallé has achieved a 
record value market share of 57%.
Spreads
£ million  2009/10 2008/09
Revenue  277.7 284.2
Profit  54.0 59.5
Margin  19.5% 20.9%
Dairy Crest
Unilever 29%
Arla 28%
Private 
label   
15%   
Other 8%
Source: AC Nielsen 52 w/e 20 March 2010
Share of UK retail butters and 
spreads market by value
Source: IRI 52 w/e 4 April 2010 Source: IRI 52 w/e 4 April 2010
Share of French retail non-butter 
spreads by value
St Hubert
Unilever 41%
Lactalis 
16%  
Other 7%
St Hubert
Unilever   
 20%
Other
20%    
Share of Italian non-butter
spreads by value
20% 60% 36%
No1 brand in French spreads
St Hubert was acquired in January 2007 
from Uniq, and has now become an 
integral part of the Dairy Crest Group. We 
manufacture our spreads at Ludres in North 
Eastern France, for distribution across 
France and to Italy. The business continues 
to strengthen its leading market positions 
in France and Italy, through increased 
investment in marketing activity, funded by 
strong cost control. Despite difficult market 
conditions, St Hubert continues to perform 
ahead of our expectations.
 The total non-butter French spreads 
market declined by 2% in value to €376 
million. Overall the St Hubert business 
has held market share, with the St Hubert 
total brand in growth, and now the number 
one brand in the French spreads market 
with 29% value market share. Within the 
‘health’ segment, which continues to 
Our Spreads portfolio comprises St Hubert, in France and Italy, 
and the UK Spreads business.
 During the year our Spreads portfolio had to contend with 
market declines in the UK, France and Italy, as well as significant 
increases in input costs - most notably the cost of cream. 
Despite this pressure, we have increased our investment in brand 
advertising and at least matched competitive levels of promotion in 
order to provide value to our consumers and compete for in-store 
display space.
 Impacted by market declines, our segment revenue has reduced 
by 2%, and our segment operating profit at £54.0 million has 
reduced by 9%. However, with a margin of 19%, Spreads remains 
a key driver of profitability for the Group, and the market share gains 
from our key brands gives us a good platform for future growth
20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Business review | Foods continued
St Hubert Business review
Further share growth for our key 
brands, Clover and Country Life
Our UK butters and spreads are 
manufactured in two factories at Kirkby near 
Liverpool, and Crudgington in Shropshire, 
and distributed to UK retailers via our 
national distribution centre in Nuneaton.
 Despite unprecedented levels of 
consumer promotion, the £1.1 billion UK 
market for butter and spreads was flat in 
volume (+0.6%), and declined by 2% in 
value in the year to March 2010. The only 
significant sector in value growth was dairy 
spreads at +1%, driven in large part by the 
performance of our Clover brand.
 We have focused our efforts behind 
Clover and Country Life.
 The Clover brand had a very 
successful year, growing by 5% in value 
and 13% in volume. The mid-year re-
launch activity, based on the proposition of 
“churned like butter with half the saturated 
fat”, has been very successful, with the 
advertising scoring well in consumer 
tracking studies. 
 Our butter brand, Country Life, has 
continued to grow strongly, out-performing 
the butter and spreadables segments, 
with sales up 4% in value and 6% in 
volume. The brand has continued with 
the highly successful television and radio 
advertising campaign, which emphasizes 
the provenance of Country Life as the only 
major British butter brand.
 Both of our leading brands’ reduced 
fat options, Clover Lighter and Country Life 
Lighter Spreadable, have seen good growth 
during the year with value sales up by 13% 
and 12% respectively. Clover Lighter has 
been confirmed as the most successful 
launch in the butters and spreads market in 
the last 5 years and its sales are now 13% 
of total Clover sales. Country Life Lighter 
Spreadable sales are 26% of total Country 
Life Spreadable sales.
 In addition to our main brands, Clover 
and Country Life, we also continue to 
manufacture and sell Vitalite, Willow and 
Utterly Butterly. Although Vitalite and 
Willow have maintained prior year sales 
volumes, Utterly Butterly has seen a 
decline this year. Despite solid base rates 
of sale, based on strong consumer loyalty, 
the brand has suffered from distribution 
losses due to increased competition. Sales 
have declined from last year’s peak by 
27% in value and 21% in volume.
 To remain competitive we have 
recently reduced the number of employees 
at our Kirkby factory.
UK Spreads
Clover has had a very successful year, growing 
13% by volume supported by television advertising. 
Our latest advertisement sets out the proposition 
that Clover is churned like butter but has half the 
saturated fat
21 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 22 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Business review | Foods continued
Cheese
Source: TNS 52 w/e 21 March 2010
Cathedral City growth
by retail sales value (£m)
106
128
165
192
214
05/06 06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10
Source: TNS 52 w/e 21 March 2010
Pilgrims      
Choice 13%
Other 23%
Share of the UK branded
cheddar market by value
40%
Seriously Strong 13%
Davidstow 4%
Cathedral
  City 36%
Wyke  
Farms 11% 
Our flagship brand, Cathedral City, is the leading cheese brand 
in the UK. It is made at our well-invested creamery in Davidstow, 
Cornwall. Then it is matured, cut, wrapped and despatched to 
retailers, all from our combined packing and distribution centre  
at Nuneaton. Some of the cheddar made at Davidstow is sold 
under the Davidstow label as a retailer ‘named creamery’ brand, 
and we also supply some high quality retailer branded products 
£ million  2009/10 2008/09
Revenue  260.0 244.2
Profit  16.9 34.3
Margin  6.5% 14.1%
Our cheese is made in Davidstow and moved to 
Nuneaton where it is matured, cut, wrapped and 
despatched to our customers’ regional distribution 
centres. Nuneaton is ideally placed for this
Our ﬂagship Cathedral City brand is made at our 
state of the art creamery at Davidstow in Cornwall 
with milk that comes exclusively from farms in 
Cornwall and Devon 23 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Business review
Cathedral City sales reach £214 million
Despite its maturity, the UK cheese retail 
market continues to grow, and is now 
worth nearly £2.4 billion. The market grew 
by 3% in value and 5% in volume in the 
52 weeks to 21 March 2010. The cheddar 
category grew by 3% in value (6% in 
volume). Branded cheddar continued to 
out-pace own label products and now 
represents 46% of the market.
 Cathedral City has again outperformed 
the category, with sales up 12% and 
volume up 18%. The brand now sells £214 
million at retail prices, and has a 16% 
share of total cheddar. This performance 
reflects our new and successful consumer 
marketing campaign, with new advertising 
proclaiming the Nation’s Favourite cheese 
brand, and new updated packaging. The 
Davidstow named creamery brand has 
also improved its position with volume up 
21% and value up 7%.
 Our segment operating profit of 
£16.9 million was lower this year due to 
the absence of stock profits enjoyed last 
year. Mature cheddar is generally around 
a year old when it is sold. Stock profits 
occur when raw milk costs and cheese 
sales prices increase while the cheese is 
maturing. The cheese we sold in 2008/09 
at these higher prices was made with milk 
purchased a year earlier when milk costs 
were lower. 
 In addition a strong increase in Irish 
cheddar imports early in the year led 
to increased promotional pressure. We 
responded by increasing marketing and 
promotional expenditure to ensure the 
continued strong performance of our 
business, with revenue up £15.8 million 
or 6%. Towards the end of the year the 
promotional pressure has abated slightly 
as both UK and Irish cheese production 
reduced.
World class cheese supply chain 
completed 
We are now approaching the anniversary of 
the commissioning of our highly automated, 
cheese cutting and packing facility at our 
national distribution centre and maturation 
store in Nuneaton. In addition to the 
efficiency of the facility itself, we have 
removed 250,000 miles of transport by 
putting every element of the post-conversion 
supply chain together. This completed 
our plans to achieve a world-class supply 
chain for cheese linked to our state-of-the-
art creamery at Davidstow, served by a 
dedicated pool of local dairy farmers.
 As with our butters and spreads range, 
we have been successful in launching 
alternative cheese recipes to suit health-
conscious consumers. The Cathedral City 
Lighter variant has continued strongly 
and now represents 11% of the brand’s 
sales. The launch of a lighter variant of the 
Davidstow brand has further enhanced our 
health-conscious range. 
 Our strategy is to focus on brands and 
businesses where we can add value, and 
where we own the brands outright. In line 
with this, we announced in January 2010 
our intention to sell our majority share in 
Wexford Creamery to our farmer partners, 
Wexford Milk Producers. This will allow 
us to focus on the Cathedral City and 
Davidstow brands in cheese. 24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Business review | Dairies Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 25
Heading line
Business review
DAIRIES
The Dairies Division comprises 
Dairy Crest’s Liquid Products and 
Household activities. Revenue in 
the year fell by 2%, reflecting lower 
prices. Segment operating profit 
increased significantly to £34.9 million 
(2009: £7.9 million) as a result of lower 
costs and higher cream returns.
£ million  2009/10 2008/09
Revenue  1,081.2 1,108.2
Profit  34.9 7.9
Margin  3.2% 0.7%
Growing business with our retail customers  
and building milk&more 26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Business review | Dairies continued
Dairy Crest’s Liquids Products business processes and delivers 
fresh conventional, organic and flavoured milk to major UK 
retailers. It also manufactures, markets and sells FRijj, the leading 
fresh flavoured milk brand as well as potted creams including 
speciality and seasonal offerings and milk powders.
  The business has four milk packing dairies located at 
Severnside in Gloucestershire, Chadwell Heath in London, 
Fenstanton in Cambridgeshire and Foston in Derbyshire. A large 
proportion of our potted cream and our retail milk powders are 
made at our creamery in Chard in Somerset. FRijj is produced at 
our Severnside dairy 
DRIVING EFFICIENCY 
TO PROVIDE EXCELLENT 
QUALITY AND SERVICE
Liquid Products
The Liquids Products business has a 
sustainable business model based on 
driving efficiency and cost reduction which 
provides customers and consumers with 
excellent quality and service through 
innovation and investment.
  Lower milk costs, improved site 
operating efficiencies, reductions in 
milk and packaging wastage and lower 
distribution costs have contributed to a 
much improved financial performance. 
  We will build on this performance 
by accelerating investment in our liquid 
milk dairies. In addition to the recent 
investment of £34 million at our Foston 
site and our new regional distribution 
centre at Aldridge in West Midlands, we 
have now committed to additional capital 
expenditure of £75 million over the next 
three years in the three key areas of 
capacity, infrastructure and innovation. 
The capital plan will deliver new lines at 
our sites, driving efficiencies and creating 
capacity, and allow us to innovate through 
packaging and product technology.
  The first phase of the programme has 
already commenced. In total we expect 
to commit around one third of the total 
cost during 2010/11. At Severnside we will 
invest around £13 million in the coming 
year. This will allow us to upgrade and 
expand milk processing and end of line 
capabilities, increasing the site’s capacity 
and reducing wastage. We also intend to 
replace our potted cream equipment and 
commission a new milk bag line and are 
investing in extended shelf life technology.
  At Chadwell Heath we will invest over 
£4 million in 2010/11 in processing and 
cold storage capacity in preparation for 
new filling lines in 2011/12. We have already 
prepared the production areas for the first 
of these new lines. The Foston site is also 
now ready for an additional high speed 
filling line when the business needs it.
  As our production facilities continue 
to become more efficient and we drive 
down costs we will also increase our focus 
on inbound and outbound distribution. 
We have a unique opportunity to use 
our national network of Household 
depots as regional distribution centres. 
By investing in advanced route planning 
systems we will integrate our dairies, 
regional distribution centres and selected 
household depots into a single supply 
chain from which we can offer customers 
efficient solutions whatever their store 
formats and sizes. This should allow us to 
reduce food miles, building on the recent 
improvements in vehicle fuel consumption. 
  We have grown milk sales to our 
major retail customers again this year. 
We have won new business with Lidl and 
the Co-op in the Midlands and this has 
helped increase our share of the retailer 
conventional milk market with a volume 
growth of 8% against a market decline of 
1%. In Sainsbury’s, we are pleased to have 
secured a 3 year contract for conventional 
milk as well as national distribution for 
JUGIT and milk bags. This innovative new 
product, which reduces packaging by 
75%, has won the best product innovation 
at the 2010 Sainsbury supplier awards. We 
are delighted by this and are excited about 
its future prospects.
  Our leading milkshake brand FRijj, 
which now represents over 50% of the 
fresh flavoured milk market, increased its 
volume by 14%, again outperforming the 
market which grew by 10%. Innovative 
marketing targeted at young consumers 
Committed to an additional 
£75 million 
investment in our liquid milk 
dairies over the next three 
years in the three key areas 
of capacity, infrastructure and 
innovation
Share of UK retailers’ own brand 
conventional milk
 Dairy Wiseman Arla
 Crest
Sainsbury’s 50% 50% –
Morrisons 50% – 50%
Waitrose 100% – –
M&S 100% – –
Co-op 15% 65% 20%
Tesco – 50% 50%
Asda – – 100%
Total 20% 38% 42%
Source: DC estimates March 2010 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 27
Business review
All of our 5 key brands were advertised on television 
in the year ended 31 March 2010. Our FRijj 
milkshake also uses innovative on-line marketing. 
FRijj is sponsoring a swamp soccer tournament and 
has recruited ‘Swamp Soccerettes’ to cheer the 
teams on
has helped increase its retail sales to £44 
million. Around a theme of swamp soccer, 
FRijj has sponsored Soccer AM and 
has used augmented reality technology 
to allow computer generated ‘Swamp 
Soccerettes’ to appear from the bottles. 
Since the year end the launch of the St 
George special edition has performed very 
well. Our investment of around £7 million 
over the next two years in packaging 
formats, processing capacity and new 
lines will allow further growth. 
  We have also been successful 
in improving the quality and health 
credentials of our range of own label 
flavoured milks as recipes move from 
using full fat milk to semi-skimmed. 
Investment in our production facilities at 
Chadwell Heath in London has enabled 
us to grow capacity and secure new 
business, which has helped generate 
volume growth of 55% for own label 
flavoured milk sales.
  The organic milk market continued its 
decline with volume dropping 2% over the 
last year. However, new listings of Country 
Life Organic helped to drive growth in our 
organic milk volumes by 6%.
  Addressing both health and indulgence 
markets, the WeightWatchers cream range 
has more than tripled in volume and the 
newly launched range of Baileys creams 
has secured listings in all of the major 
retailers and achieved strong sales in its 
first year.
  We were particularly pleased by our 
service performance over the difficult 
winter conditions and the ability of our 
business to deliver the new Co-op 
conventional milk business that was 
acquired at short notice in June 2009. We 
are also proud to have halved the number 
of reported safety incidents in the year.
  Our Ingredients operation, which is 
also based in Severnside, provides the 
Dairies Division with a flexible balancing 
solution and deals with the Group’s by- 
products such as whey and buttermilk. 
This operation has had a successful year 
on the back of rising commodity markets. 
Through careful management of seasonal 
supply and demand, the amount of milk 
and skimmed milk to balance was reduced 
significantly from the previous year and 
year end stocks were almost half the value 
of the previous year at less than £3 million.
  During the year, we acquired the 
balance of the equity in Fayrefield Foodtec, 
which provides added value products in 
the ingredients arena and we have driven 
new branded opportunities in products 
such as Equilibrium stress relief tablets 
based on milk protein.
  Looking forward, our focus remains on 
increasing efficiency and improving quality 
and service. 
We have developed a patented milk jug, JUGIT, 
which reduces packaging by 75% and makes 
recycling easier. Sainsbury’s awarded JUGIT its 
2010 best product innovation award and we are 
excited about its future prospects A MODERN 
 APPROACH 
TO A TRADITIONAL SERVICE  
milk&more. We implemented a strong cost 
reduction programme, including closing 
our glass bottling operation in Fenstanton, 
Cambridgeshire, and the reorganisation of 
our non-milk supply chain. Milk costs were 
also lower following purchase price cuts 
early in 2009.
 Furthermore we have identified that we 
may be able to make further cost savings 
by leveraging recent investments in IT 
systems. In February 2010 we initiated a 
pilot programme to evaluate the potential 
benefit. This project is progressing well 
and will lead to substantial savings in our 
cost base.
 We continue to innovate around 
Dairy Crest’s key themes of health and 
the environment. During the year we 
started delivering 1% fat milk, a lower 
fat alternative to semi-skimmed, to our 
residential and business customers, and 
we have also trialled the milk packed in 
bags, described more fully in the Liquid 
Products and Ingredients section of the 
Business Review. The bags use 75% less 
packaging than polybottles and further 
enhance the environmental credentials of 
our doorstep delivery service, which also 
offers milk in returnable glass bottles and 
electrically powered milk floats.
 Looking forward our focus will 
continue to be on making milk&more 
successful. We will aim to provide service 
excellence so that on-line customers 
spend more with us and continue to 
recruit more customers for milk&more.  
We will also continue with our cost 
reduction projects.
Household 
28 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Business review | Dairies continued
The business has an extensive distribution 
network across England and Wales, with 
over 3,000 employees and another 1,500 
franchised milkmen, 130 depots and 3,000 
vehicles. Milk is bottled at dairies located 
at Aintree in Liverpool and Hanworth in 
London.
 The year ended 31 March 2010 
may turn out to be a pivotal one for our 
business. During the year we completed 
the national roll out of our internet-based, 
doorstep delivery service, ‘milk&more’. 
This gives our residential customers 
a contemporary shopping experience 
delivered by the traditional milkman. It 
allows consumers to order over 200 
products through the internet up to 9pm in 
the evening for their next doorstep delivery 
and puts us firmly in competition with 
convenience stores for top-up purchases. 
Having previously carried out local trials 
of milk&more, we launched nationally in 
September 2009 and set ourselves the 
challenging target of recruiting 250,000 
registered users by 31 March 2010. We 
reached our target with one day to spare! 
milk&more users already spend more with 
us and our milk&more website allows us 
to target promotions of milk and other 
products which will further drive doorstep 
sales. For many years these have been 
declining as consumers choose to buy 
more of their milk from other outlets. 
However a successful implementation 
of milk&more could reverse this trend. It 
has already made a significant difference 
to the annual decline rate which fell back 
from 10% at the start of the year to 6% at 
31 March 2010. We have maintained this 
improved performance since the year end.
milk&more moves us from being a 
somewhat outdated delivery service firmly 
into the modern day and the feedback 
we are getting suggests our customers 
love the modern approach to a familiar 
tradition. Our milkmen have adapted well 
to the different demands that milk&more 
places on them and appreciate the benefit 
of having to collect less cash because 
customers using milk&more pay either by 
electronic card or direct debit. 
 During the year turnover in the 
Household business fell due to the ongoing 
decline of doorstep deliveries and the 
sale of sixteen unprofitable middle ground 
delivery depots in June 2009. However 
profitability has improved, despite higher 
marketing costs arising from the roll out of 
Dairy Crest’s Household business delivers Country Life fresh milk 
and a wide range of other products. It has 1.3 million residential 
customers, 20,000 business customers ranging from coffee 
shops to hospitals, and supplies milk to around 600 independent 
dairymen, most of whom have their own residential customers Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 29
Business review | Milk Procurement
SUSTAINABLE
 MILK SOURCING 
A strong relationship with our farmers is 
fundamental to our business as we work 
to capture new market opportunities and 
improve efficiencies. Our aim is to continue 
to develop and enhance this relationship 
with our suppliers and find new ways of 
working together. 
 Over the past year we have 
undertaken an extensive consultation 
programme with all groups of our suppliers 
to gain feedback and debate new ideas. 
Together with Dairy Crest Direct (DCD), 
who represents our direct milk suppliers, 
we have reviewed and challenged all 
aspects of our operation and jointly 
identified the key priorities for action. 
 In comparison to previous years, 
2009/10 saw relatively little movement in 
UK milk prices. However we have seen 
in the past that dairy markets and milk 
prices can be subject to significant short-
term price movements and the value of 
price stability is recognised by both our 
suppliers and ourselves. We have worked 
closely with DCD to deliver stable, market 
related milk prices to increase confidence 
and therefore future investment on farm. 
 By taking a partnership approach with 
our farmer suppliers, we are building a 
shared strategy to deliver sustainability 
Business review
Dairy Crest’s Milk Procurement team is responsible for 
providing an efficient and sustainable source of British milk for 
the company’s requirement of 2.2 billion litres of raw milk per 
annum. Around 70% of this milk comes direct from 1,350 direct 
supplying dairy farmers located across England and Wales
and drive efficiency throughout the supply 
chain for the benefit of all parties.
Considerable progress has been made 
over the past 12 months 
Milk supply contracts have been a 
major focus. In reviewing the terms under 
which we buy milk from farmers we have 
responded to their requests for greater 
flexibility and choice. We are working to 
introduce a portfolio of contract options to 
suit different farm business models. The 
first new initiative was the launch of an 
innovative contract aligned to our doorstep 
delivery initiative ‘milk&more’. This has  30 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Business review | Milk Procurement continued
provided a fixed price option to liquid 
suppliers seeking additional price stability 
and security. This has been very well 
received with over 100 of our suppliers 
opting to sign up to this opportunity.
Adding Value – the development of our 
retailer pools continues as we work with 
supplier representatives to explore how to 
implement on-farm initiatives to improve 
efficiency and demonstrate best practice in 
agriculture, particularly in animal husbandry 
and the protection of the environment. In 
addition to the ongoing development of 
existing milk pools, our aim is to maintain 
our approach to add value and introduce 
further alignment of suppliers to customers, 
products or services.
Milk Supply – total UK milk production 
has declined in recent years. Although this 
trend has not been seen within our direct 
supply pool, the market for direct supply 
remains competitive. We continue to work 
to develop new contract opportunities 
and establish clear points of difference for 
both existing and potential new suppliers. 
The volume of milk we purchase from 
direct suppliers has grown to 70% of 
the business’s total requirement and our 
aim is to increase this further through a 
staged recruitment process to reduce our 
exposure to third party supply. 
Supporting Suppliers – the operational 
service we provide to suppliers centrally 
and through local field based managers 
is a key feature of the Dairy Crest offer. 
We also provide additional benefits and 
support including the funding of the unique 
and independent White Gold Service, 
which provides individual advice on how 
to maintain farm assured status and meet 
legislative requirements efficiently. We 
aim to communicate regularly and openly 
with suppliers, through activity including 
routine publications, meetings and events. 
Work continues on improving the speed 
and quality of communication channels 
through new technologies. 
 The Direct Supply Managers are highly 
valued for their operational expertise and 
as part of our strategic review their role 
has been developed - enabling them 
to provide individual business support 
based on efficiency and optimum contract 
performance. 
 In addition, we are working to promote 
awareness of environmental initiatives 
on farm as we continue to explore how 
we can reduce the environmental impact 
of dairy farming and our milk collection 
operation.
Agri assist is the innovative new joint 
venture established with DCD. This 
was launched in January 2010 with the 
specialist carbon measurement tool, which 
will specifically focus on generating farm 
efficiencies and improved profitability. 
Agri assist represents a first for the dairy 
industry as it brings together a farmer 
group and a plc in a relationship outside of 
the traditional milk operation.
 Consumers are becoming increasingly 
interested in where their food comes from 
and how it is produced and we recognise 
that we have to maintain their confidence 
in the dairy supply chain. We continue 
to work with industry organisations, 
including DairyUK and DairyCo, as well as 
our suppliers and customers to meet our 
consumers’ expectations.
 Looking forward we will continually 
challenge how we operate and seek 
to develop innovative solutions for the 
future. Over time we intend to increase 
the amount of milk we buy direct from 
dairy farmers. We also have a role to play 
in developing the next generation of dairy 
farmers and we are involved in a number 
of training initiatives and awards for 
young people, along with educational and 
business skills for farm managers and their 
employees.
 In summary, we aim to develop and 
maintain aspirational partnerships with 
our direct supplying farmers, with shared 
benefits and positive outcomes for all.
Direct Supply Manager (DSM), Chris Mayo, with 
long-standing supplier Andrew Farrant on his farm 
in Oxfordshire. Our DSMs provide advice to our 
suppliers on how they can optimise the returns  
from their supply contracts Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 31
Business review | Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’)
Business review
WE CARE
      WE ACT RESPONSIBLY  
WITH A PASSION  
           TO DO THE RIGHT THING
An integrated approach to Corporate Responsibility
Dairy Crest is a responsible business. During the past year, the 
work we have done in developing our corporate Vision and Values 
has helped us demonstrate our commitment to doing the right 
thing. Corporate responsibility is integrated within our business 
model and increasingly affects the way we do business. 
 Along with many other businesses we have adopted the 
CR model set out by Business in the Community (BITC) and 
have broken down our strategy into four key areas: environment, 
community, workplace and marketplace. These relate directly 
to our corporate values, ‘we listen’, ‘we respect’, ‘we care’, ‘we 
create’ and ‘we lead’.  32 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Business review | Corporate Responsibility continued
Workplace
The safety and wellbeing of our staff is our 
top priority.
Safety
In 2009/10 we continued to work towards 
our three-year target (set in 2007) to 
reduce our Accident Incident Rate (AIR) 
to below the food and drink industry 
average and reduce the number of days 
lost from accidents by 10%. We came 
close to the AIR target of less than 1775 
achieving 2015, which still represents a 
36% reduction over the last 12 months 
and we reduced the number of days 
we lost through accidents by 54%. Our 
success was based on introducing a 
comprehensive ‘think safe, act safe, be 
safe’ campaign.
 Next year we will be introducing a 
new online health and safety learning 
induction programme and we will begin 
the next phase of our behavioural safety 
programme. 
 With hundreds of commercial 
vehicles and professional drivers we have 
introduced a number of initiatives aimed at 
reducing the number of vehicle accidents, 
for example we have established an 
NVQ Carrying and Delivering Goods 
programme in our Household division. 
We are also pleased to have achieved the 
status of being a recognised driver-training 
provider, which means we are able to 
train staff who drive for our company on a 
professional basis. 
 Finally, to ensure that safety doesn’t 
just stop with our staff we have signed 
up to the ‘safer contractor scheme’ 
– which is a leading UK contractor safety 
accreditation scheme.
Wellbeing
As the wellbeing of our staff is important 
we have launched a three-year 
occupational health strategy that includes: 
•  Running regular health and well-being 
promotions across the business
•  Giving all staff over the age of 40 the 
opportunity to have a free health check
•  Completing health surveillance checks 
appropriate to job roles
•  Creating a wellbeing section on our 
intranet
•  Helping our employees get back into 
work sooner following illness or injury
Communications
To help improve communication across 
our business we have introduced a new 
intranet called ‘the gardens’ that all staff 
can access at work and from home. This 
innovative development complements the 
other traditional communication methods 
we use including, face-to-face meetings, 
our staff magazine and monthly ‘Mark 
Lunches’ where staff can ask Mark Allen 
any questions they like. Staff can also 
email Mark directly with ideas or queries 
via ‘Let Mark Know’.
We will be carrying out our third employee 
survey in October 2010 to get the views 
of our staff and we will be responding to 
what they tell us.
Our people
We employ approximately 7,000 people 
across the business. We aim to attract and 
retain the best people, treat everyone with 
respect and help all our people develop 
their potential. We discuss our people and 
developments further in pages 8 to 9.
More information will be available on our online Corporate Responsibility 
report including our targets for 2010/11 – to be published in summer 2010
http://investor.dairycrest.co.uk/corporate-responsibility
 Commitments 2009/10 Targets Progress on 2009/10 Targets 
Workplace Develop inspiring leaders 10% improvement in  10% improvement achieved
  Employee Engagement Index 
 
 Increase the safety of  Accident Incident Rate below Accident Incident Rate – 2015 per 100,000
 our employees 1,775 per 100,000 employees Below target but 36% reduction
Community Our employees to support  £300,000 to be raised Over £450,000 raised
 and raise money for by employees
 Macmillan Cancer Support
Marketplace Offer quality low fat choices:
 •  Country Life   
Spreadable Lighter 
15% of total brand volume
 
Overall 13% of brand volume achieved
 • Clover Lighter  
 • Cathedral City Lighter  
 
 • 1% Milk 12.2 million litres Achieved target
 Engagement with partners  Sign up our top On-going discussions with suppliers
 within the supply chain  10 suppliers to an with view to applying the policy to  
 to drive continuous  environmental/ethical significantly more suppliers 
 improvement to health and  supply policy
 environmental credentials
Environment Reduce CO2 emissions 3% reduction  8% reduction achieved 
 Reduce water usage 3% reduction (9% over 3 years)  A further 1% achieved in year 2
   following an 8% reduction last year 
 Reduce waste to landfill 10% reduction 14% reduction in landfill achieved
This section sets out some of our key commitments, 
targets and progress for the year Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 33
Community
As we grow we are committed to looking 
after our people and the communities 
where we work.
Our staff charity – Macmillan 
Thanks to the superb fundraising efforts 
of our staff since April 2009, we have so 
far raised over £450,000 for Macmillan 
Cancer Support, greatly exceeding 
our 2009 target of £300,000. Through 
joint marketing and helping with their 
awareness campaigns the charity valued 
our partnership in the first twelve months 
at over £500,000.
Our community plan
So that we make a real and positive 
impact in the local communities where we 
operate we have introduced a new local 
community plan that focuses on improving 
health and education and supports 
farming-related good causes through paid 
work-time volunteering and donations.
 The plan is run by 24 local community 
committees representing each of our 
places of work and we have given each of 
them responsibility for their own budget 
and for the decisions they make. 
Environment
We recognise that all of the decisions 
we take have an impact on the wider 
environment we all share. As an organisation 
it is essential that we act responsibly and 
to the highest standards possible. 
Reducing CO2
Over the past year we have continued to 
work with the Carbon Trust on a Carbon 
Management plan which takes our carbon 
reduction targets out to 2020.
 Since 2002/03 we have reduced our 
CO2 emissions per tonne of raw milk 
processed by 34% with an 8% reduction 
in the last year and aim to save a further 
3% in 2010/11. 
 Over the course of this year we will 
be installing two biomass boilers at our 
creamery in Davidstow which, once up 
and running, will deliver a 12% reduction in 
our carbon emissions by 2012.
Reducing water usage
Following last year’s 8% saving in water 
used per tonne of milk processed this year 
we achieved a further 1% reduction 
– we have, therefore, achieved our target 
of a 9% saving over three years, a year 
early, leading to an annual saving of more 
than 300,000 cubic metres. We aim to 
make a further 3% saving this year.
 The reduction in usage means we 
are well on track to meet the Federation 
House Commitment target of a 20% 
reduction from 2007 usage levels by 2020.
Reducing waste to landfill
Our overall aim is to have zero waste going 
to landfill by 2015 where this is proven to 
be environmentally advantageous.
We continue to focus on reducing the solid 
wastes that result from our operations and 
where waste is unavoidable we will look for 
ways of diverting it from landfill by reusing 
and recycling it. Within our household 
depot operations we now recycle plastic 
and cardboard at all depots. 
 At our manufacturing sites we have 
appointed a new waste management 
company to remove our wastes and 
are working closely with them to ensure 
that landfill is minimised. In 2009/10 we 
recycled in excess of 3,500 tonnes of 
waste material. We achieved an overall 
average recycle rate of 48% and aim to 
increase this to 70% in 2010/11. In the last 
quarter of 2009/10 three production sites 
achieved a recycling rate of over 90%.
 We are a signatory of the Courtauld 
agreement and this year we also signed 
up to Courtauld 2. Our Courtauld targets 
and our work with WRAP’s ‘Love Food 
Hate Waste’ campaign are outlined in 
our online CR report (to be published in 
summer 2010).
 Finally we now include 10% recycled 
material in all of our plastic milk bottles 
and JUGIT uses 75% less packaging than 
a standard 2 pint bottle.
 
Minimising milk losses during 
processing
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) is a 
measure of concentration of waste organic 
materials in effluent. We measure COD 
as an indicator of milk loss during our 
processing activities. Some loss during 
cleaning is unavoidable but we aim at 
minimising this. Improvements of over 40% 
have been seen since 2002/03 although 
the last year has been slightly adverse 
due, in part, to improved sampling of high 
fat effluents. We aim to focus on reversing 
this trend in 2010/11 with a year-on-year 
improvement target of 3%.
Marketplace
Making our products healthier
Our vision includes a commitment 
to providing consumers with healthy, 
enjoyable, convenient products. To meet 
this commitment we have developed 
Country Life Spreadable Lighter, Cathedral 
City Lighter, Clover Lighter and 1% milk. 
We are pleased to report significant sales 
growth in all of them.
 Clover Lighter now accounts for 
14% of the brands volume, Country Life 
Spreadable Lighter 13% and Cathedral 
City Lighter 11%. Over the course of 
the year our 1% fat milk has made a big 
impact in Sainsbury’s, Morrisons, and 
Waitrose – with the combined volume 
exceeding 18 million litres. This year we 
have started to roll out 1% milk across our 
Household business.
 As we are committed to seeking out 
and implementing the best and most 
hygenic manufacturing practices possible 
we have given ourselves the target of 
having all of our sites accredited to the 
Quality Management System ISO 9001 by 
2011.
 We continue to have dialogue with the 
Food Standards Agency regarding their 
targets for nutritional dietary improvement 
and we were happy to play a leading role 
in their recent healthy eating campaign. In 
particular, we have agreed to reduce salt 
in our cheese where this can be achieved 
without adverse impact on product quality. 
During the course of the year we have also 
completed the removal of trans fatty acids 
from our range of branded spreads.
 We have supported both the IGD and 
Dairy UK proposals for declaring Guideline 
Daily Amounts on packs as the most 
sensible means of providing consumers 
with meaningful information on nutritional 
status.
Ethical sourcing
Over the course of 2009/10 we introduced 
a bespoke ethical supply policy and gave 
ourselves the initial target of signing up 
10 of our key suppliers. Although we are 
slightly behind schedule with achieving 
this over the course of next year we will be 
looking at extending our policy to a further 
50 suppliers.
 We are aiming to source our palm oil 
from environmentally sustainable sources. 
To help us achieve this we have joined the 
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil.
Improving relationships with our dairy 
farmers
We have around 1,350 direct suppliers 
providing us with 70% of our total milk 
requirements. A strong relationship with 
our farmers is fundamental to our business 
as we work to capture new market 
opportunities and improve efficiencies. 
Our aim is to continue to develop and 
enhance this relationship with our 
suppliers and to find new ways of working 
together. The progress we have made 
against this objective is set out in the Milk 
Procurement report on pages 29 and 30.
Business review 34 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Business review | Financial review
Revenue 2010 2009 Change Change
 £m £m £m %
Cheese 260.0 244.2 15.8  6.5
Spreads 277.7 284.2 (6.5) (2.3)
Dairies 1,081.2 1,108.2 (27.0) (2.4)
Share of joint ventures 1.2 70.3 (69.1) (98.3)
Other 10.8 11.0 (0.2) (1.8)
Total segment revenue 1,630.9 1,717.9 (87.0) (5.1)
Group revenue  
(excluding joint ventures) 1,629.7 1,647.6 (17.9) (1.1)
Overview
This year has seen the Group make good 
progress. We have delivered increased profits 
while increasing investment in advertising and 
innovation to drive our key brands now and in 
the future. Importantly, we have again reduced 
net debt significantly this year and made 
important steps towards further de-risking the 
business.
 We end the year with stronger brands, a 
lower cost base and a more stable business 
and our strategy will continue to deliver on 
these in the future.
Reported Group revenue decreased by 1% to £1,629.7 million. 
Good growth in our key brands and retail milk operations was 
offset by lower ingredients realisations and reduced volumes in 
the Household business and non-strategic brands. Total segment 
revenue reduced by 5% to £1,630.9 million reflecting the sale of 
our 49% share in Yoplait Dairy Crest (‘YDC’) in March 2009.
Segment operating profit is quoted before the impact of 
exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangibles and 
includes our share of joint venture profit after tax. On this basis, 
segment profit was down £3.1 million or 2.8% due to the reduced 
share of profit from joint ventures following the YDC disposal.
 Reported pre-exceptional Group profit on operations 
increased by 4.9% to £96.6 million. We have benefited from being 
a broadly based dairy business and a strong recovery in Dairies 
profits has offset lower margins in our Cheese and Spreads 
segments where, in the current economic environment, levels of 
promotional investment remain high and, in the case of cheese, 
we benefited from stock profits during 2008/09 as selling prices 
increased on the back of milk price increases, but the impact on 
cost of sales lagged due to the long maturation period. 
Segment operating profit 2010 2009 Change Change
 £m £m £m %
Cheese 16.9 34.3 (17.4)  (50.7)
Spreads 54.0 59.5 (5.5) (9.2)
Dairies 34.9 7.9 27.0 341.8
Share of joint ventures 0.1 7.3 (7.2) (98.6)
Total segment profit 105.9 109.0 (3.1) (2.8)
Remove share of joint ventures (0.1) (7.3) – –
Acquired intangible amortisation (9.2) (9.6) – –
Group profit on operations 
(pre-exceptionals) 96.6 92.1 4.5 4.9
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
550
2.0
2.2
2.4
2.6
2.8
3.0
3.2
06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10
06 07 08 09 Mar 
07
451 459 475 491 416 380 337
Sep
07
Mar 
08
Sep 
08
Mar 
09
Sep 
09
Mar 
10
10 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10
1,161.0
1,309.3
1,569.7
1,647 .6
1,629.7
29.4
57.9
74.4
79.8
Adjusted earnings 
per share**  
(pence)
Segment profit* 
(£m)
Operating 
cash flow***
(£m)
Revenue
(£m)
109
131
122
116
15.2
16.2
17 .3
13.0
36.9
41.2
51.7
45.0
44.5
68.8
80.0
104.5
101.7
105.8
119
115
13.6
Net debt
Net debt (£m – left scale)
Net debt / EBITDA (multiples – right scale)
Final dividend 
per share (pence)
Gearing
(%)
* 
Before exceptional items 
and amortisation of 
acquired intangibles; 
excluding joint ventures
**
 Before exceptional items, 
amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and pension 
interest charges / income
 *** 
Cash generated from 
operations less capital 
expenditure Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 35
Exceptional items 
Six exceptional items have been recorded 
in the year, four of which are carried 
over from previous years. These items 
principally represent projects aimed at 
increasing efficiency or de-risking and 
simplifying the business in the future. 
The pre-tax exceptional gain in relation 
to these items was £4.0 million, which 
comprises the following.
 Our new cheese cutting and packing 
operation in Nuneaton became fully 
operational in the first half of the year. 
In 2008/09 and during the first half of 
2009/10, volumes were being ramped up 
with additional packing being carried out by 
a third party. We incurred duplicate running 
costs during this time until the Nuneaton 
site was running at full capacity. In 2009/10 
these costs amounted to £1.5 million.
 In April 2010, the Office of Fair Trading 
(‘OFT’) announced that the parties to the 
2007 Statement of Objections will get a 
penalty reduction provided each company 
continues to co-operate with the OFT.  
The OFT expects to conclude and issue 
its decision by early summer 2010. 
Accordingly, the provision has been 
reduced to reflect our best estimate of  
the penalty ultimately payable along with 
any associated professional fees. This  
has resulted in an exceptional release of 
£2.2 million.
  During the year, having consulted with 
employees, we closed the Dairy Crest 
defined benefit pension scheme to future 
service accrual with an effective date of 
April 2010. The closure of the scheme 
to future service accrual resulted in an 
exceptional curtailment gain of £16.9 
million and significantly reduces future 
pension risks. Fees of £0.6 million were 
incurred resulting in a net exceptional 
credit of £16.3 million.
 Having closed our Nottingham dairy in 
2008/09, the site was sold during the year 
for cash proceeds of £2.5 million resulting 
in an exceptional profit of £1.0 million.
 We announced on 2 February 2010 
our intention to sell a majority share of 
our investment in Wexford Creamery 
Limited (‘WCL ’), a cheese manufacturing 
business in Ireland. The sale had not been 
completed at 31 March 2010, however the 
assets and liabilities of WCL represent a 
disposal group held for sale at 31 March 
2010. The carrying value of WCL assets 
has been impaired by £16.0 million to 
management’s best estimate of the 
business’s fair value less costs to sell.
 On disposal of our 49% share of YDC 
in March 2009, the Group placed cash in 
an escrow account to cover the cost of 
closing the YDC defined benefit pension 
scheme. The final cost of closure was 
lower than anticipated and the Group 
received £2.0 million back from escrow 
(net of fees) during the year.
 
Interest
Finance charges have decreased by £7.1 
million (24%) to £22.4 million principally 
as a result of significantly reduced levels 
of borrowings. At 31 March 2010, all 
borrowings were at fixed rates of interest 
through fixed coupon loan notes or 
interest rate swaps. Short term borrowing 
requirements are met by utilisation of the 
November 2006 and July 2008 revolving 
credit facilities which are at floating rates 
of interest based on LIBOR plus margin.
 Other finance income comprises the 
net expected return on pension scheme 
assets after deducting the interest cost 
of the defined benefit obligation. This 
resulted in a cost of £0.5 million in the 
year ended 31 March 2010 compared 
to £6.9 million income in 2008/09. This 
amount can be highly volatile year-on-year 
as it is dependent upon financial market 
conditions at 31 March, and therefore is 
excluded from our headline adjusted profit 
before tax.
 Interest cover excluding pension 
interest, calculated on total segment profit, 
remains comfortable, at 4.7 times (2009: 
3.7 times).
 
Adjusted profit before tax
The Group’s adjusted profit before tax 
(before exceptional items and amortisation 
of acquired intangibles) was £83.5 
million (2009: £79.5 million). This is 
management’s key Group profit measure 
and the 5% increase has been achieved 
after having invested significantly more in 
marketing our key brands during 2009/10. 
Reported profit before tax reduced from 
£103.2 million in 2008/09 to £77.8 million 
in 2009/10. This reduction is principally 
due to the £50.4 million exceptional 
gain on the sale of our stake in YDC in 
2008/09.
 
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax rate on profits 
excluding exceptional items and including 
joint ventures’ tax was 28.3% (2009: 
26.8% after adjusting for tax on joint 
ventures). The increase in effective rate of 
tax compared to last year is primarily due 
to a higher proportion of St Hubert profits 
and tax (French profits are taxed at higher 
rate). The reported Group effective tax 
rate is 32.5% (2009: 28.0%). Last year’s 
reported effective tax rate benefited from 
the profit on disposal of our share in YDC 
which did not attract tax.
 
Group profit for the year
Reported Group profit for the year 
decreased to £52.5 million (2009: £74.3 
million including an exceptional gain of 
£50.4 million on the sale of our 49% stake 
in YDC).
 
Earnings per share
The Group’s adjusted basic earnings per 
share decreased by 1% to 44.5 pence per 
share (2009: 45.0 pence per share). In the 
year to 31 March 2009, YDC contributed 
£7.1 million of profit after tax and 5.4 
pence per share.
 Basic earnings per share from 
continuing operations which includes the 
impact of exceptional items, pension interest 
and the amortisation of acquired intangibles, 
decreased by 29% to 40.6 pence per share 
(2009: 56.8 pence per share).
 A diluted earnings per share 
calculation, which reflects the impact of 
potential ordinary shares from unvested 
share option schemes, is presented for 
both the basic and adjusted earnings per 
share amounts. 
 
Dividends
The proposed final dividend of 13.6 pence 
per share represents an increase of 4.6% 
on last year’s final dividend of 13.0 pence. 
Together with the interim dividend of 5.3 
pence per share this gives a total dividend 
of 18.9 pence per share for the full year. 
This represents a decrease of 6.0% on  
the dividend declared for 2008/09. The 
final dividend will be paid on 5 August 
2010 to shareholders on the register on  
25 June 2010.
 
Pensions
We have made further progress during 
the year in reducing exposures to pension 
scheme risks in the future. In the first 
half of the year we took out a second 
tranche of insurance for retired members 
meaning substantially all our retired 
membership liabilities are now covered 
by insurance contracts. In the second 
half, after consultation with members, 
we enacted the closure of the defined 
benefit scheme to future service accrual 
with an effective date of 31 March 2010. 
This action significantly reduces the future 
benefit accretion within the scheme and 
therefore reduces funding risks. The 
closure resulted in a one-off exceptional 
curtailment gain of £16.9 million in the year 
ended 31 March 2010. This amount has 
been classified as exceptional along with 
fees relating to the scheme closure. All 
members have been given the opportunity 
to join our stakeholder pension scheme for 
2010/11.
 In addition to the structural changes 
referred to above, we have paid additional 
contributions of £10 million into the defined 
benefit scheme in the second half of the 
year and are committed to paying a further 
Business review Net Assets
The Group’s balance sheet remains robust 
with net assets of £292.8 million (2009: 
£357.0 million). Goodwill, intangible assets 
and property, plant and equipment total 
£794.4 million (2009: £834.2 million). 
Inventories of £153.7 million are £44.1 
million lower than prior year reflecting 
significant reductions in maturing 
cheese stocks and the reclassification 
of inventories in Wexford as assets in a 
disposal group held for sale.
 
Going concern
The financial statements have been 
prepared on a going concern basis as the 
directors are satisfied that the Group has 
adequate financial resources to continue 
its operations for the foreseeable future. 
In making this statement, the Group’s 
directors have: reviewed the Group 
budget, strategic plans and available 
facilities; have made such other enquiries 
as they considered appropriate; and 
have taken into account ‘Liquidity Risk: 
Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 
2009’ published by the Financial Reporting 
Council in October 2009.
Alastair Murray Finance Director
17 May 2010
36 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Business review | Financial review continued
Cash inflows from the sale of businesses 
of £1.2 million comprise the sale of 
certain Household depots in June 2009. 
Furthermore, we received a net amount of 
£1.2 million in relation to the sale of YDC 
comprising pension refund on final closure 
of the pension scheme less cash costs of 
the disposal, most of which were accrued 
at 31 March 2009. In 2008/09 we received 
proceeds of £59.9 million from the sale of 
our 49% share of YDC and £3.2 million 
from the sale of our Stilton and speciality 
cheese business.
 
Net debt
Net debt decreased by £78.6 million 
to £337.2 million at the end of the year 
driven by strong operating cash flows 
and reduced capital expenditure. Net 
debt is defined such that, where cross 
currency swaps are used as cash flow 
hedges to fix the interest and principal 
payments on currency debt, the swapped 
Sterling liability is included rather than 
the retranslated foreign currency debt. It 
also includes any cash held in businesses 
classified as disposal groups held for sale. 
 The Group remains comfortably within 
its covenants with the net debt to EBITDA 
ratio (for covenant purposes) at 31 March 
2010 being 2.4 times (March 2009: 2.9 
times). At 31 March 2010, gearing (being 
the ratio of net debt to shareholders’ 
funds) was 115% (2009: 116%).
 
Borrowing Facilities
Group borrowing facilities comprise 
£307.4 million of loan notes maturing 
between April 2013 and April 2017, a 
£100 million multi-currency revolving 
credit facility expiring in November 2011 
and a £85 million plus €175 million multi-
currency revolving credit facility expiring 
in July 2013. At 31 March 2010 there was 
£295.1 million effective headroom against 
committed facilities (2009: £234.5 million).
Borrowing facilities are subject to covenants 
which specify a maximum ratio of net debt 
to EBITDA of 3.5 times and a minimum 
interest cover ratio of 3.0 times.
 
Treasury policies
The Group operates a centralised treasury 
function, which controls cash management 
and borrowings and the Group’s financial 
risks. The main treasury risks faced by 
the Group are liquidity, interest rates 
and foreign currency. The Group uses 
derivatives only to manage its foreign 
currency and interest rate risks arising from 
underlying business and financing activities. 
Transactions of a speculative nature are 
prohibited. The Group’s treasury activities 
are governed by policies approved and 
monitored by the Board.
£20 million in 2010/11. There is a full 
actuarial valuation currently taking place 
based on 31 March 2010. 
 The total pension deficit at 31 March 
2010 was £142.4 million compared to 
£63.3 million at 31 March 2009 and 
£178.0 million at 30 September 2009. 
The position since March 2009 worsened 
principally as a result of falling corporate 
bond yields, which are used as the 
benchmark rate for discounting future 
scheme liabilities. This more than offset 
the strong asset returns achieved during 
the year, both in equities and bonds. 
The actuarial loss reported in other 
comprehensive income for the year is 
£117.7 million (2009: £118.1 million). The 
March 2010 deficit excludes the deficit 
of £2.0 million in the Wexford Creamery 
pension scheme which, since the 
announcement of our intention to sell 
a controlling stake in that business, is 
classified within liabilities associated with 
disposal group held for sale.
 
Cash flow
We have delivered another year of strong 
cash generation and have substantially 
reduced borrowings. Cash generated 
from operations was £145.9 million in the 
year (2009: £129.1 million). This includes 
a working capital inflow of £25.7 million 
(2009: £19.1 million). This performance was 
driven by significant reductions in stock 
levels, principally maturing cheese stocks.
 Capital expenditure of £26.9 million, 
was £22.4 million lower than last 
year (2009: £49.3 million). Significant 
investment was undertaken last year at our 
National Distribution Centre in Nuneaton 
in order to build and commission a new 
cheese cutting and packing facility. 
Expenditure in the first half of 2009/10 
was reduced, however capital investment 
has increased in the second half of the 
year and is expected to increase further in 
2010/11. Cash receipts from the disposal 
of fixed assets amounted to £10.2 million 
(2009: £22.4 million) however last year’s 
proceeds included £15.5 million from the 
sale of certain plant and equipment at 
Nuneaton, which was then leased back 
under an operating lease.
 Cash interest and tax payments 
amounted to £22.1 million and £10.5 
million respectively (2009: £30.3 million 
and £9.2 million). Interest payments 
are £8.2 million lower than last year 
consistent with the lower interest cost in 
the profit and loss account. Tax payments 
remain low in the UK due to additional 
pension deficit contributions (£10 million 
in 2009/10) on which we receive a tax 
deduction.
  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 37
  Governance
  38 Directors’ remuneration report
 45  Directors’ report
 48 Corporate governance
 54  Statement of directors’  
responsibilities
  Financial statements
 55  Consolidated income statement
 55  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
 56  Consolidated and Parent  
Company balance sheets
 57  Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
 58  Parent Company statement of 
changes in equity
 59  Consolidated and Parent 
Company statement of cash flows
 60 Accounting policies
 66  Notes to the financial statements
 111 Independent auditors’ report
 112 Group financial history
 1 13 Shareholders’ information
The numbers Governance Composition of the Remuneration Committee
The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee of Non-
executive Directors of Dairy Crest Group plc (the ‘Company’). 
During the year the Committee consisted of Neil Monnery 
(chairman), David Richardson (resigned 1 August 2009), Howard 
Mann, Andrew Carr-Locke (appointed 1 August 2009), Anthony Fry 
(resigned 1 January 2010 on becoming Chairman of the Board – 
attends by invitation only from 1 January 2010) and Carole Piwnica 
(Simon Oliver attended meetings by invitation only, until 1 January 
2010 when he resigned as Chairman of the Board). Members 
of the Remuneration Committee have no potential conflicts of 
interest arising from cross-directorships and they are not involved 
in the day-to-day running of the Company. The Committee also 
received materials, assistance and advice on remuneration policy 
from the Company’s Human Resources Director, Rob Tansey. The 
Remuneration Committee has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP (‘PwC’) to provide advice on executive remuneration. During 
the year, PwC also provided other valuation and consultancy 
services to the Group. The Chief Executive attends all meetings and 
provides advice on matters other than those concerning himself.
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the broad policy 
with respect to senior executives’ salary and other remuneration. 
It specifically determines, within remuneration principles agreed 
with the Board, the total remuneration package of each Executive 
Director and reviews with the Chief Executive the remuneration 
packages for other senior executives. A copy of the terms of 
reference of the Committee can be found on the Company’s 
website.   
The Committee met five times during 2009/10. Details of 
attendance are shown in the table on page 11. 
Key developments
2009/10
In 2009/10, the Group delivered a strong performance despite 
the challenging economic environment. Adjusted profit before tax 
increased by 5% to £83.5 million (2008/09: £79.5 million) and 
cash generation was particularly strong with net debt reducing by 
£78.6 million, from £415.8 million at 31 March 2009 to £337.2 
million at 31 March 2010. Payment of annual bonus is subject to 
achieving demanding short-term financial targets and personal 
objectives. The stretch financial targets (encompassing adjusted 
profit before tax and net cash generation) were exceeded in the 
year and Executive Directors met many personal objectives. This 
has resulted in bonus payments for 2009/10 both for Executive 
Directors and all employees who participate in the bonus scheme. 
Awards under the 2007 Long Term Incentive Share Plan (‘LTISP’) 
had a three year vesting period to March 2010. 50% of the total 
award was based on the Company’s Economic Profit (‘EP’) and 
50% was measured against the Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) 
performance of a comparator group of companies. Dairy Crest 
did not achieve the minimum EP target threshold of £85 million 
due principally to reduced profitability over the last 2 years versus 
expectations in July 2007. Nor did the Group meet the TSR target 
threshold and therefore none of the awards will be released and all 
July 2007 share options have lapsed at 31 March 2010. 
2010/11
2010/11 is expected to be another challenging year in light of the 
current economic environment. Our focus will continue to be on 
reducing our cost base, investing in brands and cash generation.
The Committee believes that the current remuneration framework 
continues to provide an appropriate link between reward and 
competitive performance. However, the Committee has made some 
adjustments in 2010, to ensure that the strategy of competitive 
outperformance is sustained in the current market conditions. 
Key changes for 2010/11 are as follows:
•  Base salary increases for Martyn Wilks and Alastair Murray 
will be 2%. Following an external benchmarking exercise on 
Executive Directors pay conducted by PwC, the Remuneration 
Committee concluded that the salary for Mark Allen is behind 
the market. Consequently the Committee has agreed that 
his salary will be increased by 6% to bring him closer to 
competitive market levels. 
•  There continues to be a strong focus on cost control, cash flow 
and profitability. Therefore for 2010/11, performance targets 
for annual bonus will be based on 60% on adjusted profit 
before tax (increased from 50%), 15% on a measure of cash 
generation (decreased from 25%) and the remaining 25% on 
personal objectives. 
•  In respect of long term performance, the achievement of the 
Company’s earnings objectives remains a key priority. The 
Committee has therefore decided to maintain the Earnings Per 
Share (‘EPS’) criteria for the 2010 LTISP awards (EP was used 
from 2006 to 2008). The Committee believes that EPS provides 
greater transparency for shareholders and participants as well 
as a stronger line of sight to focus participants on achieving the 
Company’s earnings objectives. LTISP awards for the 2010 - 
2012 cycle will be based on a balance of growth in EPS (40%) 
and relative TSR (60%).
•  In respect of pension arrangements, the UK defined benefit 
scheme closed to future accrual from 31 March 2010 (subject 
to a transitional arrangement for all members that allows service 
accrual to continue to accrete for an individual’s notice period 
from November 2009). For Mark Allen and Alastair Murray, both 
of whom have notice periods of 12 months, pension service 
accrual ceases in November 2010. In 2010/11, Executive 
Directors have the option to join the money purchase scheme 
that already exists. The employer contribution will be up to 
23% of basic salary. Alternative arrangements are also currently 
under consideration. 
Furthermore, Directors are encouraged to build a shareholding in 
the Company equivalent to one year’s salary and to this end would 
normally retain 50% of net proceeds from share plans and bonus 
share awards until that shareholding is achieved. 
The Committee believes this 2010 remuneration structure will 
enable us to continue to retain and motivate a strong and 
experienced management team, while at the same time reflecting 
the current environment within which we operate, and ensuring 
continued alignment with shareholder interests. However, the 
Committee intends to review the arrangements during 2010 in 
respect of 2011 plans to ensure that they continue to meet the 
Company’s objectives in the longer term in light of the continued 
period of economic change.
38 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Directors’ remuneration report Governance
Summary of remuneration policy for 2010
We ensure that remuneration packages contribute to the delivery 
of long-term shareholder value. This is reflected in the Company’s 
annual bonus scheme and LTISP awards which are explained in 
more detail below.
The remuneration structure and underlying principles on which the 
package is based, reflecting changes for 2010/11 are shown below. 
 
Objective Basis of delivery
Base 
salary
Reﬂect assessment of market 
practice based on role and 
experience. Salary increases 
are linked to performance 
as measured in annual 
performance review
Benchmarked against 
executives with similar 
responsibilities in companies of 
comparable size and complexity
Pension To provide a market competitive 
level of provision with good 
ﬂexibility while minimising risk to 
the Company
Until June 2006 a ﬁnal salary 
pension scheme or cash 
alternative offered. From June 
2006 a deﬁned contribution 
scheme or cash alternative was 
available. No further ﬁnal salary 
pension scheme beneﬁts from  
1 April 2010 – alternatives are 
the deﬁned contribution scheme 
or cash alternative
Bonus Ensure that annual reward is 
consistent with successfully 
achieving the short-term 
strategic objectives of the Group  
Balance of demanding relevant 
short-term ﬁnancial targets 
(proﬁt and cash) and personal 
objectives 
Deferred 
bonus
Ensure appropriate balance 
maintained between long-
term and short-term reward 
and to build up Directors’ 
shareholdings in line with policy
Bonus over 50% of annual 
salary deferred for three 
years and issued in shares 
– conditional on employment 
until vesting date
LTISP Encourage continuing 
improvement in Group’s 
performance over the  
longer term. Alignment of 
interest between participant 
and shareholders 
Three year performance period.
60% subject to relative TSR 
conditions. 40% subject to 
adjusted basic EPS growth 
targets
Make up of remuneration
A significant proportion of a Director’s total remuneration package 
is variable, being subject to the achievement of specified short-term 
and long-term business objectives. In applying this policy the 
Committee has taken account of the provisions of Schedule A of the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance of June 2008 (the ‘Code’).
In the chart below we show the make up of remuneration as a 
percentage of the whole, given on-target performance. It can be seen 
that the fixed elements of pay represent around half of the maximum. 
•  Base salary is taken as amount paid in the year excluding any 
salary supplements in relation to pensions;
•  Benefits are taken as the taxable benefit provided in the year;
•  Pension is taken as (i) as the value of one year’s pension, i.e. 
transfer value of the pension accrued in the year for defined 
benefit schemes or (ii) the amount of Company contributions 
for defined contribution schemes. It also includes any 
cash supplements resulting from contribution caps or non-
membership of any Company scheme;
•  Bonus is taken as the amount that would have accrued for the 
year ended 31 March 2010 for on-target performance; and
•  LTISP awards are based on the fair value in a manner 
consistent with IFRS2.
Components of remuneration
• Base salary
Salary levels for Executive Directors are reviewed annually based 
on an independent assessment of market practice. They are set 
to reflect the pay levels of executives with similar responsibilities in 
companies of comparable size and complexity. Base salaries for 
2009/10 were frozen at 2008 levels.
• Bonus
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for all Executive Directors 
is 100% of annual salary. There are no current plans to change 
the maximum bonus percentage. Payment of the bonus is subject 
to the achievement of demanding short-term financial targets and 
personal objectives. Financial targets comprise 75% of the bonus 
and personal objectives 25%. From 2008/09, 40% of the bonus 
in relation to financial targets has been payable for on-target 
performance. 
To ensure that an appropriate balance is maintained between long-
term and short-term reward, any bonus earned over 50% of annual 
salary is paid in the Company’s shares and deferred for a three 
year period subject to continued employment. 
• Long Term Incentive Share Plan 
The LTISP is designed to encourage continuing improvement 
in the Group’s performance over the longer term. An LTISP 
award is payable in shares, rather than cash, to emphasise the 
alignment of interests between the participants and the Company’s 
shareholders. The LTISP has a three-year performance cycle and 
pre-determined performance conditions, which must be met before 
awards under the LTISP can be exercised. Awards under the LTISP 
are granted annually. 
2009 awards
For the 2009 awards under the LTISP:
•  40% of the total award is based on adjusted basic EPS growth; 
and
•  60% of the total is measured on TSR performance against the 
FTSE 250 (excluding financial service companies, real estate 
companies and investment trusts).
Performance against both EPS and TSR is measured over a three 
year period.
The targets for the 2009 awards are as follows:
LTISP Award TSR element EPS element
Proportion Proportion
of total of total
LTISP award LTISP award
Performance achieved vesting EPS target vesting
Upper quartile 60% RPI + 8% 40%
Median 18% RPI + 3% 12%
Between median Pro rata Pro rata
and median plus 9% pa between
18% and 60%
between
12% and 40%
0
20
40
60
80
100
LTISP
Bonus
Pension
Benefits
Base salary
M Wilks A Murray M Allen
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 39 2008 awards
For the 2008 awards under the LTISP:
•  50% of the total award is based on the Group’s EP. EP is 
defined as net operating profit less a capital charge based on 
capital employed multiplied by the Group’s Weighted Average 
Cost of Capital; and
•  50% of the total is measured on TSR performance against a 
comparator group of food manufacturing companies.
Performance against both EP and TSR is measured over a three 
year period.
The targets for the 2008 awards are as follows:
LTISP Award TSR element EPS element
Proportion Proportion
of total of total
LTISP award LTISP award
Performance achieved vesting EPS target vesting
Median plus 9% pa 50% Maximum 50%
Median 15% Threshold 15%
Between median Pro rata Pro rata
and median plus 9% pa between
15% and 50%
between
15% and 50%
The list of TSR comparators for 2008 LTISP awards is as follows:
Associated British Foods plc Premier Foods plc
Cranswick plc Robert Wiseman Dairies plc
Glanbia plc Tate & Lyle plc
Greencore Group plc Uniq plc
Kerry Limited Northern Foods plc
McBride plc
The value of shares awarded under the LTISP in any financial year 
is subject to limits determined by the Remuneration Committee 
from time to time. The current annual limit for awards is 150% of 
base salary and the maximum awards during the year were 100% 
of base salary. 
• Executive Share Option Scheme
The Dairy Crest Executive Share Option Scheme (‘ESOS’) was 
established on 30 July 1996 for Directors and certain senior 
management and expired in July 2006. A new ESOS was adopted 
at the AGM 2006 (‘ESOS 2006’). Part A is approved by the Inland 
Revenue and Part B is an unapproved scheme. Options are 
granted to participants at prices determined by the Remuneration 
Committee which may not be less than the market price of the 
shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official 
List at the time of grant.
At 31 March 2010, there were no outstanding options under this 
scheme (2009: Nil).
• Sharesave Scheme 
The Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme was first established on 
30 July 1996 and there have been seven grant phases since that 
date. The life of the Sharesave Scheme was extended in August 
2006 to allow options to be granted until the twentieth anniversary 
of flotation, being August 2016. The Sharesave Scheme is open to 
all eligible employees and full time directors. Employees enter into an 
approved savings contract over a three-year term to make monthly 
contributions up to an overall maximum of £250 per month. At the 
end of the term members have the right to buy ordinary shares in the 
Company at a price fixed at the time of the option grant. The price at 
which the options may be offered may not be less than 80% of the 
market price at the time of option grant.
A sharesave grant was made in June 2009 in which approximately 
2,100 employees participated. 
• Pension benefits
During 2009/10, all Executive Directors with the exception of 
Martyn Wilks were members of the Dairy Crest Group Pension 
Fund, which provides for a pension based upon an executive’s final 
basic salary. Bonuses are not pensionable. Benefits are restricted 
by a scheme earnings cap, which is calculated in a similar manner 
to the previous Inland Revenue pensions earnings cap. The 
following supplementary arrangements were in effect:
Mark Allen and Alastair Murray received a salary supplement 
of 20% of base salary above the earnings cap (£123,600 for 
2009/10), which is included in cash allowances in the emoluments 
table on page 41. 
Martyn Wilks was not a member of a Company pension scheme. 
He received a salary supplement of 20% of base salary.
During the year, the Company closed its defined benefit scheme 
to future service accrual with an effective date of 1 April 2010. As 
part of the transitional arrangements, employees whose notice 
periods were six months or greater will receive service accrual up 
to 6 November 2010 (being 12 months from the decision to close 
the scheme to future service accrual). This will apply to Mark Allen 
and Alastair Murray. This service accrual has been included in 
the analysis below. On closure of the defined benefit scheme, all 
members were offered active early retirement terms. This allows 
members to draw their pension early while continuing to work for 
the Company as long as an election was made before 31 March 
2010. Mark Allen made such an election and from 31 March 2010 
receives a pension of £33,227 per annum and a lump sum amount 
of £221,510. Mr Alastair Murray made no election to draw early 
pension payments.
After November 2010, Mark Allen and Alastair Murray will have the 
option to join the Dairy Crest defined contribution pension scheme 
or receive a salary supplement. Alternative arrangements are 
currently being considered and further details will be provided in 
due course.
• Beneﬁts in kind 
These include the taxable value of company car benefits, life assurance 
cover and company contributions to medical insurance plans.
• Service contracts 
In accordance with best practice as set out in the Code, all 
Executive Directors have a notice period not exceeding one 
year. All such Directors’ service contracts provide explicitly for 
termination payments in the event of termination by the Company 
other than on grounds of incapacity or in circumstances justifying 
summary termination. Payments on termination are calculated 
at 70–90% of the value of annual salary, benefits, pension 
and bonus for the notice period. In the case of Martyn Wilks 
and for future appointments, there is a mitigation clause in the 
service contract with respect to termination payments such that 
certain compensation payments are deferred. A summary of the 
service agreements of the Executive Directors is available on the 
Company’s website.
Details of the Directors offering themselves for election and 
re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) are 
set out in the Directors’ Report on page 46.
40 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Directors’ remuneration report continued Governance
Remuneration of the Chairman and of Non-executive Directors
The remuneration of the Non-executive Chairman is determined by the Board following a recommendation by the Chief Executive and the 
Remuneration Committee in consultation with PwC LLP. Remuneration is determined by the Board, also in consultation with PwC LLP. The 
total fees for Non-executive Directors remain within the limit of £400,000 set out in the Company’s Articles of Association (the ‘Articles’). There 
are no pre-determined special provisions for Non-executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office.  
The table below sets out the Non-executive Director fees at 31 March 2010.
Annual fees
Non-executive Chairman £155,000
Non-executive Director (base) £38,000
Audit Committee chair £5,000
Corporate Responsibility chair £5,000
Remuneration Committee chair £5,000
 
The information on pages 41 to 44 is subject to audit, except the details on service contracts on page 42, details of Directors’ shareholdings 
on page 43 and the graph on total shareholder return on page 44.
Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2010
Remuneration (excluding 
payments to defined 
contribution schemes)
Pension payments to 
defined contribution 
schemes
Basic
Cash allowances
salary/fees Pension Other Benefits Bonus
2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2010 2009
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-executive Chairman
A Fry (Chairman from 1 January 2010) 81–––– 81 38 – –
S M D Oliver (resigned 1 January 2010) 116–––– 116 155 – –
Executive Directors
M Allen 475 70 1 27 445 1,018 567 – –
A S N Murray 330 41 1 21 309 702 386 – –
M Wilks 331 66 5 16 311 729 413 – –
M N Oakes (resigned 11 December 2008) –––––– 441 – 45
1,136 177 7 64 1,065 2,449 1,807 – 45
Non-executive Directors
D Richardson (resigned 1 August 2009) 14–––– 14 43 – –
A Carr-Locke (appointed 1 August 2009) 29–––– 29 – – –
H Mann 38–––– 38 38 – –
N Monnery 43–––– 43 43 – –
C Piwnica 43–––– 43 43 – –
167–––– 167 167 – –
1,500 177 7 64 1,065 2,813 2,167 – 45
 
Basic salary, benefits and bonus are defined on pages 39 to 40. Bonuses included above include the full value of any bonus payment 
deferred as shares. For 2009/10 this amounts to £207,813 for Mark Allen, £144,200 for Alastair Murray and £144,900 for Martyn Wilks. 
For 2008/09 there were no bonus payments.
Cash supplements principally comprise pension related salary supplements. Mark Allen and Alastair Murray were members of the defined 
benefit scheme and receive 20% of basic salary above the earnings cap. Martyn Wilks is not a member of any Company pension scheme 
and receives a salary supplement of 20% of basic salary.   
Martin Oakes resigned as a Director of the Company on 11 December 2008 and all remuneration, bonus, pension entitlement and share 
option disclosures for 2008/09 have been presented up to that date. He continued to be employed up to 31 March 2009 and earned a 
base salary of £99,745 between 11 December 2008 and 31 March 2009. His compensation for loss of office of £205,000 was paid in 
accordance with his contract.
Mark Allen acts as chairman of Dairy UK. His fees of £20,000 pa in relation to these services are paid to the Company.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 41 Service contracts
The service contracts and letters of appointment include the following terms.
Executive Directors Date of contract Notice period (months)
M Allen 18 July 2002 12
M Wilks 7 January 2008 12
A S N Murray 20 June 2003 12
Non-executive Directors Letters of appointment Notice period (months)
A Fry 15 July 2009 3
C Piwnica 16 October 2009 3
N Monnery 16 October 2009 3
H Mann 16 October 2009 3
A Carr-Locke 15 July 2009 3
Letters of appointment for all of the Non-executive Directors include a three month notice period. It is the Company’s policy that Non-
executive Directors should not normally serve for more than nine years. A summary of the terms of appointment of Non-executive Directors 
is available on the Company’s website. 
Directors’ pension entitlements
The pension entitlements of the Directors from the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund, a defined benefit scheme, which have been excluded 
from the table on page 41, were as follows:
Accumulated Accumulated Increase Transfer value
total accrued total accrued in accrued of increase
Length of  pension at  pension at  pension during in accrued
service 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 the year pension
Age (years) £000 £000 £000 £000
M Allen 50 19.3 64 55 9 131
A S N Murray 49 7.2 29 22 7 82
The transfer value of each Director’s accrued benefits at the end of the financial year is set out below. The transfer values shown in the table 
have been calculated in accordance with actuarial guidance note GN11. Transfer values are determined based on financial conditions at the 
date of calculation including stock market values and bond yields.      
Directors’ Movements
As at  As at  contributions in less Directors’
31 March 2010 31 March 2009 the year contributions
£000 £000 £000 £000
M Allen 957 555 15 387
A S N Murray 380 215 15 150
Notes:
Length of service includes the 7 months to November 2010, reflecting the transitional arrangement based on notice period that was agreed on the closure of the scheme 
to future service accrual. The accumulated total accrued pension at 31 March 2010 also includes service accrual to November 2010 and, in the case of Mark Allen, 
represents the deferred pension prior to any reduction resulting from his decision to draw early retirement benefits and the early retirement lump sum. 
Mark Allen decided to draw benefits from 31 March 2010 and will receive a pension of £33,227 pa and a cash lump sum of £221,510. Mark Allen’s accrued pension 
immediately before electing to draw it early was £63,931 pa (including seven months’ additional pension service). The future pension payable is less than £63,931 pa due 
to the application of an early retirement reduction and because some pension was exchanged for a lump sum cash payment. The transfer value of £957,000 at 31 March 
2010 is made up of £735,000 in respect of pension and £222,000 in respect of the cash lump sum. Part of the increase in the transfer value over the year is due to the 
benefit being valued as an immediate pension rather than a deferred pension.
The £131,000 transfer value of the increase in accrued pension for Mark Allen (shown above) is made up of £111,000 in respect of pension accrued during the year and 
£35,000 in respect of cash less £15,000 in respect of contributions. The pension value of £111,000 is calculated based on a pension of £5,000, representing the increase 
of £9,000 after reductions for early retirement and exchange of pension for cash lump sum.
The increase in accrued pension excludes the increase in pension due to inflation. The rate of inflation over the year was negative. As a result, pensions have not 
increased from last year as it is not possible to grant a negative increase to pensions.
42 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Directors’ remuneration report continued Governance
Directors’ shareholdings
The (unaudited) interests of the Directors at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows:
 
As at 31 March As at 31 March  As at 31 March As at 31 March  
2010/retirement 2009/retirement  2010/retirement 2009/retirement  
Beneficial Beneficial Deferred shares Deferred shares
S M D Oliver 55,000 55,000 – –
A Fry – – – –
M Allen* 110,000 88,687 18,765 17,498
A S N Murray* 135,078 37,806 14,325 14,293
M Wilks* 18,500 18,500 – –
D Richardson** 22,367 22,367 – –
H Mann 20,000 20,000 – –
C Piwnica 5,000 5,000 – –
A Carr-Locke – – – –
N Monnery 5,000 5,000 – –
*  These Directors are potential beneficiaries of the ESOP. In addition to the shares noted above under beneficial interests they are also deemed to have a beneficial 
interest in all the shares held by the ESOP (see Note 25 on page 91 and Note 26 on page 92).
**  Holding at date of retirement
Shareholdings above exclude options under the LTISP scheme and deferred shares for Executive Directors as part-payment of bonuses are shown 
as a separate column. These shares are released three years after the year in which the bonus was earned. Deferred shares held at 31 March 2010 
exclude any deferred shares to be issued in relation to 2009/10 bonuses. An analysis of the movement in the deferred bonus scheme, including any 
shares vesting, is shown below.
Balance Dividend Balance
Bonus Year of 1 April re- 31 March
year award 2009 Awarded investment Issued 2010
M Allen 2006/07 2007 14,448 – 1,046 – 15,494
2007/08 2008 3,050 – 221 – 3,271
A S N Murray 2005/06 2006 934 – 4 (938) –
2006/07 2007 13,359 – 966 – 14,325
No Director holds a non-beneficial interest in the Company’s share capital. There have been no changes in Directors’ shareholdings between  
31 March 2010 and 17 May 2010. The above interests exclude any rights to acquire shares under the LTISP arrangements, which are set  
out below.
Long-term incentive share plan awards
LTISP performance conditions are set out on pages 39 and 40. The performance periods commence on 1 April in each year and 
conclude on 31 March three years later. Actual and potential awards held by Executive Directors under LTISP at the beginning and end of 
the year, details of actual awards, awards vested during the year and their value are as follows:
Market
Balance Balance price at
Year of 1 April Exercised Exercised 31 March original
award 2009 Awarded – retained – sold Lapsed 2010 award
M Allen 2006 32,954 1,737 (21,313) (13,378) – – 525.8p
2007 73,379 5,308 – – (78,687) – 690.8p
2008 150,484 10,887––– 161,371 328.5p
2009 – 154,268––– 154,268 313.7p
A S N Murray 2005 58,556 3,087 (61,643) – – – 479.4p
2006 32,954 1,737 (34,691) – – – 525.8p
2007 52,182 3,775 – – (55,957) – 690.8p
2008 104,420 7,555––– 111,975 328.5p
2009 – 107,045––– 107,045 313.7p
M Wilks 2008 104,927 7,592––– 112,519 328.5p
2009 – 107,565––– 107,565 313.7p
Notes to the LTISP table:
–  On 15 September 2009, Alastair Murray exercised 61,643 options under the 2005 grant and both Mark Allen and Alastair Murray exercised 34,691 options under the 
2006 grant. 
– Additional shares awarded include reinvestment of dividends.
– The 2007 awards vested at 0%, the 2006 awards vested at 50.0%.
–  LTISP 2008 and LTISP 2009 performance measurement and vesting periods end on 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2012 respectively. Options will be exercisable on  
1 July 2011 and 29 June 2012 respectively.
– The closing share price on 31 March 2010 was £3.72 (31 March 2009: £2.63).
– There were no LTISP awards or exercises between 31 March 2010 and 17 May 2010.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 43 Performance graph
Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 requires companies to provide by 
graph an analysis of their performance over time. The graph below sets out for the five years ended 31 March 2010 the total shareholder return 
of Dairy Crest Group plc and the performance of the Food Producers and Processors sector of the FTSE and of the FTSE 250 index (excluding 
investment companies) of which the Company is a constituent member.
Dairy Crest – Relative Total Shareholder Return over five years
Directors’ sharesave options 
At 31 March 2010 the Directors held the following share options under the Sharesave scheme. 
As at Granted Exercised Lapsed As at Exercise Date when
1 April during the during the during the 31 March price options Expiry
2009 year year year 2010 (pence) exercisable date
M Allen – 771 – – 771 227 01/09/12 01/03/13
A S N Murray* 719 874 – (822) 771 227 01/09/12 01/03/13
M Wilks – 771 – – 771 227 01/09/12 01/03/13
* Alastair Murray exited the December 2007 Sharesave scheme.
Awards granted under the Sharesave scheme in the period from 31 March 2010 to 17 May 2010 amounted to 330 (110 each for  
Mark Allen, Mr Alastair Murray and Martyn Wilks). There were no Sharesave scheme exercises during this period (2009: none).
The mid-market price of the above shares as at the close of business on 31 March 2010 was 372 pence per share. During the year 
between 1 April 2009 and 31 March 2010 the mid-market closing price ranged from 275 pence per share to 418 pence per share. 
Exercise of options
During the year ended 31 March 2010, Executive Directors exercised LTISP options and effected market sales as follows:
LTISP Market Retained Date of
number of price Gain number of exercise/
shares (pence) (£) shares sale
M Allen 34,691 367.5 127,493 21,313 15/09/09
A S N Murray 96,334 367.5 354,036 96,334 15/09/09
The aggregate gain on exercise of options by Directors in the year was £481,529 (2009: £264,344).
On behalf of the Board
Neil Monnery 
Chairman of Remuneration Committee
17 May 2010
Dairy Crest Group plc
FTSE food producers and processors
FTSE 250 (excluding investment companies)
50
100
150
200
March
2010
March
2009
March
2008
March
2007
March
2006
March
2005
44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Directors’ remuneration report continued The Directors of Dairy Crest Group plc (the ‘Company’) present 
their fourteenth Annual Report to shareholders together with the 
audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries 
for the year ended 31 March 2010. The purpose of the Annual 
Report is to provide information to members of the Company. 
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers 
do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to 
whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come 
and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. It 
contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the 
operations, performance and financial condition of the Group. 
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future 
events and circumstances can cause results to differ from those 
anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge 
and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual 
Report and except to the extent required by applicable regulations 
or by law, the Group undertakes no obligation to update these 
forward-looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should 
be construed as a profit forecast.
As the 2009/10 financial year commenced after 28 June 2008, 
references to the Code in this report are to the Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance of June 2008. The relevant parts of this 
report have been reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP and their opinion 
is set out on page 111.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are the manufacture, 
processing and distribution of milk and dairy products. Further 
information can be found within the Business Review section at 
pages 18 – 36.
Going concern
The Group and Company’s business activities, together with 
factors likely to affect future development, performance and 
position are set out in the Chief Executive’s review on pages 14 
to 15, the business reviews on pages 18 to 28 and the review of 
principal risks and uncertainties on pages 16 to 17. The financial 
position, cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the Financial Review on pages 34 to 36. In addition, 
notes 31 and 32 to the financial statements include the Group 
and Company’s objectives, policies and processes for managing 
its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to 
credit risk and liquidity risk. 
As highlighted in note 31, the Company and Group meet day-to-day 
working capital requirements through syndicated revolving credit 
facilities and ensure that forecast net borrowings plus a reasonable 
operating headroom are covered by committed facilities which 
mature at least 12 months after the year end. At 31 March 2010, 
effective headroom was £295 million and the earliest facility to expire 
was a £100 million revolving credit facility in November 2011. Should 
this £100 million facility not be renegotiated and fall away, forecasts 
show that facility headroom would remain adequate.
There were no breaches of bank covenants in the year ended 
31 March 2010 and projections do not indicate any breaches in 
the foreseeable future. Since the reduction of Euro denominated 
borrowings in the year ended March 2009, exchange rate 
fluctuations no longer materially impact our bank covenant tests.
Forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible 
changes in trading performance, show that the Company and 
Group will be able to operate within the level of current facilities.
Having reviewed and taken into account the Liquidity Risk: 
Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by 
the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the Directors 
are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the accounts.
Business review
S417 of the Companies Act 2006 requires that the Company sets 
out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during 
the 2009/10 financial year, including balanced and comprehensive 
analysis of the development and performance of the Group 
during the financial year and the position of the Group at the end 
of the year; together with information relating to environmental, 
employee, social and community matters. In addition, the Company 
is required to provide a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group and to the extent necessary for an 
understanding of the business, the main trends and factors likely 
to affect the future development, performance and position of 
the Company’s business. The information satisfying the business 
review requirements is set out in this report: the Chairman’s 
statement on page 13; the Chief Executive’s review on pages 
14 – 15; the Business Review on pages 18 – 36; the review of 
the principal risks and uncertainties on pages 16 – 17; and the 
Group Key Performance Indicators (‘KPIs’) on page 5; all of which 
are incorporated into this report by reference. The Corporate 
Governance Report forms part of this Directors’ Report and is 
incorporated into it by reference. 
Group results
The Group’s consolidated income statement set out on page 55 
shows a profit for the financial year of £52.5m compared with 
£74.3 million in 2008/09.
Dividends
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 13.6 pence 
(2008/09: 13.0 pence) per ordinary share, which if approved, will be 
paid to members on the register at the close of business on  
25 June 2010. Together, the final dividend and interim dividend 
(5.3 pence per ordinary share paid on 28 January 2010) make total 
dividends for the year of 18.9 pence per ordinary share (2008/09: 
20.1 pence).
Share capital
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company together 
with details of movements in the Company’s issued share capital 
during 2009/10 are shown in note 25 to the financial statements. As 
at the date of this report, 133.3 million ordinary 25p shares were in 
issue and fully paid with an aggregate nominal value of £33.3 million.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the 
Company’s reports and accounts; to attend and speak at 
General Meetings of the Company; to appoint proxies and to 
exercise voting rights. To be effective, electronic and paper proxy 
appointments and voting instructions must be received at the 
Company’s registered office, or such other place in the United 
Kingdom specified in the relevant notice of meeting, not later 
than 48 hours before a general meeting. Subject to applicable 
statutes, there are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on 
the holding of any class of shares and no requirements for prior 
approval of any transfers. None of the shares carries any special 
rights with regard to control of the Company. There are no known 
arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person 
other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements 
on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights. Shares 
Governance
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 45
Directors’ report acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank pari 
passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights. The 
Company established an employee benefit trust in 1996 which in 
certain circumstances holds shares in connection with the Group’s 
employee share incentive plans. As the registered holder the voting 
rights in the shares are exercisable by the trustee. However, the 
trustee does not ordinarily exercise those rights. Changes to the 
Articles must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with 
the legislation in force from time to time. The Company does not 
have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide 
compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a 
takeover except that provisions of the Company’s share schemes 
and plans may cause options and awards granted to Directors and 
employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
Issue of shares
At the AGM on 16 July 2009, shareholders renewed the authority 
for the Board under the Articles to exercise all powers of the 
Company to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £11,105,294. 
Purchase of own shares
At the AGM on 16 July 2009 shareholders granted the Company 
authority to make market purchases of up to 13,326,354 of its 
issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided that: the 
minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 25 
pence (exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes); the maximum 
price (exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes) which may be 
paid for any such ordinary share shall be not more than 5% above 
the average of the middle market values for an ordinary share in the 
Company as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official 
List for the five business days immediately preceding the date of 
purchase. The Company did not exercise this authority during 
the year and made no market purchases. Except in relation to a 
purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded 
before this authority expires and which will or may be executed 
wholly or partly after such expiry, the authority granted shall expire 
at the conclusion of this year’s AGM.
The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of both of the 
above-mentioned authorities or replacement of them with suitable 
alternatives annually at the AGM. Approval will be sought from the 
shareholders at the AGM to renew the authorities for a further year. 
Pensions
On 31 March 2010 the Group’s defined benefit pension fund was 
closed to future accrual. Accordingly, the fund is now in run-off. 
It remains under the control of a corporate trustee, Dairy Crest 
Pension Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises two 
nominees from Dairy Crest Limited and two employee members 
elected by all members irrespective of whether they were active, 
deferred or pensioners at the time. The pension funds’ assets are 
held separately from those of the Group and can only be used in 
accordance with the rules of the pension fund. Pension provision 
for employees is made through a defined contribution pension 
scheme. 
Significant agreements – change of control
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid 
may cause a number of agreements to which the Company or 
its subsidiaries are party to take effect, alter or terminate. The 
agreements that are considered significant are as follows:
Borrowing facilities
Non-compliance with the change of control clauses in the Group’s 
funding arrangements, or failure to reach agreement with the 
parties on revised terms, would require any acquirer to put in place 
replacement facilities. 
Essential contracts
It is vital that the Group is able to source high quality raw milk at 
the most competitive prices. To that end the Group has numerous 
contracts for its supply. While these contracts are collectively 
essential to the business, no single contract nor any single supplier 
of raw milk is critical to the Company’s business. 
The Company also has strong relationships with certain major 
retailers to supply them with liquid milk. Individually these contracts 
are important to the business but not essential.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 14 May 2010, the Company has been notified in accordance 
with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules issued by the Financial 
Services Authority of the following interests of 3% or more in the 
Company’s existing issued ordinary share capital.
Percentage
 of issued
No. of shares share capital
Prudential plc group of companies 6,690,526 5.02%
JP Morgan Asset Management Holdings Inc. 6,647,567 4.99%
Directors
The names and biographical details of the current Directors of the 
Company are given on pages 10 – 11. The names of those persons 
who were Directors during the year but have retired or resigned 
from the Board are included in the table on page 11, together with 
the dates on which they left the Board.
The rules on appointment, reappointment and retirement by 
rotation of Directors are contained in the Articles. A Director may be 
appointed by shareholders’ ordinary resolution or by the Board. The 
current Articles require that all Directors are subject to election at 
the first AGM following appointment and thereafter to re-election at 
least every three years. Andrew Carr-Locke was appointed during 
the year and in accordance with the current Articles, he will retire 
at the 2010 AGM and offer himself for election. In the spirit of best 
practice the Board has decided that starting with this year’s AGM, 
all Directors will retire from the Board annually and other than in 
the case of any Director who has decided to stand down from 
the Board, will offer themselves for re-election. Neil Monnery has 
decided not to offer himself for re-election at the forthcoming AGM. 
The Directors have decided to adopt this policy in advance of any 
requirements on them to do so. It will be enshrined in the new 
Articles which shareholders will be asked to consider and adopt at 
this year’s AGM.
Directors’ interests
Details of the interests in the shares of the Company of the 
Directors holding office as at the date of this report, along with 
those of the Directors who held office during the year but retired 
or resigned from office, and their immediate families appear in the 
Remuneration Report on page 43.
Details of the Directors’ service contracts and letters of 
appointment appear in the Remuneration Report on page 42.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract with 
the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year. Procedures 
for dealing with Directors’ conflicts of interest are in place and are 
operating effectively.
46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Directors’ report continued Directors’ and officers’ indemnities and insurance
The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and 
officers. At its AGM held on 14 July 2005 shareholder approval 
was given for the amendment of the Articles giving Directors and 
officers the benefit of a qualifying third party indemnity provision. 
That indemnity provision has been in force throughout the year and 
remains in force. 
Employees
The Group employs approximately 7,000 people throughout the 
United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, France and Italy and depends 
on the skills and commitment of its employees in order to achieve 
its objectives. Personnel at every level are encouraged to make 
their fullest possible contribution to Dairy Crest’s success. 
Employees are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them 
and on issues affecting the Group’s performance through a variety 
of communications tools, including the Group intranet and the in-
house magazine.
The Group has well-established consultation and negotiating 
arrangements with established trade unions.
Employees are encouraged to acquire shares in the Company 
through participation in the Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme. 
Details of this scheme are set out at page 40 of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
The Board is committed to ensuring that a culture free from 
discrimination and harassment remains embedded within the Group 
and discrimination of any sort is not tolerated. Proper consideration 
is given to applications for employment from disabled people 
who are employed whenever suitable vacancies arise. Wherever 
practicable, staff who become disabled during employment 
are retained. The Group practices equality of opportunity for all 
employees, irrespective of ethnic origin, religion, political opinion, 
gender, marital status, disability, age or sexual orientation.
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies are 
discussed in the Financial Review on page 36 and in notes 31 and 
32 to the financial statements on pages 97 to 109.
Research and development
The Group has adopted a target of delivering part of its annual 
turnover through new product development. Focus continues to 
be on offering consumers a wide product mix and especially, the 
development of lower fat variants of existing products. Dairy Crest 
remains at the forefront of dairy industry developments to reduce 
packaging waste through innovation such as our patented JUGIT 
and milk bag.
Land and buildings
Having obtained an informal valuation of the Group’s land and 
buildings the Directors are of the opinion that the current market 
value in existing use of the Group’s land and buildings slightly 
exceeds their book value.
Supplier payment policy
The Company is a holding company and had no amounts owing 
to trade creditors at 31 March 2010 (2008/09 : £Nil). The Group’s 
creditor days outstanding at 31 March 2010 were 22.5 (2008/09 
24.8) of purchases. The Group has standard payment terms of 60 
days of receipt of invoice. Payment terms for purchases under major 
contracts are agreed as part of the contract negotiations.
Charitable and political donations
No political donations or expenditures were made or incurred 
during the year. Charitable donations amounted to £0.1 million 
(2008/09 : £0.1 million). The Corporate Responsibility section of the 
Business Review at pages 31 – 33 provides additional detail on the 
charitable activities of the Group and its employees. 
Disclosure of information to the auditor
So far as each Director in office at the date of approval of this 
report is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s external auditor (Ernst & Young LLP) is unaware.
Each of the Directors has taken all steps that they ought to have 
taken in performing their roles as directors to exercise due care, 
skill and diligence in order to make themselves aware (i) of any 
relevant audit information and (ii) to establish that the Company’s 
external auditor is aware of such information.
For the purposes of this statement on disclosure of information to 
the external auditor, ‘relevant audit information’ is the information 
needed by the Company’s external auditor in connection with the 
preparation of its report at page 111.
Directors’ responsibility statements
The responsibility statements required under Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 4.1 are set out on page 54.
Annual general meeting
The AGM will be held at Eversheds LLP, 1 Wood Street,
London EC2V 7WS on Tuesday, 20 July 2010 at 11.00 am. The 
notice convening the meeting will be issued separately, together 
with details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes 
relating to each of the resolutions being proposed.
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue as 
auditor of the Company. A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young 
LLP as the Company’s auditor will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
Responsibility statements under the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules
Each of the current Directors listed on pages 10 – 11 confirm that 
to the best of their knowledge:
•  The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; and
•  The Directors’ Report and the Group Operating and Financial 
reviews include a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as 
a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board:
Robin Miller Company Secretary
Claygate House, Littleworth Road, Esher,
Surrey KT10 9PN
Registered in England and Wales No. 3162897
17 May 2010
Governance
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 47 This report for shareholders sets out Dairy Crest’s approach to and 
compliance with the principles contained in the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council 
in June 2008 and explains any departure from its provisions. This 
report has been prepared following the main principles of the Code. 
Those not referred to in this report are dealt with elsewhere in the 
Annual Report. The relevant parts of this report have been reviewed 
by Ernst & Young LLP and their opinion is set out on page 111.
The Board 
Code main principle A.1: “Every company should be headed by an 
effective board, which is collectively responsible for the success of 
the company.”
Dairy Crest’s Board recognises its responsibility to provide 
entrepreneurial and responsible leadership to the Group within a 
framework of prudent and effective controls (described below) allowing 
assessment and management of the key issues and risks impacting 
the business. The Board sets Dairy Crest’s overall strategic direction, 
reviews management performance and ensures that the Group has the 
necessary financial and human resources in place to meet its objectives. 
The Board is satisfied that the necessary controls and resources exist 
within the Group to enable these responsibilities to be met.
The Board also ensures that the principal goal of the Company is to 
create shareholder value, while having regard to other stakeholder 
interests and takes responsibility for setting the Company’s values 
and standards. Accordingly, the long-term interests of shareholders, 
together with consideration of the wider community of interests 
represented by employees, customers and suppliers, and community 
and the environment are factored into the Group’s management 
processes. They are reinforced through employee participation in 
share ownership plans. Appropriate account is also given to social, 
environmental and ethical issues within the Company’s control and 
risk assessment processes. The steps taken to achieve these goals 
are communicated to shareholders and other interested parties 
through the Company’s External Affairs Director, the Company’s 
website (www.dairycrest.co.uk) and to employees via the Group 
intranet and through formal and informal briefings and newsletters. 
Through formal policies (summaries of which are published on the 
Company’s website) the Board seeks to engender a culture where 
business ethics, integrity and fairness are values that all employees 
endorse and apply in their everyday conduct.
During 2009/10, the Company continued its programme of 
embedding its core values with employees. Details of activity 
undertaken during the year are set out in the Corporate 
Responsibility Report on pages 31 to 33. Further details will be 
provided in the online Corporate Responsibility Report which will be 
published on the Company’s website in the summer.
In 2009/10 the Board met eight times, one of those meetings was 
held at the Group’s national distribution centre in Nuneaton. Details 
of Directors’ attendance at meetings during the year are set out in 
the table at page 11. 
There is a documented schedule of matters reserved to the Board 
including strategy and management, financial structure and capital, 
reporting and controls, Board and Committee appointments, 
executive remuneration, dividend policy and corporate governance 
compliance. During 2009/10, the Board received regular briefings 
upon the Group’s performance (including detailed commentary and 
analysis) and key issues and risks affecting the Group’s business. 
Amongst other matters, it reviewed the content of the Group’s risk 
register and the Group’s Health & Safety policies, processes and 
performance. Reports on Group operations, human resources, 
governance and regulatory matters affecting the Group were 
provided to the Board on a regular and timely basis. Briefings 
on market activity, together with the views of shareholders and 
analysts on the Company, were also provided to the Board. 
The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover for Directors and 
Officers and in 2005 the Articles were amended to provide that the 
Company shall indemnify its Directors and other Officers out of the 
assets of the Company to the extent permitted by law.
The Chairman periodically meets individually or collectively with the 
Non-executive Directors in the absence of Executive Directors. The 
process for appraising the Chairman’s performance is set out on 
page 50.
Board committees
Summary
There are five principal Board Committees: Audit; Remuneration; 
Nomination; Corporate Responsibility; and the Management 
Board. The roles and responsibilities of each of these Committees 
are detailed below. All the Audit and Remuneration Committee 
members and a majority of Nomination Committee members 
are independent Non-executive Directors under the Code. 
The Committees are provided with sufficient resources via the 
Company Secretariat and, where necessary, have direct access to 
independent professional advisers to undertake their duties.
Audit Committee 
Andrew Carr-Locke was appointed chairman of the Audit 
Committee on 1 August 2009 when David Richardson, who 
had during the year until then chaired the Committee, stood 
down from the Board. The other members are Howard Mann, 
Neil Monnery and Carole Piwnica. Anthony Fry was a member 
until he stood down from the Committee on his appointment as 
Chairman. Andrew Carr-Locke is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute 
of Management Accountants. Consistent with the Guidance 
on Audit Committees (formerly known as the Smith Guidance), 
all members of the Committee are independent Non-executive 
Directors. Andrew Carr-Locke is deemed by the Board to be the 
Audit Committee financial expert with recent and relevant financial 
experience and independent for the purposes of the Code. All of 
the Committee members have extensive commercial experience 
(see page 11). Further information on the Company’s application of 
the Code and on the Audit Committee and its work during the year 
is set out in its report on pages 52 and 53.
Remuneration Committee 
Neil Monnery has chaired the Remuneration Committee for the 
year ended 31 March 2010. The other members of the Committee 
are Andrew Carr-Locke, Howard Mann and Carole Piwnica. David 
Richardson was a member of the Committee until his resignation 
from the Board on 1 August 2009 as was Anthony Fry until his 
appointment as Chairman on 1 January 2010. The Committee met 
five times in 2009/10. Details of Directors’ attendance at meetings 
during the year are set out in the table at page 11. A detailed 
description of the Committee’s remit and work during 2009/10, 
including further information on the Company’s application of the 
principles of the Code, is contained in the Remuneration Report 
(which was approved by the Board) on pages 38 to 44. Its terms of 
reference comply with the Code, are available on request and are 
published on the Group’s website. The full terms and conditions of 
appointment of the Company’s Non-executive Directors are available 
for inspection at its registered office and a summary is available on 
the Group’s website. The chairman of the Committee provided a 
report to the Board following each meeting of the Committee.
48 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Corporate governance Nomination Committee 
As the Committee was leading the process for the appointment 
of Simon Oliver’s successor as Chairman, in accordance with 
the Code, Simon Oliver stood down as its chairman (remaining a 
member until 31 December 2009) and Howard Mann now chairs 
the Committee. The Committee’s other members are Anthony 
Fry, Neil Monnery, Andrew Carr-Locke and Carole Piwnica. 
David Richardson was a member of the Committee until his 
resignation from the Board. The Committee meets as and when 
required. During the year it met twice and details of Directors’ 
attendance at that meeting during the year are set out in the table 
at page 11. Company executives and advisers attend meetings 
by invitation only. The Committee updates the Board and makes 
recommendations as and when required.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are 
available on request and are published on the Group’s website. 
The Committee is responsible for succession planning at Board 
level, overseeing the selection and appointment of Directors and 
making its recommendations to the Board. It is also responsible, 
in conjunction with the Chairman, for evaluating the commitments 
of individual Directors and the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board and ensures that the membership of 
the Board and its principal committees are refreshed periodically. 
Where appropriate, the Committee will prepare an outline of the 
role and capabilities required for particular appointments and use 
an external search consultancy and/or advertising in relation to 
Board appointments.
During 2009/10, its focus remained on succession planning for the 
Board. With the assistance of external consultants the Committee 
led an internal and external search for candidates to succeed 
Simon Oliver. Having been identified as a potential candidate, 
Anthony Fry took no part in the Committee’s consideration of 
a suitable successor for Simon Oliver. The Committee also led 
a successful search process, with the assistance of external 
consultants, resulting in the appointment of Andrew Carr-Locke.
Corporate Responsibility Committee 
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is chaired by Carole 
Piwnica. The Committee, whose other members are Anthony Fry, 
Howard Mann, Neil Monnery, Andrew Carr-Locke, Mark Allen, 
Arthur Reeves (Director of External Affairs), Rob Tansey (Group 
Human Resources Director) and Robin Miller (Company Secretary 
& General Counsel), oversees the Group’s corporate responsibility 
programme and ensures that key social, ethical and environmental 
risks are identified, assessed and prioritised accordingly. Mark 
Allen, Arthur Reeves, Rob Tansey and Robin Miller were appointed 
to the Committee on 28 January 2010. Until his resignation from 
the Board on 1 August 2009, David Richardson was a member of 
the Committee. Terms of reference for the Committee are available 
on request and are published on the Group’s website. Details 
of the Committee’s activities during 2009/10 are set out in the 
Corporate Responsibility Report at pages 31 to 33.
Management Board 
The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which 
comprises the other Executive Directors, the Company Secretary 
& General Counsel and the Group Human Resources Director. 
Other senior executives, such as the Director of Group Financial 
Control and Director of Corporate Development attend by invitation. 
The Management Board is responsible, amongst other matters, 
for implementing the Group’s strategic direction, monitoring the 
performance of the business and its control procedures on a day-
to-day basis. Members normally meet weekly.
Other committees 
The Group’s Strategy and Policy Leadership Team, chaired by 
the Chief Executive, which consists of Executive Board members 
and other senior executives meets periodically. The Strategy and 
Policy Leadership Team is used to assist the Executive Directors 
in the execution of their duties by helping to shape and influence 
the Group’s strategy and policy. Through its diverse membership 
representing the various constituencies of the Group it helps 
to ensure that key stakeholders are consulted and have the 
opportunity to input into the design and preparation of the Group’s 
strategy, policy and key business decisions. Within each of the 
Group’s business units there are operating boards responsible for 
monitoring the performance of those business units. To ensure 
consistency of approach and cross-learning, members of the 
Strategy and Policy Leadership Team also chair Group leadership 
teams responsible for the following areas: finance; information 
technology / systems; supply chain; human resources; innovation; 
marketing; sales; vision & values; Health & Safety. Reports are 
provided from these various leadership teams, as appropriate, to 
the Management Board, the Strategy and Policy Leadership Team 
and the Board.
Chairman and chief executive
Code main principle A.2: “There should be a clear division of 
responsibilities at the head of the company between the running 
of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the 
company’s business. No one individual should have unfettered 
powers of decision.”
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of 
Chairman (who serves in a non-executive capacity) and Chief 
Executive which is set out in writing and which has been approved 
by the Board. 
Board balance
Code main principle A.3: “The board should include a balance of 
executive and non-executive directors (and in particular independent 
non-executive directors) such that no individual or small group of 
individuals can dominate the board’s decision taking.”
As at the date of this report, the Board comprises three Executive 
Directors and four Non-executive Directors (excluding the 
Chairman). Anthony Fry is Non-executive Chairman and Mark Allen, 
Chief Executive; Alastair Murray, Group Finance Director; Martyn 
Wilks, Executive Managing Director (Foods); Andrew Carr-Locke, 
Non-executive Director and chairman of the Audit Committee; 
Howard Mann, Non-executive Director and Senior Independent 
Director and chairman of the Nomination Committee; Neil Monnery, 
Non-executive Director and chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee; and Carole Piwnica, Non-executive Director and 
chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Biographies of each of the current Directors, their responsibilities 
and principal Board Committee memberships can be found on 
pages 10 and 11.
During 2009/10, all the Non-executive Directors (including 
the Chairman) confirmed to the Board that they had sufficient 
time available to fulfil their obligations as Directors and, should 
any individual’s position change, that they would inform the 
Board. Details of the Chairman’s other significant professional 
commitments are included in his biography (page 11).
The Board considers all the Non-executive Directors to be 
independent. Anthony Fry was considered independent on his 
appointment as Chairman. The Code states that the test of 
Governance
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 49 independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after 
his appointment.
Appointments to the Board
Code main principle A.4: “There should be a formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the 
board.”
Appointments to the Board and its Committees are reserved 
for the Board, based on recommendations from the Nomination 
Committee. The appointment and removal of the Company 
Secretary is a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
Information and professional development
Code main principle A.5: “The board should be supplied in a timely 
manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate 
to enable it to discharge its duties. All directors should receive 
induction on joining the board and should regularly update and 
refresh their skills and knowledge.”
Under the Chairman’s stewardship the Company Secretary 
advises the Board on all governance matters and ensures Board 
procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations 
complied with.
The Company Secretary ensures that Directors undergo a 
comprehensive induction programme on appointment. Andrew 
Carr-Locke’s induction programme included visits to a number of 
the Group’s main operating sites (Foston, Nuneaton, Crudgington, 
Severnside, Frome and Davidstow). He visited the Group’s milk 
delivery depot at Purley (South East London) and undertook a 
milk round accompanying a milkman based there. He also met 
with management and staff representing a cross section of the 
business including at the Group’s Aldershot offices (Household 
Division) and at the Group’s head office in Esher. Particularly in light 
of his appointment as chairman of the Audit Committee, he also 
met with the Group Finance Director, Director of Group Financial 
Control, Head of Group Internal Audit and the Ernst & Young LLP 
engagement partner. 
Directors variously receive independent training on technical 
accounting and other governance related matters from professional 
service providers and institutions and bulletins from the Group 
on developments in the dairy sector generally. Through meetings 
and presentations by management below Board level and visits 
to operational sites, the Directors keep abreast with the Group’s 
business.
All Directors individually, and each of the Board Committees, have 
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretariat and 
the Secretary. They all receive from the Company Secretariat a regular 
report on corporate governance issues. There are also procedures 
in place enabling Directors in the furtherance of their duties to seek 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense.
Performance evaluation
Code main principle A.6: “The board should undertake a formal and 
rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its 
committees and individual directors.”
The Board conducts an annual evaluation of individual Director’s 
performance, its own performance and that of its Committees. The 
evaluation process, designed to improve the Board’s effectiveness, 
is normally conducted as follows:
•  Following completion of a self-assessment questionnaire by 
each Director, the Chairman meets with them individually to 
appraise their performance and effectiveness and to identify any 
training requirements.
•  Each Director completes a questionnaire appraising the 
Chairman’s performance. Using the output from the completed 
questionnaires the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior 
Independent Director, meet in the absence of the Chairman to 
evaluate the Chairman’s performance. The Senior Independent 
Director then meets with the Chairman to discuss the outcome 
of the evaluation of his performance, following which the whole 
Board considers the Chairman’s performance with him.
•  The Chief Executive appraises the performance of the other 
Executive Directors with regard to their management and 
operational responsibilities in accordance with the Company’s 
normal performance and development review procedures.
•  Having dealt with individual Director’s performance, the 
Board collectively considers the output of the evaluation 
questionnaires in so far as they relate to the effectiveness of the 
Board in general and its Committees.
The Board’s evaluation of individual Director and Board 
performance for 2009/10 was conducted in March 2010. In 
accordance with its normal practice each Director completed 
individual self-assessment, Board and Committee evaluation and 
Chairman’s performance assessment questionnaires. As the 
Chairman had only been appointed to that role effective 1 January 
2010, in a departure from normal practice, the Board decided that 
a collective review of performance in 2009/10 would be the most 
effective and appropriate evaluation method. The Board focused 
on a review of Board practices, focus, efficiency and effectiveness 
and activity for the coming year, as well as how Anthony Fry 
could best add value to the Board and Group in his new role as 
Chairman. The performance evaluation process showed that Board 
processes and frequency of meetings were satisfactory, that the 
level of information provided was good and that Board relationships 
were strong with open debate on all subjects. The Board was 
satisfied that its Committees operated effectively but could be 
further enhanced by tailoring the composition of certain of them. In 
the case of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, membership 
has been extended to include the Chief Executive and senior 
executives.
Re-election
Code main principle A.7: “All directors should be submitted for 
re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory 
performance. The board should ensure planned and progressive 
refreshing of the board.”
The current Articles require that all Directors are subject to election 
by shareholders at the first AGM following appointment and 
thereafter to re-election at least every three years. Details of the 
Directors retiring and standing for re-election at the 2010 AGM are 
set out at page 46 in the Directors’ report.
The contribution that each of the candidates seeking re-election 
by shareholders makes to the Group was evaluated by the Board. 
Having regard to the roles that they perform and individual input 
and contribution they make, the Board concluded that each 
candidate’s performance more than justified nomination for re-
election by shareholders.
50 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Corporate governance continued Governance
Risk management and internal controls
Code main principle C.2: “The board should maintain a sound 
system of internal control to safeguard shareholders’ investment 
and the company’s assets.”
Introduction 
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring a sound system 
of internal control and risk management. The schedule of written 
matters reserved to the Board ensures that the Directors are 
responsible for the control of, amongst other matters, all significant 
strategic, financial and organisational risks.
An overview of some of the principal risks surrounding the Group 
is set out at pages 16 to 17 which are incorporated by reference 
into the Directors’ Report. To manage these and other commercial 
and operational risks the Group has an established programme that 
assists management throughout the Group to identify, assess and 
mitigate business, financial, operational and compliance risks on a 
continuous basis. The Board views management of risk as integral 
to good business practice. The programme is designed to support 
management’s decision making and to improve the reliability of 
business performance.
Internal controls 
The Directors have overall responsibility for the Group’s system 
of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its 
effectiveness to support its strategy and objectives. The systems 
of internal control are based on an ongoing process of identifying, 
evaluating and seeking to manage key risks and includes the 
preparation and refreshment of divisional risk registers and the 
Group risk register together with appropriate risk mitigation 
activities along with the other risk management processes set out 
at pages 16 to 17. The systems of internal control were in place 
throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual 
Report and financial statements. The effectiveness of these systems 
has been periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee and the 
Board, in accordance with the Turnbull Committee Guidance on 
Internal Control (revised October 2005).
Control systems 
The main components of the organisation for internal control are 
summarised below. Their foundation is in the considerable value 
that the Group places, throughout its activities, on seeking to 
ensure that employees are of the highest quality and integrity. 
Formal control is exercised through a management structure, 
which includes clear lines of responsibility and documented 
delegations of authority from the Board. Processes underpinning 
the financial reporting systems are managed and monitored by line 
and functional management and regular reporting. Separately, the 
effectiveness of these internal controls is reviewed by an Internal 
Audit function that operates on a Group wide basis. It reports its 
results to the executive management team and directly to the Audit 
Committee. These controls and processes have been in place for 
the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual 
Report and Accounts.
•  Board – the Board exercises its responsibilities through 
an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of 
responsibility and rules relating to delegated authorities. The 
Board meets regularly throughout the year and receives oral 
and written presentations to maintain control over strategic, 
financial, operational and compliance matters. The Management 
Board is responsible for monitoring financial performance, 
assessing capital expenditure proposals, agreeing media 
spend, senior management appointments and embedding risk 
management and controls in the Group. The Managing Director 
of each Division, in conjunction with senior management, 
operates and maintains controls appropriate to its own activities 
which conform to Group policies and procedures.
•  Financial reporting – there is an annual budget presented to 
and approved by the Board which includes consideration of 
the major business and financial risks, an assessment of the 
likelihood of crystallisation and actions in place to mitigate these 
risks. Each Division is required to report monthly to the Board 
on financial performance. Monthly financial information includes 
trading results, balance sheet and cash flow information by 
business Division with comparison against prior year and 
budget. Each Division periodically reassesses its forecast for the 
financial year. Annually, a strategic plan is also presented to the 
Board, which reviews financial projections for the following three 
years and includes consideration of current and likely future 
strategic, operational and market environment matters. The 
Audit Committee with input from the Group’s Internal Auditors 
exercises oversight over the Group’s control processes 
designed to ensure the integrity of internal and external 
financial reporting. The use of a standard accounting manual 
by finance teams throughout the Group and a robust system 
of monthly reconciliation and review ensures that transactions 
and balances are recognised and measured in accordance 
with prescribed accounting policies and that information is 
appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting 
process. The use of a standard general ledger structure and 
one chart of accounts ensures that information is gathered and 
presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of 
the consolidated financial statements.
•  Accounts Reviews – the performance of each business 
Division and its management of the risks related to it are 
reviewed monthly by the Chief Executive, Group Finance 
Director, Executive Managing Director (Foods), Director of 
Group Financial Control, External Affairs Director and other 
senior managers in Accounts Review meetings. Amongst 
other matters the review includes a detailed analysis of each 
Division’s key risks and plans for mitigation as well as the 
continued appropriateness of those risks. As part of the continual 
risk management cycle, additional key risks together with plans 
for mitigation are, as appropriate, added to each Division’s risk 
register. Divisional risk registers are further summarised into a 
Group risk register which is reviewed by the Board.
•  Business Division reviews – on a quarterly basis, each 
business Division is required to complete a self-assessment 
controls questionnaire that requires the approval of business 
unit management. In addition, the Audit Committee and the 
Management Board receive copies of all Group Internal Audit 
reports which detail audit issues noted and corrective action 
plans. They also receive reports from the external auditor on 
the conclusions of their interim review and final audit.
Control of significant risks 
As required by the Code, the Board has established an ongoing 
process, in accordance with the Turnbull Committee Guidance 
On Internal Control (revised October 2005), to identify, evaluate 
and manage significant risks faced by the Group. During the 
year the Audit Committee reviewed the Group’s risk register 
process and endorsed the process described here and on pages 
16 to 17 which is intended to ensure a continual appraisal and 
re-appraisal of risk, the on-going relevance of the Group’s risk 
registers and that they are embedded in the Group as an every-
day tool for the management of risk. This process, approved by 
the Board following review by the Audit Committee, includes the 
consideration of Divisional and Group registers identifying and 
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 51 evaluating the significant Divisional and Group risks and related 
financial, operational and compliance controls. With oversight from 
the Board and Audit Committee (which uses the services of the 
Group Internal Audit function), individual members of the Group’s 
senior management team are responsible for the ownership and 
mitigation of significant risks. The Audit Committee, the Board, the 
Management Board and senior management in Accounts Reviews 
regularly review the identified risks, changes in their status and the 
composition of the Group’s risk matrix.
Function of controls 
During the year the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal control. The systems of internal control 
are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives. They can only provide reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses, fraud 
or breaches of laws and regulations. The Group’s systems of risk 
management and control have been used in the process for the 
preparation of the consolidated Accounts. 
Report of the Audit Committee
Code main principle C.3: “The board should establish formal 
and transparent arrangements for considering how they should 
apply the financial reporting and internal control principles and 
for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the company’s 
auditors.”
Members
Details of the members of the Committee are set out at page 48 
with details of their attendance at meetings during the year being 
set out in the table at page 11.
Terms of reference
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference (available on request 
and published on the Group’s website) comply with the Code. 
In March 2010 the Audit Committee reviewed and refreshed 
its terms of reference including, amongst other matters, their 
continued compliance with the requirements of the Code, the 
Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control (October 2005) and the 
Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees (2008). 
Under its terms of reference, the Committee is responsible for 
providing advice to the Board on the Group’s interim and financial 
statements; on accounting policies and on the control of its 
financial and business risks as well as reviewing the work of the 
internal and external auditors.
Frequency of meetings
The Audit Committee met four times in 2009/10. The chairman 
of the Audit Committee provided a report on the work of the 
Committee and any significant issues that may have arisen at the 
Board meeting following each Committee meeting.
Attendees at meetings 
The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Chairman and 
other senior management attend Committee meetings by invitation 
of the Committee. Representatives of the Group’s external auditor 
and the head of Group Internal Audit also attend these meetings 
by invitation. In 2009/10, the external and internal auditors attended 
all meetings, had direct access to the Committee during the 
meetings and time was also set aside for them to have private 
discussions (jointly and independently) with the Committee, in the 
absence of management.
Audit Committee activity
During 2009/10, the Committee’s work schedule embraced the 
Code requirements to:
•  Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, 
and any formal announcements relating to the Group’s financial 
performance, including reviewing significant financial reporting 
judgements and any disclosures contained in them.
•  Review the Company’s internal financial controls and its 
internal control and risk management systems and to make 
recommendations to the Board.
•  Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s Internal 
Audit function.
•  Make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the 
shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation 
to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the 
external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the external auditor.
•  Review and monitor the external auditor’s independence and 
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking 
into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory 
requirements.
•  Review the Group’s policy on the engagement of the external 
auditor to supply non-audit services and report to the Board, 
identifying matters in respect of which it considers action or 
improvement is needed and make recommendations as to the 
steps to be taken.
The Committee’s work during the period and up to the date of this 
report included:
•  Reviewing the Interim Financial Statements, Preliminary 
Announcement and the Annual Report and Accounts prior to 
their submission to the Board. In doing so it took into account 
the external Auditor’s view and considered reports from 
financial management and Group Internal Audit.
•  Reviewing significant accounting policies, financial reporting 
issues and judgements used in the preparation of the 
Company’s Preliminary Announcement and Interim and Final 
financial statements.
•  Reviewing management’s Letters of Representation in 
connection with the Company’s financial statements and the 
Auditor’s Management Letter.
•  Reviewing areas where control weaknesses had been identified 
by Group Internal Audit or the external Auditor and monitoring 
the mitigation and remediation plans of management.
•  Reviewing the regular reports of the external Auditor including 
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls.
•  Receiving and reviewing regular reports from the Group’s 
Internal Audit function.
•  Approving the external audit plan (including audit scope, level of 
materiality, resources dedicated to the audit engagement, the 
seniority expertise and experience of the engagement team), 
and satisfying itself as to the appropriateness and adequacy of 
the plan.
•  Evaluating the performance of the external Auditor and 
satisfying itself as to the effectiveness of the audit.
•  Reviewing the Group’s risk management processes and 
controls; and their effectiveness.
•  Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s whistle blowing 
procedures and satisfying itself that they allow for appropriate 
investigation and suitable follow up actions.
•  Reviewing the effectiveness of the Committee.
52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Corporate governance continued Governance
External auditor
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with 
the external Auditor.
During the year, the Committee:
•  Approved the Audit Engagement Letters and fee proposal, and 
satisfied itself as to the Auditor’s ability to conduct an effective 
audit for such fee.
•  Reviewed and assessed the external Auditor’s independence 
and objectivity taking into account relevant UK professional and 
regulatory requirements. In doing so the Committee reviewed 
the external Auditor’s own policies and procedures to safeguard 
its objectivity, independence and integrity together with its 
representations as to independence. The Committee received 
assurances from the Audit Engagement Partner that the 
external Auditor’s reward and remuneration structure includes 
no incentives for audit engagement partners to cross sell non-
audit services to audit clients.
•  Approved the annual Audit Plan and ensured that it was 
consistent with the scope of the Audit Engagement.
•  Reviewed the findings of the audit, including discussion of any 
major issues arising, any accounting and audit judgements 
and the internal control reports (including responses from 
management and any proposed remedial action).
•  Reviewed the effectiveness of the audit and the external 
Auditor.
Internal audit function
The Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its 
responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans 
of the Group Internal Audit function. In doing so, the Committee:
•  Reviewed and assessed the annual Internal Audit Plan and 
progress against it throughout the year.
•  Reviewed all reports on the Group from Internal Audit.
•  Reviewed the interaction between the Internal Audit function 
and external Auditor.
•  Reviewed and monitored management’s responsiveness to the 
findings and recommendations of Group Internal Audit.
•  Reviewed a report from the head of Group Internal Audit on risk 
management & control.
•  Reviewed Group Internal Audit’s charter dealing with that 
function’s role, scope, resourcing, reporting responsibilities, 
organisational independence and assessment.
•  Reviewed and endorsed a proposal for independent review of 
the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit.
Reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP
Ernst & Young LLP was first appointed as external Auditor to the 
Company in 1996. There are no contractual restrictions on the 
Company with regard to its appointment. The Audit Committee has 
not considered it necessary since its initial appointment to require 
the firm competitively to tender for the audit work. In the light of 
the assessments and review undertaken and having considered a 
recommendation of the Committee to re-appoint Ernst & Young 
LLP as the Company’s and Group’s external Auditor, the Board 
endorsed the Committee’s recommendation which was approved 
by shareholders in July 2009.
At its meeting in May 2010, the Audit Committee considered the 
appropriateness of the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as 
the Group’s external Auditor for the 2010/11 year. In doing so it 
reviewed the public report on the 2008/09 inspection of Ernst & 
Young LLP published by the Audit Inspection Unit of the Financial 
Reporting Council, and the report of the Audit Inspection Unit of 
the Financial Reporting Council following its 2008/09 audit quality 
inspections of the audit practices of the nine accounting firms who 
are subject to full scope inspections by the Audit Inspection Unit, 
including Ernst & Young LLP.
Taking into account the Audit Inspection Unit’s findings as well 
as the output of the Committee’s review of the external Auditor’s 
independence and objectivity, and, the effectiveness of the audit 
process, which it commenced at its March 2010 meeting, together 
with other relevant review processes conducted throughout the 
year, the Committee was satisfied that it should recommend to the 
Board the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company’s 
and Group’s external Auditor at the AGM on 20 July 2010.
Communication with investors
Code main principle D.1: “There should be a dialogue with 
shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives. The 
board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory 
dialogue with shareholders takes place.”
The Group believes it is important to explain business 
developments and financial results to its shareholders and 
to understand any shareholder concerns, and that suitable 
arrangements are in place to ensure a balanced understanding of 
the issues and concerns of major shareholders. The Chief Executive 
and Group Finance Director have primary responsibility for investor 
relations. They are supported by the Company’s External Affairs 
Director who, among other matters, organises presentations for 
analysts and institutional investors and holds meetings with key 
institutional shareholders to discuss strategy, financial performance 
and investment activities immediately after the full year and interim 
results announcements. Slide presentations made to institutional 
shareholders are also available on the Company’s website. All 
the Non-executive Directors and, in particular, the Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with major 
shareholders, if such meetings are required. Further financial and 
business information is available on the Investor Centre section of 
the Company’s website.
Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to the 
Board to ensure that the Non-executive Directors have a balanced 
understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders. 
This includes communication with the shareholders at the AGM, 
regular feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director on their meetings with major shareholders, and periodic 
reports to the Board on investor relations together with feedback 
from the Company’s brokers on the views of major shareholders.
The principal method of communication with private shareholders 
is through the Annual Report and Interim Statement, the AGM and 
through the Company’s website.
Annual general meeting 
Code main principle D.2: “The board should use the AGM to 
communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.”
A business review is presented by the Chairman at the AGM 
to facilitate shareholder understanding of the Group’s activities. 
Arrangements are made for all Executive Directors, the Chairman, 
the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, the remaining 
Non-executive Directors and the chairmen of Board Committees 
to attend the AGM and to be available to answer shareholders’ 
questions. All Directors attended the AGM in July 2009. Notice 
of the AGM is, in accordance with the applicable Companies Act 
and the Articles, either posted in hard copy to shareholders or 
posted on the Company’s website at least 21 days before the 
date of the AGM. Resolutions are proposed for each substantially 
separate issue and details of the proxy voting on each resolution 
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 53 are announced at the AGM after the results of the show of hands 
is known and are posted on the Company’s website following the 
conclusion of the meeting.
The Company counts all proxy votes and indicates the level of 
proxies lodged on each resolution. It also publishes the level of 
votes for and against resolutions and the number of abstentions. 
The Company ensures that votes cast are properly received  
and recorded.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially discrete 
subject and the Company does propose a resolution at the AGM 
relating to the Annual Report and financial statements.
Access to information  
Electronic communication continues to become the principal 
medium for shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder 
information and reports. Recognising this, Annual Reports and 
Annual and Interim financial statements are published on the 
Company’s website. Pursuant to changes introduced by the 
Companies Act 2006, the Company sought shareholder approval 
at the 2007 AGM, subject to certain requirements, to communicate 
electronically with its shareholders. Other information which 
shareholders and third parties are entitled to access is made 
available in accordance with legislative and regulatory requirements. 
Where company law permits, the Company notifies shareholders of 
the electronic publication of notices of meetings on its website.
Compliance with the provisions contained in Code 
Throughout the year the Group was in compliance with the 
provisions of Section 1 of the Code except for provision A.1.3. 
where for the reasons stated at page 50, the Senior Independent 
Director together with the other Non-executive Directors did not 
meet without the Chairman present to appraise his performance.
Approval 
The Corporate Governance report and the Audit Committee report 
contained in it have been approved by the Board.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United 
Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the 
financial position of the Group and Company, financial performance 
of the Group and cash flows of the Group for that period. In 
preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8, 
‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and 
Errors’ and then apply them consistently;
•  present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
•  provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the financial position of the Group and 
Company and performance of the Group; 
•  state that the Group and Company has complied with IFRSs, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the financial statements; and
•  make judgements and estimates that are responsible and 
prudent.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the Group and of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group 
and of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud or other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Group’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Mark Allen  Chief Executive
Alastair Murray  Finance Director
54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Corporate governance continued
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in relation  
to the Group and Company financial statements Year ended 31 March 2010
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 55
The numbers
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Year ended 31 March 2010
Note 2010 2009
Proﬁt for the year 52.5 74.3 
Net investment hedges:
Exchange differences on foreign currency net investments (13.9) 53.1 
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings designated as net investment hedges 6.0 (36.8)
(7.9) 16.3 
Actuarial losses 21 (117.7) (118.1)
Cash ﬂow hedges – reclassiﬁcation adjustment for gains/(losses) in income statement 10.6 (48.6)
Cash ﬂow hedges – (losses)/gains recognised in other comprehensive income (14.2) 40.3 
Share of joint ventures’ income recognised in equity – 1.7 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income** 6 34.3 35.3 
Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax (94.9) (73.1)
Total comprehensive (loss)/gain for the year, net of tax (42.4) 1.2 
Attributable to equity shareholders of the parent (40.7) 1.6 
Attributable to minority interests (1.7) (0.4)
**  Tax on share based payments is now reported in the Statement of Changes in Equity. Prior period amounts have been reclassiﬁed accordingly. The tax on share based 
payments taken to equity in the year ended 31 March 2010 was £0.1 million credit (2009: £0.4 million charge).
2010 2009
Note
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Group revenue 11,629.7 – 1,629.7 1,647.6 – 1,647.6 
Operating (costs)/income 2,3,4 (1,536.5) 0.7 (1,535.8) (1,559.8) (24.0) (1,583.8)
Other income – pensions 4 – 16.3 16.3 – – – 
Other income – property 3,4 3.4 1.0 4.4 4.3 – 4.3 
Proﬁt on operations 1 96.6 18.0 114.6 92.1 (24.0) 68.1 
Impairment of assets on creation of disposal group  
 held for sale 4,8 – (16.0) (16.0) – – – 
Finance costs 5 (22.4) – (22.4) (29.5) – (29.5) 
Other ﬁnance (expense)/income – pensions 5 (0.5) – (0.5) 6.9 – 6.9 
Share of joint ventures’ net proﬁt 15 0.1 – 0.1 7.3 – 7.3 
Proﬁt on disposal of joint venture 4 – 2.0 2.0 – 50.4 50.4 
Proﬁt before tax 73.8 4.0 77.8 76.8 26.4 103.2 
Tax expense 6 (20.9) (4.4) (25.3) (18.5) (10.4) (28.9)
Proﬁt for the year 52.9 (0.4) 52.5 58.3 16.0 74.3 
Proﬁt attributable to equity shareholders 52.6 1.4 54.0 58.3 17.1 75.4 
Proﬁt attributable to minority interests 0.3 (1.8) (1.5) – (1.1) (1.1)
Group proﬁt for the year 52.9 (0.4) 52.5 58.3 16.0 74.3 
2010 2009
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (pence) 9 40.6 56.8 
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 9 40.2 56.3 
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence)* 9 44.5 45.0 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence)* 9 44.0 44.6 
2010 2009
Dividends
Proposed ﬁnal dividend (£m) 7 18.1 17.3 
Interim dividend paid (£m) 7 7.0 9.4 
Proposed ﬁnal dividend (pence) 7 13.6 13.0 
Interim dividend paid (pence) 7 5.3 7.1 
The consolidated income statement relates to continuing operations.
*  Adjusted earnings per share calculations are presented to give an indication of the underlying operational performance of the Group. The calculations exclude exceptional 
items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest in relation to the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes, the latter being highly dependent upon 
market assumptions at 31 March each year. Year ended 31 March 2010
56 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Consolidated Parent Company
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008*
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 271.6 292.1 – – – 
Goodwill 12 336.8 342.7 – – – 
Intangible assets 13 186.0 199.4 – – – 
Investments 14 – – 476.8 474.9 245.1 
Investment in joint ventures using equity method 15 – 2.9 – – – 
Deferred tax asset 6 – 0.4 – – – 
Financial assets – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 18 25.4 39.5 25.4 39.5 – 
819.8 877.0 502.2 514.4 245.1 
Current assets
Inventories 16 153.7 197.8 – – – 
Trade and other receivables 17 135.5 137.8 157.7 322.9 285.4
Financial assets – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 18 0.1 1.3 – – 3.4
Financial assets – Convertible loan 32 – – – – 227.7
Cash and short-term deposits 19 20.0 107.5 – 0.3 0.4 
309.3 444.4 157.7 323.2 516.9 
Assets in disposal group held for sale 8 18.8 – – – – 
Total assets 1 1,147.9 1,321.4 659.9 837.6 762.0 
Equity and liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities – Long-term borrowings 20 (382.9) (553.4) (373.4) (518.0) (415.8)
  – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 20 (3.7) (4.1) (3.7) (4.1) (4.0)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 21 (142.4) (63.3) – – – 
Deferred tax liability 6 (65.8) (91.2) (0.2) (0.7) (2.9)
Deferred income 23 (7.3) (8.6) – – – 
(602.1) (720.6) (377.3) (522.8) (422.7)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 (230.3) (229.4) (8.0) (8.7) (8.3)
Financial liabilities  – Short-term borrowings 20 (2.3) (2.0) – – – 
  – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 20 (0.4) (0.4) – (0.9) –
Current tax liability (4.5) (1.2) – – – 
Deferred income 23 (0.6) (0.7) – – – 
Provisions 24 (7.3) (10.1) – – – 
(245.4) (243.8) (8.0) (9.6) (8.3)
Liabilities associated with disposal group held for sale 8 (7.6) – – – – 
Total liabilities (855.1) (964.4) (385.3) (532.4) (431.0)
Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares (33.3) (33.3) (33.3) (33.3) (33.3)
Share premium (70.7) (70.7) (70.7) (70.7) (70.2)
Interest in ESOP 0.7 1.9 – – – 
Other reserves 26 (66.4) (76.5) (152.0) (151.8) (156.9)
Retained earnings (120.1) (173.7) (18.6) (49.4) (70.6)
Total shareholders’ equity (289.8) (352.3) (274.6) (305.2) (331.0)
Minority interests (3.0) (4.7) – – – 
Total equity (292.8) (357.0) (274.6) (305.2) (331.0)
Total equity and liabilities (1,147.9) (1,321.4) (659.9) (837.6) (762.0)
Mark Allen, Chief Executive
Alastair Murray, Finance Director
The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the directors on 17 May 2010.
*  Reclassiﬁcation between March 2009 other reserves and retained earnings described in Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity.  
A March 2008 Parent Company balance sheet has been presented to show the effect of this reclassiﬁcation on the opening balance sheet.
Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets Year ended 31 March 2010
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 57
The numbers
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Attributable to equity shareholders of the parent
2010
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Interest
in ESOP
£m
Other
reserves*
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Minority
interest
£m
Total
Equity
£m
At 31 March 2009** 33.3 70.7 (1.9) 76.5 173.7 352.3 4.7 357.0 
Proﬁt for the year – – – – 54.0 54.0 (1.5) 52.5 
Other comprehensive loss:
Net investment hedges – – – (7.5) – (7.5) (0.4) (7.9)
Cash ﬂow hedges – – – (3.6) – (3.6) – (3.6)
Actuarial losses – – – – (117.9) (117.9) 0.2 (117.7)
Tax on components of other 
comprehensive income – – – 1.0 33.3 34.3 – 34.3 
Other comprehensive loss – – – (10.1) (84.6) (94.7) (0.2) (94.9)
Total comprehensive loss – – – (10.1) (30.6) (40.7) (1.7) (42.4)
Exercise of options – – 1.2 – (1.2) – – –
Share based payments – – – – 2.4 2.4 – 2.4 
Tax on share based payments – – – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 
Equity dividends – – – – (24.3) (24.3) – (24.3)
At 31 March 2010 33.3 70.7 (0.7) 66.4 120.1 289.8 3.0 292.8 
2009
At 31 March 2008 33.3 70.2 (3.7) 67.0 215.8 382.6 5.1 387.7 
Proﬁt for the year – – – – 75.4 75.4 (1.1) 74.3 
Other comprehensive income/(loss):
Net investment hedges – – – 15.4 – 15.4 0.9 16.3 
Cash ﬂow hedges – – – (8.3) – (8.3) – (8.3)
Actuarial losses – – – – (117.9) (117.9) (0.2) (118.1)
Share of joint ventures’ income 
recognised in equity – – – – 1.7 1.7 – 1.7 
Tax on components of other 
comprehensive income – – – 2.4 32.9 35.3 – 35.3 
Other comprehensive 
income/(loss)** – – – 9.5 (83.3) (73.8) 0.7 (73.1)
Total comprehensive loss – – – 9.5 (7.9) 1.6 (0.4) 1.2 
Issue of share capital – 0.5 (0.5) – – – – –
Exercise of options – – 2.3 – (2.3) – – –
Share based payments – – – – 0.8 0.8 – 0.8 
Tax on share based payments*** – – – – (0.4) (0.4) – (0.4)
Equity dividends – – – – (32.3) (32.3) – (32.3)
At 31 March 2009** 33.3 70.7 (1.9) 76.5 173.7 352.3 4.7 357.0 
*   Further details are provided in Note 26.
**   The classiﬁcation of reserves at 31 March 2009 has been restated to correctly analyse net investment hedges in relation to Wexford Creamery Limited between 
translation reserve and retained earnings. The impact is to increase retained earnings at that date by £0.9 million and to reduce other reserves by £0.9 million (translation 
reserve). There is no impact on total share capital and reserves, nor on minority interests at that date. The classiﬁcation of reserves at 31 March 2008 is not affected by 
this change.
***  Tax on share based payments is now reported in the Statement of Changes in Equity. Previously these amounts were recorded in the Statement of Recognised Income 
and Expense. Prior period amounts have been reclassiﬁed accordingly. The tax on share based payments taken to equity in the year to 31 March 2010 was £0.1 million. Year ended 31 March 2010
58 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
2010
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Capital
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Other
reserve*
£m
Retained
earnings*
£m
Total
£m
At 31 March 2009 33.3 70.7 142.7 2.3 6.8 49.4 305.2 
Loss for the year – – – – – (7.0) (7.0)
Other comprehensive loss:
Cash ﬂow hedges – – – (2.3) – – (2.3)
Related tax – – – 0.6 – – 0.6
Other comprehensive loss – – – (1.7) – – (1.7)
Total comprehensive loss – – – (1.7) – (7.0) (8.7) 
Share based payments – – – – 1.9 0.5 2.4 
Equity dividends – – – – – (24.3) (24.3)
At 31 March 2010 33.3 70.7 142.7 0.6 8.7 18.6 274.6 
2009
At 31 March 2008 33.3 70.2 142.7 8.3 5.9 70.6 331.0 
Proﬁt for the year – – – – – 11.7 11.7 
Other comprehensive loss:
Cash ﬂow hedges – – – (8.4) – – (8.4)
Related tax – – – 2.4 – – 2.4
Other comprehensive loss – – – (6.0) – – (6.0)
Total comprehensive loss – – – (6.0) – 11.7 5.7 
Issue of share capital – 0.5 – – – – 0.5 
Cash gift to ESOP – – – – – (0.5) (0.5)
Share based payments – – – – 0.9 (0.1) 0.8 
Equity dividends – – – – – (32.3) (32.3)
At 31 March 2009 33.3 70.7 142.7 2.3 6.8 49.4 305.2 
*  Other reserves represents the share based payment credit in respect of amounts capitalised as investments (see Note 14). At 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008, these 
were amalgamated with retained earnings but have been disclosed separately above. Parent Company total equity is unaffected by this restatement. 
Parent Company statement of changes in equity Year ended 31 March 2010
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 59
The numbers
Consolidated and Parent Company statement of cash flows
Consolidated Parent Company
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cash generated from operations 33 145.9 129.1 – – 
Dividends received from joint ventures 0.1 2.9 – – 
Interest paid (22.1) (30.3) – – 
Taxation paid (10.5) (9.2) – – 
Net cash ﬂow from operating activities 113.4 92.5 – – 
Cash ﬂow from investing activities
Capital expenditure (26.9) (49.3) – – 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 10.2 22.4 – – 
Purchase of businesses (net of cash and debt acquired) 30 (1.9) (1.3) – – 
Purchase of investment in subsidiary 14 – – – (228.9)
Sale of investment in joint venture 1.2 59.9 – – 
Sale of businesses 1.2 3.2 – – 
Dividends received from subsidiaries – – – 25.0 
Amounts received from/(paid to) subsidiaries – – 151.0 (16.4)
Net cash used in investing activities (16.2) 34.9 151.0 (220.3)
Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities
Repayment and cancellation of term loans and facilities – (146.3) – (59.6)
New facilities advanced – 132.9 – 59.6 
Net (repayment)/advance under revolving credit facilities (150.6) (11.3) (127.0) 23.6 
Dividends paid 7 (24.3) (32.3) (24.3) (32.3)
Sale of convertible loan to subsidiary 32 – – – 228.9 
Proceeds from issue of shares (net of issue costs) 26 – – – 0.5 
Cash gift to ESOP 26 – – – (0.5)
Finance lease repayments 34 (2.0) (2.5) – – 
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (176.9) (59.5) (151.3) 220.2 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (79.7) 67.9 (0.3) (0.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 34 107.5 38.9 0.3 0.4 
Exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents 34 (0.3) 0.7 – – 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 34 27.5 107.5 – 0.3 
Analysed: Reported as cash and cash equivalents 19 20.0 107.5 – 0.3
 Reported as part of disposal group 8 7.5 – – –
Memo: Net debt at end of year 34 (337.2) (415.8) (352.6) (485.6) Year ended 31 March 2010
60 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
presentation has been applied for the period ended 31 March 2010. 
Comparative information has been restated so that it is also in 
conformity with the revised standard.
The impact of the application of IFRS 8 is disclosed in Note 1  
of the accounts.
The application of the remaining standards and interpretations has 
not had a material effect on the net assets, result and disclosures  
of the Group.
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards (with an 
effective date after the date of these accounts) and interpretations:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRSs)
IFRS 1 – First Time Adoption of International Reporting Standards 
(effective from 1 July 2009)
IFRS 1 – Amendments to IFRS 1 – Limited Exemption for First-time 
Adopters (effective from 1 January 2010)
IFRS 1 – Amendments to IFRS 1 – Limited Exemption from 
Comparative IFRS 7 disclosures (effective from 1 July 2010)
IFRS 2 – Amendments to IFRS 2 – Group Cash-settled Share-based 
Payment Transactions (effective from 1 January 2010)
IFRS 3 – Business Combinations (revised January 2008) (effective 
from 1 July 2009)
IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments: Classiﬁcation & Measurement 
(effective from 1 January 2013)
IAS 24 – Related Party Disclosures (Revised) (effective from 
1 January 2011)
IAS 27 – Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (revised 
January 2008) (effective from 1 July 2009)
IAS 32 – Amendment to IAS 32: Classiﬁcation of Rights Issues 
(effective from 1 February 2010)
IAS 39 – Eligible Hedged Items (effective from 1 July 2009)
Improvements to IFRS (issued April 2009)
International Financial Reporting Interpretations  
Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 17 – Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners (effective 
from 1 July 2009)
IFRIC 18 – Transfer of Assets from Customers (effective from 
1 July 2009)
IFRIC 19 – Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 
(effective from 1 July 2010)
The Group has not early adopted the revised IFRS 3 and so will apply 
it prospectively to all business combinations on or after 1 April 2010. 
Whilst it is not possible to estimate the outcome of adoption, the key 
features of the revised IFRS 3 include a requirement for acquisition-
related costs to be expensed and not included in the purchase price; 
and for contingent consideration to be recognised at fair value on  
the acquisition date (with subsequent changes recognised in the 
income statement and not as a change to goodwill). The standard 
also changes the treatment of minority interests with an option to 
recognise these at full fair value as at the acquisition date and a 
requirement for previously held minority interests to be fair valued  
as at the date control is obtained, with gains and losses recognised  
in the income statement.
IAS 27 revised is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 July 2009, in line with revised IFRS 3. The revised standard no 
longer restricts the allocation to minority interest of losses incurred  
by a subsidiary to the amount of the minority equity investment in  
the subsidiary.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated and Company ﬁnancial statements are presented in 
sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million (£ million) 
except where otherwise indicated.
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European 
Union (‘EU’). The Company ﬁnancial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The 
Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under 
section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual 
income statement and related notes.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a signiﬁcant risk 
of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year are (i) the measurement  
of the impairment of goodwill, (ii) the measurement of deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension scheme assets and obligations and (iii) the measurement  
of fair value less costs to sell of Wexford Creamery Limited (‘WCL ’), 
held as a disposal group.
(i) The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual 
basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated. This requires 
estimation of future cash ﬂows and the selection of a suitable 
discount rate.
(ii) Measurement of deﬁned beneﬁt pension obligations requires 
estimation of future changes in salaries and inﬂation, mortality rates, 
the expected return on plan assets and the choice of a suitable 
discount rate.
(iii) Measurement of the fair value less costs to sell of WCL are based 
on expected consideration for our controlling stake taking into 
account expected consideration for any remaining stake and any 
other expected commercial arrangements to be put in place with 
WCL as a result of the expected disposal. 
Further analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty and 
sensitivities are included in the relevant notes to the accounts.
 
Changes in accounting policies
The following accounting standards and interpretations became 
effective for the current reporting period:
IAS 1 (Revised) – Presentation of Financial Statements
Amendment to IFRS 2 – Share based payment: Vesting Conditions 
and Cancellations
IFRS 8 – Operating Segments
Amendments to IAS 23 – Borrowing Costs
Amendments to IFRS 7 – Improving disclosures about 
Financial Instruments
Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 – Puttable Financial Instruments 
and Obligations Arising on Liquidation
IFRIC 13 – Customer Loyalty Programmes
IFRIC 15 – Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate
IFRIC 16 – Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation
IFRIC 18 – Transfer of Assets from customers
Improvements to IFRSs (issued May 2008)
The application of IAS 1 (Revised) has resulted in the Group 
presenting a consolidated statement of changes in equity as a 
primary statement. The consolidated statement of changes in equity 
was previously presented as a note to the ﬁnancial information and 
presents all changes in equity including those arising from transactions 
with the owners. The consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income was previously described as the Consolidated Statement  
of Recognised Income and Expense and presents all changes in 
ﬁnancial position other than through transactions with owners. This 
Accounting policies Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
The numbers
61
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences  
on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost comprises the 
purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the 
asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of 
operating in the manner intended by management. Depreciation is 
calculated to write off the cost (less residual value) of property, plant 
and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line basis over 
the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:
Freehold buildings: 25 years
Leasehold land and buildings:  25 years or, if shorter,  
the period of the lease
Ofﬁce equipment: 4 to 6 years
Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years
Vehicles: 4 to 10 years
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for 
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. If the carrying value 
exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down  
to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of plant and 
equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value  
in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows  
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks speciﬁc to the asset. For an asset that does not 
generate largely independent cash ﬂows, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated income statement.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon 
disposal or when no future economic beneﬁts are expected to arise 
from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on 
derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated income 
statement in the year that it is derecognised. 
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period 
of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the 
cost of the respective assets. 
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period 
they occur.
Investments
The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost 
being the fair value of consideration paid. Income is recognised from 
these investments only in relation to distributions received from 
post-acquisition proﬁts. Distributions received in excess of post-
acquisition proﬁts are deducted from the cost of investment.
Goodwill
Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition  
to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date and is not 
subsequently amortised. Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured 
at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over 
the Group’s (acquirer’s) interest in the net fair value of the identiﬁable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Following initial recognition, 
goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment 
losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or more 
Any future partial disposal of equity interest in a subsidiary that  
does not result in a loss of control will be accounted for as an equity 
transaction and will have no impact on goodwill, nor will it give rise  
to any gain or loss. Where there is loss of control of a subsidiary,  
any retained interest will have to be remeasured to fair value, which 
will impact the gain or loss recognised on disposal.
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of the remaining 
standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the 
Group’s ﬁnancial statements in the period of initial application.
Consolidation
The Group ﬁnancial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy 
Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 March each year 
using consistent accounting policies. All intercompany balances and 
transactions, including unrealised proﬁts and losses arising from 
intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full. 
Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the date 
on which control is transferred to the Group. At 31 March 2010, 
minority interests represent the 20% interest in Wexford Creamery 
Limited not held by the Group.
Interest in associates 
The Group’s investments in joint ventures are accounted for under 
the equity method of accounting. Joint ventures are entities over 
which the Group has joint control under contractual agreement and 
which are not subsidiaries. The Company and joint ventures both use 
consistent accounting policies. The investment in joint ventures is 
carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes  
in the Group’s share of net assets of the joint ventures, less any 
impairment in value and any distributions received. The consolidated 
income statement reﬂects the share of the results of the joint 
ventures. Where there has been a change recognised directly in the 
joint ventures’ equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes 
and discloses this, when applicable in other comprehensive income.
Foreign currency translation 
The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group plc 
and its United Kingdom (‘UK’) subsidiaries is Pound Sterling (£). The 
functional currency of Wexford Creamery Limited and St Hubert SAS, 
subsidiary companies incorporated in Ireland and France respectively, 
is the Euro. 
Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the functional 
currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
Sterling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences on 
monetary items are taken to the income statement, except where 
deferred in equity as qualifying cash ﬂow hedges and qualifying net 
investment hedges. 
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are 
translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates. The results of 
foreign subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at average rates of 
exchange for the year (being an approximation of actual exchange 
rates). Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the  
net investment in foreign subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, 
less exchange differences on borrowings, which ﬁnance or provide  
a hedge against those undertakings are taken to a separate 
component of equity as long as IFRS hedge accounting conditions 
are met. Exchange differences relating to foreign currency borrowings 
that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity 
remain in equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which  
time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.   62 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Accounting policies continued
Research and development
Expenditure on research is written off as incurred. Development 
expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future 
recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured  
as required by IAS 38: Intangible Assets.
Recoverable amount of non-current assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any 
indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of 
impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of recoverable 
amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired and is written 
down to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the 
higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs  
to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, 
unless the asset does not generate cash inﬂows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials (on a ﬁrst in ﬁrst  
out basis), direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads 
based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing each 
product to its present location and condition. Net realisable value  
is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less 
estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original 
invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.  
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the  
full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off  
when identiﬁed.
Assets in disposal groups classiﬁed as held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classiﬁed as held for 
sale only if available for immediate sale in their present condition;  
a sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within one 
year from the date of classiﬁcation. Such assets are measured at the 
lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are not 
depreciated or amortised.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and 
short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
For the purposes of the Consolidated cash ﬂow statement, cash and 
cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as deﬁned 
above, net of bank overdrafts.
Interest-bearing loans
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value  
of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with  
the borrowing. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using  
the effective interest method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking 
into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on 
settlement. Gains and losses are recognised in net proﬁt or loss 
when the liabilities are derecognised.
Net debt
The Group and Company deﬁne net debt as cash and cash 
equivalents, interest bearing loans and ﬁnance leases. The calculation 
of net debt excludes the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
with the exception of cross currency swaps to ﬁx foreign currency 
debt in Sterling where they are designated as cash ﬂow hedges.  
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that  
the carrying value may be impaired. All goodwill was tested for 
impairment at the time of transition to IFRS and no impairment  
was identiﬁed.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the 
cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units expected to 
beneﬁt from the combination’s synergies. Impairment is determined 
by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to 
which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the 
cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment 
loss is recognised. Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating 
unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the 
goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included  
in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain  
or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this 
circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of  
the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating  
unit retained.
The Group’s cash-generating units, for the purpose of considering 
goodwill, are ‘Dairies’, ‘UK Spreads’, ‘St Hubert’, ‘Speciality Cheese’ 
and ‘Cheese excluding Speciality Cheese’. These represent the 
lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for management 
purposes and are no larger than the segments being ‘Dairies’  
and ‘Foods’.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been 
charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off against 
reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the 
business sold.
The Group has not restated business combinations prior to the 
transition date of 1 April 2004. Acquisitions prior to this date are 
recorded under previous accounting rules. IFRS 1 requires that an 
impairment review of goodwill should be conducted in accordance 
with IAS 36 at the date of transition and at the balance sheet date. 
This review was performed and no adjustment was required.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are 
capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value can 
be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future expected 
economic beneﬁts ﬂow to the Group. Following initial recognition,  
the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any 
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. 
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either ﬁnite or 
indeﬁnite. Currently, all the Group’s intangible assets have ﬁnite useful 
lives and are amortised over 3 to 25 years. The signiﬁcant acquired 
brands have useful lives as follows:
St Hubert 25 years
Le Fleurier 15 years
Vallé 15 years
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, 
where applicable, are made on a prospective basis. 
Intangible assets acquired separately from business combinations 
include software development expenditure. Software is carried at 
cost less accumulated amortisation. Software is amortised over ﬁve 
years. Intangible assets that are not yet available for use are tested  
for impairment annually either individually or at the cash-generating 
unit level or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 63
The numbers
management’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest. The movement in cumulative expense since 
the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income 
statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or 
non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective  
of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisﬁed, 
provided that all other performance or service conditions are satisﬁed.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled (including when a 
non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee  
is not met), it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, 
and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the 
award is expensed immediately.
The Company adopted IFRIC 11 in the year ended 31 March 2008. 
Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over equity 
instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in the 
Company’s balance sheet.
Employees’ Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’)
The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees’ 
Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy Long Term Incentive Share 
Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in arriving at 
shareholders’ equity. Consideration received from the sale of such 
shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or loss recognised  
in the consolidated income statement.
The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to  
apply IFRS 2 Share-based payments only to awards made after 
7 November 2002. 
Leased assets
Assets acquired under ﬁnance leases, which transfer to the Group 
substantially all the risks and beneﬁts incidental to ownership of the 
leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value 
of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum 
lease payments. The net present value of future lease rentals is 
included as a liability on the balance sheet. The interest element of 
lease rentals is charged to the consolidated income statement in the 
year. Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and 
beneﬁts of ownership of the asset are classiﬁed as operating leases. 
Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Revenue
Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on 
delivery. Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods 
net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating 
sales within the Group. 
Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s right to receive 
payment is established.
Other income
Other income comprises the proﬁt on disposal of closed sites  
and household depots. 
Exceptional items
Certain items are recorded separately in the consolidated income 
statement as exceptional. Only items of a material, one-off nature, 
which result from a restructuring of the business or some other event 
or circumstance are disclosed in this manner in order to give a better 
In this case the ﬁxed Sterling debt, not the underlying foreign 
currency debt retranslated, is included in net debt. It includes any 
cash or borrowings included within disposal groups classiﬁed as  
held for sale.
Retirement beneﬁt obligations
The asset or liability in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt schemes is the 
present value of the relevant deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the balance 
sheet date less the fair value of plan assets and an adjustment for 
past service costs not yet recognised. The independent actuary 
completes a full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest Group pension 
fund and the Wexford Creamery plan triennially. The obligation is 
updated annually for ﬁnancial reporting purposes by the actuary 
using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the 
obligation is determined by the estimated future cash outﬂows using 
interest rates of high quality corporate bonds, which have terms to 
maturity approximating the terms of the related liability. 
The current service costs are recognised in operating costs in  
the consolidated income statement, classiﬁed as cost of sales, 
distribution costs or administrative expenses depending upon which 
area of the business active members are employed in. Past service 
costs are included in operating costs where the beneﬁts have vested, 
otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period. The expected return on assets of funded deﬁned beneﬁt 
schemes and the interest on pension scheme liabilities comprise  
the ﬁnance element of the pension cost and the difference between 
these amounts are included in other ﬁnance income or costs. 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments  
and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full and are 
charged or credited to other comprehensive income in the period  
in which they arise.
IFRIC 14 was implemented in the year ended 31 March 2008. The 
recognition of any future retirement beneﬁt surplus as calculated by 
the actuary as part of the annual update for reporting purposes, is 
limited to the present value, using an appropriate discount rate, of 
any real cash beneﬁt the Company will obtain in the future through 
either reduced potential contributions or cash on a winding up of the 
scheme. In order to calculate the potential future beneﬁts 
consideration is given to any minimum funding requirements agreed 
between the Company and the Pension Trustee.
Share based payments
Equity based performance payments
The Group and Company have issued equity-settled share based 
payment schemes for which they receive services from employees  
in consideration for the equity instrument. Equity-settled share based 
payment schemes are measured at fair value at the grant date by  
an external valuer using an appropriate pricing model. In valuing 
equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and 
performance (vesting conditions), other than performance conditions 
linked to the price of the shares of the Company (market conditions). 
Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an 
employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to  
be non-vesting conditions. Like market performance conditions, 
non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the 
grant date fair value.
The cost of equity settled transactions with employees is measured 
by reference to the fair value and is recognised as an expense over 
the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant 
employees became fully entitled to the award. At each balance  
sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, 
representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and  64 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Accounting policies continued
is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
are offset only if a legal enforcement right exists to set off current tax 
assets against current tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate 
to the same taxation authority and that authority permits the Group to 
make a single net payment.
Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income if it 
relates to items that are charged or credited to other comprehensive 
income. Similarly, income tax is charged or credited directly to equity 
if it relates to items that are credited or charged directly to equity. 
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets
The Group and Company classiﬁes ﬁnancial assets that are within  
the scope of IAS 39 as ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt  
and loss; loans and receivables; held-to-maturity investments;  
or as available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets, as appropriate. The Group 
and Company determines the classiﬁcation of ﬁnancial assets at  
initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each ﬁnancial 
year end. When ﬁnancial assets are recognised initially, they are 
measured at fair value.
Derivative instruments
The Group and Company use derivative ﬁnancial instruments such  
as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and interest 
rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and foreign 
currency ﬂuctuations. Such derivative ﬁnancial instruments are initially 
recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured to fair value 
at the reported balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference 
to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity 
proﬁles. The fair value of interest rate swap and cross-currency swap 
contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar 
instruments and speciﬁc valuations performed by counterparties at 
the period end.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classiﬁed as either:
 
•  fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes  
in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability;
•  cash ﬂow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in 
cash ﬂows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated 
with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast 
transaction, or a ﬁrm commitment in relation to foreign exchange 
exposure; or
•  net investment hedges where they hedge the exposure to 
variability in the translated net assets of an overseas operation.
Neither the Group nor the Company has entered into any fair value 
hedges during the year.
Cash ﬂow hedges
In relation to cash ﬂow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge 
accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument 
that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly  
in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is 
recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
When the hedged ﬁrm commitment (in relation to foreign exchange 
exposure) or the highly probable forecast transactions results in the 
understanding of the underlying operational performance of the 
Group. The proﬁts arising on disposal of closed sites, other than as  
a result of depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional items. 
Government and other grants
Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value where 
there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all 
attaching conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates  
to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods 
necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs  
that it is intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to an 
asset, the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and  
is released to the consolidated income statement over the expected 
useful life of the relevant asset in equal annual instalments.
Income tax
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount 
expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, 
based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the 
balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts for ﬁnancial reporting purposes, except 
as indicated below.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences except:
•  where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial 
recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and,  
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting  
proﬁt nor taxable proﬁt or loss; and
•  in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint 
ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the 
temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and 
unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁt 
will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, 
the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be 
utilised except:
•  where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset 
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, 
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting proﬁt 
nor taxable proﬁt or loss; and 
•  in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint 
ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in 
the foreseeable future and taxable proﬁt will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁt will be available to allow all or 
part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Deferred income 
tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 65
The numbers
recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, then, at the time  
the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that 
had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial 
measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the 
asset or liability. For all other cash ﬂow hedges, the gains or losses 
that are recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred  
to the consolidated income statement in the same year in which the 
hedged item affects the net proﬁt and loss, for example when the 
future sale actually occurs, interest payments are made or when debt 
matures. For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any 
gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to 
the consolidated income statement for the year. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
Where the Group hedges net investments in overseas entities 
through currency borrowings, the gains and losses on retranslation  
of those borrowings are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
If the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective 
portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income, 
with any ineffective portion being recognised in the consolidated 
income statement whenever applicable. Gains and losses 
accumulated in other comprehensive income are recycled through 
the consolidated income statement on disposal of the foreign entity.
In order to satisfy hedge accounting, the Group (or Company) 
documents in advance the relationship between the item being 
hedged and the hedging instrument. The Group (or Company) also 
documents and demonstrates an assessment of the relationship 
between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which  
shows that the hedge has been and will be highly effective on an  
ongoing basis. The effectiveness testing is re-performed on a regular 
basis (being at least half-yearly) to ensure that the hedge remains 
highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualiﬁes for 
hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is 
retained in other comprehensive income until the highly probable 
forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in 
other comprehensive income is transferred to the consolidated 
income statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other ﬁnancial instruments or other host 
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts,  
and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised 
gains or losses reported in the income statement. When the 
contracts are closely related and hedge accounting is adopted,  
they are designated at inception and treated as described above. 66 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements
1 Segmental analysis
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be determined based on the Group’s internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(‘CODM’). The CODM has been determined to be the Company’s Board members as they are primarily responsible for the allocation of 
resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments. Previously, segments were determined and presented in 
accordance with IAS 14, ‘Segment Reporting’.
The CODM uses trading proﬁt, as reviewed at monthly business review meetings, as the key measure of the segments’ results as it reﬂects  
the segments’ underlying trading performance for the period under evaluation. Trading proﬁt is a consistent measure within the Group and  
the reporting of this measure at the monthly business review meetings, which are organised according to the product types, has been used  
to identify and determine the Group’s operating segments. Trading proﬁt is deﬁned as proﬁt on operations before exceptional items and 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets, but includes the Group share of post-tax proﬁt of joint ventures. 
Following the adoption of IFRS 8, the Group has revised its operating and reporting segments. The Group’s operating segments are ‘Cheese’, 
‘UK Spreads’, ‘St Hubert’, ‘Liquid Products’, ‘Household’, ‘Share of Joint Ventures’ and ‘Other’. Certain of these operating segments have 
been aggregated and the Group reports on ﬁve continuing segments within the business: ‘Cheese’, ‘Spreads’, ‘Dairies’, ‘Share of Joint 
Ventures’ and ‘Other’. 
The ‘Cheese’ segment has not been aggregated with any other segment. This business manufactures predominantly branded cheese in the 
UK and Ireland and sells mainly to retail customers. 
The ‘UK Spreads’ and ‘St Hubert’ segments have been aggregated into one reportable segment being ‘Spreads’. Both of these segments 
operate within the European Union and manufacture branded dairy spreads, using similar production methods. Products are sold to similar 
end consumers in similar economic environments. Distribution methods are similar and in both businesses customers are major retailers. 
The ‘Liquid Products’ and ‘Household’ segments have been aggregated into one reportable segment being ‘Dairies’. The ‘Liquid Products’ 
and ‘Household’ businesses both operate in the UK and predominantly sell fresh milk to a similar class of customer. The milk processing sites, 
included in the ‘Liquid Products’ segment, pack milk for both businesses.
‘Share of Joint Ventures’ forms a separate segment whose results are reviewed on a post-tax basis consistent with IFRS. The results of this 
segment are now insigniﬁcant following the group’s disposal of its 49% share of Yoplait Dairy Crest Limited in March 2009. Further description 
is provided in Notes 14 and 15. 
The ‘Other’ segment comprises revenue earned from distributing product for third parties and certain central costs net of recharges to the 
operating segments. Generally, all central costs less external ‘Other’ revenue are recharged back into operating segments such that their 
result reﬂects the total cost base of the Group. Other operating proﬁt therefore is nil.
Comparative information has been restated to reﬂect these new reportable segments.
Previously the Group reported two segments under IAS 14. These comprised ‘Foods’ and ‘Dairies’. The ‘Dairies’ segment was equivalent to 
the ‘Dairies’ segment under IFRS 8. The ‘Foods’ segment incorporated ‘Cheese’, ‘Spreads’ and ‘Joint Ventures’ as reported under IFRS 8  
and for revenue also incorporated ‘Other’ revenue from third party distribution.  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 67
The numbers
1 Segmental analysis continued
The segment results for the year to 31 March 2010 and for the year ended 31 March 2009 and the reconciliation of segment measures to the 
respective statutory items included in the ﬁnancial statements are as follows:
Year ended 31 March
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Segment external revenue
Cheese 260.0 244.2 
Spreads 277.7 284.2 
Dairies 1,081.2 1,108.2 
Share of joint ventures’ external revenue 15 1.2 70.3 
Other 10.8 11.0 
Total segment external revenue 1,630.9 1,717.9 
Less: share of joint ventures’ external revenue (1.2) (70.3)
Group revenue 1,629.7 1,647.6 
Segment proﬁt 
Cheese 16.9 34.3 
Spreads 54.0 59.5 
Dairies 34.9 7.9 
Share of joint ventures’ net proﬁt 15 0.1 7.3 
Total segment proﬁt 105.9 109.0 
Finance costs 5 (22.4) (29.5)
Adjusted proﬁt before tax 83.5 79.5 
Acquired intangible amortisation 13 (9.2) (9.6)
Exceptional items 4 4.0 26.4 
Other ﬁnance (expense)/income – pensions 5 (0.5) 6.9 
Group proﬁt before tax 77.8 103.2 
Segment total assets
Cheese 211.8 243.9 
Spreads 511.8 535.8 
Dairies 347.2 356.8 
Share of joint ventures – 2.9
Other 31.6 33.3 
Group 1,102.4 1,172.7 
Unsegmented assets 45.5 148.7 
Total assets 1,147.9 1,321.4 
Inter segment revenue
Cheese 6.3 7.4 
Spreads 4.1 3.8 
Dairies – – 
Elimination (10.4) (11.2)
Total – – 68 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
1 Segmental analysis continued
Year ended 31 March
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Segment depreciation and amortisation (excluding amortisation of acquired intangible assets)
Cheese 5.8 7.3 
Spreads 7.2 7.1 
Dairies 20.9 23.1 
Other 4.9 3.8 
Total 3 38.8 41.3 
Segment additions to non-current assets
Cheese 4.8 19.6 
Spreads 5.6 5.5 
Dairies 19.3 16.5 
Other 1.9 4.9 
Total 31.6 46.5 
Segment exceptional items
Cheese (17.5) (13.8)
Dairies 1.0 (10.2)
Pension curtailment gain (not segmented) 16.3 –
OFT settlement reduction (not segmented) 2.2 –
Share of joint ventures 2.0 50.4 
Total 4 4.0 26.4 
Interest revenue and expense are not included in the measure of segment proﬁt reviewed by the CODM. Group treasury is centrally managed 
and external interest income and expense is all incurred in the UK and is not allocated to segments. Where interest is reviewed by the CODM  
it is done so on a net basis. Further analysis of the interest expense for the Group is provided in Note 5. 
Tax costs are not included in the measure of segment proﬁt reviewed by the CODM. Group tax is centrally managed and the group effective 
tax rate, not individual segment tax rates, is reported.
Segment assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, inventories, receivables, assets in disposal group held 
for sale and investment on joint ventures and exclude cash and cash equivalents, derivative ﬁnancial assets and deferred tax assets as these 
items are managed on a Group basis. Other segment assets comprise certain property, plant and equipment that is not reported in the 
segments. Total segment liabilities have not been presented as this measure is not regularly reviewed by or provided to the CODM.
Inter-segment revenue comprises the sale of ﬁnished Cheese and Spreads products into the Dairies segment on a cost plus basis and is 
included in the segment result. Other inter-segment transactions principally comprise sales of cream from the Dairies segment to the Spreads 
segment for the manufacture of butters. Cream sold into Spreads is priced by reference to external commodity markets and is adjusted 
regularly so as to reﬂect the costs that the Spreads segment would incur if it were a stand alone entity. Revenue from inter-segment cream 
sales is not reported as revenue to the CODM but as a reduction to the Dairies segment’s input costs.
Segment depreciation and amortisation excludes amortisation of acquired intangible assets of £9.2 million (2009: £9.6 million) as these costs 
are not charged in the segment result.
Segment additions to non-current assets comprise additions to goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through capital 
expenditure and acquisition of businesses. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 69
The numbers
1 Segmental analysis continued
Geographical information
Year ended 31 March
External revenue attributed on basis of customer location
2010
£m
2009
£m
UK 1,495.4 1,498.2
France 85.8 78.8 
Rest of world 48.5 70.6 
Total segment revenue (excluding joint ventures) 1,629.7 1,647.6 
Non-current assets* based on location
UK 416.9 433.5 
France 370.5 393.1 
Rest of world 7.0 10.5 
Total 794.4 837.1 
* Comprises property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets and investment in joint ventures.
No individual customer contributes more than 10% of Group revenue (2009: nil). The business segmentation above is based upon similar 
product groupings, namely cheese, spreads and liquid products and therefore any analysis of Group revenue by products and services is 
consistent with the revenue analysis presented above with the exception of non-milk product sales in the Dairies segment (through the 
Household division), which amounted to £37.1 million (2009: £42.0 million).
2  Operating costs
Year ended 31 March 2010 Year ended 31 March 2009
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Cost of sales 1,150.2 1.5 1,151.7 1,182.2 19.5 1,201.7 
Distribution costs 302.7 – 302.7 301.3 – 301.3 
Administrative expenses 83.6 (2.2) 81.4 76.3 – 76.3 
1,536.5 (0.7) 1,535.8 1,559.8 19.5 1,579.3 
Loss on disposal of business (Note 4) – – – – 4.5 4.5 
1,536.5 (0.7) 1,535.8 1,559.8 24.0 1,583.8 
3  Other income and expenses 
Year ended 31 March 2010 Year ended 31 March 2009
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Proﬁt on disposal of household depots 3.4 – 3.4 4.3 – 4.3 
Proﬁt on disposal of closed sites (Note 4) – 1.0 1.0 – – – 
3.4 1.0 4.4 4.3 – 4.3 
Pension curtailment gain (Note 4) – 16.3 16.3 – – – 
The Group continues to rationalise its household operations as a result of the ongoing decline in doorstep volumes. This rationalisation 
includes the closure of certain depots (the proﬁt on which is shown above) and rationalisation of the ongoing household operations. These 
activities represent a fundamental part of the ongoing ordinary activities of the household operations. 70 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
3  Other income and expenses continued
Proﬁt on operations is stated after (charging)/crediting
Year ended 
31 March 
2010
£m
Year ended 
31 March 
2009
£m
Release of grants 0.7 0.7 
Depreciation (35.8) (40.0)
Amortisation of intangibles – acquired (9.2) (9.6)
Amortisation of intangibles – internally generated (3.0) (1.3)
Operating lease rentals: Minimum lease payments (31.3) (29.2)
Research and development expenditure (2.2) (1.8)
Exchange gains – 0.9 
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense* (1,140.1) (1,169.1)
Including: Write-down of inventories recognised as an expense (1.4) (3.3)
  Reversals of write-downs in inventories 2.5 – 
*  The cost of inventories recognised as an expense for the year ended 31 March 2009 has been restated to exclude certain distribution costs that were included erroneously.
At 31 March 2010, £2.5 million was provided against inventory carrying value due to uncertainty regarding contracted realisations.  
During 2009/10 this cheese inventory was sold at those contracted realisations and the associated provision was released.
Remuneration paid to auditors
Year ended 
31 March 
2010
£m
Year ended 
31 March 
2009
£m
Audit of the ﬁnancial statements* 0.1 0.1 
Other fees: local statutory audits for subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 
  taxation services 0.1 – 
  other services 0.1 0.3 
* £10,000 (2009: £10,000) of this relates to the Company.
Other services in the year ended 31 March 2010 principally comprised governance assurance services for an IT systems implementation 
project which will continue into 2010/11 (2009: intra-Group ﬁnancing structures).
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual accounts  
of the Company because Group ﬁnancial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
4 Exceptional items
Exceptional items comprise those items that are material and one-off in nature that the Group believes should be separately disclosed to 
assist in the understanding of the underlying ﬁnancial performance of the Group.
Year ended
31 March
2010
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2009
£m
Duplicate running costs at National Distribution Centre (1.5) (3.7)
Reduction in estimated Ofﬁce of Fair Trading (‘OFT’) settlement 2.2 – 
Curtailment gain in UK deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme 16.3 – 
Proﬁt on sale of closed Nottingham site 1.0 – 
Provision for onerous contract – (1.0)
Loss on disposal of Stilton and speciality cheese business – (4.5)
Impairment of plant and equipment – (5.6)
Restructuring costs – (9.2)
18.0 (24.0)
Impairment of disposal group held for sale (16.0) – 
Proﬁt on disposal of investment in Yoplait Dairy Crest Limited joint venture 2.0 50.4 
4.0 26.4 
Tax (charge)/relief on exceptional items (4.4) 3.9 
Deferred tax provision in relation to cessation of Industrial Buildings Allowances – (14.3)
(0.4) 16.0  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
The numbers
71
4 Exceptional items continued
Exceptional items in the year ended 31 March 2010 comprise:
–  The continuation of duplicate running costs in relation to the new cheese cutting and packing facility at our national distribution centre in 
Nuneaton. There was signiﬁcant capital investment during 2008/09 and between January 2009 and July 2009, volume was transferred 
into the new facility from First Milk’s facility at Maelor. During the ramp up period, cheese was being cut and packed at both Nuneaton and 
Maelor with resulting duplicate costs as both sites were operating at below normal capacity. These duplicate running costs ceased in  
the ﬁrst half of the year as substantially all cutting and packing was transferred successfully to Nuneaton. The duplicate costs incurred  
in the period amounted to £1.5 million.
–  In April 2010, the OFT announced that parties to the 2007 Statement of Objections will get a penalty reduction provided each company 
continues to co-operate with the OFT. The OFT expects to conclude and issue its decision by early summer 2010. Accordingly, the 
settlement provision has been reduced to reﬂect our best estimate of the penalty ultimately payable (£7.1 million) plus legal fees expected 
to be incurred (£0.2 million) resulting in a release of £2.2 million in the year ended 31 March 2010 (see Note 24).
–  In November 2009, the UK deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan was closed to future service accrual beyond 31 March 2010. This cessation  
of future service accrual resulted in an exceptional curtailment gain of £16.9 million in the year ended 31 March 2010 (see Note 21). 
Additionally, legal and professional fees of £0.6 million were incurred in order to effect this change.
–  During 2008/09, we closed our Nottingham dairy processing plant and reduced the carrying value of the land and buildings to £1.5 million, 
being management’s best view at that time of fair value less costs to sell. In August 2009, the site was sold to a third party for proceeds of 
£2.5 million resulting in an exceptional gain on disposal of £1.0 million. 
–  The Group is in discussions with Wexford Milk Producers (‘WMP’) to sell 50% of the shares in Wexford Creamery Limited (‘WCL ’) which, if 
successful, would decrease the Group’s shareholding from 80% to 30%. The assets and liabilities of WCL have been disclosed as a 
disposal group held for sale at 31 March 2010. On classiﬁcation as a disposal group held for sale, an impairment of  £16.0 million was 
charged to reduce the carrying value of assets to fair value less costs to sell. Further details are provided in Note 8.
–  On 26 March 2009, the Group disposed of its 49% share in Yoplait Dairy Crest Limited (‘YDC’) for cash consideration of £63.5 million  
(see below). As part of the disposal of YDC, future service accruals immediately ceased in the YDC deﬁned beneﬁt scheme and the Group 
contracted to extinguish any remaining funding liability by purchasing an insurance buy-out. On 26 March 2009, £3.5 million was charged 
as a provision for the cost of the insurance and funds were deposited in escrow for the beneﬁt of the YDC scheme trustee. This amount 
was the best estimate at that time of the cost of buying out the scheme liabilities. The ﬁnal cost of the buy-out was £1.2 million, £2.3 million 
less than was estimated. In the period to 31 March 2010, the Group received funds of £2.3 million from the escrow account reﬂecting the 
reduced cost of insurance. This credit has been classiﬁed as exceptional in a manner consistent with the original gain on disposal in 
2008/09. Additionally, the Group incurred costs in relation to the disposal of this business in excess of amounts accrued at 31 March 2009. 
These additional costs, totalling £0.3 million, have been classiﬁed as exceptional.
Exceptional items in the year ended 31 March 2009 comprised:
–  £9.2 million charge in relation to a large restructuring within Dairies. The closure of the Nottingham dairy processing plant and associated 
distribution network restructuring costs amounted to £7.2 million. Additionally, an impairment was charged against the carrying value of 
the previously closed Totnes site. This and associated costs amounted to a £2.0 million exceptional charge. 
–  £1.0 million charge in relation to an onerous long-term milk supply contract. This contract was renegotiated in the ﬁrst half of 2009/10  
and the new supply agreement is not onerous. See Note 24.
–  £3.7 million charge in respect of duplicate running costs at the newly commissioned cheese cutting and packing facility at Nuneaton. 
During the ramp up period, cheese was cut and packed both at Nuneaton and by First Milk under a transitional agreement. This resulted 
in inefﬁciencies during the dual running period.
–  £4.5 million loss on the disposal of the property, plant and equipment and the inventories of the Group’s Stilton and speciality cheese 
business based in Hartington, Derbyshire to Long Clawson Dairy Limited. The loss on disposal comprised:
£m
Sales proceeds – cash consideration 3.8 
Book value of property, plant and equipment disposed (4.4)
Book value of intangible assets disposed (0.4)
Book value of inventories disposed (3.3)
Other fees and costs (0.7)
Loss on disposal (5.0)
Associated pension curtailment gain 0.5 
Exceptional charge (before tax) (4.5) 72 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
4 Exceptional items continued
–  £5.6 million impairment charge against the carrying value of plant and equipment at the Group’s cheese manufacturing plant in Wexford, 
Ireland. These assets were written down to their fair value less costs to sell based on management’s best view as to their current market 
value at that time.
–  £50.4 million gain on sale of 49% share in YDC sold on 26 March 2009. The proﬁt on disposal as reported at 31 March 2009 was  
as follows:
£m
Sales proceeds – cash consideration 63.5 
Group share of YDC net assets at date of disposal (8.6)
Provision for cost of insuring YDC deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme liabilities (3.5)
Other estimated fees and costs (1.0)
Gain on disposal – reported in 2008/09 50.4 
–  £14.3 million exceptional tax charge relating to the cessation of Industrial Buildings Allowances which was enacted in the ﬁrst half  
of 2008/09.
5 Finance costs and other ﬁnance income
Finance costs
Year ended
31 March 
2010
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2009
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts (at amortised cost) (21.9) (29.1)
Interest expense on ﬁnancial liabilities not at fair value through proﬁt and loss (21.9) (29.1)
Unwind of discount for provisions (Note 24) – (0.2)
Finance charges on ﬁnance leases (0.7) (0.8)
Total ﬁnance costs (22.6) (30.1)
Finance income on cash balances (ﬁnancial assets not at fair value through proﬁt and loss) 0.2 0.6 
Total net ﬁnance costs (22.4) (29.5)
Other ﬁnance (expense)/income – pensions
Year ended
31 March 
2010
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2009
£m
Expected return on deﬁned beneﬁt plan assets (Note 21) 39.0 49.0 
Interest cost on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (Note 21) (39.5) (42.1)
(0.5) 6.9 
6 Tax expense
The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 March 2010 and 2009 are:
Consolidated income statement
2010
£m
2009
£m
Current income tax
 Current income tax charge at 28% (2009: 28%) 14.9 8.5
 Adjustments in respect of previous years  – current tax (1.3) – 
  – transfer from deferred tax 0.5 –
14.1 8.5 
Deferred income tax
 Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 11.7 20.7
 Adjustment in respect of previous years  – deferred tax – (0.3) 
  – transfer to current tax (0.5) – 
25.3 28.9 
Analysed: Before exceptional items 20.9 18.5
  Exceptional items 4.4 10.4 
25.3 28.9  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 73
The numbers
6 Tax expense continued
Reconciliation between tax expense and the proﬁt before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Proﬁt before tax 77.8 103.2 
Tax at UK statutory income tax rate of 28% (2009: 28%) 21.8 28.9 
Adjustments in respect of previous years (1.3) (0.3)
Adjustment for overseas proﬁts taxed at different rates 1.7 0.6 
Adjustment in respect of joint ventures’ proﬁts – (2.0)
Deferred tax adjustment for abolition of industrial buildings allowances – 14.3 
Non-deductible expenses 5.8 4.3 
Proﬁts offset by available tax relief (2.7) (16.9)
At the effective rate of 32.5% (2009: 28.0%) 25.3 28.9
The effective pre-exceptional rate of tax on Group proﬁt before tax (after adjusting for joint ventures’ tax in 2009) is 28.3% (2009: 26.8%).
Consolidated other comprehensive income
2010
£m
2009
£m
Deferred income tax related to items charged to other comprehensive income
 Tax relief on actuarial losses (33.3) (32.9)
 Valuation of ﬁnancial instruments (1.0) (2.4)
(34.3) (35.3)
Consolidated changes in equity
2010
£m
2009
£m
Deferred income tax related to items charged to changes in equity
 Share based payments – 0.5 
Income tax credited to changes in equity
 Share based payments (0.1) (0.1)
(0.1) 0.4
Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax at 31 March 2010 and 2009 relates to the following:
Deferred tax liability
2010
£m
2009
£m
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes (44.2) (44.0)
Goodwill and intangible assets (65.8) (69.1)
Financial instrument valuation (0.3) (1.2)
(110.3) (114.3)
Deferred tax asset
Government grants 2.2 2.4
Share based payments 0.4 0.2 
Pensions 39.9 17.2 
Other 2.0 3.7 
44.5 23.5 
Net deferred tax liability (65.8) (90.8)
Analysed: Net deferred tax assets (2009: Wexford, Ireland) – 0.4 
  Net deferred tax liabilities (2010: UK and France; 2009: UK and France) (65.8) (91.2)
Memo: Included in disposal group assets held for sale (Wexford, Ireland – Note 8) 0.3 – 
The Company has a deferred tax liability of £0.2 million at 31 March 2010 (2009: £0.7 million). This relates to temporary differences in respect 
of ﬁnancial instruments. 74 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
6 Tax expense continued
The movement on the net deferred tax balance is shown below:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Net deferred tax liability brought forward (90.8) (96.1)
Charge to income statement (11.2) (20.4)
Credit to other comprehensive income 34.3 35.3 
Charge to changes in equity – (0.5)
Exchange impact 2.2 (9.1)
Transferred to disposal group assets held for sale (0.3) – 
Closing net deferred tax liability (65.8) (90.8)
The gross movement on deferred tax assets and liabilities is shown below:
Deferred tax liability
Deferred
tax asset
Accelerated
tax
depreciation
£m
Short-term
timing
differences
£m
Total
£m
Short-term
timing
differences
£m
Balances at 31 March 2009 (44.0) (47.2) (91.2) 0.4 
Charge to income statement (0.3) (10.9) (11.2) – 
Credit/(charge) to other comprehensive income – 34.4 34.4 (0.1)
Exchange impact 0.1 2.1 2.2 – 
Transferred to disposal group assets held for sale – – – (0.3)
Balances at 31 March 2010 (44.2) (21.6) (65.8) – 
Balances at 31 March 2008 (26.9) (69.4) (96.3) 0.2 
Charge to income statement (16.9) (3.5) (20.4) – 
Credit to other comprehensive income – 35.1 35.1 0.2 
Charge to changes in equity – (0.5) (0.5) – 
Exchange impact (0.2) (8.9) (9.1) –
Balances at 31 March 2009 (44.0) (47.2) (91.2) 0.4
The Group has trading tax losses which arose in the UK of £2.6 million (2009: £9.6 million) that are available indeﬁnitely for offset against future 
taxable proﬁts of the companies in which the losses arose. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as they 
may not be used to offset taxable proﬁts other than in the trades in which they arose and the future proﬁtability of these trades is uncertain.
The Group has capital losses which arose in the UK of £71.6 million (2009: £71.3 million) that are available indeﬁnitely for offset against future 
taxable gains. Deferred tax has not been recognised in respect of these losses as there is no foreseeable prospect of them being utilised.  
The Group has realised capital gains amounting to £43.0 million (2009: £36.9 million) for which rollover relief claims have or are intended to  
be made. 
At 31 March 2010, there was no recognised deferred tax liability (2009: nil) for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of the 
Group’s subsidiaries in Ireland as the dividends would be exempt from UK corporation tax if they were remitted to the UK parent company.
7 Dividends paid and proposed
Declared and paid during the year
2010
£m
2009
£m
Equity dividends on ordinary shares: 
 Final dividend for 2009: 13.0 pence (2008: 17.3 pence) 17.3 22.9 
 Interim dividend for 2010: 5.3 pence (2009: 7.1 pence) 7.0 9.4 
24.3 32.3 
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognised as a liability at 31 March)
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
 Final dividend for 2010: 13.6 pence (2009: 13.0 pence) 18.1 17.3 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 75
The numbers
8 Disposal group held for sale
On 2nd February 2010, the Group announced that it was in advanced discussions with Wexford Milk Producers (‘WMP’) to sell 50% of 
the shares in Wexford Creamery Limited (‘WCL ’) which, if successful, will result in WMP becoming the majority shareholder in WCL. This 
transaction would reduce the Group’s shareholding from 80% to 30% and increase WMP’s shareholding from 20% to 70%. The proposed 
transaction reduces further the Group’s exposure to commodity cheese and allows the Group to concentrate on its key brands. Cash proceeds 
are expected to be approximately €9 million and the transaction is expected to complete in the ﬁrst half of 2010/11.
The assets and liabilities of WCL comprise a disposal group held for sale and have been separately identiﬁed as such at 31 March 2010. 
The disposal group is analysed as follows:
Assets in disposal group held for sale £m
Deferred tax asset 0.3
Investment in joint ventures 0.6 
Inventories 4.6
Trade and other receivables 5.8 
Cash and short-term deposits 7.5 
18.8
Liabilities associated with disposal group held for sale £m
Trade and other payables (4.7)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations (2.0)
Deferred income (0.6)
Current tax liability (0.3)
(7.6)
At 31 March 2009, an impairment of £5.6 million was recorded against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment of WCL based 
upon management’s best estimate of fair value less costs to sell at that time. No further impairment was recorded in the period up to WCL 
becoming a disposal group held for sale.
On recognition of the disposal group held for sale, an impairment of £16.0 million was recognised against the previous carrying value of WCL ’s 
net assets. This write-down was necessary to reduce the carrying value of the disposal group to the estimated fair value less costs to sell of 
the business calculated by reference to the proposed consideration of €9 million for 50% of the business adjusted for other costs, and fair 
value implications of the proposed divestment including options relating to the remaining 30% holding and proposed commercial agreements 
post completion. In the ﬁrst instance, £2.6 million was allocated to property, plant and equipment to write down the carrying value to nil. The 
remaining £13.4 million impairment has been allocated against inventories as there are no other scoped-in non-current assets against which to 
allocate the remaining impairment and inventories comprise the largest value current asset available for allocation. 
On ﬁnal disposal in 2010/11, certain items previously taken to other comprehensive income in relation to the hedging of WCL ’s net assets, will 
be recycled to the income statement. 
Inventories comprise principally maturing cheese stocks. The retirement beneﬁt obligation relates to the Wexford deﬁned beneﬁt pension 
scheme. The fair value of plan assets at 31 March 2010 was £10.2 million and the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation was £12.2 million resulting in  
a net scheme deﬁcit of £2.0 million. Prior year numbers are disclosed in Note 21.
WCL is reported within the Cheese segment. 76 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
9 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (‘EPS’) on proﬁt for the year is calculated by dividing proﬁt attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Basic EPS is calculated on the basis of Group proﬁt for the year less proﬁt attributable to minority interests divided by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the proﬁt attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would  
be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. 
The shares held by the Dairy Crest Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (‘ESOP’) are excluded from the weighted average number of 
shares in issue used in the calculation of earnings per share.
To show earnings per share on a consistent basis, which in the directors’ opinion reﬂects the ongoing performance of the business more 
appropriately, adjusted earnings per share have been calculated. The computation for basic and diluted earnings per share (including adjusted 
earnings per share) are as follows:
Year ended 31 March 2010 Year ended 31 March 2009
Earnings
£m
Weighted
average
no of shares
million
Per share
amount
pence
Earnings
£m
Weighted
average
no of shares
million
Per share
amount
pence
Basic EPS on proﬁt for the year
Net proﬁt attributable to equity shareholders 54.0 133.0 40.6 75.4 132.8 56.8 
Effect of dilutive securities:    
 Share options – 1.4 (0.4) – 1.2 (0.5)
Diluted EPS on proﬁt for the year 54.0 134.4 40.2 75.4 134.0 56.3 
Adjusted basic EPS 
Basic EPS from continuing operations 54.0 133.0 40.6 75.4 132.8 56.8 
Exceptional items excluding minority interest (net of tax) 0.6 – 0.5 33.3 – 25.1 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (net of tax) 6.2 – 4.6 6.4 – 4.8 
Pension interest charge/(credit) (net of tax) 0.4 – 0.3 (5.0) – (3.7)
Joint ventures’ exceptional items (net of tax) (2.0) – (1.5) (50.4) – (38.0)
Adjusted basic EPS 59.2 133.0 44.5 59.7 132.8 45.0 
Effect of dilutive securities:
 Share options – 1.4 (0.5) – 1.2 (0.4)
Adjusted diluted EPS 59.2 134.4 44.0 59.7 134.0 44.6
There have been no transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of completion 
of these ﬁnancial statements. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 77
The numbers
10 Remuneration of employees and key management personnel
Number of employees – Group
Year ended
31 March 
2010
number
Year ended
31 March 
2009
number
Average number of employees:
 Production 2,326 2,434 
 Sales, distribution and administration 4,921 5,688
Total employees 7,247 8,122 
Remuneration of employees, including key management personnel
Year ended
31 March 
2010
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2009
£m
Wages and salaries 221.2 232.6 
Social security costs 19.6 21.1 
Equity settled share based payments expense (Note 27) 2.4 0.8 
Pension costs (Note 21) 11.6 14.1
254.8 268.6 
The above costs include amounts paid to the Company’s executive and non-executive directors: Further analysis as follows:
Directors
Year ended
31 March 
2010
£000
Year ended
31 March 
2009
£000
Salaries and beneﬁts 1,384 1,602 
Bonus 1,065 – 
Fees to non-executive directors 364 360 
Emoluments 2,813 1,962 
Compensation for loss of ofﬁce – 205 
Payments to deﬁned contribution pension scheme – 45 
Gain on exercise of options 482 264 
Highest paid director
Salaries and beneﬁts 573 567 
Bonus 445 – 
Emoluments 1,018 567 
Deﬁned beneﬁt accrued pension 64 55 
Gain on exercise of LTISP options 127 264 
Further information relating to directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2010 is provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 38 to 44.  78 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
11 Property, plant and equipment
Consolidated 2010
Land and
buildings
£m
Vehicles,
plant and
equipment
£m
Assets in
the course of
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2009 195.7 297.2 8.1 501.0 
Additions 2.9 9.3 11.3 23.5 
Acquisition of business – 0.8 – 0.8 
Disposals (8.8) (27.9) (0.5) (37.2)
Transfer to assets in disposal group held for sale (4.3) (18.1) – (22.4)
Transfers and reclassiﬁcations 0.4 6.6 (7.0) – 
Exchange (0.4) (1.3) – (1.7)
At 31 March 2010 185.5 266.6 11.9 464.0 
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 April 2009 53.4 155.5 – 208.9 
Charge for the year 6.8 29.0 – 35.8 
Disposals (5.6) (25.8) – (31.4)
Transfer to assets in disposal group held for sale (2.6) (17.2) – (19.8)
Exchange (0.3) (0.8) – (1.1)
At 31 March 2010 51.7 140.7 – 192.4 
Net book amount at 31 March 2010 133.8 125.9 11.9 271.6 
Net book amount at 31 March 2009 142.3 141.7 8.1 292.1 
Consolidated 2009
Cost
At 1 April 2008 195.8 307.0 22.3 525.1 
Classiﬁcation adjustment (see Note 13) – (0.4) (4.5) (4.9)
Additions 7.1 25.8 4.6 37.5 
Acquisition of business – – – – 
Disposals (2.2) (15.4) (15.9) (33.5)
Disposal of business (7.4) (22.2) – (29.6)
Transfers and reclassiﬁcations 0.7 (2.3) 1.6 – 
Exchange 1.7 4.7 – 6.4 
At 31 March 2009 195.7 297.2 8.1 501.0 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2008 50.0 147.8 – 197.8 
Charge for the year 6.9 33.1 – 40.0 
Asset impairments and write-downs 0.7 8.3 – 9.0 
Disposals (1.2) (15.6) – (16.8)
Disposal of business (4.0) (21.2) – (25.2)
Transfers and reclassiﬁcations – – – – 
Exchange 1.0 3.1 – 4.1 
At 31 March 2009 53.4 155.5 – 208.9 
Net book amount at 31 March 2009 142.3 141.7 8.1 292.1  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 79
The numbers
11 Property, plant and equipment continued
2010
During the year, the assets of Wexford Creamery Limited were transferred to a disposal group held for sale (see Note 8).
2009
Asset impairments comprise £5.6 million in relation to plant and equipment at Wexford, £3.2 million in relation to property, plant and 
equipment at the closed Dairy sites at Totnes and Nottingham and £0.2 million in relation to other plant and equipment. Further details  
are provided in Note 4.
Capitalised leases included in vehicles, plant and equipment comprise:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cost 35.7 36.5 
Accumulated depreciation (22.1) (21.4)
Net book amount 13.6 15.1 
12 Goodwill
£m
Cost
At 31 March 2008 316.1 
Additions (Note 30) 0.3 
Exchange 28.6 
At 31 March 2009 345.0 
Additions (Note 30) 1.7 
Exchange (7.6)
At 31 March 2010 339.1 
Accumulated impairment
At 31 March 2008, 2009 and 2010 (2.3)
Net book amount at 31 March 2010 336.8 
Net book amount at 31 March 2009 342.7 
Impairment testing of goodwill
Acquired goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to ﬁve groups of cash generating units (‘CGUs’): Liquid Products, 
Household, UK Spreads, St Hubert and Cheese. The Speciality Cheese CGU was disposed of in August 2008 (see Note 30). All CGUs  
are tested for impairment annually by comparing the carrying amount of that CGU with its recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is 
determined based on a value-in-use calculation using cash ﬂow projections based on ﬁnancial budgets and strategic plans approved by 
senior management covering a three-year period and appropriate growth rates beyond that. The discount rate applied to the projections  
is 8.5% for UK Spreads and Cheese (2009: 9.5%), 8.9% for St Hubert (2009: 9.9%), 8.5% for Liquid Products and 9.2% for Household  
(2009: 9.8% for Dairies incorporating Liquid Products and Household). 
Discount rates are pre-tax and calculated by reference to average industry gearing levels, the cost of debt and the cost of equity based on  
the capital asset pricing model and CGU-speciﬁc risk factors. Discount rates have decreased slightly compared to March 2009 reﬂecting 
lower equity risk premiums.
The growth rate used to extrapolate cash ﬂows beyond the three-year period for UK Spreads, St Hubert, Liquid Products and Cheese is  
2.0% pa (being the estimated UK and Euro zone long-term growth rate adjusted for industry growth rates and extrapolation risks). The growth 
rate used to extrapolate cash ﬂows beyond the three-year period for the Household CGU is 0%. Management considers this a prudent 
assumption in the light of current milk&more opportunities in the Household business which is forecast to offset the historical doorstep decline 
rates beyond year 3. 80 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
12 Goodwill continued
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to groups of CGUs at 31 March 2010 is:
Liquid Products £30.9 million (2009: £29.2 million)
Household £39.7 million (2009: £39.7 million)
UK Spreads £65.5 million (2009: £65.5 million)
St Hubert £198.6 million (2009: £206.2 million)
Cheese £2.1 million (2009: £2.1 million)
The key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations:
Gross margin – budgeted gross margins are based initially on actual margins achieved in the preceding year further adjusted for projected 
input and output price changes, volume changes, new initiatives and anticipated efﬁciency improvements. The budgeted margins form the 
basis for strategic plans, which incorporate longer-term market trends. 
Discount rates – reﬂect management’s estimate of the risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for each CGU.
Raw materials prices – budgets are prepared using the most up to date price and forecast price data available. This is based on forward 
prices in the marketplace adjusted for any contracted prices at the time of forecast. The key resources are milk, vegetable oils, fuel oil, diesel, 
gas and electricity and packaging costs.
Growth rate estimates – for periods beyond the length of the strategic plans, growth estimates are based upon published industry research 
adjusted downwards to reﬂect the risk of extrapolating growth beyond a three-year time frame. For the Household business, long-term rates  
of market decline as seen over recent years have been extrapolated forward offset by growth assumptions for milk&more.
The directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each CGU and to be realistically achievable  
in the light of economic and industry measures and forecasts. In addition, the value in use calculation for the Group (comprising each CGU’s 
value in use) is compared to the Group market capitalisation at the date of impairment testing and 31 March each year.
2010 Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
With regard to the assessment of value in use of the Spreads, St Hubert, Liquid Products and Cheese CGUs, management believes that  
no reasonably possible change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount 
with the exception, in the cases of St Hubert and Liquid Products, of the discount rate used in the value in use calculation which is outside 
management’s control. Should the discount rate used for calculating the St Hubert value in use rise to 11.5% and the discount rate used for 
calculating the Liquid Products value in use rise to 10.4% due to external ﬁnancial market uncertainties then the carrying value would exceed 
that unit’s recoverable amount. The impairment headroom for the St Hubert and Liquids’ CGUs is €105 million and £39 million respectively.
For the Household CGU, there are possible changes in key assumptions which could cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its 
recoverable amount although management believes that the assumptions used in performing the impairment test for this business are 
cautious. The key assumption is future growth rates. Management has assumed no growth after year three in the value in use calculation. 
Should any decline in the Household CGU continue and be greater than 12% per annum beyond year three then the value in use for this CGU 
could be reduced to a value approximately equal to its carrying amount. The impairment headroom for the Household CGU is £94 million. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
The numbers
81
13 Intangible assets
Assets in
the course of
construction
£m
Internally
generated
£m
Acquired
intangibles
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 31 March 2008 – 3.3 183.0 186.3 
Classiﬁcation adjustment (Note 11)* 4.9 – – 4.9 
Additions 7.5 1.2 – 8.7 
Transfers and reclassiﬁcations (5.6) 5.6 – – 
Exchange – – 29.2 29.2 
At 31 March 2009 6.8 10.1 212.2 229.1 
Additions – 5.6 – 5.6 
Transfers and reclassiﬁcations (6.8) 6.8 – – 
Exchange – – (7.8) (7.8)
At 31 March 2010 – 22.5 204.4 226.9 
Accumulated amortisation
At 31 March 2008 – 1.1 13.8 14.9 
Amortisation for the year – 1.3 9.6 10.9 
Asset impairments and write-downs – 0.8 – 0.8
Exchange – – 3.1 3.1 
At 31 March 2009 – 3.2 26.5 29.7 
Amortisation for the year – 3.0 9.2 12.2 
Exchange – – (1.0) (1.0)
At 31 March 2010 – 6.2 34.7 40.9 
Net book amount at 31 March 2010 – 16.3 169.7 186.0 
Net book amount at 31 March 2009 6.8 6.9 185.7 199.4 
The remaining useful lives at 31 March 2010 for signiﬁcant intangible assets are as follows:
Acquired St Hubert brand 22 years
Acquired Le Fleurier brand 12 years
Acquired Vallé brand 12 years
2010
–  Additions in the year relate principally to software development for manufacturing sites, the Household business and head ofﬁce.  
These costs will be amortised over four to seven years.
2009
–  Additions in the year relate to software development for manufacturing sites and head ofﬁce in both the UK and France. These costs  
will be amortised over seven years.
*  Certain internally generated intangible assets that were in the course of construction at 31 March 2008 were included within plant and equipment for that year.  
The classiﬁcation of those assets into intangibles was reﬂected in the year ended 31 March 2009. 82 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
14 Investments
Company
Share grants 
awarded in 
subsidiaries
£m
Shares in
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2008 5.9 239.2 245.1 
Additions – Dairy Crest UK Limited – 228.9 228.9 
Share based payment charge in subsidiary companies 0.9 – 0.9 
At 31 March 2009 6.8 468.1 474.9 
Share based payment charge in subsidiary companies 1.9 – 1.9 
At 31 March 2010 8.7 468.1 476.8 
Shares in subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2008 represents the fair value of consideration paid on the acquisition of Dairy Crest Limited  
in 1996. 
During the year ended 31 March 2009, the Company paid £228.9 million cash consideration for the ordinary shares of Dairy Crest UK Limited.
Share grants awarded in subsidiaries represents the cumulative cost of the Company’s grant of equity instruments, under share based 
payment awards, to employees of subsidiary undertakings. 
At 31 March 2010 the principal subsidiary undertakings were:
Business
Percentage 
of ordinary 
share
capital held
Subsidiary undertakings:
Dairy Crest Limited Manufacture of dairy products 100%
Philpot Dairy Products Limited* Trading in dairy products 100%
Wexford Creamery Limited Manufacture of dairy products 80%
Fayreﬁeld Foodtec Limited* Manufacture and trading in dairy products and ingredients 100%
St Hubert SAS Manufacture of spreads in France 100%
Dairy Crest France SAS Holding company for St Hubert SAS 100%
* Investments are held by Dairy Crest Limited
The principal place of operation and country of incorporation of all subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures is England and Wales except for 
Wexford Creamery Limited which is in Ireland and St Hubert SAS and Dairy Crest France SAS which are in France.
Following the acquisition of the remaining 50% of the share capital of Fayreﬁeld Foodtec Limited in June 2009, there are no associates or joint 
ventures at 31 March 2010. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 83
The numbers
15 Investment in joint ventures and associates using equity method
The principal investment in joint ventures was represented by a 49% interest in Yoplait Dairy Crest Limited which was involved in the marketing 
and distribution of chilled yogurts and desserts in the United Kingdom. This investment was sold on 26 March 2009 (see Note 4). At 31 March 
2009, the only investment in a joint venture was the 50% interest in Fayreﬁeld Foodtec Limited, a company manufacturing specialist dairy 
ingredients and powders. The Group acquired the outstanding 50% of the share capital of this company in June 2009 and at 31 March 2010 
held no investments in joint ventures or associates. The share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of joint ventures at 31 March and 
for the years then ended, which are equity accounted for in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, are as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Current assets – 2.3 
Non-current assets – 1.1 
– 3.4 
Current liabilities – (0.5)
Non-current liabilities – – 
– (0.5)
Share of net assets – 2.9 
Revenue 1.2 70.3 
Operating costs (1.1) (60.3)
Finance income – 0.1 
Proﬁt before tax 0.1 10.1 
Tax expense – (2.8)
Share of net proﬁt 0.1 7.3 
Analysis of share of net proﬁt: Yoplait Dairy Crest Limited – 7.1 
  Other 0.1 0.2 
The exceptional proﬁt on disposal of Yoplait Dairy Crest Limited is analysed in Note 4.
An investment of £0.6 million (March 2009: £0.6 million) in the Irish Dairy Board, held by Wexford Creamery Limited, was reclassiﬁed into 
assets in a disposal group held for sale during the year ended 31 March 2010.
16 Inventories
Consolidated
2010
£m
2009
£m
Raw materials and consumables 26.8 23.2 
Finished goods 126.9 174.6 
153.7 197.8 
Cheese stocks at 31 March 2010 totalled £110.4 million (2009: £150.2 million). 84 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
17 Trade and other receivables
Consolidated Parent Company
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Trade receivables 118.6 122.8 – – 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 157.2 322.5 
Other receivables 11.2 8.5 0.5 0.4 
Prepayments and accrued income 5.7 6.5 – – 
135.5 137.8 157.7 322.9 
All amounts above, with the exception of prepayments and accrued income, are ﬁnancial assets. 
Trade and other receivables in Wexford Creamery Limited are classiﬁed within assets held for disposal at 31 March 2010 (see Note 8).
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
Consolidated
2010
£m
2009
£m
Sterling 104.6 102.6 
Euro 12.8 19.1 
Other 1.2 1.1 
118.6 122.8 
There are no material concentrations of credit risk.
Trade receivables are non interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 days’ terms and are shown net of a provision for impairment. As at  
31 March 2010, trade receivables at nominal value of £5.8 million (2009: £7.8 million) were impaired and provided for. Movements in the 
provision for impairment of receivables were as follows:
Consolidated
2010
£m
2009
£m
At 1 April 7.8 7.3 
Charge for the year 2.1 4.0 
Amounts written off (4.1) (3.5)
At 31 March 5.8 7.8 
Bad debt provisions are principally in the Household business on debt over 90 days. This business sells product on the doorstep and to 
middle ground and foodservice customers. The Group has no history of bad debt with regard to sales to large multiple retailers. There were  
no impairment provisions on any other class of receivables at 31 March 2010 or 2009.
At 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Past due, not impaired
Total
£m
Neither past
due nor
impaired
£m
30-60 days
£m
60-90 days
£m
> 90 days
£m
31 March 2010 118.6 109.1 9.2 0.3 – 
31 March 2009 122.8 108.9 9.0 2.0 2.9 
The credit quality of trade receivables is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where available, otherwise historical information 
relating to counterparty default rates is used. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 85
The numbers
18 Financial assets
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
Consolidated Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Current
Forward currency contracts (cash ﬂow hedges) 32 0.1 1.3 
Non-current
Cross currency swaps (cash ﬂow hedges) 32 25.4 39.5 
Company
2010
£m
2009
£m
Non-current
Cross currency swaps (cash ﬂow hedges) 32 25.4 39.5 
All derivative ﬁnancial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial 
Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices). 
19 Cash at bank and in hand
Consolidated Parent Company
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 20.0 107.5 – 0.3 
Cash at bank earns interest at ﬂoating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. 
The sale of the Group’s 49% share of YDC occurred on 27 March 2009 resulting in proceeds of £63.5 million. This cash was placed  
on short-term deposit before being used to reduce drawn revolving credit facilities in April 2009. 
20 Financial liabilities
Group Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Current
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 32 2.3 2.0 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 2.3 2.0 
Forward currency contracts (at fair value: cash ﬂow hedge) 32 0.4 0.4 
Financial liabilities – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 0.4 0.4 
Current ﬁnancial liabilities 2.7 2.4 
Non-current
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 32 9.5 11.8 
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 32 307.4 321.5 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) 32 66.0 220.1 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 382.9 553.4 
Interest rate swaps (at fair value: cash ﬂow hedge) 3.7 4.1 
Financial liabilities – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 3.7 4.1 
Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 386.6 557.5 
All derivative ﬁnancial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial 
Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices). 86 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
20 Financial liabilities continued
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows:
Maturity
2010
£m
Effective
interest 
rate at 
March 2010
2009
£m
Effective
interest 
rate at 
March 2009
Current
Finance leases 2.3 5.18% 2.0 5.18%
2.3 2.0 
Non-current
Multi-currency revolving credit facilities:
  Sterling – ﬂoating July 2013 – – 48.0 LIBOR + 140bp
  Euro – swapped to ﬁxed July 2013 – – 68.5 4.05% + 140bp
  Euro – ﬂoating July 2013 – – 3.6 EURIBOR + 140bp
  Sterling – ﬂoating November 2011 – – 100.0 LIBOR + 57.5bp
  Euro – swapped to ﬁxed November 2011 66.0 EURIBOR + 57.5bp – – 
Loan notes:  US$ swapped into £ April 2013 71.2 5.32% 75.3 5.32%
  US$ swapped into £ April 2016 82.4 5.31% 87.2 5.31%
  Sterling April 2016 10.0 5.27% 10.0 5.27%
  Euro April 2014 31.8 4.74% 33.1 4.74%
  Euro April 2017 35.1 4.85% 36.4 4.85%
  Euro swapped into £ April 2014 66.9 5.04% 69.5 5.04%
  Sterling April 2017 10.0 5.84% 10.0 5.84%
Finance leases 9.5 5.18% 11.8 5.18%
382.9 553.4 
Company
2010
£m
2009
£m
Current
Cross currency swaps (with Group company) – 0.9 
Financial liabilities – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments – 0.9 
Non-current
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 307.4 321.5 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) 66.0 196.5 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 373.4 518.0 
Interest rate swaps (at fair value: cash ﬂow hedge) 3.7 4.1 
Financial liabilities – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 3.7 4.1 
Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 377.1 522.1 
All derivative ﬁnancial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial 
Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices). Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 87
The numbers
20 Financial liabilities continued
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows. 
Maturity
2010
£m
Effective
Interest 
rate at 
March 2010
2009
£m
Effective
Interest 
rate at 
March 2009
Non-current
Multi-currency revolving credit facility:
  Sterling – ﬂoating July 2013 – – 28.0 LIBOR + 140bp
  Euro – swapped to ﬁxed July 2013 – – 68.5 4.05% + 140bp
  Sterling – ﬂoating November 2011 – – 100.0 LIBOR + 57.5bp
  Euro – swapped to ﬁxed November 2011 66.0 EURIBOR + 57.5bp – – 
Loan notes:  US$ swapped into £ April 2013 71.2 5.32% 75.3 5.32%
  US$ swapped into £ April 2016 82.4 5.31% 87.2 5.31%
  Sterling April 2016 10.0 5.27% 10.0 5.27%
  Euro April 2014 31.8 4.74% 33.1 4.74%
  Euro April 2017 35.1 4.85% 36.4 4.85%
  Euro swapped into £ April 2014 66.9 5.04% 69.5 5.04%
  Sterling April 2017 10.0 5.84% 10.0 5.84%
373.4 518.0 
In July 2008, the Group and Company agreed a new ﬁve-year multi-currency revolving credit facility of £85 million plus €175 million  
(£241 million Sterling equivalent at 31 March 2010 exchange rate of 1.1211). On 17 July 2008, all amounts outstanding under the 2004  
ﬁve-year facility were repaid and the facility cancelled. The new facility has identical ﬁnancial covenants as both the 2006 ﬁve-year facility,  
the loan notes and the 2004 ﬁve-year facility that it replaced. The maximum net debt/EBITDA ratio under all facilities is 3.5 times.
Details of the Group’s interest rate management strategy and interest rate swaps are included in Notes 31 and 32.
The Group is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities which, if contravened, would result in its loans becoming 
immediately repayable. These covenants specify a maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio of 3.5 times, and minimum interest cover ratio of 3.0 
times. No covenants were contravened in the year ended 31 March 2010 (2009: none). At 31 March 2010 the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 
2.4 times (2009: 2.9 times).
21 Retirement beneﬁt obligations
The Group has two deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, Dairy Crest in the UK and Wexford in Ireland, both of which require contributions to be 
made to separately administered funds. The Dairy Crest Group pension fund is a ﬁnal salary scheme that was closed to new employees 
joining after 30 June 2006. Employees joining after this date are invited to join a Dairy Crest Group deﬁned contribution plan. During the  
year ended 31 March 2010, the Dairy Crest Group pension fund was closed to future service accrual with an effective date of 1 April 2010. 
Members of the scheme have been invited to make contributions into the deﬁned contribution plan in future.
During the year ended 31 March 2010, Wexford Creamery Limited became a disposal group held for sale. As a result the Wexford pension 
scheme is no longer included in the analysis below at 31 March 2010. Further details are provided in Note 8.
The most recent full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest Group pension fund was carried out as at 31 March 2007 by the fund’s independent 
actuary using the projected unit credit method. Full actuarial valuations are carried out triennially and the March 2010 valuation will be 
completed in the year ended 31 March 2011.
The following tables summarise the components of net beneﬁt expense recognised in the consolidated income statement and the funded 
status and amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet for the deﬁned beneﬁt plans. These plans are wholly funded. 88 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
21 Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
Net beneﬁt expense recognised in the consolidated income statement
Dairy Crest Group
pension plans
2010
£m
2009
£m
Current service cost 9.5 12.8 
Curtailment gains (see Note 4) (16.9) (0.5)
Interest cost on beneﬁt obligation 39.5 42.1 
Expected return on plan assets (39.0) (49.0)
Net beneﬁt (income)/expense (6.9) 5.4 
Net actuarial loss recognised in other comprehensive income
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 134.2 (231.1)
Experience gains arising on scheme liabilities 7.9 6.8 
(Loss)/gain arising from changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities (259.8) 106.2 
Net actuarial loss (117.7) (118.1)
Related tax 33.3 32.9 
Net actuarial loss recognised in other comprehensive income (84.4) (85.2)
Actual returns on plan assets were £173.2 million (2009: £182.1 million negative return).
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 
Fair value of plan assets: – Equities 63.6 264.9
  – Bonds and cash 234.0 106.9 
  – Equity return swaps valuation 70.0 – 
  – Property and other 51.4 27.2 
  – Insured retirement obligations 261.1 114.0 
680.1 513.0 
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation: – Uninsured retirement obligations (561.4) (462.3)
  – Insured retirement obligations (261.1) (114.0)
Total deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (822.5) (576.3)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (142.4) (63.3)
Analysed: Dairy Crest scheme (142.4) (60.0)
 Wexford scheme – (3.3)
(142.4) (63.3)
Related deferred tax asset 39.9 17.2 
Net pension liability (102.5) (46.1)
After the last triennial actuarial review based on March 2007, the Group agreed to make cash contributions of 18.3% of pensionable salary into 
the UK deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme for three years. Furthermore, additional contributions of £12 million per annum were agreed for the 
two years to March 2009. Further additional contributions of £20 million per annum have been agreed from October 2009 (£10 million in the 
year ended 31 March 2010). These arrangements will be reviewed with the Trustee after the March 2010 full actuarial valuation is completed.
In December 2008, certain obligations relating to retired members were hedged by the purchase of an insurance contract. A further insurance 
contract for retired members was purchased in June 2009 resulting in coverage for all members who retired up to August 2008. These 
contracts are included within scheme assets and their value will always be equal to the obligation as calculated under IAS 19 for those 
members covered. This will reduce the volatility of the reported deﬁned beneﬁt obligations in future periods.
The purchase of the second insurance contract in June 2009 was funded by the sale of equities. Subsequently, in order to re-establish an 
appropriate equity weighting of scheme assets, the Fund purchased equity total return swaps (synthetic equity). These instruments comprise 
an asset leg and a liability leg. The asset leg generates a return based on UK and overseas equity indices and the liability leg incurs a cost 
based on LIBOR plus margin. At inception, the principal value of each leg was £200 million. The positive valuation of synthetic equity at  
31 March 2010 reﬂects the underlying strength in equities subsequent to the swap purchase. Credit risk is minimised since collateral is 
provided by the counterparties to the beneﬁt of Dairy Crest Pension Scheme when the instruments are in the money.
Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates with the exception of the insured retirement obligations 
which equal the IAS 19 valuation of obligations which they cover. The expected rate of return on equities of 7.8% (March 2009: 8.3%) reﬂects 
historic UK equity returns with an assumption for 2010 that the strong equity market rally in 2009/10 will give rise to marginally lower market 
returns in the medium term versus what was assumed at 31 March 2009. The equity return assumption represents a reasonable risk premium 
over gilts. It is within the range of assumptions typically used by companies of a similar size. This return assumption is also applied to the 
equity leg on equity total return swaps. The liability leg cost assumption is based upon medium term LIBOR yields. The expected rate of return 
on bonds of 5.1% (March 2009: 7.1%) is based upon the gross redemption yields available on a similar proﬁle of gilts and corporate bonds. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 89
The numbers
21 Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
The average duration of scheme liabilities is approximately 19 years. Discount rate assumptions for each reporting period are based upon 
quoted AA-rated corporate bond indices, excluding collateralised bonds, with maturities matching the schemes expected beneﬁt payments. 
Inﬂation assumptions are based upon the difference between long-term ﬁxed income and index linked gilt yields. The scheme deﬁcit is highly 
dependent upon these input assumptions which are set at the reporting period end dates. A 0.1% decrease in the discount rate assumption 
would increase the scheme obligation by approximately £16 million (2009: £12 million). A 0.1% increase in the inﬂation assumption would 
increase the scheme obligation by approximately £10 million (2009: £7 million). An increase in life expectancy across all members of one year 
would increase the scheme obligation by approximately £24 million (2009: £13 million).
The net beneﬁt expense for the year for the Wexford Creamery Limited, included in the table above, amounted to £0.5 million (2009:  
£0.5 million). The fair value of plan assets, the obligation and the net scheme deﬁcit are disclosed in Note 8.
Movement in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations are as follows:
Dairy Crest Group
pension plans
2010
£m
2009
£m
Opening deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (576.3) (653.2)
Current service cost (9.5) (12.8)
Curtailment gains 16.9 0.5 
Interest cost (39.5) (42.1)
Contributions by plan participants (5.9) (6.7)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (251.9) 113.0 
Wexford scheme obligations transferred to disposal group held for sale 12.2 – 
Exchange impact 0.3 (1.8)
Beneﬁts paid 31.2 26.8 
Closing deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (822.5) (576.3)
Movement in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
Opening fair value of plan assets 513.0 684.8 
Expected return 39.0 49.0 
Actual less expected return 134.2 (231.1)
Contributions by employer 29.7 28.8 
Contributions by employees 5.9 6.7 
Wexford scheme assets transferred to disposal group held for sale (10.2) – 
Exchange impact (0.3) 1.6 
Beneﬁts paid (31.2) (26.8)
Closing fair value of plan assets 680.1 513.0 
The principal assumptions used in determining retirement beneﬁt obligations for Dairy Crest Group’s pension fund are shown below:
2010
%
2009
%
Key assumptions:
Rate of increase in salaries 5.2 4.4 
Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions (and price inﬂation) 3.7 2.9 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old non-retired male (years) 20.9 20.9 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old retired male (years) 19.8 19.8 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old non-retired female (years) 23.2 23.2 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old retired female (years) 22.1 22.1 
Discount rate 5.7 7.0 
Expected return: – Equities 7.8 8.3 
  – Bonds and cash 5.1 7.1 
  – Synthetic equity exposure on equity swap contracts 7.8 – 
  – LIBOR exposure on equity swap contracts 4.7 – 
  – Property and other 7.0 7.0 
  – Insured retirement obligations 5.7 7.0 
The agreed cash funding requirement resulting from the last full actuarial review is for the Group to make cash contributions of 18.3% of 
pensionable pay amounting to approximately £14.4 million in 2009/10. This will be virtually nil in 2010/11 due to the closure of the scheme  
to future service accrual.  90 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
21 Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
History of experience gains and losses:
2006
£m
2007
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 625.9 691.8 684.8 513.0 680.1 
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (687.9) (692.2) (653.2) (576.3) (822.5)
Net (deﬁcit)/surplus (62.0) (0.4) 31.6 (63.3) (142.4)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 5.0 1.7 1.9 6.8 7.9 
Adjustments arising from changes in underlying assumptions (54.7) 28.4 77.1 106.2 (259.8)
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 86.9 2.7 (68.3) (231.1) 134.2 
Net actuarial (loss)/gain 37.2 32.8 10.7 (118.1) (117.7)
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income since 1 April 2004 is £157.4 million  
(2009: £39.7 million) and in the Company statement of other recognised income and expense is nil (2009: nil). The directors are unable to 
determine how much of the pension scheme deﬁcit recognised on transition to IFRS, and taken directly to equity of £93.2 million, is attributable 
to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those pension schemes. Consequently, the directors are unable to determine the amount  
of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Group statement of other recognised income and expense before  
1 April 2004.
The Company recognises no liabilities on its balance sheet, or charges or credits in its income statement or statement of recognised income 
and expense in relation to the Group pension plans. The legal sponsor of the Dairy Crest Group pension plan is Dairy Crest Limited.
The Group has charged £1.5 million in respect of the Dairy Crest Group deﬁned contribution scheme in the year ended 31 March 2010  
(2009: £1.3 million). The Company has charged nil in respect of the Dairy Crest Group deﬁned contribution scheme in the year ended  
31 March 2010 (2009: £0.1 million).
22 Trade and other payables 
Consolidated Parent Company
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Trade payables* 97.2 99.6 – – 
Other tax and social security 9.4 5.9 – – 
Other creditors* 21.4 22.9 – – 
Accruals* 102.3 101.0 7.9 8.7 
230.3 229.4 7.9 8.7 
* Financial liabilities at amortised cost
23 Deferred income
Current
2010
£m
2009
£m
Grants 0.5 0.6 
Other 0.1 0.1 
0.6 0.7 
Non-current
Grants 7.2 8.4 
Other 0.1 0.2 
7.3 8.6 
The Group has met all applicable conditions attaching to grants at 31 March 2010. Certain of the conditions attaching to grants were applicable 
until 2009. At 31 March 2010 all previously received grants were unconditional. 
Deferred income of £0.6 million relating to Wexford Creamery Limited was transferred into a disposal group held for sale during the year ended 
31 March 2010. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
The numbers
91
24 Provisions
YDC pension
liabilities
£m
OFT provision
(including
legal fees)
£m
Onerous
contract
£m
Total
£m
At 1 April 2008 – 9.6 3.0 12.6 
Charged in the year as exceptional (see Note 4) 3.5 – 0.9 4.4 
Utilised (3.5) – (3.6) (7.1)
Discount unwind – – 0.2 0.2 
At 31 March 2009 – Current – 9.6 0.5 10.1 
Released during the year as exceptional (see Note 4) – (2.2) – (2.2) 
Utilised – (0.1) (0.5) (0.6)
At 31 March 2010 – Current – 7.3 – 7.3 
Ofﬁce of Fair Trading (‘OFT’)
An exceptional provision was charged in 2007/08 in relation to the settlement of the OFT investigation into milk price initiatives (including legal 
costs). The amount of the ﬁne provided was £9.4 million plus legal fees and reﬂected the early resolution agreement that was reached with  
the OFT in December 2007. In April 2010, the OFT announced that parties to the 2007 Statement of Objections will get a penalty reduction 
provided each company continues to co-operate with the OFT. The OFT expects to conclude and issue its decision by early summer 2010. 
Accordingly, the provision has been reduced to reﬂect our best estimate of the penalty ultimately payable (£7.1 million) plus legal fees expected 
to be incurred (£0.2 million). This ﬁne is dependent upon the Group’s continued full co-operation with the OFT until the matter is settled. 
Settlement is expected to be reached in the year ending 31 March 2011 and therefore the related provision has been classiﬁed as current.
Onerous contract
The Group had one milk supply contract with a middle ground customer which, due to unprecedented increases in milk costs in 2007/08 and 
a subsequent weakening of cream prices, became onerous. An exceptional provision of £4.4 million was charged in the year ended 31 March 
2008, being the best estimate at the time of the present value of future cash outﬂows resulting from the contractual obligations in the contract. 
In the year ended 31 March 2009, there were further milk cost increases and contract negotiations took longer than anticipated. This resulted 
in a £0.9 million additional provision being charged. The onerous contract was exited in June 2009 by which point the remaining provision had 
been fully extinguished.
YDC pension liabilities
As part of the disposal of YDC, future service accruals immediately ceased in the YDC deﬁned beneﬁt scheme and the Group contracted to 
extinguish any remaining funding liability by purchasing an insurance buy-out. On completion of the disposal, £3.5 million was charged as a 
provision for the cost of the insurance and funds were deposited in escrow for the beneﬁt of the YDC scheme trustee. This amount was the 
best estimate at the date of disposal of the cost of buying out the scheme liabilities. This was accounted for as a provision under IAS 37 and 
not under IAS 19 as there ceased to be a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme on completion of the disposal. During the year ended 31 March 2010, the 
Group received £2.3 million back from escrow as the ﬁnal cost of insuring future pension liabilities was lower than originally anticipated. The 
refund from escrow was treated as an exceptional gain and further details are provided in Note 4.
25 Share capital
Authorised
2010
Thousands
2009
Thousands
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 240,000 240,000 
Issued and fully paid Thousands £m
At 31 March 2008 133,054 33.3 
Issued for cash on exercise of share options 210 – 
At 31 March 2009 133,264 33.3 
Issued for cash on exercise of share options – – 
At 31 March 2010 133,264 33.3 
No shares were issued in the year ended 31 March 2010 as no sharesave exercises occurred. Exercises of LTISP options are fulﬁlled by the 
issue of existing shares from the Dairy Crest Employees’ Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’). In the year ended 31 March 2009, 209,231 shares 
were issued at a premium of £0.5 million for an aggregate consideration of £0.5 million. See Note 26. 92 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
26 Notes to statement of changes in equity
Consolidated
The shares held by the ESOP are available to satisfy awards under LTISP (see Note 27).
At 31 March 2010 the ESOP held 171,015 shares (2009: 483,723 shares) in the Company at a cost of £0.7 million (2009: £1.9 million). The 
ESOP was established in August 1996 to purchase shares in the Company in order to hedge certain future obligations of the Group including 
shares awarded under the LTISP and the ESOS. During the year the Trustee of the ESOP issued 312,708 (2009: 468,156) shares following 
exercises of LTISP options. The Company issued no shares to the ESOP in the year ended 31 March 2010 (2009: 200,000 shares were issued 
to the ESOP in March 2009 at the prevailing market price of £2.60). The market value of the shares held by the ESOP, which are listed on the 
London Stock Exchange, was £0.6 million at 31 March 2010 (2009: £1.3 million).
Other reserves – Consolidated
Merger
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve*
£m
Other
reserves
£m
At 31 March 2009 55.9 3.2 17.4 76.5 
Total recognised in other comprehensive income – (2.6) (7.5) (10.1)
At 31 March 2010 55.9 0.6 9.9 66.4 
At 31 March 2008 55.9 9.1 2.0 67.0 
Total recognised in other comprehensive income – (5.9) 15.4 9.5 
At 31 March 2009 55.9 3.2 17.4 76.5 
*  The classiﬁcation of reserves at 31 March 2009 has been restated to correctly analyse net investment hedges in relation to Wexford Creamery Limited between translation 
reserve and retained earnings. The impact is to increase retained earnings at that date by £0.9 million and to reduce the translation reserve by £0.9 million. There is no 
impact on total share capital and reserves, nor on minority interests at that date. The classiﬁcation of reserves at 31 March 2008 is not affected by this change.
The merger reserve includes the premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Dairy Crest Limited in 1996. The cumulative amount  
of goodwill charged against the merger reserve is £86.8 million (2009: £86.8 million). The reserve is not distributable.
The hedging reserve records the movements on designated hedging items, offset by any movements recognised directly in equity on 
underlying hedging items.
The translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries 
offset by the movements on loans and derivatives used to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Parent Company
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate proﬁt and loss account is presented for the Company. The loss for  
the year dealt with in the accounts of the Company is £7.0 million (2009: £11.7 million proﬁt) including dividends received from subsidiary 
companies of nil (2009: £25.0 million). Dividends paid amounted to £24.3 million (2009: £32.3 million) which, along with a credit for share 
based payments of £0.5 million (2009: £0.1 million debit) resulted in a £30.8 million decrease in retained earnings (2009: £21.2 million decrease 
after including the cost of the cash gift to the ESOP of £0.5 million).
In 1996 the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of Dairy Crest Limited. Consideration was in the form of cash and the issue  
of 109.8 million ordinary shares of 25 pence each. The fair value of the shares issued was estimated as £170.2 million. The capital reserve  
of £142.7 million, shown in the statement of changes in equity, represents the difference between the fair value of shares issued and their 
nominal value of £27.5 million. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 93
The numbers
27 Share based payment plans
Group
The Group has three share option schemes in operation.
The Dairy Crest Long Term Incentive Share Plan (‘LTISP’)
This is a long-term incentive scheme under which awards are made to directors and senior managers consisting of the right to acquire shares 
for a nominal price subject to the achievement of ﬁnancial targets based on (i) total shareholder return (‘TSR’) over a three-year period versus 
comparator companies and (ii) growth in earnings per share or, on the 2006 to 2008 awards, economic proﬁt. The vesting period for grants 
made under this scheme is three years with an exercise period of seven years. On 29 June 2009 1,062,106 options were granted under the 
LTISP scheme (July 2008: 1,161,635). There are no cash settlement alternatives.
Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme
All employees are eligible to join the Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme which allows employees to use regular monthly savings to purchase 
shares. Options are granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the shares. No ﬁnancial performance criteria are attached to 
these options and they vest three years from the date of grant with an exercise period of six months. On 26 June 2009 4,461,240 options were 
granted under the Dairy Crest Sharesave scheme at a grant price of 227 pence. No options were granted in the year ended 31 March 2009. 
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
Dairy Crest Executive Share Option Scheme (‘ESOS’)
Options granted under the Dairy Crest ESOS to subscribe for the Company’s shares could be exercised up to 2012 but all outstanding options 
were exercised in the year ended 31 March 2007. No options have been granted under this scheme since 22 July 2002. There were no cash 
settlement alternatives.
In addition, from 2005/06, bonuses earned that are in excess of 50% of basic salary are deferred in shares with a vesting period of three 
years. The only vesting condition is continuing employment. The cost of these shares are charged over four years (being the year the bonus 
related to and the three-year vesting period) and is based on the number of shares issued and the share price at date of issue. Deferred 
shares to the value of £0.6 million are to be issued in relation to the year ended 31 March 2010. There were no deferred shares issued in 
relation to the year ended 31 March 2009.
The number of share options and weighted average exercise price for each of the schemes is set out as follows:
LTISP* Sharesave scheme
Number Number
Weighted 
average
exercise price
(pence)
Options outstanding at 1 April 2009 1,754,221 976,789 487.0 
Options granted during the year 1,062,106 4,461,240 227.0 
Reinvested dividends 134,713 – – 
Options exercised during the year (311,373) – – 
Options forfeited during the year (568,285) (956,404) 436.1 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2010 2,071,382 4,481,625 239.1 
Exercisable at 31 March 2010 64,719 – –
Options outstanding at 1 April 2008 1,566,117 2,450,009 441.4 
Options granted during the year 1,161,635 – – 
Reinvested dividends 159,046 – – 
Options exercised during the year (450,419) (9,231) 388.0 
Options forfeited during the year (682,158) (1,463,989) 411.3 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2009 1,754,221 976,789 487.0 
Exercisable at 31 March 2009 350,250 – –
* The weighted average exercise price for LTISP options is nil.
At 31 March 2010 no ESOS share options were outstanding (31 March 2009: nil). Sharesave scheme options are exercisable up to March 
2013 at prices ranging from 227 pence to 487 pence (March 2009: exercisable up to September 2011 at a price of 487 pence). LTISP options 
are exercisable at varying dates up to June 2019 (March 2009: July 2018). 
The remaining weighted average contractual life of options outstanding at 31 March 2010 is 8.68 years for the LTISP and 2.85 years for the 
Sharesave Scheme (2009: 8.52 years and 2.42 years respectively). The weighted average share price on exercise of LTISP options  
was £3.55 (2009: £3.88) and was not applicable on exercise of Sharesave options as none were exercised (2009: not applicable as none  
were exercised). 94 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
27 Share based payment plans continued
The fair value factor of the Sharesave Scheme options issued in June 2009 is 30% giving a fair value of £0.68 per option granted. This has 
been computed using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The key assumptions used in the valuation model for the June 2009 grant were: 
expected share price volatility 43%, risk free rate of interest 2.4% and dividend yield 6.5%. The volatility assumption is based on the historical 
volatility of the Dairy Crest Group plc share price over a period commensurate with the expected option life, ending on the grant date of the 
option. There were no Sharesave Scheme options granted during the year ended 31 March 2009.
The LTISP has market and non-market based performance conditions. The fair value of the market performance element of the LTISP awards 
is calculated using a Monte Carlo option pricing model. The fair value factor for the award made in June 2009 is 75% for the TSR element and 
100% for the EPS element (July 2008: 44% TSR and 100% Economic Proﬁt) giving a fair value of £2.74 per option granted (2009: £2.37). The 
non-market performance element of the LTISP is based on EPS (2009: economic proﬁt) and the charge for this is the value of shares expected 
to vest calculated by reference to the share price at the date of grant. There is no reasonable likelihood of the economic proﬁt condition on the 
2008 LTISP issue being met and no charge has been assumed for this element. Volatility assumptions are made for Dairy Crest Group plc and 
comparator companies based on historical volatility of share prices over a period commensurate with the option life. 
The input assumptions for the LTISP grant in the year ended 31 March 2010 were as follows:
Term 3 years (2009: 3 years)
Volatility 47% (2009: 32%)
Risk free rate 2.1% (2009: 5.2%)
Average volatility of comparator TSR 50% (2009: 33%)
TSR correlation (Dairy Crest vs comparators) 26% (2009: 11%)
The expected life of the LTISP options is assumed to be equal to the vesting period, being three years.
The Group expense arising from share option plans for the year ended 31 March 2010 is £2.4 million (2009: £0.8 million) (see Note 10).
Company
The number of share options and weighted average exercise price for each of the schemes for employees of the Company is set out as follows:
LTISP Sharesave scheme
Number Number
Weighted 
average
exercise price
(pence)
Options outstanding at 1 April 2009 576,794 1,848 487.0 
Options granted during the year 386,876 15,988 227.0 
Reinvested dividends 46,685 – – 
Options exercised during the year (69,382) – – 
Options forfeited during the year (134,644) (1,848) 487.0 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2010 806,329 15,988 227.0 
Exercisable at 31 March 2010 – – – 
Options outstanding at 1 April 2008 589,141 8,336 428.5 
Options granted during the year 466,799 – – 
Reinvested dividends 30,061 – – 
Options exercised during the year (295,743) – – 
Options forfeited during the year (213,464) (6,488) 388.0 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2009 576,794 1,848 487.0 
Exercisable at 31 March 2009 65,908 – –
At 31 March 2010 no ESOS share options were outstanding (March 2009: nil). Sharesave scheme options are exercisable up to March 2013  
at a price of 227 pence (March 2009: up to September 2011 at a price of 487 pence). LTISP options are exercisable at varying dates up to 
June 2019 (2009: July 2018). The remaining weighted average contractual life of options outstanding at 31 March 2010 is 8.74 years for the 
LTISP and 2.92 years for the Sharesave Scheme (2009: 8.25 years and 2.29 years respectively). There were no exercises of Sharesave options 
in the year ended 31 March 2010 (2009: nil). 
The Company expense arising from share option plans for the year ended 31 March 2010 was £0.5 million (2009: £0.1 million credit). Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 95
The numbers
28 Commitments and contingencies
Operating lease commitments
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain land and buildings, vehicles and equipment. Excluding land and buildings, these 
leases have an average life of between three and seven years with no renewal option, escalation clauses or purchase options included in the 
contracts. There are no contingent rentals or operating leases or material sub-leases. There are no signiﬁcant restrictions placed upon the 
lessee by entering into these leases. 
During the year ended 31 March 2009, certain assets at the new cheese packing facility in Nuneaton were sold for cash consideration of 
£15.5 million. This equipment has been leased back under an operating lease with a seven-year term. There are no purchase option clauses 
or any contingent lease rentals.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 March are as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Within one year 24.1 24.9 
After one year but not more than ﬁve years 51.6 42.4 
More than ﬁve years 16.5 23.1 
Finance leases
The Group ﬁnance leases principally comprise certain items of plant and equipment at the Davidstow site. The initial lease term is for 10 years 
with a further renewal term of seven years. There are no purchase options and escalation clauses and there is no sub-leasing of the assets or 
any contingent rentals. Future minimum payments under ﬁnance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments 
are as follows:
2010 2009
Minimum
payments
£m
Present 
value of
payments
£m
Minimum
payments
£m
Present 
value of
payments
£m
Within one year 2.8 2.3 2.7 2.0 
After one year but not more than two years 2.9 2.5 2.8 2.2 
After two years but not more than ﬁve years 7.4 7.0 9.0 8.1 
After more than ﬁve years – – 1.3 1.5 
Total minimum lease payments 13.1 11.8 15.8 13.8 
Less: amounts representing ﬁnance charges (1.3) – (2.0) – 
Present value of minimum lease payments 11.8 11.8 13.8 13.8 
Trading guarantees
The Group has provided guarantees and counter-indemnities which totalled £0.1 million at 31 March 2010 (2009: £12.9 million). The ﬁgure at 
31 March 2009 included a guarantee for liabilities amounting to £12.8 million (as deﬁned in Section 5(c )(iii) of the Companies (Amendment)  
Act 1986, Republic of Ireland) of Wexford Creamery Limited and subsidiaries, which are Irish registered companies, for the ﬁnancial year 
ended 31 March. As a result Wexford Creamery Limited and subsidiaries were exempt from ﬁling March 2009 statutory accounts with the 
Registrar of Companies in Ireland, under provisions of Section 17 of the Irish Companies (Amendment) Act 1986. No such guarantee was 
given at 31 March 2010. The remaining guarantees are made by Philpot Dairy Products Limited, a subsidiary company, to the Rural Payment 
Agency in relation to EU subsidies claimed.
The Company has provided guarantees to its bankers in respect of subsidiary borrowings amounting to nil at 31 March 2010 (2009: £23.6 million).
Capital commitments
Group
2010
£m
2009
£m
Future capital expenditure contracted on property, plant and equipment 6.1 12.9 96 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
29 Related party transactions
Yoplait Dairy Crest Limited, a joint venture of Dairy Crest Group plc up until 26 March 2009, incurred costs of £6.4 million from the Group for 
sales and distribution activities carried out on its behalf. Ashton Associates, a partnership between Mr and Mrs S M D Oliver, received £18,104 
(2009: £21,725) for administration and secretarial services covering the operations of the Chairman’s ofﬁce. There is no balance in relation to 
these fees outstanding at 31 March 2010 (2009: nil). There were no transactions between the Dairy Crest Group and Fayreﬁeld Foodtec 
Limited between the acquisition of 50% of the business in December 2007 and the acquisition of the ﬁnal 50% of the business in June 2009.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group and Company
2010
£m
2009
£m
Short-term employee beneﬁts 3.1 2.2 
Compensation for loss of ofﬁce – 0.2 
Post-employment beneﬁts* – – 
Share-based payments 0.5 (0.1)
Total compensation paid to key management personnel 3.6 2.3 
* Mr M Allen and Mr A S N Murray were members of the Dairy Crest deﬁned beneﬁt scheme in the year ended 31 March 2010. 
Accrued beneﬁts for the year and other details are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. Mr M Wilks was not a member of either  
the Dairy Crest deﬁned beneﬁt or deﬁned contribution schemes and received a cash supplement during the year ended 31 March 2010. 
Dairy Crest Limited, a subsidiary company, incurred costs of £4.1 million (2009: £2.8 million) from the Company for the provision of 
management and administrative services carried out on its behalf. Dairy Crest Limited received £3.4 million (2009: £2.7 million) for the 
remuneration of the Company’s employees which had been paid by Dairy Crest Limited. 
Interest charges of £0.2 million (2009: £1.9 million) were incurred by the Company to Dairy Crest Limited on a loan reﬂecting an interest rate of 
LIBOR+100 basis points. Interest income of £9.5 million (2009: £9.1 million) was received by the Company from Dairy Crest Limited on a loan 
reﬂecting an interest rate of 5.3% (2009: 5.3%) and a further £1.7 million was received by the Company from Dairy Crest Limited on ﬂoating 
rate loans paying LIBOR plus margin. The Company was charged net interest of £0.3 million (2009: £1.3 million) by Dairy Crest Limited on 
a cross-currency swap paying LIBOR and receiving EURIBOR.
During the year ended 31 March 2009, the Company sold its receivable under a convertible loan to a subsidiary undertaking at fair value for 
cash consideration. See Note 32. Additionally, the Company subscribed for 228.9 million ordinary shares of £1 each in Dairy Crest UK Limited, 
a subsidiary, for cash consideration. See Note 14.
30 Business combinations and disposals
Year ended 31 March 2010
On 20 June 2009 the Group completed the sale of 16 depots to Medina Dairy Limited. The Group retained supply of packed milk into these 
depots and ownership of land and buildings where relevant. Proceeds amounted to £1.4 million and the Group incurred fees and other costs 
of £0.2 million resulting in a net cash inﬂow of £1.2 million. The loss on disposal amounted to £0.4 million and can be analysed as follows: 
£m
Proceeds 1.4
Book value of inventories (0.1)
Book value of trade receivables (1.6)
Book value of trade and other creditors 0.1 
Other fees and costs (0.2)
Loss on disposal (0.4) Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 97
The numbers
30 Business combinations and disposals continued
In June 2009 the Group took advantage of call options agreed on the acquisition of its initial 50% stake, and acquired the remaining 50%  
of the ordinary share capital of Fayreﬁeld Foodtec Limited for gross consideration of £2.5 million. The provisional fair value of the identiﬁable 
assets and liabilities of the business at the date of acquisition was as follows:
Fair value
to Group
£m
Book
value
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.8 0.8 
Inventories 1.2 1.2 
Receivables 1.3 1.3 
Cash 0.8 0.8 
Payables (1.1) (1.1)
Net assets 3.0 3.0 
Goodwill 1.7 
4.7
Comprising: Cash consideration in December 2007 2.0 
  Cash consideration in June 2009 2.5
  Fees and other 0.2
From the date of acquisition, Fayreﬁeld Foodtec Limited contributed £5.8 million to Group revenue and £(0.2) million to Group post-tax proﬁt 
for the year. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2009, Group revenues would have been £1,632.1 million and Group proﬁt for the year 
would have been £52.6 million.
No material fair value adjustments were made to the book value of assets acquired as accounting policies were consistent with Group policies 
and no further recognisable intangible assets were identiﬁed. Factors affecting goodwill include the beneﬁts that might accrue to the wider 
Dairy Crest Group from future new product development.
Year ended 31 March 2009
During the year, the Group acquired the goodwill of a number of bottled milk buyers for cash consideration of £0.3 million resulting in goodwill 
of £0.3 million.
In April 2008, ﬁnal consideration was paid for the assets and goodwill of the dairy business of the East of England Co-operative Society 
amounting to £1.0 million.
In August 2008, the Group completed the sale of its Stilton and speciality cheese business to Long Clawson Dairy Limited. The loss on 
disposal is analysed in Note 4.
On 26 March 2009, the Group completed the sale of its 49% share in Yoplait Dairy Crest Limited to Yoplait SAS. The proﬁt on disposal is 
analysed in Note 4.
31 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The objective of the treasury function, which is accountable to the Board, is to manage the Group’s and Company’s ﬁnancial risk, secure 
cost-effective funding for the Group’s operations and to minimise the effects of ﬂuctuations in interest rates and exchange rates on the value  
of the Group’s and Company’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, on reported proﬁtability and on cash ﬂows.
The Group’s principal ﬁnancial instruments comprise bank loans and overdrafts, loan notes, ﬁnance leases and cash and short-term deposits. 
The main purpose of these ﬁnancial instruments is to raise ﬁnance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various other ﬁnancial assets 
and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions; principally interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts.  
The purpose is to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of ﬁnance. It is, and has 
been throughout 2010 and 2009, the Group’s policy that no trading in ﬁnancial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, price risk and credit risk. 
Information on how these risks arise is set out below, as are the objectives, policies and processes agreed by the Board for their management 
and the methods used to measure each risk. Derivative instruments are used to change the economic characteristics of ﬁnancial instruments 
in accordance with the Group’s treasury policies. The Group’s accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in the Accounting 
Policies note. 98 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
31 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Liquidity risk
The Group’s objective is to ensure that forecast net borrowings, plus a reasonable operating headroom, are covered by committed facilities 
which mature at least 12 months after the year end. The maturity analysis of Group borrowings is set out in Note 20. At 31 March 2010 the 
Group’s total credit facilities amounted to £648.5 million (2009: £668.6 million) excluding ﬁnance leases of £11.8 million (2009: £13.8 million) 
and the impact of cross-currency swaps on $US and € loan notes of £20.5 million (2009: £32.1 million). The facilities consist of:
2010
– an £85 million plus €175 million multi-currency revolving credit facility repayable at maturity in July 2013;
– a £100 million multi-currency revolving credit facility repayable at maturity in November 2011;
– Loan notes totalling £307.4 million repayable between April 2013 and April 2017.
2009
– an £85 million plus €175 million multi-currency revolving credit facility repayable at maturity in July 2013;
– a £100 million multi-currency revolving credit facility repayable at maturity in November 2011;
– Loan notes totalling £321.5 million repayable between April 2013 and April 2017.
Undrawn revolving credit facilities at 31 March 2010 amounted to £275.1 million (2009: £127.0 million). This can be analysed as follows  
(see also Note 20):
2010
Drawn down
£m
2010
Facility
£m
2009
Drawn down
£m
2009
Facility
£m
November 2006 5-year multi-currency revolving credit facility 66.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
July 2008 5-year multi-currency revolving credit facility – 241.1 120.1 247.1
Total 66.0 341.1 220.1 347.1
Headroom 275.1 127.0
Cash and short term deposits 20.0 107.5
Effective headroom 295.1 234.5
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by closely managing cash generation by its operating businesses and monitoring performance to 
budgets and forecasts. Capital investment is carefully controlled, with detailed authorisation limits in place up to Executive level and cash 
payback criteria considered as part of the investment appraisal process. Short-term and long-term cash and debt forecasts are constantly 
reviewed and there are regular treasury updates to the Executive highlighting facility headroom and net debt performance. The increased 
focus on cash generation over the two years ended 31 March 2010 have resulted in signiﬁcantly lower levels of borrowings and increased 
facility headroom.
Day-to-day cash management utilises undrawn revolving credit facilities, overdraft facilities and occasionally short-term money market 
deposits if there is excess cash.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to the risk for changes in market interest rates relate primarily to the Group’s long-term debt obligations with a ﬂoating 
interest rate.
The Group’s policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of ﬁxed and variable rate debt. Speciﬁcally, to keep between one third and three 
quarters of its borrowings at ﬁxed rates of interest in the medium term. To manage this mix in a cost-efﬁcient manner, the Group has issued 
ﬁxed coupon loan notes and also enters into interest rate swaps on a portion of its ﬂoating bank borrowings, in which the Group agrees to 
exchange, at speciﬁed intervals, the difference between ﬁxed and variable rate interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon 
notional principal amount. These swaps are designated to hedge underlying debt interest cash ﬂow obligations. At 31 March 2010, after taking 
into account the effect of interest rate swaps, 100% of the Group’s borrowings were at a ﬁxed rate of interest (2009: 73%). The proportion of 
ﬁxed interest borrowings is higher than our medium-term target, however the interest rate swaps will expire in 2011/12 and, depending on 
borrowing requirements at this time, the proportion of ﬁxed rate borrowings will be reduced in the future.
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk is shown (by way of a sensitivity analysis) in Note 32. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 99
The numbers
31 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Foreign currency risk
The Group has invested in operations outside the UK and also buys and sells a small amount of goods in currencies other than Sterling. As a 
result the value of the Group’s non-Sterling revenues, purchases, assets, liabilities and cash ﬂows can be affected by movements in exchange 
rates – predominantly Euro/Sterling.
The Group mitigates the effect of its structural currency exposures by borrowing to some extent in the same functional currency as the foreign 
operation into which it invests. The foreign operations hedged in this way are St Hubert SAS (France) and Wexford Creamery Limited (Ireland); 
both are Euro-denominated subsidiaries. Our policy changed during the year ended 31 March 2009. Previously, 100% of overseas net assets 
were hedged but this proportion has been reduced in line with the Group’s reduced levels of Euro-denominated borrowings. Our revised 
policy is to hedge 100% of the inventories and tangible ﬁxed assets and 33% of goodwill and intangible assets exposure of these subsidiaries 
through borrowings and/or cross-currency swaps in Euros. No hedging of earnings exposure is undertaken. At present, our only currency 
exposure is Euros. At 31 March 2010 and 2009, all borrowings designated as a net investment hedge are done so on a pre-tax basis and no 
cross-currency swaps are utilised as part of the hedging relationship. 
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the relevant entity’s functional currency and therefore transaction exposures  
are limited. This can be seen in Note 17 where the only signiﬁcant non-Sterling debtors are in Euros and these predominantly relate to the 
functional currency of St Hubert and Wexford. The Group trades skimmed milk products and bulk butter mainly to customers in Europe and 
Central and South America. The Group also exports its own skimmed milk products, bulk butter and other branded products. The Group’s 
policy requires foreign currency sales and purchases through Philpot Dairy Products Limited, a subsidiary company, to be hedged by foreign 
exchange contracts once the transaction is committed so that the margin on the transaction can be ﬁxed. There are currently no sales 
between the UK business and St Hubert SAS.
Currency exposures on other transactions, such as certain capital expenditure denominated in a foreign currency, are hedged following 
approval of the project using forward foreign exchange contracts.
In 2006, the Group issued loan notes denominated in $US. At the same time, cross-currency swaps were implemented to hedge the interest 
and principal repayment cash ﬂows. The principal amount and interest and principal payment dates on these swaps match those on the loan 
notes exactly and all swaps are with counterparties with strong credit ratings. There is no proﬁt and loss exposure in relation to $US debts as 
any retranslation impact on the proﬁt and loss account is offset by reclassiﬁcation of amounts from other comprehensive income into proﬁt 
and loss. 
In 2009, the Group entered into cross-currency swaps on €75 million of its loan notes denominated in Euros in order to hedge the future 
interest and principal repayment cash ﬂows. The principal amount and interest and principal payment dates on these swaps match those on 
the loan notes exactly and all swaps are with counterparties with strong credit ratings. There is no proﬁt and loss exposure in relation to this 
€75 million of debt as any retranslation impact on the proﬁt and loss account is offset by reclassiﬁcation of amounts from other comprehensive 
income into proﬁt and loss.
Price risk
The Group is exposed to price risk related to certain commodities and their by-products used by the Group’s businesses. The principal 
non-milk commodities that affect input prices for the Group are vegetable oils, gas, electricity, diesel, heavy fuel oil (‘HFO’) and crude oil 
by-products (used in packaging). 
The Group monitors prices on an ongoing basis in order to assess the impact that movements have on proﬁtability and to assess whether  
the amount of forward cover is appropriate. Vegetable oil contracts are usually structured such that between six and nine months purchases 
are at ﬁxed prices. Energy is generally contracted one season in advance for both Summer and Winter energy but with some requirement 
contracted at more regular intervals. Diesel and HFO is not generally contracted at ﬁxed prices although from time to time, forward contracts 
have been put in place to ﬁx future prices.
The Group regularly reviews relevant commodity markets and levels of future cover. Fixed price contracts are only entered into with the 
approval of the Executive.  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
100
31 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Credit risk
It is the Group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit veriﬁcation procedures. The Group only offers 
these terms to recognised, creditworthy third parties. In addition, receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that 
the Group’s history of bad debt losses is not signiﬁcant. 
The Household doorstep business trades with individuals and receives cash payments on a weekly basis. Cash and debt management is  
a crucial part of this business and cash collection and balances due are closely monitored to ensure write-downs are minimised.
Debtor days outstanding are closely monitored throughout the year and action is taken promptly where payment terms have been breached.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other ﬁnancial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, trade and other 
debtors (excludes prepayments) and certain derivative instruments, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty. 
The maximum exposure for the Group is equal to the carrying amount of these ﬁnancial assets of £175.3 million (2009: £279.6 million). There 
are no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk. 
All borrowings are through banks with long-term credit ratings of A or above. Funds temporarily surplus to business requirements are invested 
overnight through deposit accounts with mainstream UK commercial banks with a credit rating of AA or better. The Group currently has no 
requirement to place deposits for a longer period, accordingly counterparty risk is considered to be acceptable. Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
are contracted with a range of banks with long-term credit ratings of A or above to avoid excessive concentration of ﬁnancial instruments with 
one counterparty.
Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains an appropriate level of gearing in order to support  
its business and maximise shareholder value. In addition, the Group monitors its forecast net debt to EBITDA ratios in order that they are 
comfortably within its banking covenant requirements. The maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio for the purposes of bank covenants is  
3.5 times. At 31 March 2010 the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was between 2.0 and 2.5 times (March 2009: between 2.5 and 3.0 times).
The Group monitors its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions or changes in Group 
structure. Possible mechanisms for changing capital structure include adjusting the level of dividends, issuance of new shares or returning 
capital to shareholders. No signiﬁcant changes in capital structure have been implemented in the year ended 31 March 2010 or 2009 apart 
from the re-basing of dividends downwards by 25% starting with the full year dividend for 2008/09. There have been no changes in the 
objectives, policies and procedures during the last two years.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by shareholders’ funds. The deﬁnition of net debt is included in 
Note 34. The gearing ratio at March 2010 and 2009 can be analysed as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Net debt 337.2 415.8
Shareholders’ funds 292.8 357.0
Gearing ratio 115% 116%
Dividends
Details of dividends paid and proposed during the year are given in Note 7. The dividend policy is to maintain a progressive dividend  
whilst seeking to maintain a level of dividend cover between 2.0 and 2.5 times. The ﬁnal dividend for 2008/09 was rebased (25% reduction)  
in the light of additional cash contributions to the pension scheme and the dilutive effect of the Yoplait Dairy Crest disposal on earnings.  
The 2009/10 interim dividend was similarly rebased and reduced by 25%. The ﬁnal proposed dividend for 2009/10 is 13.6 pence representing 
a 5% increase on last year (2009: 13.0 pence). Total dividends paid and proposed in the year ended 31 March 2010 of 18.9 pence represent 
a decrease of 6% (2009: 20.1 pence, a decrease of 17.6%).  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
The numbers
101
32 Financial instruments 
An explanation of the Group’s ﬁnancial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies are set out in the discussion 
of Treasury policies in Note 31.
Consolidated
Interest rate maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate risk. 
No other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, other than those shown below, are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
At 31 March 2010
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Fixed rate
Bank loans* – (66.0) – – – – (66.0)
Loan notes* – – – (71.2) (98.7) (137.5) (307.4)
Finance leases (2.3) (2.5) (2.7) (2.9) (1.4) – (11.8)
Forward currency contracts (0.3) – – – – – (0.3)
Interest rate swaps – (3.7) – – – – (3.7)
Cross currency swaps – – – 11.5 0.5 13.4 25.4 
Floating rate
Cash at bank and in hand 20.0 – – – – – 20.0 
Bank loans – – – – – – – 
At 31 March 2009      
Fixed rate
Bank loans* – – – – (68.5) – (68.5)
Loan notes* – – – – (75.3) (246.2) (321.5)
Finance leases (2.0) (2.2) (2.5) (2.7) (2.9) (1.5) (13.8)
Forward currency contracts 0.9 – – – – – 0.9 
Interest rate swaps – – (4.1) – – – (4.1)
Cross currency swaps – – – – 16.1 23.4 39.5 
Floating rate
Cash at bank and in hand 107.5 – – – – – 107.5 
Bank loans – – (100.0) – (51.6) – (151.6)
* Classiﬁed as ﬁxed rate after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Interest on ﬁnancial instruments classiﬁed as ﬂoating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on ﬁnancial instruments 
classiﬁed as ﬁxed rate is ﬁxed until the maturity of the instrument.
Interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s proﬁt before tax through the impact on ﬂoating rate borrowings. There is no impact on the Group’s equity resulting from movements 
in interest rates other than in relation to the $US/GBP and EUR/GBP cross-currency swaps used as a cash ﬂow hedge on $US and EUR loan 
notes. The impact on equity is nil over the life of the instruments as these swaps comprise an effective hedge. At 31 March 2010, all Group 
borrowings were at ﬁxed rates of interest (see Note 31).
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes non-derivative ﬂoating 
rate ﬁnancial instruments except those where interest rate swaps have been used as cash ﬂow hedges. This is due to the fact that gains and 
losses on the hedging instrument offset losses and gains on the non-derivative ﬂoating rate ﬁnancial instrument which are subject to the 
hedge are matched in both proﬁt and loss and cash terms. No non-derivative ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments have proﬁt and loss exposure 
due to ﬂoating rates as a result of interest rate swaps. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
102
32 Financial instruments continued
The 2010 analysis below reﬂects a larger reasonably possible upside change in interest rates than in 2009 due to the current exceptionally low 
LIBOR levels and likelihood of future inﬂation.
 
Increase/
decrease in
basis points 
Effect 
on proﬁt 
before tax
£m
Effect on
equity
£m
2010
Sterling + 200 0.4 1.7 
Euro + 200 – 11.7 
Dollar + 200 – 10.7 
Sterling – 50 – – 
Euro – 50 – (3.5)
Dollar – 50 – (3.0)
2009
Sterling + 150 (2.2) – 
Euro + 150 – 4.5 
Dollar + 150 – 7.3 
Sterling – 50 0.7 – 
Euro – 50 – (1.6)
Dollar – 50 – (2.7)
Equity price risk
The Group holds no listed equity investments and is not subject to equity price risk other than through the pension scheme (Note 21).
Credit risk
There are no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk within the Group unless otherwise disclosed. The maximum credit risk exposure relating 
to ﬁnancial assets is represented by carrying value as at the balance sheet date (see Note 31).
Foreign currency risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in Sterling/Euro exchange rate with all other variables held 
constant, of the Group’s proﬁt before tax and the Group’s equity.
  
Increase/
decrease in
Sterling/Euro 
rate 
Effect 
on proﬁt 
before tax
£m
Effect on
equity*
£m
2010
Euro Sterling depreciation – 10% 3.5 (14.8)
 Sterling appreciation + 20% (5.3) 22.2 
2009
Euro Sterling depreciation – 20% 4.9 (37.8)
 Sterling appreciation + 10% (3.3) 25.2 
The Group has no signiﬁcant foreign currency risk apart from Euros. 
* Equity exposure results from the Group’s net investment hedging arrangements (see Note 31). Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
The numbers
103
32 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy on managing its liquidity risk is set out in Note 31. 
The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 March 2010 and 2009 based on contractual 
undiscounted payments of interest and principal. 
At 31 March 2010
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Loan Notes (16.3) (16.3) (16.3) (83.4) (106.4) (147.4) (386.1)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):
 payment leg (10.4) (10.4) (10.4) (68.8) (3.8) (75.2) (179.0)
 receipt leg 12.1 12.1 12.1 79.2 4.8 87.2 207.5 
Bank loans (0.8) (66.5) – – – – (67.3)
Interest rate swaps (on €74m bank debt):
 payment leg (3.0) (1.7) – – – – (4.7)
 receipt leg 0.8 0.5 – – – – 1.3 
Finance leases (2.8) (2.9) (3.0) (3.1) (1.3) – (13.1)
Forward currency contracts, and short-term payables all mature within one year. 
At 31 March 2009
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Loan Notes (17.1) (17.1) (17.1) (17.1) (88.1) (264.5) (421.0)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):
 payment leg (10.4) (10.4) (10.4) (10.4) (68.8) (79.0) (189.4)
 receipt leg 12.7 12.7 12.7 12.7 83.7 97.4 231.9 
Bank loans (7.5) (7.5) (109.5) (4.5) (117.7) – (246.7)
Interest rate swaps (on €74m bank debt):
 payment leg (2.8) (2.8) (1.6) – – – (7.2)
 receipt leg 1.8 1.8 1.0 – – – 4.6 
Finance leases (2.7) (2.8) (2.9) (3.0) (3.1) (1.3) (15.8)
Forward currency contracts, and short-term payables all mature within one year. 
Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments that are carried in the 
ﬁnancial statements.
Fair values
 
Carrying amount Fair value
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Financial assets
Current
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 19) 20.0 107.5 20.0 107.5 
Forward currency contracts (Note 18) 0.1 1.3 0.1 1.3 
Non-current
Cross currency swaps (Note 18) 25.4 39.5 25.4 39.5 
Financial liabilities
Current
Current obligations under ﬁnance leases (Note 20) (2.3) (2.0) (2.3) (2.0)
Forward currency contracts (Note 20) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
Non-current
Non-current obligations under ﬁnance leases (Note 20) (9.5) (11.8) (9.5) (11.8)
Non-current instalments due on bank loans (Note 20) (66.0) (220.1) (66.0) (220.1)
Loan notes (Note 20) (307.4) (321.5) (293.1) (278.1)
Interest rate swaps (Note 20) (3.7) (4.1) (3.7) (4.1)
The above table excludes trade and other receivables and payables as their fair value approximates carrying value. The fair value of interest 
rate swaps and forward currency contracts has been determined by the third party ﬁnancial institution with whom the Group holds the 
instrument, in line with the market value of similar instruments. The fair value of borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected 
future cash ﬂows at prevailing interest rates. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
104
32 Financial instruments continued
Interest rate swaps
The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 March 2010 was €74 million (£66 million) (2009: €74 million 
(£69 million)). Interest rate swaps are designated as cash ﬂow hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2010 the ﬁxed 
interest rates vary from 4.045% to 4.053% (2009: 4.045% to 4.053%). The ﬂoating rate of interest on the receipt leg of these swaps is 
EURIBOR (2009: EURIBOR). The hedged item is the interest cash ﬂows on €74 million of borrowings under the revolving credit facilities at 
ﬂoating EURIBOR – the margin is not hedged. The loss deferred in equity will reverse in the interest line in the income statement during the 
next two years (being the life of the swap) (2009: three years). 
Cross currency swaps
The notional principal amount of the outstanding USD/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2010 was $233 million (£133 million) 
(2009: $233 million (£133 million)). These cross currency swaps have both legs at ﬁxed interest rates, are designated as cash ﬂow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2010 and 2009 the ﬁxed interest rates vary from 5.305% to 5.315%. The gain deferred in 
equity will reverse in the income statement (operating costs) during the next three to six years (being the life of the swaps).
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2010 was €75 million (£67 million) 
(2009: €75 million (£67 million)). These cross currency swaps have both legs at ﬁxed interest rates, are designated as cash ﬂow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2010 and 2009 the ﬁxed interest rates vary from 4.955% to 5.180%. The loss deferred in 
equity will reverse in the income statement (operating costs) during the next four to ﬁve years (being the life of the swaps).
Hedge of net investment in foreign entities
The Group has Euro denominated borrowings which it has designated as a hedge of (i) the net asset investment in St Hubert SAS, its subsidiary 
in France (ii) the net asset investment in Wexford Creamery Limited, its subsidiary in Ireland. The fair value of the Euro borrowings at 31 March 
2010 was £133.0 million (2009: £138.0 million). The foreign exchange gain of £6.0 million (2009: £36.8 million loss) on translation of the borrowings 
into sterling has been recognised in reserves.
Forward currency contracts
The Group has entered into certain forward currency contracts in order to hedge the Sterling cost of currency-denominated future purchases 
and receipts. These forward currency purchases have been designated cash ﬂow hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. They all 
have a duration of less than one year and any gains or losses deferred will then reverse in the income statement (operating costs).
Borrowing facilities
The Group has undrawn committed long-term borrowing facilities available at 31 March 2010 of £275.1 million (2009: £127.0 million) in respect 
of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date. These undrawn facilities expire in November 2011 (£34 million) and July 2013 
(£241.1 million). In July 2008, the Group agreed a new ﬁve-year multi-currency revolving credit facility of £85 million and €175 million. 
On 17 July 2008 all amounts outstanding under the 2004 facility were repaid and the facility cancelled. The new facility has the same ﬁnancial 
covenants as the 2004 and 2006 facilities and includes a maximum net debt/EBITDA ratio of 3.5 times. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
The numbers
105
32 Financial instruments continued
Company
Interest rate maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Company’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate 
risk. No other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, other than those shown below, are exposed directly to interest rate risk. 
At 31 March 2010
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Fixed rate
Bank loans* – (66.0) – – – – (66.0)
Loan notes – – – (71.2) (98.7) (137.5) (307.4)
Interest rate swaps – (3.7) – – – – (3.7)
Intercompany receivables 187.7 – – – – – 187.7
Cross currency swaps – – – 11.5 0.5 13.4 25.4 
Floating rate
Intercompany payables (30.5) – – – – – (30.5) 
At 31 March 2009      
Fixed rate
Bank loans* – – – – (68.5) – (68.5)
Loan notes – – – – (75.3) (246.2) (321.5)
Interest rate swaps – – (4.1) – – – (4.1)
Cross currency swaps – – – – 16.1 23.4 39.5 
Floating rate
Cash and cash equivalents 0.3 – – – – – 0.3 
Intercompany receivables 322.5 – – – – – 322.5 
Bank loans – – (100.0) – (28.0) – (128.0)
Cross currency swaps (0.9) – – – – – (0.9)
* These have been classiﬁed as ﬁxed rate after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
106
32 Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s proﬁt before tax through the impact on ﬂoating rate borrowings. There is no impact on the Company’s equity resulting from 
movements in interest rates other than in relation to the $US/GBP and EUR/GBP cross-currency swaps used as a cash ﬂow hedge on $US 
and EUR loan notes. The impact on equity is nil over the life of the instruments as these swaps comprise an effective hedge. 
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes non-derivative ﬂoating 
rate ﬁnancial instruments except those where interest rate swaps have been used as cash ﬂow hedges. This is due to the fact that gains and 
losses on the hedging instrument offset losses and gains on the non-derivative ﬂoating rate ﬁnancial instrument which are subject to the 
hedge are matched in both proﬁt and loss and cash terms. No non-derivative ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments have proﬁt and loss exposure 
due to ﬂoating rates as a result of interest rate swaps.
The 2010 analysis below reﬂects a larger reasonably possible upside change in interest rates than in 2009 due to the current exceptionally low 
LIBOR levels and likelihood of future inﬂation.
Increase/
decrease in
basis points
Effect on
equity
£m
2010
Sterling + 200 1.7 
Euro + 200 11.7 
Dollar + 200 10.7 
Sterling – 50 – 
Euro – 50 (3.5)
Dollar – 50 (3.0)
2009
Sterling + 150 – 
Euro + 150 4.5 
Dollar + 150 7.3 
Sterling – 50 – 
Euro – 50 (1.6)
Dollar – 50 (2.7)
Equity price risk
The Company holds no listed equity investments and is not subject to equity price risk.
Credit risk
The maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount of ﬁnancial assets.
Foreign currency risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in Sterling/Euro exchange rate with all other variables held 
constant, of the Company’s proﬁt before tax and the Company’s equity.
Increase/
decrease in
Euro rate
Effect on
equity
£m
2010
Euro Sterling depreciation – 10% – 
Sterling appreciation + 20% – 
2009
Euro Sterling depreciation – 10% – 
Sterling appreciation + 20% – 
The Company has no signiﬁcant foreign currency exposure apart from Euros. Euro borrowings are matched by either external or inter-company 
cross currency swaps with no resultant proﬁt before tax or equity exposure. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
The numbers
107
32 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The Company’s policy on managing its liquidity risk is set out in Note 31. 
The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the Company’s ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 March 2010 and 2009 based on contractual 
undiscounted payments of interest and principal.
At 31 March 2010
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Loan notes (16.3) (16.3) (16.3) (83.4) (106.4) (147.4) (386.1)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes): 
 payment leg (10.4) (10.4) (10.4) (68.8) (3.8) (75.2) (179.0)
 receipt leg 12.1 12.1 12.1 79.2 4.8 87.2 207.5 
Bank loans (0.8) (66.5) – – – – (67.3)
Interest rate swaps (on €74m bank debt): 
 payment leg (3.0) (1.7) – – – – (4.7)
 receipt leg 0.8 0.5 – – – – 1.3 
Finance leases (2.8) (2.9) (3.0) (3.1) (1.3) – (13.1) 
Forward currency contracts, and short-term payables all mature within one year.
At 31 March 2009
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Loan notes (17.1) (17.1) (17.1) (17.1) (88.1) (264.5) (421.0)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):
 payment leg (10.4) (10.4) (10.4) (10.4) (68.8) (79.0) (189.4)
 receipt leg 12.7 12.7 12.7 12.7 83.7 97.4 231.9 
Bank loans (7.5) (7.5) (109.5) (4.5) (117.7) – (246.7)
Interest rate swaps (on €74m bank debt):
 payment leg (2.8) (2.8) (1.6) – – – (7.2)
 receipt leg 1.8 1.8 1.0 – – – 4.6 
Finance leases (2.7) (2.8) (2.9) (3.0) (3.1) (1.3) (15.8) 
Forward currency contracts, and short-term payables all mature within one year. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
108
32 Financial instruments continued
Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Company’s ﬁnancial instruments that are carried  
in the ﬁnancial statements.
Carrying amount Fair value
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Financial assets
Current
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 19) – 0.3 – 0.3 
Other receivables (Note 17) 157.2 322.5 157.2 322.5 
Non-current
External cross currency swaps (Note 18) 25.4 39.5 25.4 39.5 
Financial liabilities 
Current
Internal cross-currency swaps (Note 20) – (0.9) – (0.9)
Non-current
Non-current instalments due on bank loans (Note 20) (66.0) (196.5) (66.0) (196.5)
Loan notes (Note 20) (307.4) (321.5) (293.1) (278.1)
Interest rate swaps (Note 20) (3.7) (4.1) (3.7) (4.1)
No other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
Other receivables comprise the net of all intercompany balances with Dairy Crest Limited. All intercompany balances are repayable on 
demand and are subject to interest based on LIBOR plus a margin with the exception of one intercompany receivable from Dairy Crest Limited 
of £187.7 million (2009: £178.2 million) on which interest is receivable at 5.3% (2009: 5.3%).
A convertible loan was issued by Dairy Crest Limited to Dairy Crest Group plc on 15 January 2007. The loan had a principal value of  
£236.0 million with a coupon of 0.1% per annum. On 2 October 2008 the receivable under this loan was sold to a subsidiary undertaking  
for cash consideration of £228.9 million, being its fair value at that date as advised by external valuation professionals. 
Up to its sale, the convertible loan had been designated as at fair value through proﬁt and loss having satisﬁed the conditions in IAS 39 
paragraph 11A. Since the loan was neither an equity investment nor currently convertible, it was within the scope of IAS 39. In addition, the 
convertible loan contained a derivative, namely a call option to acquire an equity interest in Dairy Crest Limited which meets the requirements 
in IAS 39 paragraph 11A.
The convertible loan was carried at fair value with any gains or losses taken to the income statement up to 2 October 2008. The valuation  
at 2 October 2008 was £228.9 million resulting in a gain in the year ended 31 March 2009 of £1.2 million. The convertible loan is not traded in 
a publicly quoted market therefore a Black Scholes Option Pricing model was used in order to value the equity portion of the loan at the date 
of sale. The input assumptions used were as follows: dividend yield 2.6%; volatility 29%; risk free rate 3.6%; and time to expiry six months.
Interest rate swaps
The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 March 2010 was €74 million (£66 million) (2009: €74 million 
(£69 million)). Interest rate swaps are designated as cash ﬂow hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2010 the ﬁxed 
interest rates vary from 4.045% to 4.053% (2009: 4.045% to 4.053%). The ﬂoating rate of interest on the receipt leg of these swaps is 
EURIBOR (2009: EURIBOR). The hedged item is the interest cash ﬂows on €74 million of borrowings under the revolving credit facilities at 
ﬂoating EURIBOR – the margin is not hedged. The loss deferred in equity will reverse in the interest line in the income statement during the 
next two years (being the life of the swap) (2009: three years).  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
The numbers
109
32 Financial instruments continued
Cross currency swaps
External
The notional principal amount of the outstanding USD/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2010 was $233 million (£133 million) 
(2009: $233 million (£133 million)). These cross currency swaps have both legs at ﬁxed interest rates, are designated as cash ﬂow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2010 and 2009 the ﬁxed interest rates varied from 5.305% to 5.315%. The loss deferred  
in equity will reverse in the income statement (operating costs) during the next three to six years (being the life of the swaps).
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2010 was €75 million (£67 million) 
(2009: €75 million (£67 million)). These cross currency swaps have both legs at ﬁxed interest rates, are designated as cash ﬂow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2010 and 2009 the ﬁxed interest rates vary from 4.955% to 5.180%. The loss deferred  
in equity will reverse in the income statement (operating costs) during the next four to ﬁve years (being the life of the swaps).
Intercompany
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP ﬂoating rate cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2010 with Group 
companies was €150.0 million (£133.8 million) (2009: €150.0 million (£138.9 million)). The Company receives EURIBOR and pays LIBOR. 
Intercompany cross currency swaps have not been designated as cash ﬂow hedges and any gain or loss arising on revaluation is credited  
or charged to the income statement. These swaps are used in order to minimise currency exchange risk in the Company and match the 
€149 million (£133 million) of external Euro-denominated borrowings at 31 March 2010 (2009: €149 million (£138 million)).
Borrowing facilities
The Company has undrawn committed long-term borrowing facilities available at 31 March 2010 of £275.1 million (2009: £151 million) in respect 
of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date. These undrawn facilities expire in November 2011 (£34 million) and July 2013 
(£241.1 million). In July 2008, the Company agreed a new ﬁve-year multi-currency revolving credit facility of £85 million and €175 million. 
On 17 July 2008 all amounts outstanding under the 2004 facility were repaid and the facility cancelled. The new facility has the same ﬁnancial 
covenants as the 2004 and 2006 facilities and includes a maximum net debt/EBITDA ratio of 3.5 times.
33 Cash ﬂow from operating activities
Year ended
31 March 
2010
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2009
£m
Proﬁt before taxation 77.8 103.2 
Finance costs and other ﬁnance income 22.9 22.6 
Impairment of assets on creation of disposal group held for sale 16.0 – 
Share of joint ventures' net proﬁt (0.1) (7.3)
Proﬁt on disposal of joint venture (2.0) (50.4)
Proﬁt on operations 114.6 68.1 
Depreciation 35.8 40.0 
Amortisation of intangible assets 12.2 10.9 
Exceptional items (20.6) 11.2 
Release of grants (0.7) (0.7)
Share based payments 2.4 0.8 
Proﬁt on disposal of household depots (3.4) (4.3)
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement (20.1) (16.0)
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 28.9 (38.3)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (3.4) 49.3 
Increase in payables 0.2 8.1 
Cash generated from operations 145.9 129.1 
No cash was generated from operations for the Company in the year ended 31 March 2010 (2009: nil). Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
Notes to the financial statements continued
110
34 Analysis of net debt
Group
At 1 April
2009
£m
Cash
ﬂow
£m
Transfer
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2010
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 107.5 (79.7) (7.5) (0.3) 20.0
Overdrafts – – – – – 
Cash and cash equivalents 107.5 (79.7) (7.5) (0.3) 20.0 
Borrowings (non-current) (541.6) 150.6 – 17.6 (373.4)
Finance leases (13.8) 2.0 – – (11.8)
(447.9) 72.9 (7.5) 17.3 (365.2)
Cash included in disposal group (Note 8) – – 7.5 – 7.5 
Impact of cross-currency swaps* 32.1 – – (11.6) 20.5 
Net debt (415.8) 72.9 – 5.7 (337.2)
At 1 April
2008
£m
Cash
ﬂow
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2009
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 40.3 66.5 0.7 107.5
Overdrafts (1.4) 1.4 – – 
Cash and cash equivalents 38.9 67.9 0.7 107.5 
Borrowings (current) (25.0) 25.0 – – 
Borrowings (non-current) (456.6) (0.3) (84.7) (541.6)
Finance leases (16.3) 2.5 – (13.8)
(459.0) 95.1 (84.0) (447.9)
Impact of cross-currency swaps* (15.8) – 47.9 32.1 
Net debt (474.8) 95.1 (36.1) (415.8)
*  The Group and Company have $US233 million and €75 million of loan notes against which cross-currency swaps have been put in place to ﬁx interest and principal 
repayments in Sterling (2009: $US233 million and €75 million). Under IFRS, currency borrowings are retranslated into Sterling at year end exchange rates. The cross-
currency swaps are recorded at fair value (Note 32) and incorporate movements in both market exchange rates and interest rates. The Group deﬁnes net debt so as  
to include the effective Sterling liability where cross-currency swaps have been used to convert foreign currency borrowings into Sterling. The £20.5 million adjustment 
included above (2009: £32.1 million) converts the Sterling equivalent of US Dollar and Euro loan notes from year end exchange rates (£220.5 million (2009: £232.1 million))  
to the ﬁxed Sterling liability (£200.0 million (2009: £200.0 million)). This amount forms part of the overall swap fair value of £25.4 million (2009: £39.5 million) shown in 
Note 32.
Company
At 1 April
2009
£m
Cash
ﬂow
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2010
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 0.3 (0.3) – – 
Borrowings (non-current) (518.0) 127.0 17.6 (373.4)
(517.7) 126.7 17.6 (373.4)
Borrowings (non-current) – impact of cross-currency swaps 32.1 – (11.6) 20.5 
(485.6) 126.7 6.0 (352.9)
At 1 April
2008
£m
Cash
ﬂow
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2009
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 0.4 (0.1) – 0.3 
Borrowings (non-current) (415.8) (23.5) (78.7) (518.0)
(415.4) (23.6) (78.7) (517.7)
Borrowings (non-current) – impact of cross-currency swaps (15.8) – 47.9 32.1 
(431.2) (23.6) (30.8) (485.6)
35 Corporate information
The consolidated accounts of Dairy Crest Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2010 were authorised for issue in accordance with  
a resolution of the directors on 17 May 2010 and the consolidated and Company balance sheets were signed on the Board’s behalf by  
Mr M Allen and Mr A S N Murray. Dairy Crest Group plc is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the  
United Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010
The numbers
111
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Dairy Crest Group plc
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited  
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; 
•  the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial year 
for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the ﬁnancial statements; and
•  the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set 
out on pages 48 to 54, with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to ﬁnancial reporting processes 
and about share capital structures is consistent with the ﬁnancial 
statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•  the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law  
are not made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit; or 
•  a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared  
by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•  the directors’ statement, set out on page 45, in relation to going 
concern; and
•  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 48 to 
54 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the June 2008 Combined Code speciﬁed for our review.
Andrew Walton (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London
17 May 2010
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc  
for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the Consolidated 
Income Statement, Consolidated and Parent Company Balance 
Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income,  
the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements,  
the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes  
in Equity and the related Notes 1 to 35. The ﬁnancial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable  
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company 
ﬁnancial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,  
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as  
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we  
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 54, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable 
assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate  
to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and  
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. 
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion:
•  the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 March 
2010 and of the group’s proﬁt for the year then ended;
•  the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
•  the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
•  the ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. FIT FOR THE
 FUTURE   
Dairy Crest Group plc  
Annual Report 2010
Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey KT10 9PN
Company No: 3162897
Visit our website at 
www.dairycrest.co.uk
Dairy Crest Group plc  Annual Report 2010 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 11 2
Consolidated income statement summary
2006
£m
2007
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
Segment revenue
 Cheese 170.9 194.6 255.5 244.2 260.0 
 Spreads 167.3 178.7 234.5 284.2 277.7 
 Dairies 813.9 925.7 1,067.6 1,108.2 1,081.2 
 Joint ventures 69.0 68.5 66.9 70.3 1.2 
 Other 8.9 10.3 12.1 11.0 10.8 
Group including share of joint ventures 1,230.0 1,377.8 1,636.6 1,717.9 1,630.9 
Less: share of joint ventures (69.0) (68.5) (66.9) (70.3) (1.2)
Group 1,161.0 1,309.3 1,569.7 1,647.6 1,629.7 
Segment proﬁt
 Cheese 17.1 20.5 34.8 34.3 16.9 
 Spreads 34.9 32.4 38.1 59.5 54.0 
 Dairies 16.8 27.1 31.6 7.9 34.9 
 Joint ventures 9.3 10.0 7.7 7.3 0.1 
Group including share of joint ventures 78.1 90.0 112.2 109.0 105.9 
Less: share of joint ventures (9.3) (10.0) (7.7) (7.3) (0.1)
Group 68.8 80.0 104.5 101.7 105.8 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles – (2.7) (9.0) (9.6) (9.2)
Exceptional items (23.2) (10.4) (21.1) (24.0) 2.0 
Proﬁt on disposal of JV – – – 50.4 2.0 
Finance costs (16.7) (19.2) (26.2) (29.5) (22.4)
Other ﬁnance (costs)/income – pensions 2.2 9.5 10.1 6.9 (0.5)
Share of joint ventures’ net proﬁt 7.3 7.4 7.7 7.3 0.1 
Proﬁt before tax 38.4 64.6 66.0 103.2 77.8 
Adjusted proﬁt before tax 61.4 70.8 86.0 79.5 83.5 
Balance sheet summary
Property, plant & equipment, goodwill and intangibles, investments 470.1 767.8 817.8 837.1 794.4 
Inventories, receivables, payables, deferred income & provisions 150.5 105.3 98.2 86.8 43.7 
Total operating assets 620.6 873.1 916.0 923.9 838.1 
Financial instruments excluding amounts included in net debt – 6.5 12.5 4.2 0.9 
Tax (20.4) (85.1) (97.6) (92.0) (70.3)
Retirement obligations (62.0) (0.4) 31.6 (63.3) (142.4)
Disposal group held for sale (excluding cash) – – – – 3.7 
Net debt (280.2) (451.0) (474.8) (415.8) (337.2)
Net assets 258.0 343.1 387.7 357.0 292.8 
Minority interests (10.8) (4.0) (5.1) (4.7) (3.0)
Shareholders’ equity 247.2 339.1 382.6 352.3 289.8 
Cash ﬂow summary
Generated from operating activities 73.4 94.2 108.4 129.1 145.9 
Dividends from joint ventures 9.0 8.9 7.3 2.9 0.1 
Fixed asset investments (net of grants) (44.0) (36.3) (34.0) (49.3) (26.9)
38.4 66.8 81.7 82.7 119.1 
Interest paid (16.4) (15.3) (22.9) (30.3) (22.1)
Taxation paid (15.5) (6.1) (6.7) (9.2) (10.5)
Dividends paid (25.6) (27.7) (30.8) (32.3) (24.3)
Purchase of businesses (43.7) (293.3) (7.8) (1.3) (1.9)
Other items (principally asset disposals and exchange movements) 10.1 104.8 (37.3) 49.4 18.3 
Movement in net debt (52.7) (170.8) (23.8) 59.0 78.6 
Basic earnings per share (pence) 27.1 38.5 41.1 56.8 40.6 
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence)* 36.9 41.2 51.7 45.0 44.5 
* Adjusted to remove pension interest credit/charge
Group financial history Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 113
Shareholders’ information
Company Registrar and Shareholder Enquiries
For administrative enquiries concerning your shareholdings in 
the Company, such as the loss of share certificates, change 
of address, dividend payment arrangements, amalgamation of 
accounts or requests for the report and accounts please contact 
the Company’s registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, 
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.  You can call Equiniti’s Contact 
Centre on 0871 384 2134 (overseas +44 (0)121 415 7047).  Calls 
from within the UK cost 8p per minute from a BT landline; other 
providers’ charges may vary.  Telephone lines are open 8.30am to 
5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Equiniti also provide online facilities for shareholders to check their 
holdings and update their details. Registering is easy and there is 
no fee involved, simply access www.shareview.co.uk
Payment of dividends
Shareholders may arrange to have their dividends paid directly into 
a bank or building society account using the Bankers Automated 
Clearing System (BACS). Bank Mandate forms are available from 
Equiniti whose details appear above.  
Gifting shares to charity
Shareholders who have a small holding of shares on the register 
whereby their value makes them uneconomic to sell, may donate 
these shares to charity under the Sharegift Scheme - administered 
by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation - a registered charity. 
Information can be found at www.sharegift.org
General information
General information about Dairy Crest can be found on our 
corporate website, www.dairycrest.co.uk
Investors who have questions relating to the Group’s business 
activities should contact: 
Investor Relations, Dairy Crest Group plc, Claygate House, 
Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN 
Telephone: 01372 472200  
email: investorrelations@dairycrest.co.uk 
  
Financial Calendar
Dividends Final
Ex-dividend Wednesday 23 June 2010
Record date Friday 25 June 2010 
Payment date Thursday 5 August 2010
Group results (Anticipated)
Half Year (Interims) November 2010
Preliminary Announcement  
of 2010/11 results May 2011
2010/11 Report and Accounts  
circulation June 2011
Analysis of ordinary shareholders at 14 May 2010  Holders
     Number % Shares %
Category
Individuals and other holders    18,698   87.65   31,042,639   23.29  
Insurance companies, pension funds, banks, 
 nominees and limited companies    2,635   12.35   102,221,005   76.71  
 
      21,333   100.00   133,263,644   100.00  
Size of holdings
Up to 5,000 shares    19,660   92.16   26,310,783   19.74  
5,001 – 20,000 shares    1,402   6.57   10,656,541   8.00  
20,001 – 100,000 shares    152   0.71   7,243,058   5.44  
Over 100,000 shares    119   0.56   89,053,262   66.82  
      21,333   100.00   133,263,644   100.00  
This Report is printed on Magno Satin paper.
This paper has been independently certified as meeting
the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC),
and was manufactured at a mill that is certified to
the ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards.
The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
Printed at The Midas Press plc.
Designed and produced by Tor Pettersen & Partners
Photographic direction by Hudson Wright Associates
Board photography by Ed Hill
