 Dairy Crest Group plc   Annual Report 2011
Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey KT10 9PN
Company No: 3162897
Visit our website at 
www.dairycrest.co.uk
http://investor.dairycrest.co.uk
Dairy Crest Group plc 
Annual Report 2011
FULL OF  
BRIGHT IDEAS Dairy Crest Group plc 
Dairy Crest is the UK’s leading dairy foods company, 
processing and selling fresh milk and branded dairy 
products in the UK and Europe. The company has a clear 
strategy, a strong vision, robust values and good people. 
 In the year ended 31 March 2011 Dairy Crest delivered 
higher profits, increased investment in its brands and its 
dairies and reduced borrowings.
 New products, new services and new ways of working 
make Dairy Crest full of bright ideas. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 1
	 	 Who	 we	 are	 and	 what	 we	 do
	 2	 Dairy	 Crest	 at	 a	 glance
	 4	 Vision,	 values	 and	 measures
	 		 Markets,	 people	 and	
performance
	 6	 Market	 analysis
	 8	 Our	 people
	 10	 The	 Directors
	 12	 Management	 team
	 13	 	 Chairman’s	 statement
	 14	 	 Chief	 Executive’s	 review
	 16	 Principal	 risks	 and	 uncertainties
	 	 Governance
	 	38	 Directors’	 remuneration	 report
	 45	 	 Directors’	 report
	 48	 Corporate	 governance
	 54	 	 Statement	 of	 directors’	 	
responsibilities
	
	 	 	 The	 business	 in	 detail
	 18	 Spreads
 19  St Hubert
 20  UK Spreads
	 22	 Cheese
	 24	 Dairies
	 28	 Milk	 Procurement
	 30	 Corporate	 Responsibility
	 34	 Financial	 review
Contents
	 	 Financial	 statements
	 55	 Consolidated	 income	 statement
	 55	 	 Consolidated	 statement	 of	
comprehensive	 income
	 56	 	 Consolidated	 and	 Parent	 	
Company	 balance	 sheets
	 57	 	 Consolidated	 statement	 of	
changes	 in	 equity
	 58	 	 Parent	 Company	 statement	 of	
changes	 in	 equity
	 59	 	 Consolidated	 and	 Parent	
Company	 statement	 of	 cash	 flows
	 60	 Accounting	 policies
	 66	 Notes	 to	 the	 financial	 statements
	 110	 Independent	 auditors’	 report
	 111	 Group	 financial	 history
	 112	 Shareholders’	 information
Overview Governance Business	 review The	 numbers 2 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Spreads revenue
18% 49%
26% 14%
68% 25%
Spreads profit
Cheese revenue Cheese profit
Dairies revenue Dairies profit
*% of total Group
 (Excluding joint 
 ventures and other)
At a glance
 Vision
•  We are proud of our links to the 
countryside, our dairy heritage and the 
part they play in everyday life
•  We want to earn the right to consumers’ 
loyalty by providing healthy, enjoyable, 
convenient products 
•  We aim to meet consumers’ needs and 
go where this takes us
•  As we grow, we will look after our people 
and the communities where we work
Who we are
Dairy Crest is the UK’s 
leading dairy company, 
processing and selling 
fresh milk and branded 
dairy products in the  
UK and Europe
Cheese
Dairies
 Strategy
•  To build market-leading positions in 
branded and added value markets
•  To focus on cost reduction and 
efficiency improvements
•  To improve quality of earnings and 
reduce risk
•  To generate organic growth and to make 
acquisitions and disposals where they 
will generate value
Country	 Life	 milk Fresh	 milk	 	
to	 retailers
Doorstep	 delivery	
–	 ‘milk&more’
No1	UK	
branded	cheese
No1	flavoured	
milk	drink
No1	variant	
spread	in	France
Spreads
No1	UK	
dairy	spread
Dairy	 Crest	 produces	 leading	 spreads	
and	 butter	 brands	 at	 two	 factories	 in	
UK	 and	 one	 in	 France.	 These	 brands	
have	 strong	 distribution	 through	
retailers	 in	 both	 countries.	 We	 focus	
on	 three	 key	 brands,	 St	 Hubert	 in	
France	 and	 Clover	 and	 Country	 Life	 	
in	 the	 UK.
Dairy	 Crest	 has	 the	 leading	 cheese	
brand	 in	 the	 UK,	 Cathedral	 City,	
and	 a	 world-class	 cheese	 supply	
chain.	 Cathedral	 City	 is	 made	 at	 our	
Davidstow	 creamery	 in	 Cornwall	 from	
milk	 supplied	 by	 around	 400	 local	
dairy	 farmers.	 The	 cheese	 is	 matured,	
cut	 and	 wrapped	 at	 our	 purpose-built	
facility	 in	 Nuneaton	 from	 where	 it	 is	
despatched	 to	 retailers.
We	 process	 and	 deliver	 fresh	
conventional,	 organic	 and	 flavoured	
milk	 to	 major	 retailers,	 ‘middle	 ground’	
customers	 including,	 smaller	 retailers,	
coffee	 shops	 and	 hospitals	 and	
residential	 customers.
	 We	 also	 manufacture	 and	 sell	
FRijj,	 the	 leading	 fresh	 flavoured	 milk	
brand,	 cream	 and	 milk	 powders.
Contribution to Group* Products Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 3
Divisions
Spreads
•	 UK	 Spreads	 	
•	 St	 Hubert
Cheese
Dairies	
•		 Liquid	 Products	 	
and	 Ingredients
•	 Customer	 Direct
Overview
Kirkby
Crudgington
Nuneaton
Frome
Davidstow
Chard
Severnside Chadwell Heath
Hanworth
Fenstanton
Foston
Aintree
Ludres
France
Production sites
Markets Financial highlights
Highlights
Total grocery £91bn 07 08 09 10 11
Segment profit*** 
(£m)
Revenue 
(£m)
Dairy is one 
of the largest 
food categories 
worth £9.8bn**
451.0
474.8
415.8
337.2
311.6
Net debt
(£m)
Dairy
£9.8bn
07 08 09 10 11
1,309.3
1,569.7
1,647.6
1,629.7
1604.5
07 08 09 10 11
80.0
104.5
101.7
105.8
108.4
** 
Source: TNS 52 w/e 
19 March 11
***
Before exceptionals 
and amortisation of 
acquired intangibles
•   Cathedral City now has 9% share of total 
retail cheese market   
•  Cathedral City value growth 79% 
over 4 years 
•  New Davidstow cheddar brand launched in 
the year  
•  Strong growth in Cathedral City lighter and 
Extra Mature variants  
•  Strong innovation pipeline for the future
•   Completed the first year of a three-year 
capital expenditure programme to drive 
efficiencies 
•  Milk volumes to major retailers up 9% 
•  milk&more revenue now greater than  
£1m per week  
•  JUGIT milk in a bag and 1% fat milk both 
growing sales
•   In France, the St Hubert brands have grown 
to 30% market share 
•  In UK, another year of record sales for 
Clover with revenue up 9%  
•  Country Life continues to grow strongly, 
outperforming the market  
•  Strong growth for reduced fat options of 
key UK brands and St Hubert Bio in France 
•  Dairy Crest undisputed leader of Italian 
spreads market with Vallé 4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Our vision, values and measures
Our values
We are proud of our links to the 
countryside, our dairy heritage, and 
the part these play in everyday life
Our vision 
Value measures
Improve our employee 
survey results
Our profit will grow every year
10% of our annual turnover will 
come from consumer innovation. 
Internal innovation will reduce 
our cost base every year
Improve our Corporate 
Responsibility survey results
WE RESPECT
We value our people and  
are stronger together
WE LISTEN
Consumers are at the heart 
of our business
WE LEAD
We value success and  
strive to be the best
WE CREATE
We constantly look for new and 
better ways of doing things
WE CARE
We act responsibly with a 
passion to do the right thing
We want to earn consumers’ 
loyalty by providing healthy, 
enjoyable, convenient products
Grow share of our consumers’ 
purse and be Number 1 or 2  
in the markets we serve
We have a strong vision and robust values for 
the business. We support these with simple 
value measures and key performance indicators 
that we track to give a clear indication of our 
progress. We do not expect to achieve every 
value measure every year, but by making our 
targets clear, we believe we have a framework 
that will help us deliver long term improvements 
for the benefit of all our stakeholders Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 5
Overview
Core	 brand Market Market Brand Market
rank growth growth
2010/11* 2010/11**
Cathedral	 City UK Cheese No1 branded cheese 6% 2%
Clover UK Butter, Spreads, Margarine No1 dairy spread 9% 8%
Country	 Life UK Butter, Spreads, Margarine No3 UK butter 9% 8%
St	 Hubert	 Oméga	 3 French non-butter spread No1 spread in France 10% 0%
FRijj Flavoured milk No1 flavoured milk drink 3% 8%
*Dairy Crest value sales 12 months to 31/3/11 v 12 months to 31/3/10 **ACN, IRI, TNS data 52 weeks to 19/3/2011
Key performance indicators
For	 further	
information
2011	 Employee	
survey	 results:
Our people p8
milk&more revenue 
now over £1 m
per week
9% growth in 
major retailer 
conventional milk 
volumes
Market analysis p6
Segmental reviews 
p18
Financial review 
p34
Segmental reviews 
p18
949
924
Milk processed per 
production employee 
(000 litres)
83.5
87.6
Adjusted profit 
before tax (£m)
79.8
119.0 11
10
11
10
Operating cash flow 
(£m)
10
09
We aim to meet 
consumers’ needs and 
go where this takes us
Segmental reviews 
p18
949
924
Milk processed per 
production employee 
(000 litres)
83.5
87.6
Adjusted profit 
before tax (£m)
79.8
119.0 11
10
11
10
Operating cash flow 
(£m)
10
09
9% of 2010/11 
revenue from 
innovation in the 
last 3 years
Cost base –  
new initiatives in 
2010/11 will deliver  
£20m 
annualised savings
Corporate 
Responsibility 
report p30
We asked Business in the Community 
to benchmark our progress using their 
Corporate Responsibility Index and 
were pleased to be awarded a Silver 
rating of 87%
Overall employee engagement score 
reduced by 2.5% versus last time. 
Engagement 3% above UK average
Response rate 
improved to  
87% 
(2010: 77%)
Positive responses 
of 54% down 
from 58% last time
As we grow, we look after our 
people and the communities 
in which we work
2011	 Corporate	
Responsibility	
survey	 results: “We listen to our consumers and go where this takes us”
Dairy Crest is committed to developing innovative new products to meet 
consumers’ needs. We have set ourselves the challenging objective that 
sales from products and services developed in the previous three years 
will reach 10% of our annual turnover. In the year ended 31 March 2011 we 
achieved 9%, up from 7% in the year before.
Market analysis
WE LISTEN
Consumers are at the heart 
of our business
6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Creating	 a	 culture	 for	 innovation	 to	 flourish
We are constantly looking for ways to reinforce a culture of 
innovation. We aim to be consumer oriented, to come up with 
genuinely new ideas, to be fast to implement and to support 
winning ideas financially.
 Champions from across the business meet regularly to 
generate ideas based on our understanding of consumer 
trends. We use technology to interact with consumers as part 
of the assessment process and have adapted ‘speed dating’ 
techniques to get immediate feedback.
 To widen the innovation base we ran a ‘Dragons’ Den’ 
competition where all Group employees and their families were 
invited to submit their ideas for new products and services. 
The best ideas have been included in the innovation pipeline 
so that they can be taken forward.
 In France, our St Hubert business includes a ‘creative 
period’ in its business cycle to generate new ideas. St Hubert 
has also recently conducted concepts screening using secured 
internet access to receive immediate consumer feedback.
Understanding	 consumers
We carry out both qualitative and quantitative research to 
help us better understand our consumers’ needs and how 
their attitudes are changing over time. 
 A comprehensive macro-trends monitoring programme 
gives us key insights into the latest trends and we use a 
wide variety of continuous data to track and analyse relevant 
markets.
 In addition we talk directly to consumers in their homes 
and on accompanied shopping trips. This gives us valuable 
insights into how they are thinking and behaving at the 
point of consumption and purchase. Recently we have also 
incorporated new listening techniques using social media to 
help us gain a different consumer perspective.
Why	 innovation	 is	 so	 important	 to	 Dairy	 Crest
We aim to grow our profits every year. But dairy products have 
been around for centuries and as the table below shows, the 
markets we operate in, although large, are generally mature 
and slow growing. 
UK	 and	 French	 selected	 retail	 markets	 -	 size	 and	 growth
Market
Market volume
size growth
Category £	 million 2010/11
UK	 dairy 9,837 +2.5%
UK	 fresh	 milk 2,928 +0.4%
UK	 cheese 2,450 -0.3%
UK	 butter 600 +0.6%
UK	 dairy	 spreads 232 -0.1%
UK	 fresh	 flavoured	 milk 94 +5.7%
France	 non-dairy	 spreads €375 -1.7%
Source: Kantar, Nielsen, IRI
We must increase market share to grow and innovation is 
one way to do this. By listening to consumers and developing 
relevant new products and services we improve our profits.
75% 
reduction in  
packaging –  
JUGIT milk bag compared  
to conventional polybottle Overview
Case	 study	 –	 healthier	 variants	 of	 traditional	 brands
Our successful French spread, St Hubert Oméga 3, has 
become the market leader as consumers look for better heart 
health. Sales in the year ended 31 March 2011 increased by 
10% in a flat market.
 In the UK the emphasis is on lower fat products. Our 
research shows that many consumers want to reduce their 
intake of saturated fat without compromising on taste. 
Government guidelines confirm that there is a need to do this.
 Over the past 5 years we have launched ‘lighter’ variants 
of our key UK Foods brands. They now account for a 
significant proportion of total sales and are growing strongly.
%	 of	 total Growth
Core	 brand brand 2010/11
Cathedral	 City	 Lighter 13% 27%
Clover	 Lighter 15% 26%
Country	 Life	 Lighter 11% 7%
Source: DC data
Also in the UK, our Dairies business has seen success with 
1% fat milk. Sales have grown by 35% over the past year.
Overview
Case	 study	 –	 milk&more
After extensive trials, we launched our internet-based home 
delivery service nationwide in Autumn 2009. Weekly sales 
are now in excess of £1 million. 
 We knew that consumers valued their milk being 
delivered to their home, but some found elements of the 
service quite frustrating. They didn’t like communicating 
with their milkmen using notes left in empty bottles and they 
didn’t like having to leave the exact change out each week to 
pay their bill. milk&more was developed from understanding 
what our residential customers did want. Customers now 
place their orders using the internet and pay electronically. 
There is more about the progress of milk&more in the 
Operating Review on page 26.
A	 strong	 track	 record
In the past 3 years we have successfully brought new 
products and services to the market which together 
accounted for sales totalling £140 million in the year ended 
31 March 2011.
 These included: milk&more and Clover Lighter (see below); 
Cathedral City range extensions such as vintage; JUGIT; 
limited edition FRijj and, in France, St Hubert bio (organic).
 We have a strong pipeline and more new products are 
scheduled for launch in 2011/12.
New products and services 
introduced over the past  
3 years accounted for  
£1 40  million 
of sales in 2011
35% 
Sales growth in 1% fat 
milk over the past year Our people are our most valuable resource and our business is dependent 
on the success of individual employees. Our aim is to ensure we treat staff 
equitably, encourage meaningful communication, reward hard work and 
provide staff with the opportunity to help them reach their potential.
Our people
WE RESPECT
We value our people and  
are stronger together
8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Sharing	 in	 our	 success
To help make sure staff are able to share in our success almost 
all of our staff participate in an incentive scheme that’s tailored 
to the role they do and the division they work in. All financial 
rewards are linked to the company’s performance and the 
individual’s performance.
 Finally, we also give staff the opportunity of participating in 
our three-year sharesave scheme so they can save up to £250 
every month. A new opportunity to join the scheme will come 
later this year. At present almost a third of staff participate in  
the scheme.
Pride	 and	 glory
Being valued and recognised at work is important. To help us 
best achieve this we have in place a reward and recognition 
scheme, which gives all staff the opportunity to nominate 
colleagues for an award.
 Over the course of the year more than 10% of people were 
successfully nominated by their colleagues to receive  
a bronze award and over 20 staff received a silver award. The 
gold award winner was chosen from these silver award winners. 
As well as acknowledging individual achievements we also 
celebrated a team of the year award.
Gold	 award	 -	 Tony	 Jackson,	 Individual	 of	 the	 year
During the heavy snow in the first week of December 2010 
Tony Jackson, who works at our Mansfield Depot, went that 
extra mile to make sure homes and businesses, including new 
customers who had just signed up to receive milk&more, didn’t 
go without their orders from Customer Direct. Not only did he 
work extra hours to support colleagues, he also took up jobs 
that were usually done by other members of staff who simply 
couldn’t make it into work. The result was that the new Dairy 
Crest contracts were honoured and existing customers received 
their orders. If that wasn’t enough Tony also made sure the 
safety of his team was never compromised. 
Our	 first	 team	 of	 the	 year	 award	 goes	 to	 Davidstow		 	
Our Davidstow’s energy team was named as our team of the 
year after they successfully introduced a green energy strategy 
at the creamery. It was members of this team who first realised 
there was an opportunity to establish a biomass facility at 
the site. The project, which is now up and running, will help 
reduce Dairy Crest’s entire carbon footprint by about 12%. 
The team is now turning their attention to photovoltaic and 
geothermal technologies.
Davidstow’s energy team from left to right: Phil Hunt, Bruce Bailey,  
Melvin Arthur and Gary Shorrocks with site manager, Chris Terrett. Overview Overview Overview Overview Overview Overview
Investing	 in	 training	 and	 development
We understand that investing in the needs of our staff is important 
because it leads to a highly motivated workforce, it unlocks talent 
and it helps improve people’s skills and knowledge. To ensure we 
are best placed to meet the requirements of all of our staff we have 
in place a wide range of suitable training courses.
 In order to make training as accessible as possible, which is 
important in a business where the majority of staff are not office 
based, last year we introduced an online ‘e-learning’ website that 
enables staff to access over 100 courses ranging from health and 
safety through to IT. Encouragingly, since its launch over 1,000 
employees have regularly accessed the online facility.
 We are pleased to report that since establishing a foundation 
degree in dairy technology at Reaceheath the course is going from 
strength-to-strength. This practical and academic programme 
gives processing staff the skills they need to excel at their job and 
importantly for the dairy industry it ensures we have skilled dairy 
processing managers for the future.
 As well as developing our leaders of tomorrow we recognise 
the importance of continuing to develop our leaders of today. To 
help us achieve this we have introduced a talent programme called 
‘My Career’ and this year 129 of our most capable employees will 
participate in the programme which includes mentoring with senior 
managers and directors.
 To ensure the continuing development of our senior managers 
this year we became members of the IMD Corporate Learning 
Network.  The IMD is a national business school based in 
Lausanne, Switzerland, which provides senior managers with “best 
in class” leadership development.
 Finally through the IGD (the food and grocery industry body) 
we are exploring the possibility of introducing apprenticeships 
and work placement opportunities for school leavers and 
university students.
Diversity
We are committed to providing staff with an inclusive working 
environment where everyone feels valued and respected. We 
recognise that people from different backgrounds, experiences 
and abilities can bring fresh ideas and innovations  
that help improve our working practices and business. 
 Over the last 12 months through our Diversity Steering Group, 
whose membership broadly reflects our business and which 
includes a board member, we have introduced enhanced maternity 
and paternity policies, implemented more flexible working policies 
and have given staff the opportunity to take sabbaticals.
 To ensure women are better represented at the highest level 
we are pleased to report that 30% of participants of our Talent 
Programme are women, despite them making up less than 20% 
of our workforce.
 In order to achieve best practice when it comes to employing 
people with disabilities we are taking part in a ‘two ticks’ scheme 
trial. The two ticks scheme is a disability best practice scheme 
sponsored by Jobcentre Plus. In addition to this trial we are 
also members of the Employers’ Forum on Disability Forum, 
which actively looks at improving working opportunities and 
arrangements for disabled employees.
Attracting	 and	 retaining	 the	 best	 people
As the UK’s leading chilled dairy company attracting and 
retaining great people is vital to our continued success. To 
ensure we hit the ground running we have introduced a new 
employer brand called ‘Living it’ which is helping us attract talent 
into our business. The brand encapsulates everything that is 
good about Dairy Crest – as both an employer and a company 
it helps us professionally and clearly demonstrate what we can 
offer existing and potential employees.
 In 2010 we carried out our third employee engagement survey 
achieving a record 87% response rate, which is well above the 
UK average of 74% and although we were disappointed that staff 
engagement was slightly down on 2009 it had declined less than 
the UK average and it was still better than the feedback received 
in 2007 . Importantly a programme is now in place to act on our 
employees’ response. 10 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
 
Executive Directors
Alastair Murray
Finance Director  
(50) ◊ ∆ Appointed in September 
2003. He was Finance 
Director of The Body 
Shop International plc 
from January 1999 and 
was previously Finance 
Director of Dalgety Food 
Ingredients Limited.
Martyn Wilks
Executive Managing Director  
(53) ◊ ∆ Appointed in January 
2008. He was President 
of the Snackfood Division 
of Masterfoods USA, 
and has held senior 
management positions 
within the Mars and 
Masterfoods Groups 
including Managing 
Director of Mars, France.
“ It is well documented that the 
year ended 31 March 2011 
was challenging for everyone 
in the dairy sector in the UK. 
My job is to ensure that our 
business responds to the 
challenges in the right way and 
to balance the demands of all 
our stakeholders. I believe we 
have the right people in place 
to continue to make Dairy Crest 
stronger and I am determined 
to make sure that we build on 
the solid foundations we have 
laid for the future”
“ Dairy Crest has been seen 
as one of the most proactive 
businesses in dealing with 
its pension liabilities and I 
am proud of the role I have 
played in this. It is important 
that our current employees 
and members of our pension 
schemes can be confident that 
they will benefit from a secure 
pension on their retirement 
and that the business can 
afford the contributions it 
needs to make to fund this. 
Helping strike this balance and 
reducing the risks associated 
with the pension schemes has 
been and will continue to be an 
important part of my role”
“ We have made real progress 
this year in improving our 
ability to innovate. The culture 
of our business is changing to 
make it easier to develop new 
ideas. By understanding that 
no-one has a monopoly on 
innovation, being prepared to 
fail but learning from failure and 
betting the cow and not the 
whole farm, we are creating a 
business where new thinking 
thrives. I am excited by the 
new products we have in the 
pipeline and expect them to 
contribute to Dairy Crest’s 
ongoing success”
Mark Allen
Chief Executive 
(51) ◊ ∆ Appointed a Director in 
2002 and became Chief 
Executive in January 
2007 . He joined Dairy 
Crest in August 1991. He 
was formally with Shell 
UK Ltd. He is Chairman 
of The Prince’s Rural 
Action Programme and a 
Trustee for The Prince’s 
Countryside Fund. He is 
Vice Chairman of Dairy 
UK and a Non-executive 
Director of Howden Joinery 
Group Plc. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 11
Non-Executive Directors and Advisers
Overview
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in 
January 2011. He is Chairman of Look Ahead 
Housing and Care, a charitable housing 
association and until February 2011, was 
Chairman of Maltby Capital Ltd (parent 
company of EMI Group). He has served as 
Chief Executive of Hillsdown Holdings Ltd 
(then parent company of Premier Foods) and 
held senior positions with Allied Domecq 
PLC and Imperial Group. He was also Senior 
Independent Director at Devro plc.
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in 
August 2009. A Fellow of the Chartered Institute 
of Management Accountants, he has previously 
held senior finance positions at Courtaulds 
Textiles, Diageo, Bowater Scott and Kodak and 
was Group Finance Director at George Wimpey 
plc until 2007. He has previously held non-
executive directorships at Royal Mail Holdings, 
Venture Production and AWG. In April 2010 
he was appointed Executive Chairman of 
Countryside Properties PLC.
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in 
November 2010. He had a 30 year career with 
the National Farmers Union, serving as Director 
General for 13 years. He is a Non-executive 
Director of Moy Park Limited, Chairman of  
Safe and Local Supplier Approval and 
Chairman of DEFRA’s Better Regulation Task 
Force. He is also a governor of The Royal 
Agricultural College Cirencester and is a 
member of the board of the National Institute 
of Agricultural Botany.
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in May 
2003 and was President and Chief Executive 
of McCain Foods Limited, Toronto, Canada 
from May 1995 to May 2004. He previously 
held a number of senior positions with Rank 
Hovis McDougall and has held non-executive 
directorships with The Body Shop International 
plc, Endurance Speciality Insurance (USA), 
Wild Group gmbh (Germany) and Reconomy 
Holdings Limited.
Appointed in April 2008. He is a solicitor having 
worked in private practice and in-house in both 
retail and international manufacturing, latterly 
with Gallaher Group Plc.
Auditors
Ernst	 &	 Young	 LLP
Solicitors
Eversheds	 LLP
Principal Bankers 
The	 Royal	 Bank	 of	 Scotland	 plc
Rabobank	 International,	 London	 Branch	
Lloyds	 TSB	 plc
BNP	 Paribas
Corporate Brokers
	 J.P.	 Morgan	 Cazenove
RBS	 Hoare	 Govett	 Ltd
Registered Office
Claygate	 House,	
Littleworth	 Road,	
Esher,	 Surrey	 KT10	 9PN
Registered in England No.	 3162897
*
		 Audit	 Committee	 Member
†		 Remuneration	 Committee	 Member
‡		 Nomination	 Committee	 Member
◊		 Corporate	 Responsibility	 	
Committee	 Member
∆	 	 Member	 of	 the	 Management	 Board
#	Not	 a	 Board	 member
Board	 and	 main	 Committee	 meetings
The following Directors held office during the year. The number of Board and main Committee meetings 
attended by Board or appropriate Committee members in the year is shown in the table below. The 
numbers in brackets show the maximum number of meetings members could have attended in the period.
1  Mr Alexander was appointed to the Board 1 January 2011.
2  Mr Macdonald was appointed to the Board 3 November 
2010.
3  Ms Piwnica resigned from the Board 9 December 2010.
4  Mr Monnery resigned from the Board on 20 July 2010.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CR
Mr A Fry 12(12) – – – 2(3)
Mr M Allen 12(12) – – – 2(3)
Mr A S N Murray 12(12) – – – –
Mr M Wilks 11(12) – – – –
Mr S Alexander
1
4(5) 1(1) 1(1) – –
Mr A Carr-Locke 10(12) 4(4) 3(3) – 3(3)
Mr R Macdonald
2
6(7) – – – 1(1)
Mr H Mann 8(12) 3(4) 1(3) – 3(3)
Ms C Piwnica
3
6(7) 3(3) 2(2) – 2(2)
Mr N Monnery
4
3(4) 1(1) 1(1) – 1(1)
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in July 
2007 and as Chairman on 1 January 2010. Until 
March 2011 he was Senior Adviser of Evercore 
Partners in the firm’s London office. He has 
previously held senior appointments at Lehman 
Brothers, Credit Suisse and the Rothschild 
Group in a career in merchant banking 
which has spanned more than 30 years. In 
November 2010 he was appointed Chairman 
of Cala Group Limited and in March 2011 he 
was appointed Chairman of Espirito Santo 
Investment Bank UK. He is a Non-executive 
Director of Control Risks and the BBC Trust 
and has served on the boards of Mowlem, The 
British Standards Institution and Southern Water 
as well as numerous not-for-profit organisations.
Anthony 
Fry
Chairman	(55)		
‡
Stephen 
Alexander
Non-Executive	
Director	(55)	
*	 †
Andrew 
Carr-Locke
Non-Executive	
Director	(57)	
*	†	‡	◊
Howard 
Mann	 O.B.E
Non-Executive	
Director	(64)	
*	 †	 ‡
Robin 
Miller
Company	
Secretary	and		
General	Counsel	
(40)	◊	∆	#
Richard 
Macdonald
Non-Executive	
Director	(56)	
◊ 12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Experienced and motivated management
Toby Brinsmead
Managing	 Director,	 	
Liquid	 Products
Appointed to current role in 
December 2008. He joined 
Dairy Crest in 1998 and held a 
number of finance roles before 
becoming Finance Director 
of Dairies Division. Previously 
worked in retail and healthcare 
sectors, most recently with PPP 
healthcare.
Mike Sheldon
Managing	 Director,	
Customer	 Direct
Worked for Dairy Crest for 
18 years in senior roles in 
Purchasing and Liquids Products 
before being appointed to current 
position in 2006. Previously 
worked for Pepsico Foods 
International.
“ During 2010/11 we have continued to 
transform and simplify our Customer Direct 
business. We are focussed on recruiting 
new milk&more customers and providing 
excellent service to all our customers. I am 
confident that the plans we have in place 
will make milk&more a success”
Rob Tansey
Group	 HR	 Director
Appointed in October 2006, 
having previously been HR 
Director of Travis Perkins plc 
and Director of Personnel for 
Celesio AG.
Mark Taylor
Group	 Milk	 Procurement	
Director
Has spent career in food 
industry, covering roles from field 
to fork. After spells with Diageo 
and Northern Foods, joined 
Dairy Crest in 2000 and held a 
number of senior roles before 
being appointed to current role in 
February 2009.
“ By working across the supply chain Dairy 
Crest can give consumers what they 
want, improve efficiencies and improve 
returns to its dairy farmers. Our close 
working relationship with our farmers and 
their representatives can help generate a 
sustainable dairy sector for the benefit of 
everyone. Clearly farm gate milk prices 
remain important but I believe there are 
opportunities to add value to the supply 
chain by being open to new ideas” 
“ With our colleagues in Business Systems 
we have made a significant step  
forward in the way we use technology 
to streamline our processes in Human 
Resources and bring Learning and 
Development opportunities to all of our 
employees. We now have an online  
service for employees that allows them 
to access their employment and training 
records which removes paper and  
speeds things up”
“ The year ended 31 March 2011 was the 
first of a three year investment programme 
in our liquid milk dairies. The programme 
is on track to deliver improved efficiency, 
greater capacity and an improved 
infrastructure and to facilitate innovation. I 
am happy with the progress we have made 
in the year and the plans we have for the 
rest of the programme” Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 13
Chairman’s statement
Strategy
Our	 strategy	 has	 four	 parts:
•  To build market-leading 
positions in branded and 
added value markets;
•  To focus on cost 
reduction and efficiency 
improvements;
•  To improve quality of 
earnings and reduce risk;
•  To generate organic  
growth and to make 
acquisitions and disposals 
where they will generate 
value.
As shown throughout this statement we 
have made progress in all these areas over 
the year. 
 Innovation plays a key role in building 
added value sales and driving efficiencies. 
We have increased our focus on 
innovation in recent years by adapting our 
culture, improving systems and increasing 
resources. I am pleased that this focus 
has started to make a real difference to 
the business.
 We believe this strategy remains 
appropriate for today’s economic 
environment.
Our	 people	 and	 our	 dairy	 farmers
At the end of my first full year as Chairman 
I would like to thank all of the people 
who work with us for their important 
contribution over the past year. I include all 
the efforts made by the 1,330 dairy farmers 
who supply their milk to us. The long-term 
commitment of our employees, franchisee 
milkmen and dairy farmers has allowed 
us to move successfully our business to 
a broadly based, added value dairy food 
company with a significant profit stream 
from continental Europe. This leaves us 
well positioned for the future. 
Market	 background
The markets in which we operate remain 
challenging and consumers are coming 
under increasing financial pressure. 
Although we produce staple foods we 
have been very conscious of the need to 
provide consumers with good value and 
great quality at the right cost. We have 
also spent more on advertising to promote 
the benefits of our key brands. 
 At the same time we have seen higher 
input prices for milk, ingredients, packaging 
and distribution. By driving efficiencies 
throughout our business we have 
successfully reduced the cost increases we 
have needed to pass onto our customers.
Increased	 dividend	 recommended
Adjusted profit before tax was up 5% and as 
a result the Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 14.2 pence per share, making a 
full year dividend of 19.7 pence, an increase 
of 4.2% over the previous year. This dividend 
is covered 2.4 times by adjusted basic 
earnings per share in line with our policy for 
dividend cover of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
Corporate	 responsibility
Dairy Crest is a responsible business. We 
have made significant progress in this area 
over recent years and will continue to do 
so going forward. Looking forward our aim 
is to ensure that we align commercial and 
corporate responsibility strategies for the 
benefit of all our stakeholders.
Board	 changes
During the year Richard Macdonald and 
Stephen Alexander have been appointed 
as Non-executive Directors, replacing Neil 
Monnery and Carole Piwnica. I would like 
to take this opportunity to thank Neil and 
Carole for their important contributions 
and to welcome Richard and Stephen to 
the Board.
Summary
While we expect that the market 
environment will remain challenging,  
Dairy Crest is an increasingly robust 
business. We have a good customer 
base, strong brands and a wide portfolio 
of products. We believe the strategy 
to develop our leading brands and our 
continued focus on efficiency remains the 
best way forward.
	 	 Anthony	 Fry	 Chairman
  18 May 2011
Overview
In a challenging environment the Board is pleased that our 
broadly based business has delivered increased pre-exceptional 
profits and reduced borrowings. We are encouraged by the 
progress we have made executing our strategy, in particular  
the growth of our key brands. 
WE LEAD
We value success and  
strive to be the best 14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Brand Market Brand 
growth*
Market 
growth**
UK cheese 6% 2%
UK butter, spreads, margarine 9% 8%
UK butter, spreads, margarine 9% 8%
French non-butter spreads 10% 0%
Flavoured milk 3% 8%
Total 7%
 * Dairy Crest sales 12 months to 31 March 2011 v 12 months to 31 March 2010
** ACN, IRI data to 19 March 2011
Dairy Crest’s results for the year demonstrate the benefit of 
being a broadly based business. A strong performance from our 
branded Spreads and Cheese businesses has more than offset 
tougher trading in Dairies. 
 We have again increased added value sales. Our five key 
brands have all performed well. We have grown sales of milk to 
major retailers, started to supply liquid milk to Tesco and made 
considerable progress with our milk&more internet doorstep 
delivery service. We expect increased investment in advertising 
our key brands and milk&more to bring benefits in the future.
 We have also been successful in making cost savings across 
the business to reduce the effect that commodity inflation is having 
on our customers and consumers and have lowered net debt 
again this year.
Chief Executive’s review
Vision	 and	 values
Our vision and values are at the heart of our 
business and we have made real progress 
in making them come alive this year. 
 For us, consumers come first and 
by understanding our consumers we 
have continued to drive the sales of our 
key brands. We have also increased the 
turnover from our milk&more proposition. In 
the fourth quarter milk&more weekly sales 
passed the £1 million milestone and have 
continued to grow since the year end.
 Consumer innovation developed in the 
last three years is becoming an increasing 
part of our annual turnover. We have set 
ourselves the challenging objective for this 
to reach 10% although we are still slightly 
below that figure at the moment. We are 
particularly pleased by the performance of 
our healthy ‘lighter’ cheese and spreads 
brands, 1% fat milk and environmentally-
friendly milk in bags. We have a strong 
pipeline of innovative products that will 
benefit future years.
 We act responsibly and asked 
Business in the Community to benchmark 
our progress using their Corporate 
Responsibility index. We were pleased 
to be awarded a silver rating. We also 
carried out an employee survey which 
demonstrated some improvements and 
highlighted areas we can improve further.
 Our relationship with the dairy farmers 
who supply their milk to us is very 
important. Although UK milk production 
grew during the year for the first time 
since 2004, increases in on-farm costs 
during the second half of the year has put 
pressure on our dairy farmers. We have  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 15
responded by increasing our milk prices 
and continue to support our suppliers in 
many different ways.
Financial	 summary
Adjusted Group profit before tax was up 
5% at £87.6 million (2010: £83.5 million). 
Adjusted basic earnings per share 
increased by 6% to 47.1 pence (2010: 
44.5 pence). Reported profit before tax 
of £77.8 million was unchanged from last 
year despite the benefit of £4 million of 
exceptional income in the prior year.
 Group net debt at 31 March 2011 was 
£311.6 million (2010: £337.2 million).
Trading	 performance
Dairy Crest’s sales mix continues to improve 
as we grow sales of our key brands and 
reduce our middle ground milk sales.
 Our five key brands have all grown 
ahead of the market with the exception 
of FRijj where, as previously reported, 
manufacturing capacity was constrained 
for part of the year. 
 In a difficult marketplace we have 
again delivered increased pre-exceptional 
profits. This is due to our focus on quality, 
service and cost. Over recent years 
we have invested heavily in our cheese 
business and are one year into a three 
year capital investment programme for our 
liquid dairies. This is on track to deliver 
the anticipated efficiency improvements, 
reducing production costs and wastage. 
 We are also reducing costs in our 
depot network and have worked with our 
non-milk suppliers to take costs out of all 
areas of the supply chain. 
Overview
Taken together we have commenced 
initiatives in the year that will deliver over 
£20 million of annualised cost savings. We 
achieved the same target in the previous 
year and have well advanced plans to 
do so again in the year ending 31 March 
2012. Our cost base excluding milk and 
commodity ingredients is around £800 
million and we believe that cost initiatives 
of 2.5% of this each year is a reasonable 
target for the next few years.
 Our focus on efficiency has allowed  
us to invest more in marketing and 
innovation and limit the increase in input 
costs that we have had to pass on to 
customers and consumers. 
 Increased staff training has also 
contributed to improved service and quality.
 In addition we have benefited from 
the work we have done in recent years to 
reduce risk. We now have a far simpler 
business which allows greater focus.
	
Looking	 forward
In Spreads and Cheese our strong 
innovation pipeline will help build on our 
current momentum and further grow sales 
of our key brands.
 Our Dairies business is facing an 
increasingly tough operating environment. 
A very competitive market has put 
pressure on this side of the business.
Input costs have risen during the fourth 
quarter of 2010/11 and dealing with 
them is a key priority for the year ahead. 
We will do this by continuing to make 
efficiency savings and agreeing selling 
price increases with customers. In total 
milk costs have increased by over £40 
million per annum, although, in the case 
of dedicated milk pools, this has been 
immediately offset by higher selling prices. 
Other commodity input costs such as 
vegetable oil, fuel and packaging are 
forecast to be around £25 million higher in 
2011/12 than in 2010/11.
 We will also continue to focus on cash 
generation, however we expect that net 
borrowings will increase in the year ending 
31 March 2012, reflecting higher cheese 
stocks and increased capital investment.
 Trading in the new financial year has 
started in line with our expectations. 
 Against a background of higher input 
costs and increasingly cash-constrained 
consumers we will continue to focus on 
doing the right things for long term benefit, 
including making efficiency improvements 
and investing in our brands and facilities. 
We are soundly positioned to deal with the 
challenges ahead.
Mark	 Allen	 Chief Executive
18 May 2011
5% 
increase in Adjusted 
Group profit before tax 
to £87 .6 million
6% 
increase in Adjusted 
basic earnings per share 
to 47 .1 pence
WE CREATE
We constantly look for new and 
better ways of doing things
8% 
reduction in net debt  
to £311.6 million 16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Risk register
Accounts reviews
Management board
Divisional boards
Threats to objectives identified
Performance monitored
Business objectives set or reviewed
Existing controls assessed
Threats quantified
Improvements implemented
Leadership teams
Group board
We	 manage	 risk	 to	 help	 us	 achieve	 our	 strategic	 objectives	
and	 protect	 our	 reputation.	
The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of the Group’s 
risk management processes and the Board is responsible for the 
appropriate identification of risks and the effective implementation 
of mitigating activities. During the year, as part of its regular review 
of internal controls, the Audit Committee reviewed the processes 
used to build and refresh the Group’s risk registers. Internal 
Audit now scrutinises certain assurance mechanisms in place to 
mitigate risks. This additional process explicitly recognises the 
relationship between Internal Audit and risk management. The 
Audit Committee is satisfied that the processes are adequate 
and appropriate. Further details are set out in the Corporate 
Governance Report on pages 48 to 54. 
 The Group’s Risk Register is compiled through a combination 
of business unit risk registers and Board input. The Board 
formally reviews the Group Risk Register when the annual budget 
is set and at each of the two forecast reviews throughout the 
year. The Company Secretary & General Counsel is responsible 
for highlighting to the Board any changes to the Group’s risk 
registers identified during the intervening periods. The process 
review conducted during the year helps to ensure that a model of 
continued risk appraisal is embedded in the Group. 
 The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set 
out in the table below. This is not intended to be an exhaustive 
analysis of all risks facing the Group. 
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk area and potential impact Mitigating controls
Commercial	 risks	
Loss	 of	 key	 customer
There is strong competition between suppliers to our key 
customers. We face competition on both our branded and 
retailer branded products. To compete we have to purchase 
raw materials effectively, operate the supply chain efficiently, 
market and sell our products well and continually innovate.  
If we fail to do this we could lose sales.
No one customer accounts for more than 10% of our total 
revenues and we continue to seek to widen our customer 
base. We continue to spend more on marketing and 
innovation and have also increased investment in our factories 
to deliver further efficiencies. We closely monitor the service 
levels we provide to our customers. The Executive Board is 
involved in major customer negotiations.
Reduced	 demand	 from	 consumers
Consumers could move away from dairy products for 
economic, health or other reasons leading to lower sales  
and profits.
Consumers are at the heart of our business and we regularly 
monitor consumer trends. We continue to promote the 
health benefits provided by dairy products and develop 
healthier products. We react to other consumer trends - for 
example with more environmentally-friendly packaging and 
the increase in the use of the internet with milk&more. Dairy 
products are staple purchases for most households and 
we have responded to tougher economic conditions by 
promoting our key brands more.
Input	 cost	 inflation
Higher milk and non-milk costs (vegetable oils, diesel, 
electricity, gas and packaging) will reduce margins unless  
we can recover them from customers.
For more information refer to:
Chief Executive’s review
Segmental reviews
Milk procurement
Note 31 to the accounts
This area is closely reviewed by the Executive Board 
which has established a risk committee to monitor and 
hedge forward non-milk commodity prices if possible and 
appropriate. The risks associated with purchasing large 
volumes of milk have been reduced by establishing milk 
pools linked to major customers and longer-term fixed 
price milk contracts. We seek to absorb short term cost 
movements through supply chain efficiencies. Our purchasing 
and commercial teams have clear lines of communication 
between them to ensure customers are kept aware of 
changes to our cost base and requests for price increases 
can be fully justified. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 17
Overview
Not all of the risks listed are within the Group’s control and others 
may be unknown or may currently be considered immaterial but 
could turn out to be material in the future. The risks set out in this 
section, together with their associated mitigation activities, should 
be considered in the context of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control framework, details of which are set out in 
the Corporate Governance Report on pages 48 to 54 and the 
Cautionary Statement regarding forward looking statements at 
the start of the Directors’ Report on page 45
Risk area and potential impact Mitigating controls
Operational	 risks
Restricted	 milk	 supply
Restricted milk supply due to economic factors, weather or an 
epidemic which affects dairy cows could restrict milk supply. 
This in turn could lead to lower sales and profits. Consumer 
confidence in dairy products could also be adversely affected.
For more information refer to:
Milk procurement
We have a strong relationship with our milk suppliers and 
contracts which include a notice period of at least one year. 
Our experienced milk procurement team understand milk 
production and are alert to changes in supply. We closely 
monitor the milk price we pay to suppliers in order to ensure 
we can purchase the right quantity of milk to meet demand 
forecasts and have established procedures for allocating milk 
between our businesses if a short-term shortfall in supply 
does arise. We have contingency plans established for major 
incidents and work closely with DEFRA and industry bodies 
to ensure these are appropriate. These plans are regularly 
tested and reviewed with the Executive Board. We carry 
insurance against the risk of business interruption.
Other	 operational	 risks
An accident, the failure of equipment or systems or deliberate 
act could disrupt production, affect food safety, and/or 
cause reputational damage with adverse consequences. 
We are also exposed to losses in the event that information 
technology systems fail.
Dairy Crest takes product quality very seriously and has 
rigorous quality controls in place to minimise potential risks. 
All of our manufacturing sites have a trained engineering 
resource, are supported by our major equipment suppliers 
and hold appropriate stocks of spare parts. They also all 
have fire protection systems and regular fire drills. Our 
information technology systems are regularly backed up and 
key computer and network functions are duplicated. We 
have procedures in place to help us deal with major incidents 
and insurance cover for property damage and business 
interruption risks.
People	 risks
Recruitment	 and	 retention
We need high quality employees to provide customers and 
consumers with safe, high quality products and services.
For more information refer to:
Our people
We carry out rigorous selection procedures and benchmark 
pay and benefits to ensure we can attract and retain the best 
people. We have a wide bonus scheme and a range of other 
incentives to reward good performance and a performance 
review and talent management schemes to identify and 
develop our own people. We undertake regular surveys to 
monitor our relationship with our employees.
Financial	 risks
Liquidity
We have to ensure that we have the appropriate capital 
structure in place to allow us to run the business. 
For more information refer to:
Financial review
Note 31 to the accounts
We are comfortably within our debt headroom and covenants 
and have a good mixture of long term credit facilities with 
supportive banks who know our business. Increased funding 
requirements into the defined benefit pension scheme could 
reduce liquidity, but we have closed the scheme to future 
accrual and have taken out insurance to meet the liabilities 
associated with many of our retired members.
Legal	 and	 compliance	 risks
Our sector is subject to a number of complex statutory 
requirements. There is a risk of fines or lawsuits and 
reputational damage if we fail to comply.
We have a strong in-house legal function supported by 
external advisors. We have undertaken company-wide 
training in respect of competition law and actively monitor and 
adjust to ongoing legal and regulatory changes. 18 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Business review Dairy Crest
Unilever 29%
Arla 30%
Private 
label    
14%    
Other 8%
Source: AC Nielsen 52 w/e 19 March 2011
Share of UK retail butters and 
spreads market by value
Source: IRI 52 w/e 6 March 2011 Source: IRI 52 w/e 6 March 2011
Share of French retail non-butter 
spreads by value
St Hubert
Unilever 42%
Lactalis 
15%  
Other 7%
St Hubert
Unilever   
 18% 
Other
20%    
Share of Italian non-butter
spreads by value
19% 62% 36%
Business	 review
Spreads
£ million 2010/11 2009/10
Revenue 285.5 277.7
Profit 53.3 54.0
Margin 19.0% 19.5%
We manufacture spreads in the UK and France and have strong 
market positions in both these countries as well as in Italy.
 Consumption of spreads has fallen during the year, but higher 
prices, reflecting higher input costs, have led to value growth in 
the UK and an unchanged market in France. Both these markets 
are strongly branded. 
 We have broadly maintained our market share with a good 
performance by our three key brands, Clover and Country Life 
in the UK and St Hubert Oméga 3 in France being offset by 
lower sales of secondary brands. The current tough economic 
environment has led us to increase expenditure on advertising 
and promotions and to drive innovation.
 For the year ended 31 March 2011, revenue of £285.5 million, 
segment profit of £53.3 million and a segment margin of 19% are 
all similar to last year.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 19
brand increased its market share to 30%, 
reflecting the growth of St Hubert Oméga 
3 and St Hubert Bio, which was launched 
last year.
 St Hubert has a track record of 
investing in both innovation and marketing 
activity and has well developed plans 
for more new product launches in the 
next few months. At the same time the 
business will continue to seek efficiencies 
to underpin its performance and offset 
higher input costs.
 In Italy our market-leading Vallé 
brand has performed well and has again 
increased its market share to 62%.
St	 Hubert	
St	 Hubert	 brand	 market	 share	
increases	 to	 30%
St Hubert was acquired in January 2007 
from Uniq plc and is an important part of 
the Dairy Crest Group. We manufacture 
spreads at Ludres in North Eastern France, 
for distribution across France and to Italy. 
Under Dairy Crest’s ownership the business 
has prospered and has consistently grown 
market share and profits.
 The total non-butter French Spreads 
market remained steady at €375 million. 
Market shares of the three major suppliers 
also remained unchanged. The St Hubert 
30% 
St Hubert brand  
market share of the 
total non-butter French 
spreads market UK	 Spreads
Another	 strong	 performance	 by	 our	 two	
key	 brands	 Clover	 and	 Country	 Life
We manufacture butters and spreads in two 
factories in the UK, at Kirkby near Liverpool 
and at Crudgington in Shropshire and 
distribute them to UK retailers through our 
national distribution centre in Nuneaton. 
 The UK butter, spreads and margarine 
market grew 8% in the year to £1.2 billion, 
reflecting a small reduction in volumes 
offset by significant price increases. Input 
costs, most notably cream and vegetable 
oils, have risen and we have had to 
increase our selling prices as a result.
 Both of our two key UK spread brands, 
Country Life and Clover, have grown ahead 
of the market. However Utterly Butterly 
sales have fallen as we have focused 
marketing support on our key brands.
 After a difficult first quarter Country Life 
has performed well and sales are up 9% 
compared to last year. Country Life is  
the only major British butter brand and  
we have continued to highlight this in  
our advertising.
 Clover remains the UK’s leading dairy 
spread and has grown market share again 
this year. Total sales are also up 9%. Sales 
of Clover Lighter are now 15% of total 
Clover sales and grew by 26% in the year. 
We have advertised Clover as  
being ‘in the middle’ reflecting its appeal 
to both health and taste conscious 
consumers. 
 Both Country Life and Clover 
have been supported by higher 
levels of promotional activity as 
we and our retail customers react 
to offset the economic pressure on 
consumers. 
 We have an ongoing project to 
make our UK Spreads business more 
efficient and have recently announced 
plans to consolidate Clover production at 
our Kirkby site with the net loss of around 
45 jobs. 
20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Business review  | Spreads continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 21
Business	 review UK retail cheese market volumes were 
broadly flat in the year with values 
increasing by 2% to £2.4 billion. The 
market is predominantly retailer own label, 
but increased marketing investment and a 
strong promotional programme have led 
to a 6% increase in Cathedral City sales 
in the year. Within this, Lighter (which now 
accounts for 13% of total brand sales)  
and Extra Mature variants have both 
grown strongly. 
 Cathedral City now has a 9% share of 
the total retail cheese market and remains 
larger than the next three cheddar brands 
added together. Our successful advertising 
campaign, ‘the nation’s favourite’ reflects 
this strong position.
 Although Cathedral City remains by 
far our largest cheese brand, we believe 
our Davidstow brand has great potential. 
In the past this has been positioned as a 
‘sub-brand’, carrying both the Davidstow 
name and that of the retailer. During the 
year we have replaced the sub-brand 
in Sainsbury’s and Tesco with a new 
Davidstow cheddar. This will allow us to 
develop this brand further in the future.
 Profits in our cheese business have 
been supported by higher returns from 
whey and by efficiency measures across 
the supply chain. At Davidstow we have 
installed two new biomass boilers on 
time and to budget and these will deliver 
savings in 2011/12. Further renewable 
energy projects are being considered. 
 Improved profitability has allowed 
us to increase the price we pay our 
dairy farmers for the milk they supply to 
Davidstow, reinforcing the ‘virtuous circle’ 
of market leading brands, facilities and 
milk prices.
 Looking forward we have a great 
opportunity to deliver growth in revenue 
and profits in this business through a 
combination of consumer-led innovation 
and marketing. We now plan to make 
more cheese at Davidstow to meet 
demand, which, together with higher milk 
prices, will result in an increase in cheese 
stocks during 2011/12.
Improved profitability has allowed us to increase 
the price we pay our dairy farmers for the milk they 
supply to Davidstow, reinforcing the ‘virtuous circle’ 
of market leading brands, facilities and milk prices.
£ million 2010/11 2009/10
Revenue 223.1 260.0
Profit 28.0 16.9
Margin 13.0% 7.0%
Cheese
A ‘virtuous circle’ of market leading brands,  
facilities and milk prices 
Dairy Crest has the leading cheese brand in the UK, Cathedral 
City, and a world class supply chain. Cathedral City is made 
at our Davidstow creamery in Cornwall from milk supplied by 
around 400 local dairy farmers. The cheese is matured, cut and 
wrapped at our purpose-built facility in Nuneaton from where it is 
despatched to retailers. 
 We also make Davidstow branded cheddar and supply a small 
quantity of high quality retailer branded cheddar.
 Although reported revenue fell by 14% to £223.1 million, this 
was due to the sale of our majority stake in Wexford Creamery 
in June 2010. Revenue excluding Wexford has increased slightly 
in the year. Segment profits increased by 66% to £28.0 million 
resulting in a segment margin of 13% (2010: profit of £16.9 million 
and 7% margin). 
22 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Business review continued
66% 
Segment profit increase
to £28.0 million
Big potential for future 
brand growth
Cathedral City bigger 
than the next three 
brands combined
Source: TNS 52 w/e 21 March 2010
Cathedral City growth
by retail sales value (£m)
106
128
165
192
214
05/06 06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10
Source: TNS 52 w/e 19 March 2011
Other 91%
Share of the total UK retail
cheese market by value
9%
Cathedral
      City 9% Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 23
Business	 review 24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Business review continued
The Dairies division processes and delivers fresh conventional, 
organic and flavoured milk to major retailers, ‘middle ground’ 
customers including, smaller retailers, coffee shops and hospitals 
and residential customers.
 We also manufacture and sell FRijj, the leading fresh flavoured 
milk brand, cream and milk powders.
 Reported revenue increased by 1% to £1,089.8 million. 
However, in an increasingly tough trading environment, segment 
profit fell to £27 .1 million (2010: £34.9 million), resulting in a 
segment margin of 2.5%.
Dairies
£ million 2010/11 2009/10
Revenue 1,089.8 1,081.2
Profit 27.1 34.9
Margin 2.5% 3.2%
9% 
increase in milk sales  
to major retailers Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 25
3% 
increase in FRijj sales 
compared to last year
Sales	 to	 major	 retailers
We have significantly increased our sales 
of milk to our major retail customers in the 
year and milk sales to these customers are 
now greater than to the middle ground. 
This reflects the improvements we have 
made over recent years to cost, quality 
and service and we expect to continue 
this trend. As well as obtaining new 
business from Tesco we have established 
long-term agreements with Sainsbury’s 
and Morrisons and have confirmed 
long-standing supply arrangements with 
Waitrose and M&S. 
 However we have not renewed our 
contract to supply the Cooperative Group 
and our fresh milk supply to them will end 
in August 2011.
 We continue to innovate and have 
seen significant uplifts in our sales of 1% 
fat milk and milk in bags. 
 We have also grown sales of our 
branded milkshake, FRijj, by 3% compared 
to last year. The market for flavoured milk 
remains buoyant but our growth was 
constrained by capacity. We have now 
addressed this and expect FRijj, supported 
by innovative marketing campaigns, to grow 
strongly in the year ending 31 March 2012.
An	 increasingly	 efficient	 supply	 chain
Our focus is on cost, quality and service 
and we are one year into a three year, £75 
million, capital expenditure programme 
for our liquid dairies. We have made 
significant improvements this year at all 
four of our dairies where we pack milk 
into polybottles with particular emphasis 
on Severnside. Here we have increased 
capacity for both conventional polybottles 
and for FRijj and have installed and 
commissioned a new line which produces 
milk in bags.
 We have improved operating efficiencies 
by around 5% this year, have reduced 
wastage and are getting close to operating 
all our dairies with zero waste to landfill. 
Service and quality have remained high.
 Looking forward, we expect to 
make further capacity and efficiency 
improvements by installing a new milk 
packing line at Severnside and extending 
the cold stores at Foston and Severnside. 
Further work will be done to allow us 
to expand the FRijj range and increase 
milk bag capacity. We will also increase 
our focus on reducing distribution costs 
including through the implementation of 
some new planning tools.
Business	 review Middle	 ground
This sector of our business has been 
challenging during the year. Although 
some parts of the middle ground 
remain attractive, others have become 
increasingly commoditised and prices and 
margins have been adversely affected. We 
have reduced middle ground sales in the 
year and have significantly cut back on the 
number of depots from which we operate 
our middle ground business. We intend to 
be increasingly selective in this sector.
Ingredients
Our ingredients operation provides us with 
a flexible balancing solution for seasonal 
raw milk supplies and cream. Despite 
dairy commodity markets remaining strong 
for most of the year, we have reduced the 
amount of milk processed into commodity 
ingredients. We carry only minimum 
stocks and negotiate longer term selling 
contracts wherever possible in order 
to reduce our exposure to commodity 
markets. However we have benefited from 
stronger markets for by-products such as 
buttermilk powder.
traditional customers. We are pleased 
that three of our depots have increased 
turnover compared to the previous year 
and a further nine had sales within 2% 
of last year. We have resumed television 
advertising in the first quarter of the 
current financial year and we are also 
carrying out a number of different trials  
to further improve milk&more.
 Away from milk&more we have recently 
started to sell milk bags to our residential 
customers and these are proving 
extremely popular. Cost control remains 
important and we are progressing well 
with projects that will significantly reduce 
our supply chain costs. 
 However higher commodity input 
costs have led us to implement two selling 
price increases during the year and this 
has resulted in total residential milk sales 
falling 5% by value and 8% by volume 
compared to a year ago. 
 Looking forward, our current 
projections show that growth in milk&more 
sales has the potential to stabilise margins 
in our residential delivery business and 
that milk&more margins will account for 
around 40% of total residential margins by 
the end of 2012/13.
Residential	 deliveries
Delivering milk to customers’ doorsteps 
remains a key part of our business. We 
have 1.2 million residential customers and 
have a network of over 2,200 milkmen 
including around 1,700 franchisees.
 Our internet doorstep delivery 
proposition, milk&more, continues to make 
progress. Having launched milk&more 
nationally in September 2009 we started 
2010/11 with over 250,000 registered 
customers. We spent the first half of 
the year improving systems so that we 
could provide an even better service to 
our customers. The enhancements also 
increased capacity and allowed us to 
understand how our customers were 
using milk&more. Weekly turnover reached 
£800k by September 2010.
 The growth encouraged us to 
advertise on national television in February 
and March 2011 which led to more 
new customers signing up and using 
milk&more. In March 2011 we moved 
through the £1 million weekly sales barrier. 
Completely new customers spend more 
with us, in particular on products other 
than milk. In the last four weeks these 
customers’ weekly spend has averaged 
over £10, compared to around £5 for our 
milk&more was advertised on television in 
February 2011 to recruit new customers. It was 
the first national television advert for doorstep 
milk in twenty years.
26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Business review | Dairies continued
1.2 million  
  residential doorstep  
  delivery customers
£1 million 
weekly milk&more sales Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 27
Business	 review spotlight on dairy farming. 
 At Dairy Crest we are proud of our 
diverse range of farms and the standards 
they have achieved. We buy milk from a 
broad range of farm types – small and 
large, tenants and owners, family and farm 
manager operators. Our farmers are treated 
as individuals and given the freedom to 
farm in the way that is most suitable to their 
geographic area, type of land, business 
aspirations and infrastructure. Our focus is 
on the level of stockmanship and expertise 
to deliver high standards of animal health 
and welfare and therefore milk quality.
 Our milk contracts are designed to 
ensure that every individual dairy farmer 
who supplies his milk to us knows in 
Around 75% of this milk comes from dairy 
farms contracted to supply their milk 
direct to Dairy Crest. Our 1,300 supplying 
dairy farms are located throughout 
central and southern England and South 
Wales and encompass a diverse range of 
farm sizes and farming systems. All our 
supplying farms adhere to Red Tractor 
farm assurance and Dairy Crest quality 
standards. 
 We work in partnership with our 
farmers to achieve a sustainable milk 
supply for our business. 
 In addition to our core activity of 
buying milk, we have identified a number 
of opportunities to add value and deliver 
mutual benefit. 
On-farm	 costs	 increase	 and	 milk	
production	 grows
During 2010/11 our farmers have faced 
severe farm cost inflation as animal feed 
costs have risen to record levels and other 
on-farm costs have risen. We have reacted 
by increasing the price we pay them for their 
milk. We are committed to supporting our 
suppliers and to sharing returns from the 
market as and when they are achieved.
 Nationally milk production increased by 
around 4%, a welcoming reversal of recent 
years when milk production has fallen.
 Another welcome trend has been 
consumers’ growing interest in how their 
food is produced which has led to an 
increasing media focus on agriculture, with a 
Business review continued
Using innovative ideas 
to provide a sustainable 
supply of milk.
The Milk Procurement team 
within Dairy Crest is responsible 
for sourcing over 2. 1 billion litres 
of milk required by the business 
on an annual basis.
Milk Procurement
Liquid contracts
Liquid contracts – 
Dairy Crest branded
Liquid contracts – 
major retailers
Cheese contracts – 
Dairy Crest branded
Dairy Crest supply base
1.6
billion
litres of raw milk sourced 
direct from dairy farmers
(75% of total) the need to be the best at what we do by 
delivering greater efficiency and finding new 
opportunities for future benefit.
 We will further develop the Country 
Life farm package and particularly the 
new information system for our suppliers, 
Farm Connect, so we have a greater 
understanding of how our farmers farm.  
It will also help us respond quickly to 
industry and consumer enquiries. 
 We continue to work with DCD to 
review and improve our portfolio of supplier 
contracts to ensure they deliver a fair, 
competitive and innovative offer for both 
current and prospective farmers. 
 Finally, whilst working closely with 
our farm suppliers it is very evident that 
succession within the farming industry is a 
concern. For a sustainable and vibrant future 
we need to encourage the next generation so 
we can develop and retain talented, forward-
thinking people to work in the dairy industry.
 This is something Dairy Crest is actively 
involved in doing through our continued 
support of initiatives including the Royal 
Association of British Dairy Farmers/Dairy 
Crest Student Award, the Dairy Crest/NFU 
South West Scholarship fund and the MBA 
Agri Business scholarship.
 Dairy Crest greatly values the skill and 
expertise of our supplying farmers and the 
quality milk they produce. We are committed 
to developing successful, long-term 
relationships for a sustainable future for us all. 
advance what adds value for us and what 
he will get in return.
Innovation	 in	 2010/11
A number of improvements to our core 
contracts were introduced in July 2010. This 
was part of an on-going process to develop 
our portfolio of contracts to deliver greater 
flexibility and choice to our farmers.
 In line with our strategy to align all of our 
farmers to a Dairy Crest customer or brand 
we have increased the proportion of our 
suppliers on an aligned contract, and around 
80 of our supplying farms are now part of 
the Tesco Sustainable Dairy Group. 
 To provide a further opportunity for our 
suppliers to differentiate their contract we 
have developed a new Country Life farm 
package. This includes a new set of farm 
standards, which are in addition to the 
Red Tractor farm assurance scheme. The 
focus is on efficiency, sustainability and key 
consumer issues including animal welfare 
and the environment. Our aim is to continue 
to develop these standards so they reflect 
improved knowledge and innovation in dairy 
farming and the delivery of best practice.
 A further part of our new farm package 
has been our investment in an innovative 
computer system. This enables greater 
information sharing and improves the 
efficiency of our communication process. 
The system will also offer all farmers a 
detailed business review with their local 
Direct Supply Manager – evaluating their 
achievement of the available milk price from 
their contract and exploring their business 
opportunities with Dairy Crest.
 Agri Assist, the joint venture between 
Dairy Crest and DCD, our supplier 
organisation, celebrated its first anniversary 
in January and continues to focus on 
delivering efficiencies and revenue 
generating opportunities on farm. 
 Milk collection is a key element of the 
Milk Procurement function and we have 
taken a lead role in the development of 
the Dairy Transport Assurance Scheme. 
This new audit scheme is managed by 
Dairy UK and ensures the safety of food 
products during transport from farm to the 
processing site.
 We continue to work to improve 
the efficiency of our core operation and 
distribution network. We have introduced a 
new vehicle fleet into our ex-farm operation 
with all tankers achieving ‘environmental 
excellence’ through clean burn engines 
which has reduced emissions. The fleet 
is also equipped with additional safety 
features. Additionally we purchased 
contingency equipment for adverse weather.
Looking	 forward
A sustainable milk supply is crucial to 
Dairy Crest and we are actively seeking to 
increase the proportion of milk we buy from 
direct supply. To achieve this we recognise 
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 29
Business	 review 30 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Business review continued
30
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
We CARe
We act responsibly with a 
passion to do the right thing Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 31
environment Comment
Reduce CO 2 emissions by 30% by 2020 (from 2007 levels) 7% reduction since 2007
Reduce water usage by 20% by 2020 (from 2007 levels) 13% reduction since 2007
Zero waste to landfill by 2015 Total recycling rate up to 64% from 41%
Plastic milk bottles to be made from 30% recycled material  
by 2015
Aim for 15% rHDPe by 2012. Dairy industry slightly behind 
target due to supply chain issues
Introduce recyclable labels on own brand milk by 2012 as laid 
out in Courtauld 2
On track to be introduced in 2011/12
Marketplace
Grow our ‘lighter’ brands Volume of Clover Lighter and Country Life Lighter exceeds 12% 
and Cathedral City Lighter almost 16% of the brands’ volume
Grow 1% milk to save 100 tonnes of saturated fat from 
consumers’ diets
100 tonnes of saturated fat saved
Sign up top 10 suppliers to our ethical supply policy 37 suppliers have signed up
Community
Raise £500,000 for our charity partner Over £900,00 raised – used to support over 2,500 people
Raise awareness of the services provided by Macmillan 
cancer care
Information delivered to 1.3 million homes and achieved  
a 95% staff awareness
Our local community committees are engaged with our 
community programme and are supporting good causes
Almost 100 local good causes supported across Dairy Crest 
through donations and volunteering
Workplace
Increase safety of our employees employee reportable incidents reduced by 16% – 3% better 
than target. Days lost reduced by 40% and reported near 
misses, allowing for corrective action, were up 99%
Contractors sign up to our safer contract scheme 317 contractors signed up as part of the safer contractor 
scheme
Corporate Responsibility
Business review
As a responsible business we are committed to fully integrating 
corporate responsibility into our business strategy.
 To ensure we are able to continuously improve our performance 
this year we participated in Business in the Community’s index and 
following a rigorous assessment we were awarded 87%, which is 
at the higher end of their silver band. This is an encouraging result 
for us as we continue to try to do the right thing from both a moral 
point of view and from a commercial point of view. 
Community
Our staff charity – Macmillan
With one in three people in the UK likely to 
get cancer at some point in their lives it’s 
an issue that affects directly and indirectly 
many of our customers and staff. For 
this reason and given that many of our 
customers live alone or in isolated, rural 
locations where they are not fully aware 
of the advice and financial support that 
could be available to them, our staff chose 
Macmillan cancer support to be our charity 
partnership for 2009 to 2011.
 Over the course of the partnership our 
staff raised over £900,000 for the charity, 
which was used to provide support to 
about 2,500 people and with the help 
of our milkmen we delivered information 
about cancer to 1.3 million households 
across the UK.
 Our chosen charity for the next two 
years is the British Heart Foundation. We 
make some of the nation’s favourite ‘lighter’ 
dairy products including Cathedral City 
Mature Lighter and we are looking forward 
to working in partnership with the UK’s 
biggest heart charity.
Prince’s Countryside Fund
As a business that’s proud of its links 
to the countryside we are delighted to 
support the Prince’s Countryside Fund.  
The Fund, which is chaired by Mark Allen, 
87 %
Business in  
the Community’s  
index award 32 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
sees us work alongside 15 other prominent 
UK businesses to provide grants to 
projects that help British farms and rural 
communities. One of the charities we have 
chosen to support both through the fund 
and independently is “Pub is the Hub” 
which helps pubs offer rural communities 
additional services like a shop, internet 
café or citizens advice bureau.
Our community programme – 
keeping it local
Over the course of the year our community 
committees have helped our local 
community programme go from strength-
to-strength and through their efforts we 
have supported about 100 community 
projects ranging from school gardening 
projects through to after school clubs 
and projects that help clear polluted or 
overgrown public spaces. 
 Other community projects we have 
supported include working with Greater 
Manchester police to help them reduce 
crime in the Salford area and a music 
project, TUPUP which teaches children 
to learn a musical instrument – in this 
instance a homemade ukulele made from 
an Utterly Butterly tub. 
Workplace
Safety
Our health and safety objective is very 
simple: we want everyone who works for 
us, and with us, to go home to his  
or her family at the end of their working 
day without any injury or occupational  
ill health. 
 To ensure we achieve this objective we 
have in place a number of initiatives that 
go beyond what is required by law and 
we focus on areas that are of particular 
relevance to our business.
 Our key focus remains on maintaining 
excellent compliance standards and 
improving our safety culture through 
a comprehensive behavioural safety 
programme. We have now established 
annual health and safety audits for our 
sites and using an independent third 
party, and our internal Customer Direct 
Division, audits at every depot are now 
unannounced. Our behavioural safety 
programme in Foods and Dairies is now 
focusing on employees taking personal 
responsability for accident prevention. 
Customer Direct has established 
behavioural safety champions in each 
of its 10 areas and they are focusing on 
behavioural improvement at the depot 
level. 
 As driving on public roads is 
undoubtedly dangerous we are 
pleased to say that in Customer Direct 
1,120 colleagues have completed the 
NVQ Carrying and Delivering Goods 
programme. This practical programme 
has helped staff improve their driving 
skills and has taught them how to avoid 
injuries and accidents. 
 We are also delighted that CPC 
training for our LGV drivers is now being 
delivered in-house for all divisions, by our 
internal IDAS team. By having accredited 
training centres it means we can be 
more flexible when it comes to delivering 
the training and we can spend longer 
focusing on issues that are more pertinent 
to Dairy Crest.
Over the course of the year we launched  
a ‘manual handling campaign’ and a  
‘slips, trips and falls campaign’, both of 
which are the main causes of accidents  
in Dairy Crest.
 In September 2010 we set up an 
online health and safety learning induction 
programme which means that all staff can 
access health and safety training both at 
home and at work – a significant benefit 
for staff who are not office based.
 To further engage our shop floor staff 
we ran three successful health and safety 
conferences to help them understand our 
objectives and get their ideas on how we 
can continuously improve. 
 Finally, requirement for our contractors 
to be accredited under the leading UK ‘safe 
contractor scheme’ is now well established, 
with over 300 contractors now signed up.
Wellbeing in the workplace
As part of the three year occupational 
health strategy, which we launched last 
year, we have been giving all our staff 
aged over 40 the opportunity to benefit 
from a medical check up by our team of 
occupational health advisers, which we 
call ‘MOT’s’. We have completed almost 
1,000 MOT’s to date and from 2011/12 
these will be offered to all of our staff 
regardless of their age. Our occupational 
health team was a key part of the health 
and safety stand at the Dairy Crest road 
shows in 2010 and the medical check 
ups were a very popular aspect. each 
check up included a cholesterol and 
blood pressure assessment and a body 
mass index measurement. We have also 
completed a number of health promotion 
campaigns including musculoskeletal 
matters, relaxation techniques and 
information about heart disease. We are 
now in the process of sharing good health 
and well being practice with other major 
food companies as part of the Business in 
the Community’s Workwell Programme.
Environment
Climate change is one of the biggest 
challenges we face both individually 
and collectively. At Dairy Crest we take 
this responsibility seriously and we are 
committed to playing our full part in 
reducing the amount of greenhouse 
gases emitted during the manufacturing 
and distribution of our products and by 
supporting our suppliers, including our 
farming suppliers, they can reduce their 
carbon emissions.
 Our greatest achievement this year 
has been the building of biomass boilers 
at our creamery in Davidstow. As the 
largest biomass boilers in existence in 
the UK outside of a power station, the 
new boilers will reduce the company’s 
carbon footprint by 12% or 17,000 tonnes. 
So that we continuously improve we 
are also investigating using geothermal 
energy at the same creamery and we 
are considering the possibility of using 
photovoltaic panels and Combined Heat 
and Power at some of our more suitable 
sites. Our overall target is to reduce our 
manufacturing CO
2 emissions by a further 
30% against 2007 levels by 2020 – which 
builds on the 34% CO
2 reduction we made 
between 2003 and 2009.
 As well as investing in ‘green’ energy 
we have also invested in technology that 
Business review | CR continued
British Heart 
Foundation, 
our new 
chosen 
charity for  
the next two years
1 , 120
  colleagues 
have  
completed  
the NVQ  
Carrying  
and Delivering  
Goods programme Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 33
bottles are made from PeT plastic, which is 
easier to recycle and our aim is to use 15% 
recycled material in the manufacturing of 
our plastic milk bottles in 2012 – building on 
the 10% that is already used. 
 We have re-committed to the 
next phase of WRAP’s (Waste and 
Resources Action Programme) Courtauld 
Commitment, which incorporates targets 
about reducing packaging impact, supply 
chain waste and household food waste 
and as part of that commitment all the 
labels we use for our own brand milk will 
be made from recyclable plastic.
 Finally, we are pleased to report that 
we have reduced the amount of milk lost 
as a consequence of our processing 
activities and in 2010/11 we achieved a 
year-on-year improvement of 3%. This 
performance reverses the slight increase 
in milk lost last year and it returns us to 
the downward trend of milk lost during 
processing – which has since 2002/3 
reduced by 40%. 
Marketplace
We are committed to providing consumers 
with healthy, enjoyable products, for 
us to do business in the most ethically 
responsible way possible and for us to 
ensure that the products we manufacture 
are made to the highest food safety 
standards as possible. 
Small steps big difference
Since their launch the lighter variants of 
our brands namely Cathedral City Mature 
Lighter, Country Life Lighter and Clover 
Lighter have continued to grow. Cathedral 
City Mature Lighter now accounts for over 
12% of the brand’s volume, Clover Lighter 
accounts for almost 16% of the brand’s 
volume and Country Life Lighter accounts 
for over 12% of the brand’s volume.
In our dairies division the launch of 1% milk 
has helped save consumers the equivalent 
of 100 tonnes of fat from their diet and in 
2010 the launch of our Weight-Watchers
®
 
branded cream, which has 70% less 
saturated fat than regular double cream, has 
meant that consumers can still enjoy the 
taste of real cream with less saturated fat. 
Since the launch of our every day products 
we have saved consumers 8,500 tonnes of 
saturated fat from their diet.
 As well as investing in the development 
of lower fat variants of our more popular 
brands we have also invested in creating 
products that can be consumed by people 
with allergies for example our colleagues at 
Fayrefied Foodtec created award winning 
gluten free muffins and St Hubert, our 
French spread’s business, works closely 
with independent nutritional institutions.
Supporting British farming
As a company that’s committed to a 
sustainable future for British farmers and 
the British dairy industry, we are proud 
of the fact that in the UK we only source 
milk from British farms and we offer our 
supplying farmers a fair and competitive 
milk price.
 All Dairy Crest milk carries a Red 
Tractor logo, which means all of our milk 
has been produced to independently 
inspected standards right across the food 
chain – from farm to pack.
 We recognise that food safety is non-
negotiable and that the quality of our 
products underpins our success. 
As a leading food manufacturer we have 
a responsibility to ensure the food we 
produce is safe to eat and drink. We 
have implemented well-proven quality 
management procedures to ensure we 
manage and control the safety and  
quality of our products throughout the 
supply chain.
 Understanding consumer feedback is 
key to improving the quality and desirability 
of our products especially as there is 
a growing demand from consumers to 
know more about nutrition and healthy 
eating and environmental matters such as 
packaging and recycling. 
 To meet this demand we have in place 
a freephone consumer care helpline and 
freepost address so consumers are able 
to contact us easily and without incurring 
cost. Our technical team monitors and 
reviews all positive and negative feedback 
from consumers, and uses this information 
to develop action plans to drive continuous 
improvement.
 In 2010 we introduced a bespoke 
ethical supply policy, which includes 
requirements for our suppliers to comply 
with bespoke and relevant standards that 
are above the statutory minimum. 
helps us become more energy efficient 
including purchasing 150 eco start 
Mercedes Sprinter vans for our Customer 
Direct division and we have fitted our 
trucks with telemetric systems – enabling 
us to reduce CO
2 emissions by more 
than 5,000 metric tonnes per year. All 
of this is in addition to our fleet of 1,500 
electric vehicles.
Natural resources
Our business is proud of its links with the 
countryside and our dairy heritage and 
we are passionate about doing what we 
can to help protect natural resources, 
especially by reducing the amount of water 
we use and looking after the biodiversity of 
the areas where we operate – of particular 
note is the work we are doing with many 
of our farmers and retailers.
 Further to signing up to the Federation 
House Commitment to reduce our water 
usage by 20% by 2020, which we are 
on course to achieve, we have so far 
reduced water usage by 13% since 2007. 
In 2010 we have also pledged to review 
our current water usage and to create 
site-specific water efficiency plans by the 
end of this financial year. All this is part of 
a campaign developed by the Food and 
Drink Federation and environwise. 
Waste
We are committed to reducing waste which 
arises throughout our supply chain. To 
emphasise this commitment we set our 
manufacturing sites the ambitious target  
of having zero waste to landfill by 2015 
(except where environmentally advantageous). 
We are currently on course to meet this, 
already achieving an 80% recycling rate  
across our manufacturing sites up from  
a recycling rate of 48% in 2009.
 As part of our drive to reduce the 
amount of packaging we use for the 
products we manufacture we have 
continued to invest in new packaging 
techniques including milk bags and JUGIT 
which use 75% less plastic to manufacture 
than a standard plastic bottle. Our FRijj 
Business review
12%
  reduction in  
carbon  
footprint  
following  
installation  
of new biomass boilers
8,500
tonnes
saturated fat  
saved from  
consumers’  
diets since  
the launch  
of our lighter products 34 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
550
2.0
2.2
2.4
2.6
2.8
3.0
3.2
2.0
2.2
2.4
2.6
2.8
3.0
3.2
07 08 09 10 11
07 08 09 10
Mar 
07
451 459 475 491 416 380 337 335 312
Sep
07
Mar 
08
Sep 
08
Mar 
09
Sep 
09
Mar 
10
Sep
10
Mar 
11
11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11
1,309.3
1,569.7
1,647.6
1,629.7
1604.5
Operating 
cash flow***
(£m)
Revenue
(£m)
16.2
17.3
13.0
13.6
07 08 09 10 11
Adjusted earnings
per share**  
(pence)
41.2
51.7
45.0
44.5
47.1
07 08 09 10 11
Segment profit* 
(£m)
80.0
104.5
101.7
105.8
108.4
57.9
74.4
79.8
119.0
78.8
131
122
116
115
85
14.2
Net debt
Net debt (£m – left scale)
Net debt / EBITDA (multiples – right scale)
Final dividend 
per share (pence)
Gearing
(%)
* 
Before exceptional items 
and amortisation of 
acquired intangibles; 
excluding joint ventures
**
 Before exceptional items, 
amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and pension 
interest charges / income
 *** 
Cash generated from 
operations less capital 
expenditure
Financial review
Segment revenue 2011 2010 Change Change
£m £m £m %
Cheese 223.1 260.0 (36.9)  (14.2)
Spreads 285.5 277.7 7.8 2.8
Dairies 1,089.8 1,081.2 8.6 0.8
Other 6.1 10.8 (4.7) (43.5)
Total segment revenue 1,604.5 1,629.7 (25.2) (1.5)
Segment operating profit 2011 2010 Change Change
£m £m £m %
Cheese 28.0 16.9 11.1 65.7
Spreads 53.3 54.0 (0.7) (1.3)
Dairies 27.1 34.9 (7.8) (22.3)
Share of associates   
and joint ventures (0.2) 0.1 (0.3) n/a
Total segment profit 108.2 105.9 2.3 2.2
Remove share of 
associates and  
joint ventures 0.2 (0.1) 0.3 n/a
Acquired intangible 
amortisation (8.7) (9.2) 0.5 5.4
Group profit on operations 
(pre-exceptionals) 99.7 96.6 3.1 3.2
Overview
The Group has made further progress this year. 
We have delivered increased pre-exceptional 
profits, strengthened our key brands and once 
again reduced net debt. Furthermore, we have 
made good progress with milk&more, our internet 
delivery proposition, and secured fresh milk 
supply agreements for the medium term with key 
retailers. We continue to invest in innovation, focus 
on cost reduction and drive our key brands in 
order to underpin future profitability.
Group revenue decreased by 1.5% to £1,604.5 million. Cheese 
revenue was impacted by the sale of 50% of the share capital 
of Wexford Creamery Limited in June 2010, from which point its 
results were no longer consolidated into the Group. We achieved 
7% growth in our key brands and robust retail milk volumes and 
ingredients realisations offset reduced volumes in our Customer 
Direct business. Other revenue represents third party distribution 
undertaken by our national distribution centre in Nuneaton.
Segment operating profit is quoted before the impact of exceptional 
items and amortisation of acquired intangibles and includes our 
share of associates’ and joint ventures’ profit after tax. On this 
basis, total segment profit was up £2.3 million or 2.2%. 
 
Our cheese business has performed well in the year reflecting the 
strength of our Cathedral City brand and the benefit of improved 
whey realisations. Prior year Cheese profits were adversely 
impacted by milk price increases during 2008/09 that resulted in a 
higher cost of sales in 2009/10.
 
Our Spreads profits have declined only marginally despite strong 
inflation in key cost inputs, namely vegetable oils and cream. The 
reported result also incorporates a negative translation impact of 
approximately £1 million on the results of the St Hubert business.
 
Dairies profitability has been impacted by an increasingly tough 
trading environment and reduced property profits compared 
to 2009/10. However, we continue to improve supply chain 
efficiencies, make progress with milk&more and have secured 
extended agreements with key major retailers.
 
Reported pre-exceptional Group profit on operations increased 
by 3.2% to £99.7 million. We have benefited from being a broadly 
based dairy business and a strong recovery in Cheese profits has 
offset lower margins in our Dairies segment.
Business review continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 35
Exceptional items
Two exceptional items have been recorded in the year.
In June 2010 we sold 50% of the share capital of Wexford 
Creamery Limited reducing our holding to 30%. A profit on 
disposal of £1.9 million has been recorded as exceptional. The 
assets of this business had previously been impaired at 31 March 
2010 to reflect their fair value less costs to sell. 
We have commenced a major restructuring of depot 
administration activities in our Customer Direct business. This 
restructure will deliver more streamlined and centralised back 
office support functions and generate significant cost savings. 
exceptional costs in the year amount to £3.0 million of which 
the majority comprises redundancy costs. We expect to incur a 
further £4 million in 2011/12. 
Interest
Finance charges have decreased by £1.8 million (8%) to £20.6 
million principally as a result of reduced levels of borrowings. At 31 
March 2011, all borrowings were at fixed rates of interest through 
fixed coupon loan notes or interest rate swaps. During the year, 
short term borrowing requirements were met by utilisation of the 
November 2006 and July 2008 revolving credit facilities which are 
at floating rates of interest based on LIBOR plus margin. 
Other finance expense comprises the net expected return on 
pension scheme assets after deducting the interest cost of the 
defined benefit obligation. This resulted in no net cost in the year 
ended 31 March 2011 (2010: cost of £0.5 million). This amount can 
be highly volatile year on year as it comprises the net of expected 
returns and interest costs, both of which are dependent upon 
financial market conditions at 31 March each year. We therefore 
exclude this item from headline adjusted profit before tax.
Interest cover excluding pension interest, calculated on total 
segment profit, remains comfortable, at 5.3 times (2010: 4.7 
times).
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax rate on profits excluding exceptional 
items and including associate’s tax was 27.9% (2010: 28.3%). 
The small decrease in effective rate of tax compared to last year 
is primarily due to a lower tax rate being applied to deferred 
tax balances. The rate applied to deferred tax balances of 26% 
reflects the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate effective from 
April 2011. This change was enacted before 31 March 2011. The 
rate applied at 31 March 2010 was 28%. 
Group profit for the year
Reported Group profit for the year increased by £5.0 million to 
£57.5 million (2010: £52.5 million). 
Earnings per share
The Group’s adjusted basic earnings per share increased by 6% 
to 47.1 pence per share (2010: 44.5 pence per share). This reflects 
both the increase in adjusted profit before tax and a slightly lower 
effective tax rate for the year. 
Basic earnings per share, which includes the impact of exceptional 
items, pension interest expense and the amortisation of acquired 
intangibles, increased by 6% to 43.2 pence per share (2010: 40.6 
pence per share). 
Dividends 
The proposed final dividend of 14.2 pence per share represents 
an increase of 4% on last year’s final dividend of 13.6 pence. 
Together with the interim dividend of 5.5 pence per share this 
gives a total dividend of 19.7 pence per share for the full year. 
This represents an increase of 4% on the dividend declared for 
2009/10. The final dividend will be paid on 4 August 2011 to 
shareholders on the register on 24 June 2011.
Pensions
On 1 April 2010, our defined benefit scheme closed to future 
service accrual and active members were invited to join our 
stakeholder pension scheme. This closure significantly reduces 
future funding risks. The full actuarial valuation for March 2010 
resulted in a deficit of £137 million compared to the reported 
IAS 19 deficit of £142.4 million at that date. The final schedule 
of contributions have not yet been formally signed off, however, 
we expect no change to the existing level of cash funding of £20 
million per annum.
The reported IAS 19 pension deficit at 31 March 2011 was £60.1 
million compared to £142.4 million at 31 March 2010 and £137.2 
million at 30 September 2010. This significant improvement is 
a result of strong asset returns over the year, the payment of 
£20 million funding contributions and reduced pension liabilities. 
The increase in liabilities resulting from the use of more prudent 
mortality assumptions, which were reviewed as part of the full 
actuarial valuation, has been more than offset by a reduced 
inflation assumption for deferred members where CPI rather 
than RPI is now assumed following changes to the calculation of 
statutory increases announced by the Government. The actuarial 
gain reported in other comprehensive income for the year is £60.6 
million (2010: £117.7 million loss). 
Business review
Profit before tax 2011 2010 Change Change
£m £m £m %
Total segment profit 108.2 105.9 2.3  2.2  
Finance costs (20.6) (22.4) 1.8 8.0
Adjusted profit before tax 87.6 83.5 4.1 4.9
Amortisation of acquired 
intangibles (8.7) (9.2) 0.5 5.4
Exceptional items (1.1) 4.0 (5.1) n/a
Other finance expense 
- pensions – (0.5) 0.5 n/a
Reported profit before tax 77.8 77.8 – –
The Group’s adjusted profit before tax (before exceptional items 
and amortisation of acquired intangibles) was £87.6 million (2010: 
£83.5 million), representing a 5% increase. This is management’s 
key Group profit measure. Reported profit before tax was 
unchanged at £77.8 million due to exceptional items in 2009/10 
contributing £4.0 million income versus a £1.1 million cost in 
2010/11. 36 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Treasury policies
The Group operates a centralised treasury function, which 
controls cash management and borrowings and the Group’s 
financial risks. The main treasury risks faced by the Group are 
liquidity, interest rates and foreign currency. The Group uses 
derivatives only to manage its foreign currency and interest rate 
risks arising from underlying business and financing activities. 
Transactions of a speculative nature are prohibited. The Group’s 
treasury activities are governed by policies approved and 
monitored by the Board. These policies are summarised in Note 
31 to the financial statements.
Net Assets
The Group’s balance sheet has strengthened with net assets of 
£365.5 million (2010: £292.8 million). Goodwill, intangible assets 
and property, plant and equipment total £799.6 million (2010: 
£794.4 million). Inventories of £164.5 million are £10.8 million 
higher than prior year reflecting increases in maturing cheese 
stocks and the impact of cost inflation on raw materials and 
consumables. 
Going concern
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern 
basis as the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate 
financial resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable 
future. In making this statement, the Group’s Directors have: 
reviewed the Group budget, strategic plans and available facilities; 
have made such other enquiries as they considered appropriate; 
and have taken into account ‘Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: 
Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009’ published by the 
Financial Reporting Council in October 2009. Further information 
is presented in the Directors’ Report on page 45.
Alastair Murray Finance Director
18 May 2011
Cash flow
We continue to focus on cash and have reduced net debt again in 
the year ended 31 March 2011. Cash generated from operations 
was £128.1 million in the year (2010: £145.9 million). This includes 
a working capital inflow of £11.7 million (2010: £25.7 million). 
Cheese stock levels increased during the year and will continue to 
do so in 2011/12 as the increases in milk costs seen over the last 
12 months feed into stock valuation. However, the impact of this 
was offset in 2010/11 by a strong focus on debtor levels (despite 
absolute rises resulting from price increases) and increased 
creditors. The working capital position at 31 March 2011 was 
approximately £10 million better than anticipated as a result of 
some early receipts from certain customers.
Capital expenditure of £49.3 million was £22.4 million higher 
than last year (2010: £26.9 million). As announced last year, 
significant investment has commenced across our milk processing 
infrastructure and we expect this to continue for the next two 
years. Furthermore we have invested in the milk&more website 
and supported the depot administration project in Customer 
Direct. Cash receipts from the disposal of fixed assets amounted 
to £2.5 million (2010: £10.2 million).
Cash interest and tax payments amounted to £19.8 million and 
£16.1 million respectively (2010: £22.1 million and £10.5 million). 
Interest payments are £2.3 million lower than last year consistent 
with the lower interest cost in the profit and loss account. Tax 
payments increased in the year mainly reflecting the timing of UK 
and French payments on account.
Cash inflows from the sale of businesses of £4.0 million comprise 
proceeds from the sale of the Group’s controlling interest in 
Wexford Creamery Limited less fees and cash in the business 
disposed. In 2009/10 we received net £1.2 million in relation to the 
sale of the Yoplait Dairy Crest joint venture. 
Net debt
Net debt decreased by £25.6 million to £311.6 million at the end 
of the year despite increased capital expenditure in the year. Net 
debt is defined such that, where cross currency swaps are used 
as cash flow hedges to fix the interest and principal payments on 
currency debt, the swapped Sterling liability is included rather than 
the retranslated foreign currency debt. At 31 March 2011, gearing 
(being the ratio of net debt to shareholders’ funds) was 85% (2010: 
115%).
Borrowing Facilities
Group borrowing facilities comprise £298.2 million of loan notes 
maturing between April 2013 and April 2017, a £100 million multi-
currency revolving credit facility expiring in November 2011 and a 
£85 million plus €175 million multi-currency revolving credit facility 
expiring in July 2013. At 31 March 2011 there was £324.3 million 
effective headroom against committed facilities (2010: £295.1 
million). 
Borrowing facilities are subject to covenants which specify a 
maximum ratio of net debt to eBITDA of 3.5 times and a minimum 
interest cover ratio of 3.0 times. The Group remains comfortably 
within its covenants with a net debt to eBITDA ratio at 31 March 
2011 of 2.2 times (March 2010: 2.4 times).
Business review | Financial review continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 37
  Governance
  38 Directors’ remuneration report
 45  Directors’ report
 48 Corporate governance
 54  Statement of directors’  
responsibilities
  Financial statements
 55  Consolidated income statement
 55  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
 56  Consolidated and Parent  
Company balance sheets
 57  Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
 58  Parent Company statement of 
changes in equity
 59  Consolidated and Parent 
Company statement of cash flows
 60 Accounting policies
 66  Notes to the financial statements
 110 Independent auditors’ report
 111 Group financial history
 112 Shareholders’ information
The numbers Governance Composition of the Remuneration Committee
The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee of Non-
executive Directors of the Company. Howard Mann has chaired 
the Committee since 20 July 2010 when Neil Monnery stood down 
from the Board. The other members of the Committee are Andrew 
Carr-Locke and Stephen Alexander. Carole Piwnica was a member 
of the Committee until 9 December 2010.
Anthony Fry attends by invitation and Richard Macdonald attended 
in March 2011 by invitation. Members of the Remuneration 
Committee have no potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-
directorships and they are not involved in the day-to-day running of 
the Company. The Committee also received materials, assistance 
and advice on remuneration policy from the Group’s Human 
Resources Director, Rob Tansey. The Remuneration Committee has 
appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) to provide advice 
on executive remuneration. During the year, PwC also provided 
other valuation and consultancy services to the Group. The Chief 
Executive attends all meetings and provides advice on matters 
other than those concerning himself.
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the broad policy 
with respect to senior executives’ salary and other remuneration. 
It specifically determines, within remuneration principles agreed 
with the Board, the total remuneration package of each Executive 
Director and reviews with the Chief Executive the remuneration 
packages for other senior executives. A copy of the terms of 
reference of the Committee can be found on the Company’s 
website. 
The Committee met three times during 2010/11. Details of 
attendance are shown in the table on page 11.
Key developments
2010/11
In 2010/11, the Group delivered a strong performance despite 
the challenging economic environment. Adjusted profit before 
tax increased by 5% to £87.6 million (2009/10: £83.5 million) 
and cash generation was strong with net debt reducing by £25.6 
million from £337.2 million at 31 March 2010 to £311.6 million at 
31 March 2011. Payment of annual bonus is subject to achieving 
demanding short-term financial targets and personal objectives. 
The stretch financial targets (encompassing adjusted profit before 
tax and net cash generation) were partly met in the year (47% of 
maximum payout for these elements) and Executive Directors met 
many personal objectives. This has resulted in bonus payments for 
2010/11 for Executive Directors and all employees who participate 
in the bonus scheme. 
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Share Plan (‘LTISP’) (2008) 
had a three year vesting period to March 2011. 50% of the total 
award was based on the Group’s economic profit (‘EP’) and 
50% was measured against the total shareholder return (‘TSR’) 
performance of a comparator group of companies. The Company 
did not achieve the minimum EP target threshold of £123.4 
million due principally to reduced profitability in 2008/09 versus 
expectations in July 2008. Nor did the Group meet the TSR target 
threshold and therefore none of the awards will be released and all 
July 2008 share options have lapsed at 31 March 2011. 
2011/12
2011/12 is expected to be another challenging year in light of the 
current economic environment. Our focus will continue to be on 
investment in brands and innovation, reductions in our cost base 
and improving the quality of earnings.
The Committee intends to undertake a full review of the incentive 
arrangements during 2011 to ensure that they continue to meet 
the Company’s objectives in the longer term. Shareholders will be 
consulted in advance of any new arrangements being adopted in 
2012. In the light of this, no significant changes are proposed for 
2011/12, however, the Committee has made a minor adjustment 
to the adjusted earnings per share (‘EPS’) performance condition 
for 2011 LTISP awards, to ensure that the plan remains a suitable 
incentive over its cycle. 
Key changes for 2011/12 are as follows:
•  In respect of long-term performance, the achievement of the 
Company’s earnings objectives remains a key priority. The 
Committee has therefore decided to maintain the EPS criteria 
for the 2011 LTISP awards. The Committee believes that EPS 
provides transparency for shareholders and participants as 
well as a strong line of sight to focus participants on achieving 
the Company’s earnings objectives. LTISP awards for the 
2011 - 2013 cycle will be based on a balance of growth in EPS 
(40%) and relative TSR (60%) which is unchanged from 2010. 
However, the EPS element will start to vest at RPI plus 1% 
per annum (30% of the EPS part of the award) with maximum 
vesting at RPI plus 5% per annum. Previously, the EPS target 
has vested at RPI plus 3% per annum (30%) with maximum 
vesting at RPI plus 8% per annum. In setting the targets, the 
Committee considered the published market expectations in 
the sector within which the Group operates and the ability to 
generate earnings in excess of RPI, especially in light of the 
current economic conditions and high levels of inflation. The 
Committee believes that the targets are suitably stretching in 
the current environment.
Base salary increases for the Executive Directors will be below 
inflation and in line with increases across all employees in the 
Group. 
Furthermore, Directors are encouraged to build a shareholding in 
the Company equivalent to one year’s salary and to this end would 
normally retain 50% of net proceeds from share plans and bonus 
share awards until that shareholding is achieved.
Summary of remuneration policy for 2011
We ensure that remuneration packages contribute to the delivery 
of long-term shareholder value. This is reflected in the Company’s 
annual bonus scheme and LTISP awards which are explained in 
more detail below.
The remuneration structure and underlying principles on which 
the package is based, reflecting changes for 2010/11 are shown 
below. 
 
38 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Directors’ remuneration report Governance
Objective Basis of delivery
Base 
salary
To reflect assessment of market 
practice based on role and 
experience. Salary increases 
are linked to performance 
as measured in annual 
performance review
Benchmarked against 
executives with similar 
responsibilities in companies of 
comparable size and complexity
Pension To provide a market competitive 
level of provision with good 
flexibility whilst minimising risk 
to the Group
No further service accrual under 
final salary pension scheme 
from 1 April 2010 – alternatives 
are the defined contribution 
scheme or cash alternative
Bonus To ensure that annual reward 
is consistent with successfully 
achieving the short-term 
strategic objectives of the Group 
Balance of demanding, relevant 
short-term financial targets 
(profit and cash) and personal 
objectives 
Deferred 
bonus
To ensure appropriate balance 
maintained between long-
term and short-term reward 
and to build up Directors’ 
shareholdings in line with policy
Bonus over 50% of annual 
salary deferred for three 
years and issued in shares 
– conditional on employment 
until vesting date
LTISP To encourage continuing 
improvement in Group’s 
performance over the longer 
term. Alignment of interest 
between participant and 
shareholders
Three year performance period.
60% subject to relative TSR 
conditions. 40% subject to EPS 
growth targets
Make up of remuneration
A significant proportion of a Director’s total remuneration package 
is variable, being subject to the achievement of specified short-
term and long-term business objectives. In applying this policy the 
Committee has taken account of the provisions of Schedule A of the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (June 2008).
In the chart below we show the make up of remuneration given on-
target performance. It can be seen that the fixed elements of pay 
represent around half of the maximum. 
•  Base salary is taken as amount paid in the year excluding any 
salary supplements in relation to pensions;
• Benefits are taken as the taxable benefit provided in the year;
•  Pension is taken as (i) as the value of one year’s pension, i.e. 
transfer value of the pension accrued in the year for defined 
benefit schemes or (ii) the amount of Company contributions 
for defined contribution schemes. It also includes any 
cash supplements resulting from contribution caps or non-
membership of any Company scheme;
•  Bonus is taken as the amount that would have accrued for the 
year ended 31 March 2011 for on-target performance; and
•  LTISP awards are based on the fair value in a manner 
consistent with IFRS2.
Components of remuneration
• Base salary
Salary levels for Executive Directors are reviewed annually based 
on an independent assessment of market practice. They are set 
to reflect the pay levels of executives with similar responsibilities in 
companies of comparable size and complexity. Salary increases in 
2011 will be below inflation and in line with the wider business.
• Bonus
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for all Executive Directors 
is 100% of annual salary. Payment of the bonus is subject to 
the achievement of demanding short-term financial targets and 
personal objectives. Financial targets comprise 75% of the bonus 
and personal objectives 25%. From 2008/09, 40% of the bonus 
in relation to financial targets has been payable for on-target 
performance. 
To ensure that an appropriate balance is maintained between long-
term and short-term reward, any bonus earned over 50% of annual 
salary is paid in the Company’s shares and deferred for a three year 
period subject to continued employment.
• Long Term Incentive Share Plan 
LTISP is designed to encourage continuing improvement in the 
Group’s performance over the longer term. An LTISP award is 
payable in shares, rather than cash, to emphasise the alignment 
of interests between the participants and the Company’s 
shareholders. The LTISP has a three-year performance cycle and 
pre-determined performance conditions, which must be met before 
awards under the LTISP can be exercised. Awards under the LTISP 
are granted annually. 
For the 2009, 2010 and 2011 awards under the LTISP:
•  40% of the total award is based on EPS growth; and
•  60% of the total is measured on TSR performance against the 
FTSE 250 (excluding financial service companies, real estate 
companies and investment trusts).
Performance against both EPS and TSR is measured over a three 
year period.
The targets for the 2011 awards will be as follows:
LTISP Award TSR element EPS element
Proportion Proportion
of total of total
LTISP award LTISP award
Performance achieved vesting EPS target vesting
Upper quartile 60% RPI + 5% 40%
Median 18% RPI + 1% 12%
Between median Pro rata Pro rata
and median plus 9% pa between
18% and 60%
between
12% and 40%
The targets for the 2009 and 2010 awards were as follows:
LTISP Award TSR element EPS element
Proportion Proportion
of total of total
LTISP award LTISP award
Performance achieved vesting EPS target vesting
Upper quartile 60% RPI + 8% 40%
Median 18% RPI + 3% 12%
Between median Pro rata Pro rata
and median plus 9% pa between
18% and 60%
between
12% and 40%
    
0
20
40
60
80
100
LTISP
Bonus
Pension
Benefits
Base salary
M Wilks A Murray M Allen
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 39 For the 2008 awards under the LTISP:
•  50% of the total award was based on the Group’s EP . EP is 
defined as net operating profit less a capital charge based on 
capital employed multiplied by the Group’s weighted average 
cost of capital; and
•  50% of the total is measured on TSR performance against a 
comparator group of food manufacturing companies.
Performance against both EP and TSR was measured over a three 
year period.
The targets for the 2008 awards were as follows:
LTISP Award TSR element EPS element
Proportion Proportion
of total of total
LTISP award LTISP award
Performance achieved vesting EPS target vesting
Median plus 9% pa 50% Maximum 50%
Median 15% Threshold of 15%
Between median Pro rata Pro rata
and median plus 9% pa between
15% and 50%
between
15% and 50%
The list of TSR comparators for 2008 LTISP awards was as follows:
Associated British Foods plc Premier Foods plc
Cranswick plc Robert Wiseman Dairies plc
Glanbia plc Tate & Lyle plc
Greencore Group plc Uniq plc
Kerry Limited Northern Foods plc
McBride plc
The value of shares awarded under the LTISP in any financial year 
is subject to limits determined by the Remuneration Committee 
from time to time. The current annual limit for awards is 150% of 
base salary and the maximum awards during the year were 100% 
of base salary. 
• Executive Share Option Scheme
The Dairy Crest Executive Share Option Scheme (‘ESOS’) was 
established on 30 July 1996 for Directors and certain senior 
management and expired in July 2006. A new ESOS was adopted 
at the AGM 2006 (‘ESOS 2006’). Part A is approved by the Inland 
Revenue and Part B is an unapproved scheme. Options are 
granted to participants at prices determined by the Remuneration 
Committee which may not be less than the market price of the 
shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official 
List at the time of grant. At 31 March 2011, there were 487,179 
outstanding options under this scheme which were awarded as 
part of the 2009 and 2010 LTISP (2010: 414,620 awarded as part 
of the 2009 LTISP).
• Sharesave Scheme 
The Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme was first established on 30 
July 1996 and there have been seven grant phases since that date. 
The life of the Sharesave Scheme was extended in August 2006 
to allow options to be granted until the twentieth anniversary of 
flotation, being August 2016. The Sharesave Scheme is open to all 
eligible employees and Executive Directors. Employees enter into an 
approved savings contract over a three-year term to make monthly 
contributions up to an overall maximum of £250 per month. At the 
end of the term, members have the right to buy ordinary shares in 
the Company at a price fixed at the time of the option grant. The 
price at which the options may be offered may not be less than 80% 
of the market price at the time of option grant.
A sharesave grant was made in June 2009 in which approximately 
2,100 employees participated. We intend to make a further grant in 
2011/12.
• Pension benefits
2009/10 
During 2009/10, all Executive Directors with the exception of 
Martyn Wilks were members of the Dairy Crest Group pension fund, 
which provided for a pension based upon an executive’s final basic 
salary. Bonuses were not pensionable. Benefits were restricted by a 
scheme earnings cap, which was calculated in a similar manner to 
the previous Inland Revenue pensions earnings cap. The following 
supplementary arrangements were in effect:
Mark Allen and Alastair Murray received a salary supplement 
of 20% of base salary above the earnings cap (£123,600 for 
2009/10), which was included in cash allowances. 
Martyn Wilks was not a member of a Company pension scheme. 
He received a salary supplement of 20% of base salary.
2010/11
At 1 April 2010, the Company closed its defined benefit scheme 
to future service accrual. As part of the transitional arrangements, 
employees whose notice periods were six months or greater 
received service accrual up to 6 November 2010 (being 12 months 
from the decision to close the scheme to future service accrual). 
This applied to Mark Allen and Alastair Murray. This service accrual 
was included in the analysis presented at 31 March 2010. On 
closure of the defined benefit scheme, all members were offered 
active early retirement terms. This allows members to draw their 
pension early while continuing to work for the Company as long 
as an election was made before 31 March 2010. Mark Allen made 
such an election and from 31 March 2010 received a pension of 
£33,227 per annum and a lump sum amount of £221,510. Alastair 
Murray made no election to draw early pension payments.
Martyn Wilks was not a member of a Company pension scheme in 
the year ended 31 March 2011. He received a salary supplement of 
20% of base salary from April 2010 to June 2010 and 23% of base 
salary from July 2010 to March 2011.
From March 2010 to June 2010, Mark Allen and Alastair Murray 
received a salary supplement of 20% of base salary above the 
earnings cap (£123,600 for 2010/11), which was included in cash 
allowances. From July 2010 to November 2010, they received a 
salary supplement of 23% of base salary above the earnings cap. 
From November 2010 to 31 March 2011, Mark Allen and Alastair 
Murray received a salary supplement of 23% of base salary. From 
1 April 2011 the Company has commenced contributions into the 
Dairy Crest defined contribution pension scheme for both Mark 
Allen and Alastair Murray. The Company will make contributions up 
to the £50,000 limit beyond which, Mark Allen and Alastair Murray 
will receive a cash supplement. Overall employer contributions and 
cash supplements will not exceed 23% of base salary.
• Beneﬁts in kind 
These include the taxable value of company car benefits, life assurance 
cover and Company contributions to medical insurance plans.
• Service contracts 
In accordance with best practice as set out in the Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance (June 2008), all Executive Directors have 
a notice period not exceeding one year. All such Directors’ service 
contracts provide explicitly for termination payments in the event of 
termination by the Company other than on grounds of incapacity or 
40 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Directors’ remuneration report continued Governance
in circumstances justifying summary termination. Payments on termination are calculated at 70–90% of the value of annual salary, benefits, 
pension and bonus for the notice period. In the case of Martyn Wilks and for future appointments, there is a mitigation clause in the service 
contract with respect to termination payments such that certain compensation payments are deferred. A summary of the service agreements 
of the Executive Directors is available on the Company’s website.
Details of the Directors offering themselves for election and re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting are set out in the 
Directors’ Report on page 46.
Remuneration of the Chairman and of Non-executive Directors
The remuneration of the Non-executive Chairman is determined by the Board following a recommendation by the Chief Executive and the 
Remuneration Committee in consultation with PwC. The remuneration of Non-executive Directors is determined by the Board, also in consultation 
with PwC. The total fees for Non-executive Directors remain within the limit of £600,000 set out in the Company’s articles of association. There 
are no pre-determined special provisions for Non-executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office. 
The table below sets out the Non-executive Director fees at 31 March 2011. There were no increases in fees during the year.
Annual fees
Non-executive Chairman £155,000
Non-executive Director (base) £38,000
Audit Committee Chair £5,000
Corporate Responsibility Chair £5,000
Remuneration Committee Chair £5,000
Senior Independent Director £5,000
 
The information on pages 41 to 44 (beginning with this section “Remuneration of the Chairman and Non-executive Directors”) is subject 
to audit, except for the details on service contracts on page 42, details of Directors’ shareholdings on page 43 and the graph on total 
shareholder return on page 44.
Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2011
Total Remuneration
Cash allowances
Basic
salary/fees Pension Other Beneﬁts Bonus
2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-executive Chairman
A Fry (Chairman from 1 January 2010) 155 – – – – 155 81
S M D Oliver (resigned 1 January 2010) – – – – – – 116
Executive Directors
M Allen 498 95 1 27 267 888 1,018
A S N Murray 335 59 1 21 180 596 702
M Wilks 336 75 5 13 181 610 729
1,169 229 7 61 628 2,094 2,449
Non-executive Directors
H Mann 46 – – – – 46 38
A Carr-Locke (appointed 1 August 2009) 43 – – – – 43 29
R Macdonald (appointed 3 November 2010) 16 – – – – 16 –
S Alexander (appointed 1 January 2011) 10 – – – – 10 –
N Monnery (resigned 20 July 2010) 14 – – – – 14 43
C Piwnica (resigned 9 December 2010) 30 – – – – 30 43
D Richardson (resigned 1 August 2009) – – – – – – 14
159 – – – – 159 167
1,483 229 7 61 628 2,408 2,813
Basic salary, benefits and bonus are defined on pages 39 to 40. Bonuses included above include the full value of any bonus payment deferred  
as shares. For 2010/11 this amounts to £18,656 for Mark Allen, £12,545 for Alastair Murray and £12,606 for Martyn Wilks. For 2009/10 this 
amounted to £207,813 for Mark Allen, £144,200 for Alastair Murray and £144,900 for Martyn Wilks.
Cash allowances principally comprise pension related salary supplements. Mark Allen and Alastair Murray were members of the defined benefit 
scheme until its closure and accrued benefits to November 2010. During this time they received a cash supplement of 20% (April to June 2010) 
and 23% (July to November 2010) of basic salary above the earnings cap. From November 2010 to 31 March 2011, Mark Allen and Alastair 
Murray received a salary supplement of 23% of basic salary. Martyn Wilks was not a member of any Company pension scheme in the year 
ended 31 March 2011 and received a salary supplement of 20% (April to June 2010) and 23% (July 2010 to March 2011) of basic salary. 
Mark Allen acted as chairman of Dairy UK until September 2010. His fees of £10,000 (2010: £20,000) in relation to these services were 
paid to the Company.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 41 Service contracts
The service contracts and letters of appointment include the following terms.
Executive Directors Date of contract Notice period (months)
M Allen 18 July 2002 12
M Wilks 7 January 2008 12
A S N Murray 20 June 2003 12
Non-executive Directors Date of letter of appointment Notice period (months)
A Fry 15 July 2009 3
H Mann 16 October 2009 3
A Carr-Locke 15 July 2009 3
R Macdonald 4 October 2010 3
S Alexander 4 October 2010 3
C Piwnica* 16 October 2009 3
N Monnery* 16 October 2009 3
* Resigned during the year ended 31 March 2011.
Letters of appointment for all Non-executive Directors include a three month notice period. It is the Company’s policy that Non-executive 
Directors should not normally serve for more than nine years. A summary of the terms of appointment of Non-executive Directors is available 
on the Company’s website.
 
Directors’ pension entitlements
The Directors’ pension entitlements under the Dairy Crest Group pension fund, a defined benefits scheme, which have been excluded from the 
table on page 41, were as follows:
Accumulated Accumulated Increase Transfer value
total accrued total accrued in accrued of increase
Length of  pension at  pension at  pension during in accrued
service 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 the year pension
Age (years) £000 £000 £000 £000
M Allen 51 19.3 35 64 0 0
A S N Murray 50 7.2 30 29 0 0
The transfer value of each Director’s accrued benefits at the end of the financial year is set out below. The transfer values shown in the table 
have been calculated in accordance with actuarial guidance note GN11. Transfer values are determined based on financial conditions at the 
date of calculation including stock market values and bond yields.      
Director’s Movements
As at  As at  contributions in less Director’s
31 March 2011 31 March 2010 the year contributions
£000 £000 £000 £000
M Allen 996 957 0 39
A S N Murray 421 380 0 41
Notes:
The scheme closed to future accrual at 31 March 2010. Length of service is unchanged from 31 March 2010 as included at that date were the 7 months to November 
2010, reflecting the transitional arrangement based on notice period that was agreed on the closure of the scheme to future service accrual. The accumulated total 
accrued pension at 31 March 2010 also included service accrual to November 2010 and, in the case of Mark Allen, represented the deferred pension prior to any 
reduction resulting from his decision to draw early retirement benefits and the early retirement lump sum. Therefore pensions accrued in the year ended 31 March 2011 is 
nil. 
Mark Allen decided to draw benefits from 31 March 2010 and receives a pension of £33,227 per annum and a cash lump sum of £221,510. Mark Allen’s accrued pension 
immediately before electing to draw it early was £63,931 per annum (including seven months’ additional pension service). The future pension payable at March 2011 
is less than £63,931 per annum due to the application of an early retirement reduction and because some pension was exchanged for a lump sum cash payment. The 
transfer value of £957,000 at 31 March 2010 was made up of £735,000 in respect of pension and £222,000 in respect of the cash lump sum. 
As benefit accrual ceased on 31 March 2010, Mark Allen and Alastair Murray are no longer paying contributions into the fund.
The increase in accrued pension excludes the increase in pension due to inflation. 
42 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Directors’ remuneration report continued Governance
Directors’ shareholdings
The (unaudited) interests of the Directors at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows:
 
As at 31 March As at 31 March  As at 31 March As at 31 March  
2011/resignation 2010  2011 2010  
Beneﬁcial Beneficial Deferred shares Deferred shares***
A Fry 3,000 – – –
M Allen* 136,162 110,000 55,635 15,757
A S N Murray* 150,021 135,078 36,571 11,860
M Wilks* 18,500 18,500 36,748 –
H Mann 20,000 20,000 – –
C Piwnica** 5,000 5,000 – –
A Carr-Locke – – – –
R Macdonald – – – –
S Alexander – – – –
N Monnery** 5,000 5,000 – –
*  These Directors are potential beneficiaries of the ESOP . In addition to the shares noted above under beneficial interests they are also deemed to have a beneficial 
interest in all the shares held by the ESOP (see Note 25 on page 90 and Note 26 on page 91).
** Holding at date of resignation
***  March 2010 amounts have been restated to exclude shares resulting from reinvested dividends on deferred shares as Directors have no legal or beneficial interest in 
such shares until and if the Remuneration Committee exercises its discretion to award such shares at the end of the vesting period.
Shareholdings above exclude options under the LTISP scheme, and deferred shares for Executive Directors as part-payment of bonuses are shown 
as a separate column. These shares are released three years after the year in which the bonus was earned. Deferred shares held at 31 March 2011 
exclude any deferred shares to be issued in relation to 2010/11 bonuses. An analysis of the movement in deferred bonus shares, including any 
shares vesting, is shown below.
Balance at Dividend re- Balance at
Bonus Year of March investment 31 March
year award 2010 Awarded on release Released 2011
M Allen 2006/07 2007 12,826 – 3,336 (16,162) –
2007/08 2008 2,931 – – – 2,931
2009/10 2010 – 52,704 – – 52,704
A S N Murray 2006/07 2007 11,860 – 3,083 (14,943) –
2009/10 2010 – 36,571 – – 36,571
M Wilks 2009/10 2010 – 36,748 – – 36,748
The share prices at the date of award for the 2007, 2008 and 2010 awards were £7.07, £3.28 and £3.95 respectively. The share price at the date 
of exercise of the 2007 award was £3.68.
No Director holds a non-beneficial interest in the Company’s share capital. There have been no changes in Directors’ shareholdings between 31 
March 2011 and 18 May 2011. The above interests exclude any rights to acquire shares under the LTISP arrangements, which are set out below.
Long-Term Incentive Share Plan Awards
LTISP performance conditions are set out on pages 39 and 40. The performance periods commence on 1 April in each year and conclude 
on 31 March three years later. Actual and potential awards held by Executive Directors under LTISP at the beginning and end of the year, 
details of actual awards, awards vested during the year and their value, are as follows:
Market
Balance Balance price at
Year of 1 April Exercised Exercised 31 March original
award 2010 Awarded – retained – sold Lapsed 2011 award
M Allen 2008 161,371 9,885 – – (171,256) – 328.5p
2009 154,268 9,450 – – – 163,718 313.7p
2010 – 121,154 – – – 121,154 398.9p
A S N Murray 2008 111,975 6,860 – – (118,835) – 328.5p
2009 107,045 6,557 – – – 113,602 313.7p
2010 – 84,068 – – – 84,068 398.9p
M Wilks 2008 112,519 6,892 – – (119,411) – 328.5p
2009 107,565 6,590 – – – 114,155 313.7p
2010 – 84,476 – – – 84,476 398.9p
Notes to the LTISP table:
–  Awarded shares include reinvestment of dividends.
–  The above table includes options granted under the ESOS. Part of the 2009 LTISP awards are held in the form of HMRC approved options. If the performance criteria 
are met and there has been an increase in share price, the approved options may be exercised to deliver part of the total value of the LTISP subject only to capital 
gains tax. To the extent that value is delivered through these approved options, an equivalent proportion (in value) of the non-approved LTISP options will lapse. Options 
granted under the ESOS in 2009 for Mark Allen, Alastair Murray and Martyn Wilks were 9,564 shares each. 
–  The 2008 awards vested at 0%.
–  LTISP 2009 and LTISP 2010 performance measurement and vesting periods end on 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2013 respectively. Options will be exercisable on 29 
June 2012 and 28 June 2013 respectively.
–  The closing share price on 31 March 2011 was £3.59 (31 March 2010: £3.72).
–  There were no LTISP awards or exercises between 31 March 2011 and 18 May 2011.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 43 Performance graph
Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 requires companies to provide by graph 
an analysis of their performance over time. The graph below sets out for the five years ended 31 March 2011 the total shareholder return of Dairy 
Crest Group plc and the performance of the Food Producers and Processors sector of the FTSE and of the FTSE 250 index (excluding investment 
companies) of which the Company is a constituent member.
Dairy Crest – Relative Total Shareholder Return over five years
Directors’ Sharesave Options 
At 31 March 2011 the Directors held the following share options under the Sharesave Scheme.
 
At 31 March Granted Exercised At 31 March
2010* in year in year 2011
M Allen 3,997 – – 3,997
A S N Murray 3,997 – – 3,997
M Wilks 3,997 – – 3,997
*  Share options in the above table represent the total awards made in 2009/10 assuming participants continue to save throughout the three year life of the scheme. In 
previous years an analysis of cumulative savings and implied options was presented. The revised presentation is consistent with that used in Note 27 to the accounts  
and balances at 31 March 2010 have been restated accordingly.
No awards were granted under the Sharesave Scheme in the period from 31 March 2011 to 18 May 2011, nor were there any Sharesave 
Scheme exercises during this period.
The mid-market price of the above shares as at the close of business on 31 March 2011 was 359 pence per share. During the year 
between 1 April 2010 and 31 March 2011 the mid-market closing price ranged from 340 pence per share to 425 pence per share. 
Exercise of options
No options were exercised in the year ended 31 March 2011.
During the year ended 31 March 2010, Executive Directors exercised LTISP options and effected market sales as follows:
LTISP Market Retained Date of
number of price Gain number of exercise/
shares (pence) (£) shares sale
M Allen 34,691 367.5 127,493 21,313 15/09/09
A S N Murray 96,334 367.5 354,036 96,334 15/09/09
The aggregate gain on exercise of options by Directors in the year ended 31 March 2010 was £481,529.
On behalf of the Board
Howard Mann 
Chairman of Remuneration Committee
18 May 2011
Dairy Crest Group plc
FTSE Food Producers and Processors
FTSE 250 (excluding investment companies)
50
0
100
150
200
March 11 March 10 March 09 March 08 March 07 March 06
44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Directors’ remuneration report continued The Directors of Dairy Crest Group plc (the “Company”) present 
their fifteenth Annual Report to shareholders together with the 
audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries 
for the year ended 31 March 2011. The purpose of the Annual 
Report is to provide information to members of the Company. 
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers 
do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to 
whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come 
and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. It 
contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the 
operations, performance and financial condition of the Group. 
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future 
events and circumstances can cause results to differ from those 
anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge 
and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual 
Report and except to the extent required by applicable regulations 
or by law, the Group undertakes no obligation to update these 
forward-looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report should 
be construed as a profit forecast.
As the 2010/11 financial year commenced after 28 June 2008 but 
before 29 June 2010, references to the Combined Code in this 
report are to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of June 
2008 (“Code”). The relevant parts of this report have been reviewed 
by Ernst & Young LLP and their opinion is set out on page 110.
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are the manufacture, 
processing and distribution of milk and dairy products. Further 
information can be found within the Business Review section at 
pages 18 to 36.
Going concern
The Group and Company’s business activities, together with 
factors likely to affect future development, performance and 
position are set out in the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 14 
to 15, the business reviews on pages 18 to 36 and the review of 
principal risks and uncertainties on pages 16 to 17. The financial 
position, cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described in the Financial Review on pages 34 to 36. In addition, 
notes 31 and 32 to the Financial Statements include the Group 
and Company’s objectives, policies and processes for managing 
its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to 
credit risk and liquidity risk. 
As highlighted in note 31, the Company and Group meet day-to-
day working capital requirements through syndicated revolving 
credit facilities and ensure that forecast net borrowings plus a 
reasonable operating headroom are covered by committed facilities 
which mature at least 12 months after the year end. At 31 March 
2011, effective headroom was £324 million and the earliest facility 
to expire was a £100 million revolving credit facility in November 
2011. Should this £100 million facility not be replaced, forecasts 
show that facility headroom would remain adequate.
There were no breaches of bank covenants in the year ended 
31 March 2011 and projections do not indicate any breaches in 
the foreseeable future. Since the reduction of Euro denominated 
borrowings in the year ended March 2009, exchange rate 
fluctuations no longer materially impact our bank covenant tests.
Forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible 
changes in trading performance, show that the Company and 
Group will be able to operate within the level of current facilities.
Having reviewed and taken into account Going Concern and 
Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, 
the Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Business review
S417 of the Companies Act 2006 requires that the Company sets 
out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during 
the 2010/11 financial year, including balanced and comprehensive 
analysis of the development and performance of the Group 
during the financial year and the position of the Group at the end 
of the year; together with information relating to environmental, 
employee, social and community matters. In addition, the Company 
is required to provide a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group and, to the extent necessary for an 
understanding of the business, the main trends and factors likely 
to affect the future development, performance and position of 
the Company’s business. The information satisfying the business 
review requirements is set out in this report: the Chairman’s 
statement on page 13; the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 
14 to 15; the Business Review on pages 18 to 36; the review of 
the principal risks and uncertainties on pages 16 to 17; and the 
Group Key Performance Indicators (‘KPIs’) on page 5; all of which 
are incorporated into this report by reference. The Corporate 
Governance Report forms part of this Directors’ Report and is 
incorporated into it by reference. 
Group results
The Group’s consolidated income statement set out on page 55 
shows a profit for the financial year of £57.5 million compared with 
£52.5 million in 2009/10.
Post balance sheet events
Following a Board decision in April 2011, the Group announced on 
17 May 2011, that, subject to a consultation process, production 
of its leading dairy spread brand, Clover, would be consolidated 
into its site in Kirkby, Liverpool. The manufacturing process is 
currently split between Kirkby and Crudgington, Shropshire. 
This consolidation will result in approximately 90 redundancies 
at Crudgington and the creation of approximately 45 jobs at 
Kirkby. The consolidation is not expected to be completed until 
2012. The net book value of property, plant and equipment at 
Crudgington affected by this change continues to be supported by 
the underlying value in use and therefore no impairment has been 
recognised at that date.
Dividends
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 14.2 pence 
(2009/10: 13.6 pence) per ordinary share, which if approved, will 
be paid to members on the register at the close of business on 24 
June 2011. Together, the final dividend and interim dividend (5.5 
pence per ordinary share paid on 27 January 2011) make total 
dividends for the year of 19.7 pence per ordinary share (2009/10: 
18.9 pence).
Share capital
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company together 
with details of movements in the Company’s issued share capital 
during 2010/11 are shown in note 25 to the financial statements. As 
at the date of this report, 133.3 million ordinary 25p shares were in 
issue and fully paid with an aggregate nominal value of £33.3 million.
Governance
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 45
Directors’ report The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Company’s 
reports and accounts; to attend and speak at General Meetings 
of the Company; to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights. 
To be effective, electronic and paper proxy appointments and 
voting instructions must be received at the Company’s registered 
office, or such other place in the United Kingdom specified in the 
relevant notice of meeting, not later than 48 hours before a general 
meeting. Subject to applicable statutes and regulations, there are no 
restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any class of 
shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers. None 
of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the 
Company. There are no known arrangements under which financial 
rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares and 
no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting 
rights. Shares acquired through Company share schemes and 
plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special 
rights. The Company established an employee benefit trust in 1996 
which in certain circumstances holds shares in connection with the 
Group’s employee share incentive plans. As the registered holder the 
voting rights in the shares are exercisable by the trustee. However, 
the trustee does not ordinarily exercise those rights. Changes to 
the Articles of Association (“the Articles”) of the Company must be 
approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in 
force from time to time. The Company does not have agreements 
with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for 
loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that 
provisions of the Company’s share schemes and plans may cause 
options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and 
plans to vest on a takeover.
Issue of shares
At the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) on 20 July 2010, 
shareholders renewed the authority for the Board under the Articles 
to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up 
to an aggregate nominal amount of £22,210,606.
Purchase of own shares
At the AGM on 20 July 2010 shareholders granted the Company 
authority to make market purchases of up to 13,326,364 of its 
issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided that: the 
minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 25 
pence (exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes); the maximum 
price (exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes) which may be 
paid for any such ordinary share shall be not more than 5% above 
the average of the middle market prices for an ordinary share in the 
Company as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official 
List for the five business days immediately preceding the date of 
purchase. The Company did not exercise this authority during 
the year and made no market purchases. Except in relation to a 
purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded 
before this authority expires and which will or may be executed 
wholly or partly after such expiry, the authority granted shall expire 
at the conclusion of this year’s AGM.
The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of both of the 
above-mentioned authorities or replacement of them with suitable 
alternatives, annually at the AGM. Approval will be sought from the 
shareholders at the AGM to renew the authorities for a further year. 
Pensions
On 31 March 2010 the Group’s defined benefit pension fund was 
closed to future accrual. Accordingly, the fund is now in run-off. 
It remains under the control of a corporate trustee, Dairy Crest 
Pension Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises four 
nominees from Dairy Crest Limited and two employee members 
elected by all members irrespective of whether they were active 
members, deferred members or pensioners at the time. The 
pension fund’s assets are held separately from those of the Group 
and can only be used in accordance with the rules of the pension 
fund. Pension provision for employees is now made through a 
defined contribution pension scheme. 
Significant agreements – change of control
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid 
may cause a number of agreements to which the Company or 
its subsidiaries are party to take effect, alter or terminate. The 
agreements that are considered significant are as follows:
Borrowing facilities
Non-compliance with the change of control clauses in the Group’s 
funding arrangements, or failure to reach agreement with the 
parties on revised terms, would require any acquirer to put in place 
replacement facilities. 
Essential contracts
It is vital that the Group is able to source high quality raw milk at 
the most competitive prices. To that end the Group has numerous 
contracts for its supply. While these contracts are collectively 
essential to the business, no single contract nor any single supplier 
of raw milk is critical to the Company’s business. 
The Company also has strong relationships with certain major 
retailers to supply them with liquid milk and other branded 
products. Individually these contracts are important to the business 
but not essential.
Substantial shareholdings
During the period and up to 17 May 2011, the Company has been 
notified in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
issued by the Financial Services Authority of the following interests 
of 3% or more in the Company’s existing issued ordinary share 
capital.
Notified
percentage
 of issued
No. of shares share capital
Delta Lloyd & its Group of Companies 6,690,877 5.02%
Theo Muller Group S.e.c.s 4,050,000 3.04%
Directors
The names and biographical details of the current Directors of the 
Company and details of those who have served during the year 
are given on pages 10 to 11. The names of those persons who 
were Directors during the year but have retired or resigned from 
the Board are set out at page 11, together with the dates on which 
they left the Board.
The rules on appointment, reappointment and retirement of 
Directors are contained in the Articles. A Director may be appointed 
by shareholders’ ordinary resolution or by the Board. The 
Articles require that all Directors are subject to election annually. 
Accordingly, all Directors retire and offer themselves for election at 
this year’s AGM. 
Directors’ interests
Details of the interests in the shares of the Company of the 
Directors holding office as at the date of this report, along with 
those of the Directors who held office during the year but retired 
or resigned from office, and their immediate families appear in the 
Remuneration Report on page 43.
Details of the Director’s service contracts and letters of appointment 
appear in the Remuneration Report on page 42.
46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Directors’ report continued No Director had a material interest in any significant contract with 
the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year. Procedures 
for dealing with Directors’ conflicts of interest are in place and are 
operating effectively.
Directors’ and officers’ indemnities and insurance
The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and 
officers. At its AGM held on 20 July 2010 shareholder approval was 
given for the amendment of the Articles allowing the Company to 
indemnify to the extent permitted by company law, amongst others, 
every Director, Company Secretary or other officer of the Company. 
That indemnity provision has been put in place during  
the year and remains in force. 
Employees
The Group employs approximately 7,000 people throughout the 
United Kingdom, France and Italy and depends on the skills and 
commitment of its employees in order to achieve its objectives. 
Personnel at every level are encouraged to make their fullest 
possible contribution to Dairy Crest’s success. 
Employees are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them 
and on issues affecting the Group’s performance through a variety  
of communication tools, including the Group intranet and the 
in-house magazine.
The Group has well-established consultation and negotiating 
arrangements with established trade unions.
Employees are encouraged to acquire shares in the Group through 
participation in the savings-related share option scheme  
(“Sharesave Scheme”). Details of this scheme are set out in note 
27 to the Financial Statements and at page 40 of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
The Board is committed to ensuring a culture free from discrimination 
and harassment remains embedded within the Group. Discrimination 
of any sort is not tolerated. Proper consideration is given to 
applications for employment from disabled people who are employed 
whenever suitable vacancies arise. Wherever practicable, staff who 
become disabled during employment are retained. The Group 
practices equality of opportunity for all employees, irrespective 
of ethnic origin, religion, political opinion, gender, marital status, 
disability, age or sexual orientation.
Research and development
The Group has adopted a target of delivering part of its annual turnover 
through new product development. Focus continues to be on offering 
consumers a wide product mix, and especially the development of 
lower fat variants of existing products. Dairy Crest remains at the 
forefront of dairy industry developments to reduce packaging waste 
through innovation such as our patented jug and milk bag.
Land and buildings
Having obtained an informal valuation of the Group’s land and 
buildings, the Directors are of the opinion that the current market 
value in existing use of the Group’s land and buildings slightly 
exceeds their book value.
Supplier payment policy
The Company is a holding company and had no amounts owing to 
trade creditors at 31 March 2011 (2009/10: nil). The Group’s creditor 
days outstanding at 31 March 2011 were 24.3 (2009/10 22.5 days) 
of purchases. The Group has standard payment terms of 60 days 
of receipt of invoice. Payment terms for purchases under major 
contracts are agreed as part of the contract negotiations.
Charitable and political donations
No political donations or expenditures were made or incurred 
during the year. Charitable donations amounted to £0.1 million 
(2009/10 : £0.1 million). The Corporate Responsibility section of the 
Business Review at pages 31 to 33 provides additional detail on 
the charitable activities of the Group and its employees. 
Disclosure of information to the auditor
So far as each Director in office at the date of approval of this 
report is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s External Auditor (Ernst & Young LLP) is unaware.
Each of the Directors has taken all steps that they ought to have 
taken in performing their roles as directors to exercise due care, 
skill and diligence in order to make themselves aware (i) of any 
relevant audit information and (ii) to establish that the Company’s 
External Auditor is aware of such information.
For the purposes of this statement on disclosure of information to 
the External Auditor, ‘relevant audit information’ is the information 
needed by the Company’s External Auditor in connection with the 
preparation of their report at page 110.
Directors’ responsibility statements
The responsibility statements required under Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 4.1 are set out on page 54.
Annual general meeting
The AGM will be held at Eversheds LLP , 1 Wood Street
London, EC2V 7WS on Tuesday, 19 July 2011 at 12.00 pm. The 
Notice convening the meeting will be issued separately, together 
with details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes 
relating to each of the resolutions being proposed.
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue as 
Auditor of the Company. A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young 
LLP as the Company’s Auditor will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board:
Robin Miller Company Secretary
Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey
KT10 9PN
Registered in England and Wales No. 3162897
18 May 2011
Governance
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 47 This report for shareholders sets out Dairy Crest’s approach to and 
compliance with the principles contained in the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council 
in June 2008 (“Code”) and explains any departure from its provisions. 
This report has been prepared following the main principles of 
the Code. Those not referred to in this statement are dealt with 
elsewhere in the Annual Report. The Code is publicly available at 
www.frc.org.uk. The relevant parts of this report have been reviewed 
by Ernst & Young LLP and their opinion is set out on page 110.
The Board 
Code main principle A.1: “Every company should be headed by an 
effective board, which is collectively responsible for the success of 
the company.”
Dairy Crest’s Board recognises its responsibility to provide 
entrepreneurial and responsible leadership to the Group within a 
framework of prudent and effective controls (described below) allowing 
assessment and management of the key issues and risks impacting 
the business. The Board sets Dairy Crest’s overall strategic direction, 
reviews management performance and ensures that the Group has 
the necessary financial and human resources in place to meet its 
objectives. The Board is satisfied that the necessary controls and 
resources exist within the Group to enable these responsibilities to  
be met.
The Board also ensures that the principal goal of the Company is to 
create shareholder value, while having regard to other stakeholder 
interests and takes responsibility for setting the Company’s values 
and standards. Accordingly, the long-term interests of shareholders, 
together with consideration of the wider community of interests 
represented by employees, customers and suppliers, and community 
and the environment are factored into the Group’s management 
processes. They are reinforced through employee participation in 
share ownership plans. Appropriate account is also given to social, 
environmental and ethical issues within the Group’s control and risk 
assessment processes. The steps taken to achieve these goals are 
communicated to shareholders and other interested parties through 
the Group’s External Affairs Director, the Company’s website (www.
dairycrest.co.uk) and to employees via the Group intranet and through 
formal and informal briefings and newsletters. Through formal policies 
(summaries of which are published on the Company’s website) the 
Board seeks to engender a culture where business ethics, integrity 
and fairness are values that all employees endorse and apply in their 
everyday conduct.
During 2010/11, the Company continued its programme of 
embedding its core values with employees. Details of activity 
undertaken during the year are set out in the Corporate 
Responsibility Report on pages 31 to 33. Further details will be 
provided in the online Corporate Responsibility Report which will be 
published on the Company’s website in the summer.
In 2010/11 the Board met 12 times, one of those meetings was held at 
the Group’s French subsidiary, St Hubert in Ludres, France. Details of 
Directors’ attendance at meetings during the year are set out at page 
11. 
There is a documented schedule of matters reserved to the Board 
including strategy and management, financial structure and capital, 
reporting and controls, Board and Committee appointments, 
executive remuneration, dividend policy and corporate governance 
compliance. During 2010/11, the Board received regular briefings 
on the Group’s performance (including detailed commentary and 
analysis) and key issues and risks affecting the Group’s business. 
Amongst other matters, it reviewed the content of the Group’s risk 
register and the Group’s health & safety policies, processes and 
performance. Reports on Group operations, human resources, 
governance and regulatory matters affecting the Group were provided 
to the Board on a regular and timely basis. Briefings on market 
activity, together with the views of shareholders and analysts on the 
Company, were also provided to the Board. 
The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover for Directors and 
other Officers and in 2010 the Articles were amended to permit the 
indemnification by the Company of its Directors and other Officers by 
way of a qualifying third party indemnity in accordance with S234 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Such indemnity has been put in place.
The Chairman periodically meets individually or collectively with the 
Non-executive Directors in the absence of Executive Directors. The 
process for appraising the Chairman’s performance is set out on 
page 50.
Board committees
Summary
There are five principal Board Committees: Audit; Remuneration; 
Nomination; Corporate Responsibility and Management Board. The 
roles and responsibilities of each of these Committees are detailed 
below. All the Audit and Remuneration Committee members and a 
majority of Nomination Committee members are independent Non-
executive Directors under the Code. The Committees are provided 
with sufficient resources via the Company Secretariat and, where 
necessary, have direct access to independent professional advisers 
to undertake their duties.
Audit Committee 
Andrew Carr-Locke has chaired the Audit Committee for the year 
ended 31 March 2011. The other members are Howard Mann and 
Stephen Alexander. Neil Monnery and Carole Piwnica were members 
of the Committee until they stood down from the Board during the 
year. Andrew Carr-Locke is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants. Consistent with the Guidance on Audit 
Committees (formerly known as the Smith Guidance), all members of 
the Committee are independent Non-executive Directors. Andrew Carr-
Locke is deemed by the Board to be the Audit Committee financial 
expert with recent and relevant financial experience and independent 
for the purposes of the Code. All of the Committee members have 
extensive commercial experience (see page 11). The Committee’s 
terms of reference comply with the Code, are available on request 
and are published on the Group’s website. Further information on the 
Company’s application of the Code and on the Audit Committee and its 
work during the year is set out in its report on pages 52 and 53.
Remuneration Committee 
Howard Mann has chaired the Remuneration Committee since 20 
July 2010 when Neil Monnery stood down from the Board. The other 
members of the Committee are Andrew Carr-Locke and Stephen 
Alexander. Carole Piwnica was a member of the Committee until 9 
December 2010. The Committee met three times in 2010/11. Details of 
Directors’ attendance at meetings during the year are set out at page 
11. A detailed description of the Committee’s remit and work during 
2010/11, including further information on the Company’s application 
of the principles of the Code, is contained in the Remuneration Report 
(which was approved by the Board) on pages 38 to 44. Its terms of 
reference comply with the Code, are available on request and are 
published on the Group’s website. The full terms and conditions of 
appointment of the Company’s Non-executive Directors are available 
for inspection at its registered office and a summary is available on the 
Group’s website. The chairman of the Committee provided a report to 
the Board following each meeting of the Committee.
48 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Corporate governance Nomination Committee 
Anthony Fry chairs the Nomination Committee having been appointed 
to that role on 12 May 2011. The Committee’s other members are 
Howard Mann and Andrew Carr-Locke. Neil Monnery and Carole 
Piwnica were members of the Committee until their resignations from 
the Board in 2010. The Committee meets as and when required. It did 
not meet separately from the Board in the year ended 31 March 2011. 
Company executives and advisers attend meetings by invitation only. 
The Committee updates the Board and makes recommendations as 
and when required.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available 
on request and are published on the Group’s website. The 
Committee is responsible for succession planning at Board level, 
overseeing the selection and appointment of Directors and making its 
recommendations to the Board. It is also responsible, in conjunction 
with the Chairman, for evaluating the commitments of individual 
Directors and the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on 
the Board and ensures that the membership of the Board and its 
principal committees are refreshed periodically. Where appropriate, the 
Committee will prepare an outline of the role and capabilities required 
for particular appointments and use an external search consultancy 
and/or advertising in relation to Board appointments.
During 2010/11, its focus remained on succession planning for the 
Board. With the assistance of external consultants the Committee led 
a successful external search for candidates to succeed Neil Monnery 
and Carole Piwnica. In its search the Committee was focussed on 
identifying candidates with suitable skills and experience to fulfil the 
requirements of the role and to ensure a complimentary balance of 
skills and experience amongst the Directors as well as diversity in the 
make up of the Board. To date the Committee’s work has resulted in 
the appointment of the Richard Macdonald and Stephen Alexander 
who bring with them a wealth of broad commercial and regulatory 
experience and in particular, valuable experience of the FMCG and 
agricultural sectors. With the assistance of external consultants, the 
Committee continues to search for additional candidates to join the 
Board further to improve the balance of skills and diversity amongst 
its members.
Corporate Responsibility Committee 
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is chaired by Richard 
Macdonald. The Committee was chaired by Carole Piwnica and Neil 
Monnery was a member until their respective departures from the 
Board. The Committee, whose other members are Andrew Carr-Locke, 
Mark Allen, Alastair Murray, Martyn Wilks, Arthur Reeves (Director of 
External Affairs), Rob Tansey (Group HR Director) and Robin Miller 
(Company Secretary & General Counsel), oversees the Group’s 
corporate responsibility programme and ensures that key social, 
ethical and environmental risks are identified, assessed and prioritised 
accordingly. Terms of reference for the Committee are available on 
request and are published on the Group’s website. During the year the 
committee met three times and details of Directors’ attendance are set 
out on page 11. Details of the Committee’s activities during 2010/11 
are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report at pages 31 to 33.
Management Board 
The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which comprises 
the other Executive Directors, the Company Secretary & General 
Counsel and the Group Human Resources Director. Other senior 
executives, such as the Director of Group Financial Control and 
Director of Corporate Development attend by invitation. The 
Management Board is responsible, amongst other matters, for 
implementing the Group’s strategic direction and monitoring the 
performance of the business and its control procedures on a day-to-
day basis. Members normally meet weekly.
Other committees 
The Group’s Strategy and Policy Leadership Team, chaired by the 
Chief Executive, which consists of Executive Board members and 
other senior executives, meets periodically. The Strategy and Policy 
Leadership Team is used to assist the Executive Directors in the 
execution of their duties by helping to shape and influence the Group’s 
strategy and policy. Through its diverse membership representing 
the various constituencies of the Group it helps to ensure that key 
stakeholders are consulted and have the opportunity to input into the 
design and preparation of the Group’s strategy, policy and key business 
decisions. To ensure consistency of approach and cross-learning, 
members of the Strategy and Policy Leadership Team also chair 
Group leadership teams responsible for the following areas: finance; 
information technology / systems; supply chain; human resources; 
innovation; marketing; sales; vision and values; and health and safety. 
Reports are provided from these various leadership teams and from 
the operating boards of each of the Group’s business units (which are 
responsible for monitoring the performance of those business units), 
as appropriate, to the Management Board, the Strategy and Policy 
Leadership Team and the Board.
Chairman and chief executive
Code main principle A.2: “There should be a clear division of 
responsibilities at the head of the company between the running of the 
board and the executive responsibility for the running of the company’s 
business. No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.”
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of 
Chairman (who serves in a non-executive capacity) and Chief Executive 
which is set out in writing and which has been approved by the Board. 
Board balance
Code main principle A.3: “The board should include a balance of 
executive and non-executive directors (and in particular independent 
non-executive directors) such that no individual or small group of 
individuals can dominate the board’s decision taking.”
As at the date of this report, the Board comprises three Executive 
Directors, four independent Non-executive Directors and a Non-
executive Chairman. Anthony Fry is Non-executive Chairman and 
chairman of the Nomination Committee; Mark Allen is Chief Executive; 
Alastair Murray is Group Finance Director; Martyn Wilks is Executive 
Managing Director (Foods); Howard Mann is a Non-executive Director, 
Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee; Andrew Carr-Locke is a Non-executive Director and 
chairman of the Audit Committee; Richard Macdonald is a Non-
executive Director and chairman of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee and Stephen Alexander is a Non-executive Director.
Biographies of each of the current Directors, their responsibilities  
and principal Board Committee memberships can be found on  
pages 10 to 11.
During 2010/11, all the Non-executive Directors (including the 
Chairman) confirmed to the Board that they had sufficient time 
available to fulfil their obligations as Directors and, should any 
individual’s position change, that they would inform the Board. Details 
of the Chairman’s other significant professional commitments are 
included in his biography on page 11.
The Board considers Howard Mann, Andrew Carr-Locke, Richard 
Macdonald and Stephen Alexander to be independent. Anthony Fry 
was considered independent on his appointment as Chairman. The 
Code states that the test of independence is not appropriate in relation 
to the Chairman after his appointment.
Governance
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 49 Appointments to the Board
Code main principle A.4: “There should be a formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the 
board.”
Appointments to the Board and its Committees are reserved for the 
Board, based on recommendations from the Nomination Committee. 
Article 116 of the Company’s Articles provides that the Directors 
may appoint any person to be a director either to fill a vacancy or as 
an additional director. Where a person is so appointed as a director 
pursuant to the Articles, that director shall retire from office at the 
next AGM and shall then be eligible for election by the members. 
The members may by ordinary resolution appoint any person to be 
a director of the Company either to fill a vacancy or as an additional 
director. The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a 
matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
Information and professional development
Code main principle A.5: “The board should be supplied in a timely 
manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to 
enable it to discharge its duties. All directors should receive induction 
on joining the board and should regularly update and refresh their skills 
and knowledge.”
Under the Chairman’s stewardship the Company Secretary advises the 
Board on all governance matters and ensures Board procedures are 
followed and applicable rules and regulations complied with.
The Company Secretary ensures that Directors undergo a 
comprehensive induction programme on appointment. Richard 
Macdonald’s and Stephen Alexander’s induction programmes included 
visits to a number of the Group’s main operating sites (Foston, 
Nuneaton, Crudgington, Severnside, Frome and Davidstow). Richard 
Macdonald visited the Group’s milk delivery depot at Oxford and he 
undertook a milk round accompanying a roundsman based there. 
Both of them also met with management and staff representing a 
cross section of the business including at the Group’s Aldershot offices 
(Customer Direct Division) and at the Group’s head office in Esher.
Directors attend independent training on technical accounting and 
other governance related matters from professional service providers 
and institutions and bulletins from the Group on developments in 
the dairy sector generally. Through meetings and presentations by 
management below Board level and visits to operational sites, the 
Directors keep abreast with the Group’s business.
All Directors individually, and each of the Board Committees, have 
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretariat and the 
Company Secretary. They all receive from the Company Secretariat 
a regular report on corporate governance issues. There are also 
procedures in place enabling Directors in the furtherance of their duties 
to seek independent professional advice at the Company’s expense.
Performance evaluation
Code main principle A.6: “The board should undertake a formal and 
rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its 
committees and individual directors.”
The Board conducts an annual evaluation of individual Director’s 
performance, its own performance and that of its Committees. The 
evaluation process, designed to improve the Board’s effectiveness, is 
normally conducted as follows:
•  Following completion of a self-assessment questionnaire by each 
Director, the Chairman meets with them individually to appraise 
their performance and effectiveness and to identify any training 
requirements.
•  Each Director completes a questionnaire appraising the 
Chairman’s performance. Using the output from the completed 
questionnaires the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior 
Independent Director, meet in the absence of the Chairman to 
evaluate the Chairman’s performance. The Senior Independent 
Director then meets with the Chairman to discuss the outcome of 
the evaluation of his performance, following which the whole Board 
considers the Chairman’s performance with him.
•  The Chairman appraises the performance of the Chief Executive 
the content of which is in accordance with the Company’s normal 
performance and development review procedures. The Chief 
Executive appraises the performance of the other Executive 
Directors with regard to their management and operational 
responsibilities, in accordance with the Company’s normal 
performance and development review procedures. The outcome 
of the reviews of performance of all of the Executive Directors is 
scrutinised by the Remuneration Committee.
•  Having dealt with individual Director’s performance, the Board 
collectively considers the output of the evaluation questionnaires 
in so far as they relate to the effectiveness of the Board in general 
and its Committees.
Evaluation of Executive Director performance for 2010/11 was 
conducted in April 2011 in accordance with the Company’s normal 
performance and development review procedures. 
Given the changes to the composition of the Board during the 
year, the Board decided that evaluation of the Chairman and the 
Board in March 2011, consistent with normal practice, would be 
premature and of little meaningful value. It was felt that time would be 
much better spent establishing relationships and working practices 
amongst the Directors with a view to a full review to be conducted 
with the aid of external facilitation later in the year once the new 
Directors had been given sufficient time to experience the operation 
of the Chairman and the Board for a suitable period of time. Once 
an externally facilitated review, focused on identifying ways to further 
enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the Board, has been 
concluded, we will report on the outcome of that review in the 
Company’s next annual report and accounts.
Re-election
Code main principle A.7: “All directors should be submitted for 
re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory 
performance. The board should ensure planned and progressive 
refreshing of the board.”
Following publication of the UK Corporate Governance Code in June 
2010, the Board decided that although compliance with that new 
code would not be required during 2010/11, it would nonetheless 
follow its recommendation at provision B.7.1 that all directors of FTSE 
350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders. 
Consequently, at the Company’s 2010 AGM, all Directors stood for 
election or re-election, as appropriate, and shareholders approved 
a change proposed to the Articles requiring that all Directors be 
subject to annual election by shareholders. At the 2011 AGM, Richard 
Macdonald and Stephen Alexander shall stand for first election 
following their appointment during the 2010/11 year and all other 
directors shall stand for re-election as required by the Articles. 
The contribution that each of the candidates seeking re-election 
by shareholders makes to the Group was evaluated by the Board. 
Having regard to the roles that they perform and individual input and 
contribution they make, the Board concluded that each candidate’s 
performance more than justified nomination for re-election by 
shareholders.
50 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Corporate governance continued Governance
Risk management and internal controls
Code main principle C.2: “The board should maintain a sound 
system of internal control to safeguard shareholders’ investment and 
the company’s assets.”
Introduction 
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring a sound system of 
internal control and risk management. The schedule of written matters 
reserved to the Board ensures that the Directors are responsible for 
the control of, amongst other matters, all significant strategic, financial 
and organisational risks.
An overview of the principal risks surrounding the Group is contained 
in the Business Review section of the Directors’ Report at pages 16 
to 17. To manage these and other commercial and operational risks 
the Group has an established programme that assists management 
throughout the Group to identify, assess and mitigate business, 
financial, operational and compliance risks on a continuous basis. 
The Board views management of risk as integral to good business 
practice. The programme is designed to support management’s 
decision making and to improve the reliability of business performance.
Internal controls 
The Directors have overall responsibility for the Group’s system of 
internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness 
to support its strategy and objectives. The systems of internal 
control are based on an ongoing process of identifying, evaluating 
and seeking to manage key risks and includes the preparation and 
refreshment of Divisional risk registers and the Group risk register 
together with appropriate risk mitigation activities along with the other 
risk management processes set out at pages 16 to 17. The systems 
of internal control were in place throughout the year and up to the 
date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements. The 
effectiveness of these systems has been periodically reviewed by 
the Audit Committee and the Board, in accordance with the Turnbull 
Committee Guidance on Internal Control (revised October 2005).
Control systems 
The main components of the organisation for internal control are 
summarised below. Their foundation is in the considerable value that 
the Group places, throughout its activities, on seeking to ensure that 
employees are of the highest quality and integrity. Formal control is 
exercised through a management structure, which includes clear 
lines of responsibility and documented delegations of authority from 
the Board. Processes underpinning the financial reporting systems 
are managed and monitored by line and functional management and 
regular reporting. Separately, the effectiveness of these internal controls 
is reviewed by an Internal Audit function that operates on a Group wide 
basis. It reports its results to the executive management team and 
directly to the Audit Committee. These controls and processes have 
been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval 
of the Annual Report and Accounts.
•  Board – the Board exercises its responsibilities through an 
organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility 
and rules relating to delegated authorities. The Board meets 
regularly throughout the year and receives oral and written 
presentations to maintain control over strategic, financial, 
operational and compliance matters. The Management Board 
is responsible for monitoring financial performance, assessing 
capital expenditure proposals, agreeing media spend, senior 
management appointments and embedding risk management 
and controls in the Group. The Managing Director of each 
Division, in conjunction with senior management, operates and 
maintains controls appropriate to its own activities which conform 
to Group policies and procedures.
•  Financial reporting – there is an annual budget presented to 
and approved by the Board which includes consideration of 
the major business and financial risks, an assessment of the 
likelihood of crystallisation and actions in place to mitigate 
these risks. Each Division is required to report monthly to the 
Board on financial performance. Monthly financial information 
includes trading results, balance sheet and cash flow information 
by business Division with comparison against prior year and 
budget. Each Division periodically reassesses its forecast for 
the financial year. Annually, a strategic plan is also presented to 
the Board, which reviews financial projections for the following 
three years and includes consideration of current and likely future 
strategic, operational and market environment matters. The 
Audit Committee with input from the Group’s Internal Auditors 
exercises oversight over the Group’s control processes designed 
to ensure the integrity of internal and external financial reporting.
•  Accounts Reviews – the performance of each business Division 
and its management of the risks related to it are reviewed monthly 
by the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Executive Managing 
Director (Foods), Director of Financial Control, External Affairs 
Director and other senior managers in Accounts Review meetings. 
Amongst other matters the review includes a detailed analysis of 
each Division’s key risks and plans for mitigation as well as the 
continued appropriateness of those risks. As part of the continual 
risk management cycle, additional key risks together with plans for 
mitigation are, as appropriate, added to each Division’s risk register. 
•  Business Division reviews – on a quarterly basis, each 
business Division is required to complete a self-assessment 
controls questionnaire that requires the approval of business 
unit management. In addition, the Audit Committee and the 
Management Board receive copies of all Group Internal Audit 
reports which detail audit issues noted and corrective action 
plans. They also receive reports from the External Auditors on the 
conclusions of their interim review and final audit.
Control of significant risks 
As required by the Code, the Board has established an ongoing 
process, in accordance with the Turnbull Committee Guidance On 
Internal Control (revised October 2005), to identify, evaluate and 
manage significant risks faced by the Group. During the year the Audit 
Committee reviewed the Group’s risk register process and endorsed 
the process set out on pages 16 to 17 which is intended to ensure a 
continual appraisal and re-appraisal of risk, the on-going relevance of 
the Group’s risk registers and that they are embedded in the Group as 
an every-day tool for the management of risk. This process, approved 
by the Board following review by the Audit Committee, includes 
the consideration of Divisional and Group registers identifying and 
evaluating the significant Divisional and Group risks and related financial, 
operational and compliance controls. With oversight from the Board and 
Audit Committee (which uses the services of the Group Internal Audit 
function), individual members of the Group’s senior management team 
are responsible for the ownership and mitigation of significant risks. 
The Audit Committee, the Board, the Management Board and senior 
management in Accounts Reviews regularly review the identified risks, 
changes in their status and the composition of the Group’s risk matrix.
Function of controls 
During the year the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal control. The systems of internal control are 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives. They can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of laws and 
regulations. The Group’s systems of risk management and control have 
been used in the process for the preparation of the Financial Statements.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 51 Report of the Audit Committee
Code main principle C.3: “The board should establish formal and 
transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the 
financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an 
appropriate relationship with the company’s auditors.”
Members
Details of the members of the Audit Committee are set out at page 
11 with details of their attendance at meetings during the year being 
set out at page 11.
Terms of reference
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference (available on request and 
published on the Group’s website) comply with the Code. Having 
refreshed its terms of reference in March 2010, including, amongst 
other matters, their continued compliance with the requirements of 
the Code, the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control (October 2005) 
and the Guidance on Audit Committees (2008) (formerly known as 
the Smith Guidance), the Committee conducted a further review in 
March 2011 and was satisfied that they remained appropriate and 
that they comply with the above-mentioned guidance. Under its terms 
of reference, the Committee is responsible for providing advice to the 
Board on the Group’s Interim and Financial Statements; on accounting 
policies and on the control of its financial and business risks as well as 
reviewing the work of the Internal and External Auditors.
Frequency of meetings
The Audit Committee met four times in 2010/11. The Chairman of 
the Audit Committee provided a report on the work of the Committee 
and any significant issues that may have arisen at the Board meeting 
following each Committee meeting.
Attendees at meetings 
The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Chairman and other 
senior management attend Committee meetings by invitation of the 
Committee. Representatives of the Group’s External Auditor and the 
head of Group Internal Audit, also attend these meetings by invitation. 
In 2010/11, the External and Internal Auditors attended all meetings, 
had direct access to the Committee during the meetings and time 
was also set aside for them to have private discussions (jointly and 
independently) with the Committee, in the absence of management.
Audit Committee activity
During 2010/11, the Committee’s work schedule embraced the 
Code requirements to:
•   Monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Company, 
and any formal announcements relating to the Group’s financial 
performance, including reviewing significant financial reporting 
judgements and any disclosures contained in them;
•  Review the Company’s internal financial controls and its 
internal control and risk management systems and to make 
recommendations to the Board;
•  Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s Internal Audit 
function;
•  Make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the 
shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the 
appointment, re-appointment and removal of the External Auditor 
and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the 
External Auditor;
•  Review and monitor the External Auditor’s independence and 
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into 
consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements; 
and,
•  Review the Group’s policy on the engagement of the External 
Auditor to supply non-audit services and report to the Board, 
identifying matters in respect of which it considers action or 
improvement is needed and make recommendations as to the 
steps to be taken.
The Committee’s work during the period and up to the date of this 
report included:
•   Reviewing the Interim Financial Statements, Preliminary 
Announcement and the Annual Report and Accounts prior to 
their submission to the Board. In doing so it took into account 
the External Auditor’s view and considered reports from financial 
management and Group Internal Audit.
•  Reviewing significant accounting policies, financial reporting 
issues and judgements used in the preparation of the Company’s 
Preliminary Announcement, Interim Announcement and Annual 
Report and Accounts.
•  Reviewing management’s letters of representation in connection 
with the Company’s Financial Statements and the External Auditor’s 
management letter.
•  Reviewing areas where control weaknesses had been identified 
by Group Internal Audit or the External Auditor and monitoring the 
mitigation and remediation plans of management.
•  Reviewing the regular reports of the External Auditor and the 
comments provided on the strength of the Group’s internal 
controls.
•  Receiving and reviewing regular reports from the Group’s Internal 
Audit function.
•  Approving the External Audit plan (including audit scope, level 
of materiality, resources dedicated to the audit engagement, the 
seniority expertise and experience of the engagement team) and 
satisfying itself as to the appropriateness and adequacy of the plan.
•  Evaluating the performance of the External Auditor and satisfying 
itself as to the effectiveness of the audit.
•  Reviewing the Group’s risk management processes and controls; 
and their effectiveness.
•  Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s whistle blowing 
procedures and satisfying itself that they allow for appropriate 
investigation and suitable follow up actions.
• Reviewing the effectiveness of the Committee.
External Auditor
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with the 
External Auditor.
During the year, the Committee:
•  Approved the Audit Engagement Letters and fee proposal, and 
satisfied itself as to the External Auditor’s ability to conduct an 
effective audit for such fee.
•  Reviewed and assessed the External Auditor’s independence 
and objectivity taking into account relevant UK professional 
and regulatory requirements. In doing so the Committee 
reviewed the External Auditor’s own policies and procedures to 
safeguard its objectivity, independence and integrity together 
with its representations as to independence. The Committee 
received assurances from the Audit Engagement Partner that the 
External Auditor’s reward and remuneration structure includes no 
incentives for audit engagement partners to cross sell non-audit 
services to audit clients. The Committee also considered the 
Group’s policy on the use of the External Auditor for the provision 
of on-audit services. That policy contains an absolute prohibition 
against the use of the External Auditor for certain services. In 
respect of other services which are not absolutely prohibited but 
do not fall into the scope of the engagement for the External 
Audit, there is a requirement that the agreement of the chairman 
of the Committee, or the Committee, must first be obtained 
where anticipated fees for the provision of such services are up 
to £75,000 and over £75,000, respectively. The Committee is 
satisfied that such non-audit services as have been provided 
52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Corporate governance continued Governance
by the External Auditor during the year have been provided in 
accordance with the Group’s policy.
•  Approved the annual audit plan and ensured that it was 
consistent with the scope of the audit engagement.
•  Reviewed the findings of the audit, including discussion of any 
major issues arising, any accounting and audit judgements 
and the internal control reports (including responses from 
management and any proposed remedial action).
• Reviewed the effectiveness of the audit and the External Auditor.
Internal Audit function
The Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its 
responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans 
of the Group Internal Audit function. In doing so the Committee:
•  Reviewed and assessed the annual Internal Audit Plan and 
progress against it throughout the year.
• Reviewed all reports on the Group from Internal Audit.
•  Reviewed the interaction between the Internal Audit function and 
External Auditor.
•  Reviewed and monitored management’s responsiveness to the 
findings and recommendations of Group Internal Audit.
•  Reviewed a report from the head of Group Internal Audit on risk 
management and control.
•  Reviewed Group Internal Audit’s charter dealing with that 
function’s role, scope, resourcing, reporting responsibilities, 
organisational independence and assessment.
•  Engaged PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) to conduct an 
independent review of the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit.
Review of effectiveness of Group Internal Audit
During the year the Committee engaged PwC to conduct an 
independent quality assessment of the Group Internal Audit function. 
The key objectives of the review were to provide;
•  an independent review of the Internal Audit function in keeping 
with corporate governance best practice; and
•  recommendations for improving the effectiveness of the Internal 
Audit function.
In order to achieve the above-mentioned aims, PwC’s work 
focussed on the Internal Audit function’s structure, resourcing, 
and management, processes and procedures (aimed to ensure 
effective and efficient planning and completion of audit work), use of 
technology, communication and reporting and conformity with the 
Institute of Internal Auditors’ standards.
The independent review found that the Internal Audit function 
provides effective assurance around financial processes and 
controls, has full access to all areas of the Group and is of good 
standing within the organisation. It highlighted, however, that greater 
assurance could be derived from better formal linkage of the Internal 
Audit plan with the Group’s formal risk management processes. Work 
to achieve better formal linkage between the Internal Audit plan and 
risk management processes is underway and Internal Audit formally 
reviews the mitigation activities contained in the Group’s risk registers 
in order to provide the Committee with greater assurance over the 
implementation and effectiveness of those mitigating controls. The 
Committee was satisfied that the independent review showed the 
Group Internal Audit function provides effective assurance over 
financial process and controls and that although those areas should 
remain the core focus of the function, additional valuable assurance 
could be provided by the function broadening its scope through the 
adoption of a wider risk-based approach.
Reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP
Ernst & Young LLP was first appointed as External Auditor to the 
Company in 1996. There are no contractual restrictions on the 
Company with regard to its appointment. The Audit Committee has 
not considered it necessary since its initial appointment to require 
the firm competitively to tender for the audit work. In the light of 
the assessments and review undertaken and having considered 
a recommendation of the Committee to re-appoint Ernst & Young 
LLP as the Company’s and Group’s External Auditor, the Board 
endorsed the Committee’s recommendation which was approved by 
shareholders in July 2010.
At its meeting in May 2011, the Audit Committee considered the 
appropriateness of the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the 
Group’s External Auditor for the 2011/12 year. 
Taking into account the output of the Committee’s review of the 
External Auditor’s independence and objectivity, and, the effectiveness 
of the audit process, which it commenced at its March 2011 meeting, 
together with other relevant review processes conducted throughout 
the year, the Committee was satisfied that it should recommend to the 
Board the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company’s 
and Group’s External Auditor at the AGM on 19 July 2011.
Communication with investors
Code main principle D.1: “There should be a dialogue with 
shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.  
The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a 
satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.”
The Group believes it is important to explain business developments 
and financial results to its shareholders and to understand any 
shareholder concerns, and that suitable arrangements are in place 
to ensure a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns 
of major shareholders. The Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director have primary responsibility for investor relations. They are 
supported by the Company’s External Affairs Director who, among 
other matters, organises presentations for analysts and institutional 
investors and holds meetings with key institutional shareholders to 
discuss strategy, financial performance and investment activities 
immediately after the interim and full year results announcements. 
Slide presentations made to institutional shareholders are also 
available on the Company’s website. All the Non-executive Directors 
and, in particular, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, 
are available to meet with major shareholders, if such meetings are 
required. Further financial and business information is available on the 
Investor Centre section of the Company’s website.
Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to the 
Board to ensure that the Non-executive Directors have a balanced 
understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders. 
This includes communication with the shareholders at the AGM, 
regular feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director on their meetings with major shareholders, and periodic 
reports to the Board on investor relations together with feedback 
from the Company’s brokers on the views of major shareholders.
The principal method of communication with private shareholders 
is through the Annual Report and Interim Statement, the AGM and 
through the Company’s website.
Annual general meeting 
Code main principle D.2: “The board should use the AGM to 
communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.”
A business review is presented by the Chairman at the AGM 
to facilitate shareholder understanding of the Group’s activities. 
Arrangements are made for all Executive Directors, the Chairman, 
the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, the remaining Non-
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 53 executive Directors and the chairmen of Board Committees to attend 
the AGM and to be available to answer shareholders’ questions. All 
Directors attended the AGM in July 2010. Notice of the AGM is, in 
accordance with the applicable company law and the Company’s 
articles, either posted in hard copy to shareholders or posted on the 
Company’s website at least 21 days before the date of the AGM. 
Resolutions are proposed for each substantial separate issue and 
details of the proxy voting on each resolution are announced at the 
AGM after the results of the show of hands is known and are posted 
on the Company’s website following the conclusion of the meeting.
The Company counts all proxy votes and indicates the level of proxies 
lodged on each resolution. It also publishes the level of votes for and 
against resolutions and the number of abstentions. The Company 
ensures that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially discrete 
subject and the Company proposes a resolution at the AGM relating to 
the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Access to information  
Electronic communication continues to become the principal medium 
for shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder information and 
reports. Annual Reviews, Annual Reports and Financial Statements and 
other relevant reports and statements are published on the Company’s 
website. In accordance with applicable company law, the Company 
has received shareholder approval, subject to certain requirements, 
to communicate electronically with its shareholders. Other information 
which shareholders and third parties are entitled to access is made 
available in accordance with legislative and regulatory requirements.
Compliance with the provisions contained in Code 
Throughout the year the Group was in compliance with the 
provisions of the Code except for: provision C.3.1, where as a result 
of the timing of changes to the Board’s membership there was an 
interlude where the Audit Committee comprised two independent 
Non-executive Directors; and, provision A.6.1 where for the reasons 
stated at page 50, the Board has not undertaken a formal evaluation.
Approval 
The Corporate Governance Statement and the Audit Committee 
report contained in it have been approved by the Board.
18 May 2011
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United 
Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law Directors must not approve the Financial 
Statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the 
financial position of the Group and Company, financial performance 
of the Group and cash flows of the Group for that period. In 
preparing the Financial Statements the Directors are required to:
•  Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8, 
‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and 
Errors’ and then apply them consistently;
•  Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
•  Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the financial position of the Group and 
Company and performance of the Group; 
•  State that the Group and Company has complied with IFRSs, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the Financial Statements; and
•  Make judgements and estimates that are responsible and 
prudent.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the Group and of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group 
and of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud or other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Group’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
DTR 4.1 Statement
Each of the Directors, the names and functions of whom are set out 
on page 10 to 11 confirms that to the best of his knowledge, they 
have complied with the above requirements in preparing the Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable accounting standards and 
that the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities and financial position of the Group and the Company 
and of the Group’s income statement and the Company’s profit 
for that period. In addition, each of the Directors confirms that the 
management report represented by the Directors’ Report includes a 
fair review of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Company and Group, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
On behalf of the Board
Mark Allen  Chief Executive
Alastair Murray  Finance Director
Corporate governance continued
54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in relation  
to the Group and Company financial statements Year ended 31 March 2011
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 55
The numbers
2011 2010
Note
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Group revenue 1 1,604.5 – 1,604.5 1,629.7 – 1,629.7 
Operating (costs)/income  2,3,4 (1,506.6) (3.0) (1,509.6) (1,536.5) 0.7 (1,535.8)
Other income – pensions 4 – – – – 16.3 16.3 
Other income – property 3,4 1.8 – 1.8 3.4 1.0 4.4 
Profit on operations 99.7 (3.0) 96.7 96.6 18.0 114.6 
Impairment of assets on creation of disposal group  
 held for sale 4 – – – – (16.0) (16.0)
Finance costs 5 (20.6) – (20.6) (22.4) – (22.4)
Other finance expense – pensions 5 – – – (0.5) – (0.5)
Share of associate's and joint venture's net (loss)/profit 15 (0.2) – (0.2) 0.1 – 0.1 
Profit on sale of controlling interest 4,30 – 1.9 1.9 – – – 
Profit on disposal of joint venture 4 – – – – 2.0 2.0 
Profit before tax 78.9 (1.1) 77.8 73.8 4.0 77.8 
Tax expense 6 (22.0) 1.7 (20.3) (20.9) (4.4) (25.3)
Profit for the year 56.9 0.6 57.5 52.9 (0.4) 52.5 
Profit attributable to equity shareholders 56.9 0.6 57.5 52.6 1.4 54.0 
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests – – – 0.3 (1.8) (1.5)
Group profit for the year 56.9 0.6 57.5 52.9 (0.4) 52.5 
2011 2010
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (pence) 9 43.2 40.6 
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 9 42.3 40.2 
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence)* 9 47.1 44.5 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence)* 9 46.2 44.0 
2011 2010
Dividends
Proposed final dividend (£m) 7 18.9 18.1 
Interim dividend paid (£m) 7 7.3 7.0 
Proposed final dividend (pence) 7 14.2 13.6 
Interim dividend paid (pence) 7 5.5 5.3 
The consolidated income statement relates to continuing operations.
*  Adjusted earnings per share calculations are presented to give an indication of the underlying operational performance of the Group. The calculations exclude exceptional 
items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest in relation to the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme, the latter being highly dependent upon market 
assumptions at 31 March each year.
Consolidated income statement
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Year ended 31 March 2011
Note 2011 2010
Profit for the year 57.5 52.5 
Net investment hedges:
Exchange differences on foreign currency net investments (3.0) (13.9)
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings designated as net investment hedges 1.0 6.0 
(2.0) (7.9)
Actuarial gains/(losses) 21 60.6 (117.7)
Amounts reclassified to profit and loss on sale of controlling interest (1.7) – 
Cash flow hedges – reclassification adjustment for gains in income statement 9.0 10.6 
Cash flow hedges – losses recognised in other comprehensive income (7.9) (14.2)
Exchange difference on investment in associate 0.1 – 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 6 (15.9) 34.3 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss) for the year, net of tax 42.2 (94.9)
Total comprehensive gain/(loss) for the year, net of tax 99.7 (42.4)
Attributable to owners of the parent 99.9 (40.7)
Attributable to non-controlling interests (0.2) (1.7) Year ended 31 March 2011
56 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Consolidated Parent Company
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 284.3 271.6 – – 
Goodwill 12 335.5 336.8 – – 
Intangible assets 13 179.8 186.0 – – 
Investments 14 – – 477.8 476.8 
Investment in associate using equity method 15 1.0 – – – 
Deferred consideration 30 1.4 – – – 
Financial assets – Derivative financial instruments 18 18.0 25.4 16.4 25.4 
820.0 819.8 494.2 502.2 
Current assets
Inventories 16 164.5 153.7 – – 
Trade and other receivables 17 147.1 135.5 158.6 157.7 
Financial assets – Derivative financial instruments 18 1.0 0.1 – – 
Cash and short-term deposits 19 49.9 20.0 – –
362.5 309.3 158.6 157.7 
Assets in disposal group held for sale 8 – 18.8 – – 
Total assets 1 1,182.5 1,147.9 652.8 659.9 
Equity and liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities – Long-term borrowings 20 (305.3) (382.9) (298.2) (373.4)
  – Derivative financial instruments 20 (3.1) (3.7) (3.1) (3.7)
Retirement benefit obligations 21 (60.1) (142.4) – – 
Deferred tax liability 6 (86.3) (65.8) (0.2) (0.2)
Deferred income 23 (7.5) (7.3) – – 
(462.3) (602.1) (301.5) (377.3)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 (271.3) (230.3) (8.2) (8.0)
Financial liabilities  – Short-term borrowings 20 (68.0) (2.3) (65.5) – 
  – Derivative financial instruments 20 (0.5) (0.4) – – 
Current tax liability (4.0) (4.5) – – 
Deferred income 23 (0.6) (0.6) – – 
Provisions 24 (10.3) (7.3) – – 
(354.7) (245.4) (73.7) (8.0)
Liabilities associated with disposal group held for sale 8 – (7.6) – – 
Total liabilities (817.0) (855.1) (375.2) (385.3)
Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares (33.3) (33.3) (33.3) (33.3)
Share premium (70.8) (70.7) (70.8) (70.7)
Interest in ESOP 0.6 0.7 – – 
Other reserves 26 (64.1) (66.4) (153.4) (152.0)
Retained earnings (197.9) (120.1) (20.1) (18.6)
Total shareholders' equity (365.5) (289.8) (277.6) (274.6)
Non-controlling interests – (3.0) – – 
Total equity (365.5) (292.8) (277.6) (274.6)
Total equity and liabilities (1,182.5) (1,147.9) (652.8) (659.9)
Mark Allen, Chief Executive
Alastair Murray, Finance Director
The financial statements were approved by the directors on 18 May 2011.
Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets Year ended 31 March 2011
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 57
The numbers
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Attributable to owners of the parent
2011
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Interest
in ESOP
£m
Other
reserves*
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Non-
controlling
interest
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 31 March 2010 33.3 70.7 (0.7) 66.4 120.1 289.8 3.0 292.8 
Profit for the year – – – – 57.5 57.5 – 57.5 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):
Net investment hedges – – – (1.8) – (1.8) (0.2) (2.0)
Cash flow hedges – – – 1.1 – 1.1 – 1.1 
Amounts reclassified to profit and  
 loss on sale of controlling interest – – – (1.7) – (1.7) – (1.7)
Actuarial gains – – – – 60.6 60.6 – 60.6 
Exchange difference on investment  
 in associate – – – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1 
Tax on components of other  
 comprehensive income – – – – (15.9) (15.9) – (15.9)
Other comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – (2.3) 44.7 42.4 (0.2) 42.2 
Total comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – (2.3) 102.2 99.9 (0.2) 99.7 
Disposal of non-controlling interest – – – – – – (2.8) (2.8)
Issue of share capital – 0.1 – – – 0.1 – 0.1 
Purchase of shares by ESOP – – (0.2) – – (0.2) – (0.2)
Exercise of options – – 0.3 – (0.3) – – –
Share based payments – – – – 1.3 1.3 – 1.3 
Equity dividends – – – – (25.4) (25.4) – (25.4)
At 31 March 2011 33.3 70.8 (0.6) 64.1 197.9 365.5 – 365.5 
2010
At 31 March 2009 33.3 70.7 (1.9) 76.5 173.7 352.3 4.7 357.0 
Profit for the year – – – – 54.0 54.0 (1.5) 52.5 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):
Net investment hedges – – – (7.5) – (7.5) (0.4) (7.9)
Cash flow hedges – – – (3.6) – (3.6) – (3.6)
Actuarial losses – – – – (117.9) (117.9) 0.2 (117.7)
Tax on components of other  
 comprehensive income – – – 1.0 33.3 34.3 – 34.3 
Other comprehensive loss – – – (10.1) (84.6) (94.7) (0.2) (94.9)
Total comprehensive loss – – – (10.1) (30.6) (40.7) (1.7) (42.4)
Exercise of options – – 1.2 – (1.2) – – –
Share based payments – – – – 2.4 2.4 – 2.4 
Tax on share based payments – – – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 
Equity dividends – – – – (24.3) (24.3) – (24.3)
At 31 March 2010 33.3 70.7 (0.7) 66.4 120.1 289.8 3.0 292.8 
* Further details are provided in Note 26. Year ended 31 March 2011
58 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
2011
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Capital
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Other
reserve*
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
At 31 March 2010 33.3 70.7 142.7 0.6 8.7 18.6 274.6 
Profit for the year – – – – – 26.6 26.6 
Other comprehensive gain:
Cash flow hedges – – – 0.4 – – 0.4 
Related tax – – – – – – –
Other comprehensive gain – – – 0.4 – – 0.4 
Total comprehensive gains – – – 0.4 – 26.6 27.0 
Issue of share capital – 0.1 – – – – 0.1 
Share based payments – – – – 1.0 0.3 1.3 
Equity dividends – – – – – (25.4) (25.4)
At 31 March 2011 33.3 70.8 142.7 1.0 9.7 20.1 277.6 
2010
At 31 March 2009 33.3 70.7 142.7 2.3 6.8 49.4 305.2 
Loss for the year – – – – – (7.0) (7.0)
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):
Cash flow hedges – – – (2.3) – – (2.3)
Related tax – – – 0.6 – – 0.6 
Other comprehensive loss – – – (1.7) – – (1.7)
Total comprehensive loss – – – (1.7) – (7.0) (8.7)
Share based payments – – – – 1.9 0.5 2.4 
Equity dividends – – – – – (24.3) (24.3)
At 31 March 2010 33.3 70.7 142.7 0.6 8.7 18.6 274.6 
*  Other reserve represents the share based payment credit in respect of amounts capitalised as investments (see Note 14).
Parent Company statement of changes in equity Year ended 31 March 2011
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 59
The numbers
Consolidated and Parent Company statement of cash flows
Consolidated Parent Company
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Cash generated from operations 33 128.1 145.9 – – 
Dividends received from joint ventures – 0.1 – – 
Interest paid (19.8) (22.1) – – 
Taxation paid (16.1) (10.5) – – 
Net cash flow from operating activities 92.2 113.4 – – 
Cash flow from investing activities
Capital expenditure (49.3) (26.9) – – 
Grants received 23 0.8 – – – 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.5 10.2 – – 
Purchase of businesses (net of cash and debt acquired) 30 (0.1) (1.9) – – 
Sale of investment in joint venture – 1.2 – – 
Sale of businesses 30 4.0 1.2 – – 
Amounts received from subsidiaries – – 25.4 151.0 
Net cash (used)/generated in investing activities (42.1) (16.2) 25.4 151.0 
Cash flow from financing activities
Net repayment of borrowings under revolving credit facilities – (150.6) – (127.0)
Dividends paid 7 (25.4) (24.3) (25.4) (24.3)
Purchase of shares by ESOP 26 (0.2) – – – 
Proceeds from issue of shares (net of issue costs) 25 0.1 – – – 
Finance lease repayments 34 (2.2) (2.0) – – 
Net cash used in financing activities (27.7) (176.9) (25.4) (151.3)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 22.4 (79.7) – (0.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 34 27.5 107.5 – 0.3 
Exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents 34 – (0.3) – – 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 34 49.9 27.5 – – 
Analysed: Reported as cash and cash equivalents 19 49.9 20.0 – – 
 Reported as part of disposal group 8 – 7.5 – – 
Memo: Net debt at end of year 34 (311.6) (337.2) (351.9) (352.9) Year ended 31 March 2011
60 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Potentially, the most significant change for the Group in future will be 
the application of IFRS 3 (revised).
The key features of the revised IFRS 3 include a requirement for 
acquisition-related costs to be expensed and not included in the 
purchase price and for contingent consideration to be recognised  
at fair value on the acquisition date (with subsequent changes 
recognised in the income statement and not as a change to 
goodwill). The standard also changes the treatment of non-controlling 
interests with an option to recognise these at fair value as at the 
acquisition date and a requirement for previously held non-controlling 
interests to be fair valued as at the date control is obtained, with 
gains and losses recognised in the income statement. 
IAS 27 (revised) no longer restricts the allocation to non-controlling 
interest of losses incurred by a subsidiary to the amount of the 
minority equity investment in the subsidiary. 
Any future partial disposal of an equity interest in a subsidiary that 
does not result in a loss of control will be accounted for as an equity 
transaction and will have no impact on goodwill, nor will it give rise  
to any gain or loss. Where there is loss of control of a subsidiary,  
any retained interest will have to be re-measured to fair value, which 
will impact the gain or loss recognised on disposal.
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards (with an 
effective date after the date of these accounts) and interpretations:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRSs)
IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 
(not yet endorsed by the EU) (effective from 1 January 2013)
IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements (not yet endorsed by 
the EU) (effective from 1 January 2013)
IFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements (not yet endorsed by the EU) (effective 
from 1 January 2013)
IFRS 12 – Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities (not yet endorsed 
by the EU) (effective from 1 January 2013)
IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement (not yet endorsed by the EU) 
(effective from 1 January 2013)
IFRS 7 – Amendments to IFRS 7: Disclosures – Transfers of Financial 
Assets (not yet endorsed by the EU) (effective 1 July 2011)
IAS 12 – Amendments to IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ – deferred tax: 
recovery of underlying assets (not yet endorsed by the EU) (effective 
1 January 2012)
IAS 24 – Related Party Disclosures (Revised) (effective 1 January 2011)
Improvements to IFRS (issued April 2010)
International Financial Reporting Interpretations  
Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 14 – Amendment to IFRIC 14 – Prepayments of a Minimum 
Funding Requirement (effective 1 January 2011)
IFRIC 19 – Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 
(effective 1 July 2010)
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards 
and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s 
financial statements in the period of initial application.
Consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy 
Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 March each year 
using consistent accounting policies. All intercompany balances and 
transactions, including unrealised profits and losses arising from 
intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full. 
Basis of preparation
The consolidated and Company financial statements are presented in 
Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million (£ million) 
except where otherwise indicated.
The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European 
Union (‘EU’). The Company financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The 
Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under 
section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual 
income statement and related notes.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant  
risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities within the next financial year are (i) the 
measurement of the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 
and (ii) the measurement of defined benefit pension scheme assets 
and obligations.
(i) The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual 
basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated. The assessment 
of value in use is compared to the carrying value of assets including 
intangible assets being principally brands. This requires estimation  
of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
(ii) Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires 
estimation of future changes in inflation, mortality rates, the expected 
return on plan assets and the choice of a suitable discount rate.
Further analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty and 
sensitivities are included in the relevant notes to the accounts.
The key judgements made by management in the process of 
applying the Group accounting policies are those used to determine 
whether certain individual operating segments meet all of the 
aggregation criteria set out in IFRS 8 when aggregated for external 
reporting purposes. Those segments that have been aggregated and 
a description of the key judgements made in reaching that conclusion 
are set out in Note 1 of the accounts. 
 
Changes in accounting policies
The following accounting standards and interpretations became 
effective for the current reporting period:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRSs)
IFRS 2 – Amendments to IFRS 2 – Group Cash-settled Share-based 
Payment Transactions (effective from 1 January 2010)
IFRS 3 – Business Combinations (revised January 2008) (effective 
from 1 July 2009)
IAS 27 – Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (revised 
January 2008) (effective from 1 July 2009)
IAS 32 – Amendment to IAS 32: Classification of Rights Issues 
(effective from 1 February 2010)
IAS 39 – Eligible Hedged Items (effective from 1 July 2009)
Improvements to IFRSs (issued April 2009)
International Financial Reporting Interpretations  
Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 17 – Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners (effective 
from 1 July 2009)
The application of these standards and interpretations has not had  
a material effect on the net assets, result and disclosures of the 
Group in the year ended 31 March 2011.
Accounting policies The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 61
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost comprises the 
purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the 
asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of 
operating in the manner intended by management. Depreciation is 
calculated to write off the cost (less residual value) of property, plant 
and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line basis over 
the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:
Freehold buildings: 25 years
Leasehold land and buildings:  25 years or, if shorter,  
the period of the lease
Office equipment: 4 to 6 years
Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years
Vehicles: 4 to 10 years
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for 
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. If the carrying value 
exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down  
to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of plant and 
equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value in 
use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate 
largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset  
belongs. Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated  
income statement.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon 
disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise 
from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on 
derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated income 
statement in the year that it is derecognised. 
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period 
of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the 
cost of the respective assets. 
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period 
they occur.
Investments
The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost 
being the fair value of consideration paid, less provisions for 
impairment where appropriate.
Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations from 1 April 2010 are accounted for using the 
acquisition method (previously used the purchase method). The cost 
of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount 
of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The choice of 
measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at the 
proportionate share of acquiree’s identifiable net assets is determined 
on a transaction by transaction basis. Acquisition costs incurred are 
expensed to profit and loss.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the cost  
of the acquisition (see above) less net identifiable amounts of the 
assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the 
Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the date 
on which control is transferred to the Group. Subsidiaries continue  
to be consolidated until the date that control ceases. 
Where the Group ceases to control a subsidiary, it (i) derecognises 
the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary;  
(ii) derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest; 
(iii) derecognises the cumulative translation differences on net assets 
and borrowings designated as net investment hedges, previously 
recorded in other comprehensive income; (iv) recognises the fair 
value of any investment or associate retained; and (v) recognises  
any surplus or deficit in the consolidated income statement, and (vi) 
reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously recognised 
in other comprehensive income or retained earnings as appropriate.
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not 
attributable, directly or indirectly, to the parent company and are 
presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance  
sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.  
At 31 March 2010, non-controlling interests represent the 20% 
interest in Wexford Creamery Limited not held by the Group.
Interest in associates 
The Group’s investments in associates are accounted for under the 
equity method of accounting. Associates are entities over which the 
Group exerts significant influence. The Company and its associates 
use consistent accounting policies. The investment in associates are 
carried in the balance sheet at initial fair value plus post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of net assets, less any impairment in 
value and any distributions received. The consolidated income 
statement reflects the share of the post-tax results of associates. 
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the 
associates’ other comprehensive income or equity, the Group 
recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when 
applicable in other comprehensive income.
Foreign currency translation 
The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group  
plc and its United Kingdom (‘UK’) subsidiaries is Sterling (£).  
The functional currency of St Hubert SAS, a subsidiary company 
incorporated in France, is the Euro. 
Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the functional 
currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
Sterling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences on 
monetary items are taken to the income statement, except where 
recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow 
hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. 
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are 
translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates. The results of 
foreign subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at average rates of 
exchange for the year (being an approximation of actual exchange 
rates). Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the  
net investment in foreign subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, 
less exchange differences on borrowings, which finance or provide  
a hedge against those undertakings are taken to a separate 
component of equity as long as IFRS hedge accounting conditions 
are met. Exchange differences relating to foreign currency 
borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign 
entity remain in equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which 
time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.  62 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Accounting policies continued
Intangible assets generated internally comprise software 
development expenditure. Software development is carried at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and is amortised over four to seven 
years. Internally generated intangible assets that are not yet available 
for use are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the 
cash-generating unit level or more frequently if events or changes  
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Research and development
Expenditure on research is written off as incurred. Development 
expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future 
recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as 
required by IAS 38: Intangible Assets.
Recoverable amount of non-current assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any 
indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of 
impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of recoverable 
amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired and is written 
down to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the 
higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs  
to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, 
unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials (on a first in first  
out basis), direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads 
based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing each 
product to its present location and condition. Net realisable value is 
the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less 
estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original 
invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.  
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the  
full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off  
when identified.
Assets in disposal groups classified as held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for 
sale only if available for immediate sale in their present condition;  
a sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within one 
year from the date of classification. Such assets are measured at the 
lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are not 
depreciated or amortised.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and 
short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
For the purposes of the Consolidated cash flow statement, cash and 
cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined 
above, net of bank overdrafts.
Interest-bearing loans
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of  
the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the 
borrowing. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking  
into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on 
settlement. Gains and losses are recognised in net profit or loss 
when the liabilities are derecognised.
business combination. Previously cost of goodwill was the excess  
of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s (acquirer’s) 
interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities. 
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment 
annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. All goodwill was 
tested for impairment at the time of transition to IFRS and no 
impairment was identified.
Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition  
to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date and is not 
subsequently amortised.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the 
cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units expected to 
benefit from the combination’s synergies. Impairment is determined 
by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to 
which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the 
cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment 
loss is recognised. Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating 
unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the 
goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in  
the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain  
or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this 
circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of  
the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating  
unit retained.
The Group’s cash-generating units, for the purpose of considering 
goodwill, are ‘Liquid Products’, ‘Customer Direct’ (previously 
Household), ‘UK Spreads’, ‘St Hubert’ and ‘Cheese’. These represent 
the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for management 
purposes and are no larger than the Group’s operating segments.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been 
charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off against 
reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the 
business sold.
The Group has not restated business combinations prior to the 
transition date of 1 April 2004. Acquisitions prior to this date are 
recorded under previous accounting rules. 
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are 
capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value can 
be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future expected 
economic benefits flow to the Group. Following initial recognition,  
the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any 
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. 
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite  
or indefinite. Currently, all the Group’s intangible assets have finite 
useful lives and are amortised over 3 to 25 years. Acquired intangible 
assets principally comprise acquired brands and they have useful 
lives as follows:
St Hubert 25 years
Le Fleurier 15 years
Vallé 15 years
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, 
where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.  The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 63
Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an 
employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to  
be non-vesting conditions. Like market performance conditions, 
non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the 
grant date fair value.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured 
by reference to the fair value and is recognised as an expense over 
the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant 
employees became fully entitled to the award. At each balance  
sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, 
representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and 
management’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest. The movement in cumulative expense since 
the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income 
statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or 
non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of 
whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, 
provided that all other performance or service conditions are satisfied.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled (including when a 
non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee is 
not met), it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, 
and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the 
award is expensed immediately.
Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over equity 
instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in the 
Company’s balance sheet.
Employees’ Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’)
The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees’ 
Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy Long Term Incentive Share 
Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in arriving at 
shareholders’ equity. Consideration received from the sale of such 
shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or loss recognised  
in the consolidated income statement.
The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to  
apply IFRS 2 Share-based payments only to awards made after  
7 November 2002. 
Leased assets
Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the Group 
substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the 
leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value 
of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum 
lease payments. The net present value of future lease rentals is 
included as a liability on the balance sheet. The interest element of 
lease rentals is charged to the consolidated income statement in the 
year. Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and 
benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. 
Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Revenue
Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on 
delivery. Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods 
net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating 
sales within the Group. 
Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s right to receive 
payment is established.
Net debt
The Group and Company define net debt as cash and cash 
equivalents, interest-bearing loans and finance leases. The 
calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments with the exception of cross-currency swaps to fix foreign 
currency debt in Sterling where they are designated as cash flow 
hedges. In this case the fixed Sterling debt, not the underlying foreign 
currency debt retranslated, is included in net debt. It includes any 
cash or borrowings included within disposal groups classified as held 
for sale.
Retirement benefit obligations
The asset or liability in respect of defined benefit schemes is the 
present value of the relevant defined benefit obligation at the balance 
sheet date less the fair value of plan assets and an adjustment for 
past service costs not yet recognised. The independent actuary 
completes a full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest Group pension 
fund triennially. The obligation is updated annually for financial 
reporting purposes by the actuary using the projected unit credit 
method. The present value of the obligation is determined by the 
estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality 
corporate bonds, which have terms to maturity approximating the 
terms of the related liability. 
The current service costs and any curtailment gains are recognised 
in operating costs in the consolidated income statement, classified  
as cost of sales, distribution costs or administrative expenses 
depending upon which area of the business active members are 
employed in. Past service costs are included in operating costs 
where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on  
a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The expected return  
on assets of funded defined benefit schemes and the interest on 
pension scheme liabilities comprise the finance element of the 
pension cost and the difference between these amounts is included 
in other finance income or costs. Actuarial gains and losses arising 
from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions 
are recognised in full and are charged or credited to other 
comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The recognition of any future retirement benefit surplus, as calculated 
by the actuary as part of the annual update for reporting purposes,  
is limited to the present value, using an appropriate discount rate,  
of any real cash benefit the Company will obtain in the future through 
either potential reduced contributions or cash (net of taxes or costs) 
on a winding up of the scheme. In order to calculate the potential 
future benefits, or to establish whether a liability needs to be 
established under IFRIC 14, consideration is given to any minimum 
funding requirements agreed between the Company and the  
Pension Trustee.
Contributions to the Dairy Crest defined contribution pension scheme 
are charged as an expense as they fall due. Any contributions unpaid 
at the balance sheet date are included as an accrual at that date.  
The Group has no further payment obligations once contributions 
have been paid.
Share based payments
Equity based performance payments
The Group and Company has issued equity-settled share based 
payment schemes for which they receive services from employees  
in consideration for the equity instrument. Equity-settled share based 
payment schemes are measured at fair value at the grant date by an 
external valuer using an appropriate pricing model. In valuing 
equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and 
performance (vesting conditions), other than performance conditions 
linked to the price of the shares of the Company (market conditions).  64 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Accounting policies continued
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or 
part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Deferred income 
tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability 
is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
are offset only if a legal enforcement right exists to set off current tax 
assets against current tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate 
to the same taxation authority and that authority permits the Group to 
make a single net payment.
Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income if it 
relates to items that are charged or credited to other comprehensive 
income. Similarly, income tax is charged or credited directly to equity 
if it relates to items that are credited or charged directly to equity. 
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets
The Group and Company classifies financial assets that are within the 
scope of IAS 39 as: 
– financial assets at fair value through profit and loss;
– loans and receivables; 
– held-to-maturity investments; or 
– as available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.  
The Group and Company determines the classification of financial 
assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each 
financial year-end. When financial assets are recognized initially, they 
are measured at fair value.
Derivative instruments
The Group and Company use derivative financial instruments such  
as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and interest 
rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and foreign 
currency fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially 
recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured to fair value 
at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference 
to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity 
profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap and cross-currency swap 
contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar 
instruments and specific valuations performed by counterparties  
at the balance sheet date.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either:
•  fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes in 
the fair value of a recognised asset or liability;
•  cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in 
cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated 
with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast 
transaction, or a firm commitment in relation to foreign exchange 
exposure; or
•  net investment hedges where they hedge the exposure to 
variability in the translated net assets of an overseas operation.
Neither the Group nor the Company has entered into any fair value 
hedges during the year.
Other income
Other income comprises the profit on disposal of closed sites and 
Customer Direct depots. 
Exceptional items
Certain items are recorded separately in the consolidated income 
statement as exceptional. Only items of a material, one-off nature, 
which result from a restructuring of the business or some other event 
or circumstance are disclosed in this manner in order to give a better 
understanding of the underlying operational performance of the 
Group. The profits arising on disposal of closed sites, other than as a 
result of depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional items. 
Government and other grants
Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value where 
there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all 
attaching conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates  
to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods 
necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that 
it is intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to an asset, the 
fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is released to 
the consolidated income statement over the expected useful life of 
the relevant asset in equal annual instalments.
Income tax
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount 
expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, 
based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the 
balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, except 
as indicated below.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences except:
•  where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial 
recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and,  
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting  
profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
•  in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint 
ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the 
temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and 
unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit 
will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, 
the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can  
be utilised except:
•  where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset 
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, 
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit 
nor taxable profit or loss; and 
•  in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint 
ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in 
the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised. The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 65
Cash flow hedges
In relation to cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge 
accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument 
that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly  
in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is 
recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
When the hedged firm commitment (in relation to foreign exchange 
exposure) or the highly probable forecast transactions results in the 
recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, then, at the time  
the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses  
that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive  
income are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition  
cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability. For all other 
cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in other 
comprehensive income are transferred to the consolidated income 
statement in the same year in which the hedged item affects the net 
profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs, 
interest payments are made or when debt matures. For derivatives 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising 
from changes in fair value are taken directly to the consolidated 
income statement for the year. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
Where the Group hedges net investments in overseas entities 
through currency borrowings, the gains and losses on retranslation  
of those borrowings are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
If the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective 
portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income, 
with any ineffective portion being recognised in the consolidated 
income statement whenever applicable. Gains and losses 
accumulated in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the 
consolidated income statement on disposal of the foreign entity.
In order to satisfy hedge accounting, the Group (or Company) 
documents in advance the relationship between the item being 
hedged and the hedging instrument. The Group (or Company) also 
documents and demonstrates an assessment of the relationship 
between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which  
shows that the hedge has been and will be highly effective on an 
ongoing basis. The effectiveness testing is re-performed on a  
regular basis (being at least half-yearly) to ensure that the hedge 
remains highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for 
hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is 
retained in other comprehensive income until the highly probable 
forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in 
other comprehensive income is transferred to the consolidated 
income statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host 
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and 
the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains  
or losses reported in the income statement. When the contracts are 
closely related and hedge accounting is adopted, they are designated 
at inception and treated as described above. 66 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements
1 Segmental analysis
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be determined based on the Group’s internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(‘CODM’). The CODM has been determined to be the Company’s Board members as they are primarily responsible for the allocation  
of resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments. 
The CODM uses trading profit, as reviewed at monthly business review meetings, as the key measure of the segment’s results as it reflects  
the segment’s underlying trading performance for the period under evaluation. Trading profit is a consistent measure within the Group and  
the reporting of this measure at the monthly business review meetings, which are organised according to the product types, has been used  
to identify and determine the Group’s operating segments. Trading profit is defined as profit on operations before exceptional items and 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets, but includes the Group share of post-tax profit of associates and joint ventures.
The Group’s operating segments are ‘Cheese’, ‘UK Spreads’, ‘St Hubert’, ‘Liquid Products’, ‘Customer Direct’ (previously Household), ‘Share 
of Associates and Joint Ventures’ and ‘Other’. Certain of these operating segments have been aggregated and the Group reports on five 
continuing segments within the business: ‘Cheese’, ‘Spreads’, ‘Dairies’, ‘Share of Associates and Joint Ventures’ and ‘Other’.
For Group reporting purposes, the UK Spreads and St Hubert segments have been aggregated into one reportable segment being Spreads. 
Both of these segments operate within Western Europe where long-term GDP growth rates and spreads market growth rates are similar.  
Both manufacture predominantly branded dairy spreads, using similar production methods with a significant investment in advertising and 
promotion. The two businesses have margins consistent with predominantly branded products. The key input risks faced by both businesses 
are similar (vegetable oil, packaging costs). The majority of sales are to major multiple retailers and distribution methods are similar. Having 
considered these factors, management have judged that the IFRS 8 aggregation criteria for these businesses have been met and that 
aggregation is appropriate.
Furthermore, the Liquid Products and Customer Direct segments have been aggregated into one reportable segment being Dairies.  
The Liquid Products and Customer Direct businesses operate in the UK and both generate the majority of their revenue from selling fresh  
milk, a commodity product characterised by lower margins than branded products. Many aspects of these businesses are managed on a 
combined basis, namely milk sourcing, production volumes, demand planning, technical, quality and distribution. Our dairies process and 
pack milk for both businesses. Both businesses exhibit similar gross margins. The two segments supply milk to a wide range of customers 
from major multiple retailers through foodservice, bottled milk buyers and doorstep customers. Certain customers are supplied by both 
businesses and doorstep customers (and resultant bad debt risks) only represent a small proportion of combined revenue. Having  
considered these factors, management have judged that the IFRS 8 aggregation criteria for these businesses have been met and that 
aggregation is appropriate.
The Cheese segment has not been aggregated with any other segment. This business manufactures predominantly branded cheese in the 
UK and sells mainly to retail customers.
Share of Associates and Joint Ventures forms a separate segment whose results are reviewed on a post-tax basis consistent with IFRS.  
The results of this segment are now insignificant following the Group’s disposal of its 49% share of Yoplait Dairy Crest Limited in March 2009. 
The Other segment comprises revenue earned from distributing product for third parties and certain central costs net of recharges to the 
operating segments. Generally, all central costs less external Other revenue are recharged back into operating segments such that their result 
reflects the total cost base of the Group. Other segment profit therefore is nil.
  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 67
The numbers
1 Segmental analysis continued
The segment results for the year ended 31 March 2011 and for the year ended 31 March 2010 and the reconciliation of segment measures  
to the respective statutory items included in the financial statements are as follows:
Year ended 31 March
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Segment external revenue
Cheese 223.1 260.0 
Spreads 285.5 277.7 
Dairies 1,089.8 1,081.2 
Other 6.1 10.8 
Total segment external revenue 1,604.5 1,629.7 
Segment profit 
Cheese 28.0 16.9 
Spreads 53.3 54.0 
Dairies 27.1 34.9 
Share of associates and joint ventures' net profit 15 (0.2) 0.1 
Total segment profit 108.2 105.9 
Finance costs 5 (20.6) (22.4)
Adjusted profit before tax 87.6 83.5 
Acquired intangible amortisation 13 (8.7) (9.2)
Exceptional items 4 (1.1) 4.0 
Other finance expense – pensions 5 – (0.5)
Group profit before tax 77.8 77.8 
Segment total assets
Cheese 199.6 211.8 
Spreads 507.3 511.8 
Dairies 370.2 347.2 
Share of associates and joint ventures 2.4 –
Other 34.1 31.6 
Group 1,113.6 1,102.4 
Unsegmented assets 68.9 45.5 
Total assets 1,182.5 1,147.9 
Inter-segment revenue
Cheese 7.4 6.3 
Spreads 8.4 4.1 
Dairies – –
Elimination (15.8) (10.4)
Total – – 68 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
1 Segmental analysis continued
Year ended 31 March
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Segment depreciation and amortisation (excluding amortisation of acquired intangible assets)
Cheese 5.5 5.8 
Spreads 6.2 7.2 
Dairies 19.8 20.9 
Other 3.0 4.9 
Total 3 34.5 38.8 
Segment additions to non-current assets
Cheese 7.4 4.8 
Spreads 8.3 5.6 
Dairies 32.3 19.3 
Other 4.1 1.9 
Total 52.1 31.6 
Segment exceptional items
Cheese 1.9 (17.5)
Dairies (3.0) 1.0 
Pension curtailment gain (not segmented) – 16.3 
OFT settlement reduction (not segmented) – 2.2 
Share of associates and joint ventures – 2.0 
Total 4 (1.1) 4.0 
Interest income and expense are not included in the measure of segment profit reviewed by the CODM. Group treasury is centrally managed 
and external interest income and expense is mostly incurred in the UK and is not allocated to segments. Where interest is reviewed by the 
CODM it is done so on a net basis. Further analysis of the interest expense for the Group is provided in Note 5. 
Tax costs are not included in the measure of segment profit reviewed by the CODM. Group tax is centrally managed and the Group effective 
tax rate, not individual segment tax rates, is reported.
Segment assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, inventories, receivables, assets in disposal group held 
for sale and investments in associates and joint ventures using the equity method and deferred consideration but exclude cash and cash 
equivalents, derivative financial assets and deferred tax assets as these items are managed on a Group basis. Other segment assets 
comprise certain property, plant and equipment that is not reported in the segments. Total segment liabilities have not been presented as  
this measure is not regularly reviewed by or provided to the CODM.
Inter-segment revenue comprises the sale of finished Cheese and Spreads products to the Dairies segment on a cost plus basis and is 
included in the segment result. Other inter-segment transactions principally comprise sales of cream from the Dairies segment to the Spreads 
segment for the manufacture of butters. Cream sold into Spreads is priced by reference to external commodity markets and is adjusted 
regularly so as to reflect the costs that the Spreads segment would incur if it were a stand-alone entity. Revenue from inter-segment cream 
sales is not reported as revenue to the CODM but as a reduction to the Dairies segment’s input costs.
Segment depreciation and amortisation excludes amortisation of acquired intangible assets of £8.7 million (2010: £9.2 million) as these costs 
are not charged in the segment result.
Segment additions to non-current assets comprise additions to goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through capital 
expenditure and acquisition of businesses. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 69
The numbers
1 Segmental analysis continued
Geographical information
Year ended 31 March
External revenue attributed on basis of customer location
2011
£m
2010
£m
UK 1,429.6 1,495.4 
France 89.2 85.8 
Rest of world 85.7 48.5 
Total segment revenue (excluding joint ventures) 1,604.5 1,629.7 
Non-current assets* based on location
UK 433.6 416.9 
France 360.6 370.5 
Rest of world 6.4 7.0 
Total 800.6 794.4 
* Comprises property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets and investment in associates and joint ventures.
No individual customer contributes more than 10% of Group revenue (2010: none). The business segmentation above is based upon similar 
product groupings, namely cheese, spreads and liquids, and therefore any analysis of Group revenue by products and services is consistent 
with the revenue analysis presented above with the exception of non-milk product sales in the Dairies segment (through the Customer Direct 
division), which amounted to £112.3 million (2010: £113.3 million).
2  Operating costs
Year ended 31 March 2011 Year ended 31 March 2010
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Cost of sales 1,132.0 – 1,132.0 1,150.2 1.5 1,151.7 
Distribution costs 292.8 – 292.8 302.7 – 302.7 
Administrative expenses 81.8 3.0 84.8 83.6 (2.2) 81.4 
1,506.6 3.0 1,509.6 1,536.5 (0.7) 1,535.8 
3  Other income and expenses 
Year ended 31 March 2011 Year ended 31 March 2010
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Profit on disposal of Customer Direct depots 1.8 – 1.8 3.4 – 3.4 
Profit on disposal of closed sites (Note 4) – – – – 1.0 1.0 
1.8 – 1.8 3.4 1.0 4.4 
Pension curtailment gain (Note 4) – – – – 16.3 16.3 
The Group continues to rationalise its Customer Direct operations as a result of the ongoing decline in doorstep volumes. This rationalisation 
includes the closure of certain depots (the profit on which is shown above) and rationalisation of the ongoing Customer Direct operations. 
These activities represent a fundamental part of the ongoing ordinary activities of the Customer Direct operations.  70 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
3  Other income and expenses continued
Profit on operations is stated after (charging)/crediting
Year ended 
31 March 
2011
£m
Year ended 
31 March 
2010
£m
Release of grants 0.6 0.7 
Depreciation (30.9) (35.8)
Amortisation of intangibles – acquired (8.7) (9.2)
Amortisation of intangibles – internally generated (3.6) (3.0)
Operating lease rentals (31.1) (31.3)
Research and development expenditure (2.6) (2.2)
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense (1,123.3) (1,140.1)
Including: Write-down of inventories recognised as an expense (1.0) (1.4)
  Reversals of write-downs in inventories – 2.5 
Remuneration paid to auditors
Year ended 
31 March 
2011
£m
Year ended 
31 March 
2010
£m
Audit of the financial statements* 0.1 0.1 
Other fees: local statutory audits for subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 
  taxation services 0.3 0.1 
  other services 0.1 0.1 
* £10,000 (2010: £10,000) of this relates to the Company.
Other services in the year ended 31 March 2011 comprised governance assurance services for an IT systems project which will continue into 
2011/12 (2010: governance assurance services).
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual accounts  
of the Company because Group financial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Ernst & Young LLP are auditors of the Dairy Crest Pension Scheme. Fees paid by the pension scheme for audit services are not included in 
the above table.
4 Exceptional items
Exceptional items comprise those items that are material and one-off in nature that the Group believes should be separately disclosed to 
assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Year ended
31 March
2011
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2010
£m
Restructuring costs (Dairies) (3.0) – 
Duplicate running costs at National Distribution Centre (Cheese) – (1.5)
Reduction in estimated Office of Fair Trading ('OFT') settlement – 2.2 
Curtailment gain in UK defined benefit pension scheme – 16.3 
Profit on sale of closed Nottingham site – 1.0 
(3.0) 18.0 
Profit on disposal of controlling interest in Wexford Creamery Limited 1.9 – 
Impairment of disposal group held for sale – (16.0)
Profit on disposal of investment in Yoplait Dairy Crest Limited joint venture – 2.0 
(1.1) 4.0 
Tax relief/(charge) on exceptional items 1.7 (4.4)
0.6 (0.4) Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 71
The numbers
4 Exceptional items continued
Exceptional items in the year ended 31 March 2011 comprise:
–  £3.0 million of costs associated with the rationalisation of administration activities in the Customer Direct depot network. This restructure 
will result in more centralised back office activities supporting the depot network and generate significant savings. Most of the cost relates 
to redundancies (£2.5 million), but certain incremental running costs are being incurred (£0.5 million). Exceptional expenditure on this 
project is expected to total approximately £4 million in the year ending 31 March 2012.
–  On 12 June 2010 the Group sold 50% of the shares in Wexford Creamery Limited (‘WCL ’) for cash proceeds of €9 million, resulting in a 
30% shareholding post-disposal and a loss of controlling interest to Wexford Milk Producers (‘WMP’). At 31 March 2010, the assets and 
liabilities of WCL were disclosed as a disposal group held for sale and the carrying value of assets was impaired to reflect the estimated 
fair value less costs to sell. The final gain on  disposal of £1.9 million includes the reclassification to profit and loss of certain items 
previously taken to other comprehensive income and is further analysed in Note 30.
Exceptional items in the year ended 31 March 2010 comprised:
–  Our new cheese cutting and packing operation in Nuneaton became fully operational in the first half of that year. In 2008/09 and during 
the first half of 2009/10, volumes were being ramped up with additional packing being carried out by a third party. We incurred duplicate 
running costs during this time until the Nuneaton site was running at full capacity. In 2009/10 these costs amounted to £1.5 million.
–  Having closed our Nottingham dairy in 2008/09, the site was sold during the year for cash proceeds of £2.5 million  resulting in an 
exceptional profit of £1.0 million.
–  On 30 April 2010, the Office of Fair Trading (‘OFT’) announced that the parties to the 2007 Statement of Objections would get a penalty 
reduction provided each company continued to cooperate with the OFT. Accordingly, the provision was reduced to reflect our best 
estimate of the penalty ultimately payable along with any further professional fees. This resulted in an exceptional release of £2.2 million.
–  During the year, having consulted with employees, we closed the Dairy Crest defined benefit pension scheme to future service accrual 
with an effective date of April 2010. The closure of the scheme to future service accrual resulted in an exceptional curtailment gain of  
£16.9 million and significantly reduces future pension risks. Fees of £0.6 million were incurred resulting in a net exceptional credit of  
£16.3 million.
–  On disposal of our 49% share of Yoplait Dairy Crest (‘YDC’) in March 2009, the Group placed cash in an escrow account to cover the  
cost of closing the YDC defined benefit pension scheme. The final cost of closure was lower than anticipated and the Group received  
£2.0 million back from escrow (net of fees) during the year. The cash inflow of £1.2 million reflects professional fees and costs accrued at 
31 March 2009 but not settled until 2009/10.
–  We announced on 2 February 2010 our intention to sell a majority share of our investment in WCL, a cheese manufacturing business in 
Ireland. The sale had not been completed at 31 March 2010, however the assets and liabilities of WCL represented a disposal group held 
for sale at that date. The carrying value of WCL assets was impaired by £16.0 million to management’s best estimate of the business’s fair 
value less costs to sell. 
5 Finance costs and other finance expense
Finance costs
Year ended
31 March 
2011
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2010
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts (at amortised cost) (20.1) (21.9)
Interest expense on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit and loss (20.1) (21.9)
Unwind of discount on provisions (Note 24) (0.1) – 
Finance charges on finance leases (0.6) (0.7)
Total finance costs (20.8) (22.6)
Finance income on cash balances (financial assets not at fair value through profit and loss) 0.2 0.2 
Total net finance costs (20.6) (22.4)
Other finance expense – pensions
Year ended
31 March 
2011
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2010
£m
Expected return on defined benefit plan assets (Note 21) 45.4 39.0 
Interest cost on defined benefit obligation (Note 21) (45.4) (39.5)
– (0.5) 72 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
6 Tax expense
The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 March 2011 and 2010 are:
Consolidated income statement
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current income tax
   Current income tax charge at 28% (2010: 28%) 16.8 14.9 
   Adjustments in respect of previous years  – current tax (1.0) (1.3)
  – transfer from deferred tax (0.6) 0.5 
15.2 14.1 
Deferred income tax
   Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 4.7 11.7 
   Adjustment in respect of previous years  – deferred tax (0.2) – 
  – transfer to current tax 0.6 (0.5)
20.3 25.3 
Analysed: Before exceptional items 22.0 20.9 
  Exceptional items (1.7) 4.4 
20.3 25.3 
Reconciliation between tax expense and the profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit before tax 77.8 77.8 
Tax at UK statutory corporation tax rate of 28% (2010: 28%) 21.8 21.8 
Adjustments in respect of previous years (1.2) (1.3)
Adjustment for overseas profits taxed at different rates 2.1 1.7 
Adjustment in respect of associate's losses 0.1 – 
Deferred tax adjustment for change in UK corporation tax rate (28% to 26%) (1.1) – 
Non-deductible expenses 0.9 5.8 
Profits offset by available tax relief (2.3) (2.7)
At the effective rate of 26.1% (2010: 32.5%) 20.3 25.3 
The effective pre-exceptional rate of tax on Group profit before tax is 27.9% (2010: 28.3%).
A number of changes to the UK corporation tax system were announced in the June 2010 Budget Statement. The Finance (No 2) Act 2010 
included legislation to reduce the main rate of UK corporation tax from 28% to 27% effective from 1 April 2011. Following the Budget of  
23 March 2011, a further reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax was substantively enacted on 29 March 2011. This reduced the 
effective rate applicable from April 2011 to 26%. Since both of these reductions were substantially enacted at the 31 March 2011 balance 
sheet date, we have adjusted deferred tax balances to reflect the 26% rate. Note that substantial deferred tax liabilities in respect of  
St Hubert brands are calculated at the prevailing corporation tax rate in France and are therefore unaffected by these changes.
Further reductions to the main rate of UK corporation tax are proposed that will reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 23% by April 2014.  
These are expected to be separately enacted each year. We estimate that a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 23% would reduce  
the deferred tax liability by approximately £3.1 million.
Consolidated other comprehensive income
2011
£m
2010
£m
Deferred income tax related to items charged to other comprehensive income
   Tax charge/(relief) on actuarial gains and losses 15.9 (33.3)
   Valuation of financial instruments – (1.0)
15.9 (34.3)
Consolidated changes in equity
2011
£m
2010
£m
Deferred income tax related to items charged to changes in equity
   Share based payments – – 
Income tax credited to changes in equity
   Share based payments – (0.1)
– (0.1) Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 73
The numbers
6 Tax expense continued
Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax at 31 March 2011 and 2010 relates to the following:
Deferred tax liability
2011
£m
2010
£m
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes (41.3) (44.2)
Goodwill and intangible assets (63.4) (65.8)
Financial instruments valuation (0.3) (0.3)
(105.0) (110.3)
Deferred tax asset
Government grants 2.1 2.2 
Share based payments 0.4 0.4 
Pensions 15.6 39.9 
Other 0.6 2.0 
18.7 44.5 
Net deferred tax liability (86.3) (65.8)
Memo: Included in disposal group assets held for sale (Wexford, Ireland – Note 8) – 0.3 
Both the UK and France had net deferred tax liabilities at the end of both years. Where deferred tax assets and liabilities are in the same tax 
jurisdiction, they are netted off. Deferred tax assets and liabilities in separate jurisdictions are not netted.
The Company has a deferred tax liability of £0.2 million at 31 March 2011 (2010: £0.2 million). This relates to temporary differences in respect  
of financial instruments.
The movement on the net deferred tax balance is shown below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Opening net deferred tax liability (65.8) (90.8)
Charge to income statement (5.1) (11.2)
(Charge)/credit to other comprehensive income (15.9) 34.3 
Exchange impact 0.5 2.2 
Transferred to disposal group assets held for sale – (0.3)
Closing net deferred tax liability (86.3) (65.8)
The movement on deferred tax assets and liabilities is shown below:
Deferred tax liability
Deferred
tax asset
Accelerated
tax
depreciation
£m
Short-term
timing
differences
£m
Total
£m
Short-term
timing
differences
£m
Balances at 31 March 2010 (44.2) (21.6) (65.8) – 
Credit/(charge) to income statement: continuing operations 2.9 (8.0) (5.1) – 
Charge to other comprehensive income – (15.9) (15.9) – 
Exchange impact – 0.5 0.5 – 
Balances at 31 March 2011 (41.3) (45.0) (86.3) – 
Balances at 31 March 2009 (44.0) (47.2) (91.2) 0.4 
Charge to income statement (0.3) (10.9) (11.2) – 
Credit/(charge) to other comprehensive income – 34.4 34.4 (0.1)
Exchange impact 0.1 2.1 2.2 – 
Transferred to disposal group assets held for sale – – – (0.3)
Balances at 31 March 2010 (44.2) (21.6) (65.8) – 
The Group has capital losses which arose in the UK of £70.4 million (2010: £71.6 million) that are available indefinitely for offset against future 
taxable gains. Deferred tax has not been recognised in respect of these losses as there is no foreseeable prospect of their being utilised.  
The Group has realised capital gains amounting to £37.0 million (2010: £43.0 million) for which rollover relief claims have or are intended to  
be made.  74 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
7 Dividends paid and proposed
Declared and paid during the year
2011
£m
2010
£m
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
   Final dividend for 2010: 13.6 pence (2009: 13.0 pence) 18.1 17.3 
   Interim dividend for 2011: 5.5 pence (2010: 5.3 pence) 7.3 7.0 
25.4 24.3 
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognised as a liability at 31 March)
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
   Final dividend for 2011: 14.2 pence (2010: 13.6 pence) 18.9 18.1 
8 Disposal group held for sale at 31 March 2010
On 2 February 2010, the Group announced that it was in advanced discussions with Wexford Milk Producers to sell 50% of the shares in 
Wexford Creamery Limited which if successful, would result in Wexford Milk Producers becoming the majority shareholder in Wexford 
Creamery Limited. This transaction completed in June 2010 (see Note 30) but at 31 March 2010, the Wexford Creamery Limited assets and 
liabilities were disclosed as held in a disposal group held for sale.
The assets and liabilities of Wexford Creamery Limited comprised a disposal group held for sale and were separately identified as such at  
31 March 2010. The disposal group was analysed as follows:
Assets in disposal group held for sale £m
Deferred tax asset 0.3 
Investment in joint ventures 0.6 
Inventories 4.6 
Trade and other receivables 5.8 
Cash and short-term deposits 7.5 
18.8 
Liabilities associated with disposal group held for sale £m
Trade and other payables (4.7)
Retirement benefit obligations (2.0)
Deferred income (0.6)
Current tax liability (0.3)
(7.6)
On recognition of the disposal group held for sale, an impairment of £16.0 million was recognised against the previous carrying value of 
Wexford Creamery Limited’s net assets. This write-down was necessary to reduce the carrying value of the disposal group to the estimated 
fair value less costs to sell of the business calculated by reference to the proposed consideration of €9 million for 50% of the business 
adjusted for other costs, and fair value implications of the proposed divestment including options relating to the remaining 30% holding and 
proposed commercial agreements post completion. In the first instance, £2.6 million was allocated to property, plant and equipment to write 
down the carrying value to nil. The remaining £13.4 million impairment was allocated against inventories as there were no other scoped-in 
non-current assets against which to allocate the remaining impairment and inventories comprised the largest value current asset available  
for allocation. 
Inventories comprised principally maturing cheese stocks. The retirement benefit obligation related to the Wexford defined benefit pension 
scheme. The fair value of plan assets at 31 March 2010 was £10.2 million and the defined benefit obligation was £12.2 million resulting in a net 
scheme deficit of £2.0 million. 
Wexford Creamery Limited was reported within the Cheese segment. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 75
The numbers
9 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share (‘EPS’) on profit for the year is calculated by dividing profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Basic EPS is calculated on the basis of Group profit for the year less profit attributable to non-controlling interests divided by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the 
conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. 
The shares held by the Dairy Crest Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (‘ESOP’) are excluded from the weighted average number 
of shares in issue used in the calculation of earnings per share.
To show earnings per share on a consistent basis, which in the Directors’ opinion reflects the ongoing performance of the business more 
appropriately, adjusted earnings per share has been calculated. The computation for basic and diluted earnings per share (including adjusted 
earnings per share) is as follows:
Year ended 31 March 2011 Year ended 31 March 2010
Earnings
£m
Weighted
average
no of shares
million
Per share
amount
pence
Earnings
£m
Weighted
average
no of shares
million
Per share
amount
pence
Basic EPS on profit for the year
Net profit attributable to equity shareholders 57.5 133.2 43.2 54.0 133.0 40.6 
Effect of dilutive securities:
   Share options – 2.5 (0.9) – 1.4 (0.4)
Diluted EPS on profit for the year 57.5 135.7 42.3 54.0 134.4 40.2 
Adjusted basic EPS 
Basic EPS from continuing operations 57.5 133.2 43.2 54.0 133.0 40.6 
Exceptional items excluding non-controlling interests (net of tax) (0.6) – (0.5) 0.6 – 0.5 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (net of tax) 5.8 – 4.4 6.2 – 4.6 
Pension interest expense (net of tax) – – – 0.4 – 0.3 
Joint ventures’ exceptional items (net of tax) – – – (2.0) – (1.5)
Adjusted basic EPS 62.7 133.2 47.1 59.2 133.0 44.5 
Effect of dilutive securities:
   Share options – 2.5 (0.9) – 1.4 (0.5)
Adjusted diluted EPS 62.7 135.7 46.2 59.2 134.4 44.0 
There have been no transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of completion 
of these financial statements. 76 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
10 Remuneration of employees and key management personnel
Number of employees – Group
Year ended
31 March 
2011
number
Year ended
31 March 
2010
number
Average number of employees:
   Production 2,280 2,326 
   Sales, distribution and administration 4,259 4,921 
Total employees 6,539 7,247 
Remuneration of employees, including key management personnel
Year ended
31 March 
2011
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2010
£m
Wages and salaries 202.0 221.2 
Social security costs* 21.5 19.6 
Equity-settled share based payments expense (Note 27) 1.3 2.4 
Pension costs (Note 21) 7.8 11.6 
232.6 254.8 
*  Social security costs have increased principally due to the closure of the Group defined benefit pension scheme in March 2010 and resultant loss of the contracted out 
rebate with respect to national insurance.
The above costs include amounts paid to the Company’s executive and non-executive directors. Further analysis as follows:
Directors
Year ended
31 March 
2011
£000
Year ended
31 March 
2010
£000
Salaries and benefits 1,466 1,384 
Bonuses 628 1,065 
Fees to non-executive directors 314 364 
Emoluments 2,408 2,813 
Payments to defined contribution pension scheme – – 
Gain on exercise of options – 482 
Highest paid director
Salary and benefits 621 573 
Bonus 267 445 
Emoluments 888 1,018 
Defined benefit accrued pension * 35 64 
Gain on exercise of LTISP options – 127 
Further information relating to directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2011 is provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 38 to 44.
*  The defined benefit scheme closed to future accrual from 1 April 2010, although benefits continued to accrue up until November 2010 consistent with the notice period 
of 12 months from the date that the cessation of service accrual was made. The reduction in accrued pension reflects a one-off early retirement lump sum paid. Further 
details are included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 38. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 77
The numbers
11 Property, plant and equipment
Consolidated 2011
Land and
buildings
£m
Vehicles,
plant and
equipment
£m
Assets in
the course of
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2010 185.5 266.6 11.9 464.0 
Additions 3.0 21.0 20.6 44.6 
Disposals (1.0) (11.3) – (12.3)
Transfers and reclassifications 0.6 9.7 (10.3) – 
Exchange (0.2) (0.7) – (0.9)
At 31 March 2011 187.9 285.3 22.2 495.4 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2010 51.7 140.7 – 192.4 
Charge for the year 6.8 24.1 – 30.9 
Disposals (0.6) (11.0) – (11.6)
Exchange (0.1) (0.5) – (0.6)
At 31 March 2011 57.8 153.3 – 211.1 
Net book amount at 31 March 2011 130.1 132.0 22.2 284.3 
Consolidated 2010
Cost
At 1 April 2009 195.7 297.2 8.1 501.0 
Additions 2.9 9.3 11.3 23.5 
Acquisition of business – 0.8 – 0.8 
Disposals (8.8) (27.9) (0.5) (37.2)
Transfer to assets in disposal group held for sale (4.3) (18.1) – (22.4)
Transfers and reclassifications 0.4 6.6 (7.0) – 
Exchange (0.4) (1.3) – (1.7)
At 31 March 2010 185.5 266.6 11.9 464.0 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2009 53.4 155.5 – 208.9 
Charge for the year 6.8 29.0 – 35.8 
Disposals (5.6) (25.8) – (31.4)
Transfer to assets in disposal group held for sale (2.6) (17.2) – (19.8)
Exchange (0.3) (0.8) – (1.1)
At 31 March 2010 51.7 140.7 – 192.4 
Net book amount at 31 March 2010 133.8 125.9 11.9 271.6 
During the year ended 31 March 2010, the assets of Wexford Creamery Limited were transferred to a disposal group held for sale (see Note 8).
Capitalised leases included in vehicles, plant and equipment comprise:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Cost 32.3 35.7 
Accumulated depreciation (20.1) (22.1)
Net book amount 12.2 13.6  78 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
12 Goodwill
£m
Cost
At 31 March 2009 345.0 
Additions (Note 30) 1.7 
Exchange (7.6)
At 31 March 2010 339.1 
Additions (Note 30) 0.1 
Exchange (1.4)
At 31 March 2011 337.8 
Accumulated impairment
At 31 March 2009, 2010 and 2011 (2.3)
Net book amount at 31 March 2011 335.5 
Net book amount at 31 March 2010 336.8 
Impairment testing of goodwill
Acquired goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to five groups of cash generating units (‘CGUs’): Liquid Products, 
Customer Direct (formerly Household), UK Spreads, St Hubert and Cheese. 
All CGUs are tested for impairment annually by comparing the carrying amount of that CGU with its recoverable amount. Recoverable amount 
is determined based on a value-in-use calculation using cash flow projections based on financial budgets and strategic plans approved by 
senior management covering a three-year period and appropriate growth rates beyond that. The discount rate applied to the projections  
is 8.3% for UK Spreads and Cheese (2010: 8.5%), 9.1% for St Hubert (2010: 8.9%), 8.3% for Liquid Products (2010: 8.5%) and 8.7% for 
Customer Direct (2010: 9.2%). 
Discount rates are pre-tax and calculated by reference to average industry gearing levels, the cost of debt and the cost of equity based on the 
capital asset pricing model and CGU-specific risk factors. Discount rates have remained broadly in line with March 2010 as market conditions 
have not materially changed.
The growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period for UK Spreads, St Hubert, Liquid Products and Cheese is 2.0% 
pa (being the estimated UK and Euro zone long-term growth rate adjusted for industry growth rates and extrapolation risks). The growth rate 
used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period for the Customer Direct CGU is 0%. Management considers this a prudent 
assumption in the light of current milk&more opportunities in the Customer Direct business which is forecast to offset the historical doorstep 
decline rates beyond 2013/14.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to groups of CGUs at 31 March 2011 is:
Liquid Products £30.9 million (2010: £30.9 million)
Customer Direct £39.8 million (2010: £39.7 million)
UK Spreads £65.5 million (2010: £65.5 million)
St Hubert £197.2 million (2010: £198.6 million)
Cheese £2.1 million (2010: £2.1 million)
The key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations:
Gross margin – budgeted gross margins are based initially on actual margins achieved in the preceding year further adjusted for projected 
input and output price changes, volume changes, new initiatives and anticipated efficiency improvements. The budgeted margins form the 
basis for strategic plans, which incorporate longer-term market trends. 
Discount rates – reflect management’s estimate of the risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for each CGU.
Raw materials prices – budgets are prepared using the most up to date price and forecast price data available. This is based on forward 
prices in the market place adjusted for any contracted prices at the time of forecast. The key resources are milk, vegetable oils, fuel oil, diesel, 
gas and electricity and packaging costs.
Growth rate estimates – for periods beyond the length of the strategic plans, growth estimates are based upon published industry research 
adjusted downwards to reflect the risk of extrapolating growth beyond a three-year time frame. For the Customer Direct business, long-term 
rates of market decline as seen over recent years have been extrapolated forward offset by growth assumptions for milk&more.
The directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each CGU and to be realistically achievable in 
the light of economic and industry measures and forecasts. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 79
The numbers
12 Goodwill continued
2011 Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
With regard to the assessment of value in use of the UK Spreads, St Hubert and Cheese CGUs, management believes that no reasonably 
possible change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount. 
For the Customer Direct CGU, there are possible changes in key assumptions which could cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed  
its recoverable amount although management believes that the assumptions used in performing the impairment test for this business are 
cautious. The key assumption is future growth rates. Management has assumed no growth after year three in the value in use calculation. 
Should any decline in the Customer Direct CGU continue and be greater than 10% per annum beyond year three then the value in use for  
this CGU could be reduced to a value approximately equal to its carrying amount (2010: 12% per annum). The impairment headroom for the 
Customer Direct CGU is approximately £80 million (2010: £94 million).
For the Liquid Products CGU, there are possible changes in key assumptions which could cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed  
its recoverable amount although management believes that the assumptions used in performing the impairment test for this business are 
cautious. The key assumptions are future margins and discount rate. Management has assumed growth in margins over the next three years 
following a decline in the year ended 31 March 2011. Should margins reduce by 20% each year versus assumptions used for impairment 
testing, then the value in use for this CGU could be reduced to below its carrying amount. Management has assumed a discount rate of 8.3% 
in calculating value in use. Should the discount rate increase to 10% then the carrying value would exceed the CGUs recoverable amount.  
The impairment headroom for the Liquid Products CGU is approximately £40 million.
13 Intangible assets
Assets in
the course of
construction
£m
Internally
generated
£m
Acquired
intangibles
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 31 March 2009 6.8 10.1 212.2 229.1 
Additions – 5.6 – 5.6 
Transfers and reclassifications (6.8) 6.8 – – 
Exchange – – (7.8) (7.8)
At 31 March 2010 – 22.5 204.4 226.9 
Additions 7.4 – – 7.4 
Write offs – – (5.8) (5.8)
Transfers and reclassifications (2.0) 2.0 – – 
Exchange – – (1.6) (1.6)
At 31 March 2011 5.4 24.5 197.0 226.9 
Accumulated amortisation
At 31 March 2009 – 3.2 26.5 29.7 
Amortisation for the year – 3.0 9.2 12.2 
Exchange – – (1.0) (1.0)
At 31 March 2010 – 6.2 34.7 40.9 
Write offs – – (5.8) (5.8)
Amortisation for the year – 3.6 8.7 12.3 
Exchange – – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 March 2011 – 9.8 37.3 47.1 
Net book amount at 31 March 2011 5.4 14.7 159.7 179.8 
Net book amount at 31 March 2010 – 16.3 169.7 186.0 
Internally generated intangible assets comprise software development and implementation costs across manufacturing sites, the Customer 
Direct business and Head Office. Acquired intangibles comprise predominantly brands acquired with the acquisition of businesses.  
The largest component within acquired intangibles is the brands acquired with St Hubert in January 2007.
The remaining useful lives at 31 March 2011 for significant intangible assets are as follows:
Acquired St Hubert brand 21 years
Acquired Le Fleurier brand 11 years
Acquired Vallé brand 11 years
2011
–  Additions in the year relate primarily to computer software development for the UK Group.
–  Write offs comprise two fully amortised acquired intangible assets (acquired contracts) previously recognised.
2010
–  Additions in the year relate principally to computer software development. 80 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
14 Investments
Company
Share grants 
awarded in 
subsidiaries
£m
Shares in
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2009 6.8 468.1 474.9 
Share based payment charge in subsidiary companies 1.9 – 1.9 
At 31 March 2010 8.7 468.1 476.8 
Share based payment charge in subsidiary companies 1.0 – 1.0 
At 31 March 2011 9.7 468.1 477.8 
Shares in subsidiary undertakings comprise an investment in Dairy Crest Limited of £239.2 million and an investment of £228.9 million in  
Dairy Crest UK Limited.
Share grants awarded in subsidiaries represents the cumulative cost of the Company’s grant of equity instruments, under share based 
payment awards, to employees of subsidiary undertakings. 
At 31 March 2011 the principal subsidiary undertakings and other associates were:
Business
Percentage 
of ordinary 
share
capital held
Subsidiary undertakings and associates:
Dairy Crest Limited Manufacture of dairy products 100%
Philpot Dairy Products Limited* Trading in dairy products 100%
Fayrefield Foodtec Limited* Manufacture and trading in dairy products and ingredients 100%
Wexford Creamery Limited Manufacture of dairy products 30%
St Hubert SAS Manufacture of spreads in France 100%
Dairy Crest France SAS Holding company for St Hubert SAS 100%
* Investments are held by Dairy Crest Limited.
The principal place of operation and country of incorporation of all subsidiary undertakings and associates is England and Wales except for 
Wexford Creamery Limited which is in Ireland and St Hubert SAS and Dairy Crest France SAS which are in France.
Following the sale of 50% of the shares in Wexford Creamery Limited in June 2010, the Group shareholding in that Company amounts to 30% 
of the ordinary shares. See Notes 8, 15 and 30. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 81
The numbers
15 Investment in joint ventures and associates using equity method
The investment in associates using the equity method at 31 March 2011 is represented by a 20% interest in Wexford Creamery Limited (‘WCL ’) 
which is involved in the manufacture of cheese in the Republic of Ireland. Further information is provided in Note 30. Following the sale of 50% 
of the ordinary shares of WCL in June 2010, the Group equity accounts for a 20% shareholding in that company. The Group holds a further 
10% of the issued share capital of WCL, however, due to the existence of fixed-price put and call options in relation to this additional holding,  
it is considered deferred consideration and is not equity accounted.
The share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of associates and joint ventures at 31 March and for the years then ended, which are 
equity accounted for in the consolidated financial statements, are as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current assets 3.6 – 
Current liabilities (2.2) – 
Non-current liabilities (0.4) – 
(2.6) – 
Share of net assets 1.0 – 
Revenue 8.5 1.2 
Operating costs (8.6) (1.1)
Finance costs (0.1) – 
(Loss)/profit before tax (0.2) 0.1 
Tax expense – – 
Share of net (loss)/profit (0.2) 0.1 
Analysis of share of net (loss)/profit: Wexford Creamery Limited (0.2) – 
  Fayrefield Foodtec Limited – 0.1 
16 Inventories
Consolidated
2011
£m
2010
£m
Raw materials and consumables 30.4 26.8 
Finished goods 134.1 126.9 
164.5 153.7 
Cheese inventories at 31 March 2011 totalled £113.9 million (2010: £110.4 million). 82 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
17 Trade and other receivables
Consolidated Parent Company
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Trade receivables 128.7 118.6 – – 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 158.2 157.2 
Other receivables 13.0 11.2 0.4 0.5 
Prepayments and accrued income 5.4 5.7 – – 
147.1 135.5 158.6 157.7 
All amounts above, with the exception of prepayments and accrued income, are financial assets. Trade and other receivables for Wexford 
Creamery Limited were classified within assets held for disposal at 31 March 2010 (see note 8).
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
Consolidated
2011
£m
2010
£m
Sterling 104.7 104.6 
Euro 15.3 12.8 
US Dollar 8.7 1.2 
128.7 118.6 
There are no material concentrations of credit risk.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 days’ terms and are shown net of a provision for impairment. As at  
31 March 2011, trade receivables at nominal value of £5.3 million (2010: £5.8 million) were impaired and provided for. Movements in the 
provision for impairment of receivables were as follows:
Consolidated
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 April 5.8 7.8 
Charge for the year 1.2 2.1 
Amounts written off (1.7) (4.1)
At 31 March 5.3 5.8 
Bad debt provisions are principally in the Customer Direct business on debt over 90 days. This business sells product on the doorstep and to 
middle ground and foodservice customers. The Group has no history of bad debt with regard to sales to large multiple retailers. There were no 
impairment provisions on any other class of receivables at 31 March 2011 or 2010.
At 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Past due, not impaired
Total
£m
Neither past
due nor
impaired
£m
30-60 days
£m
60-90 days
£m
> 90 days
£m
31 March 2011 128.7 120.2 7.0 1.5 – 
31 March 2010 118.6 109.1 9.2 0.3 – 
The credit quality of trade receivables is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where available, otherwise historical information 
relating to counterparty default rates is used. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 83
The numbers
18 Financial assets
(i) Derivative financial instruments
Consolidated Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current
Forward currency contracts (cash flow hedges) 32 1.0 0.1 
Non-current
Option to sell 20% holding in Wexford Creamery Limited 30, 32 1.6 – 
Cross-currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 32 16.4 25.4 
18.0 25.4 
Company
2011
£m
2010
£m
Non-current
Cross-currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 32 16.4 25.4 
All derivative financial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all, with the exception of the option to sell a 20% holding in 
Wexford Creamery Limited (‘WCL ’), comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based 
on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
The WCL options comprise call and put options over 20% of the company for a price of €3.6 million adjusted for 20% of WCL ’s post-tax  
profits from June 2010 until the date of exercise. This comprises a Level 3 valuation, namely that it is not based on inputs observable directly 
or indirectly. Management has valued this option by comparing the current equity accounted carrying value of the 20% holding with the 
estimated present value of consideration received from the exercise of the option. The difference between these amounts comprises the 
option value of £1.6 million at 31 March 2011. The principal input assumptions in valuing these options are: (i) estimated future profits of WCL 
which have been based upon best available budgets and forecasts; (ii) an appropriate post-tax discount rate of 6%; and (iii) an option exercise 
date of 2018. Over the period until exercise of these options, any movement in the fair value of these instruments is charged/credited to the 
income statement. See also Note 30.
There has been no material movement in the fair value of the WCL options between recognition in June 2010 and 31 March 2011.
19 Cash at bank and in hand
Consolidated Parent Company
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 49.9 20.0 – – 
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. 
20 Financial liabilities
Group Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current
Obligations under finance leases 32 2.5 2.3 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) 65.5 – 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 68.0 2.3 
Forward currency contracts (at fair value: cash flow hedge) 32 0.5 0.4 
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments 0.5 0.4 
Current financial liabilities 68.5 2.7 
Non-current
Obligations under finance leases 32 7.1 9.5 
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 32 298.2 307.4 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) 32 – 66.0 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 305.3 382.9 
Cross-currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 1.6 – 
Interest rate swaps (at fair value: cash flow hedge) 1.5 3.7 
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments 3.1 3.7 
Non-current financial liabilities 308.4 386.6 
All derivative financial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial 
Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices). 84 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
20 Financial liabilities continued
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows:
Maturity
2011
£m
Effective
interest 
rate at 
March 2011
2010
£m
Effective
interest 
rate at 
March 2010
Current
Multi-currency revolving credit facilities:
  Euro – swapped to fixed November 2011 65.5 EURIBOR + 52.5bp – –
Finance leases 2.5 5.18% 2.3 5.18%
68.0 2.3 
Non-current
Multi-currency revolving credit facilities:
  Euro – swapped to fixed November 2011 – – 66.0 EURIBOR + 52.5bp
Loan notes:  US$ swapped into £ April 2013 67.4 5.32% 71.2 5.32%
  US$ swapped into £ April 2016 78.0 5.31% 82.4 5.31%
  Sterling April 2016 10.0 5.27% 10.0 5.27%
  Euro April 2014 31.6 4.74% 31.8 4.74%
  Euro April 2017 34.8 4.85% 35.1 4.85%
  Euro swapped into £ April 2014 66.4 5.04% 66.9 5.04%
  Sterling April 2017 10.0 5.84% 10.0 5.84%
Finance leases 7.1 5.18% 9.5 5.18%
305.3 382.9 
The Group currently has two multi-currency revolving credit facilities: a £100 million facility maturing in November 2011 and a £85 million plus 
€175 million facility maturing in July 2013. Both facilities have interest payments based on LIBOR/EURIBOR plus a margin. This margin flexes 
every six months based on the Group’s net debt to EBITDA ratio at 31 March and 30 September. At 31 March 2011, the Group’s net debt to 
EBITDA ratio was 2.2 times (2010: 2.4 times) resulting in margins of 52.5 basis points on the 2011 facility (2010: 52.5 basis points) and 120.0 
basis points on the 2013 facility (2010: 120.0 basis points). On a day-to-day basis the Group utilises the 2011 facility fully before utilising the 
2013 facility as it has a lower margin. Borrowings at 31 March 2011 (and 2010) are under the 2011 facility, however there is an expectation that 
on maturity of the 2011 facility, the 2013 facility will be utilised for all of the Group’s funding requirements. Any borrowings drawn under the 
November 2011 facility can be replaced with borrowings under the 2013 facility on expiration of the former. For this reason, although amounts 
drawn down under the 2011 facility have been classified as current at 31 March 2011, they will be replaced by borrowings under non-current 
facilities during 2011/12.
The Group is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities which, if contravened, would result in its loans becoming 
immediately repayable. These covenants specify a maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio of 3.5 times, and minimum interest cover ratio of  
3.0 times. No covenants were contravened in the year ended 31 March 2011 (2010: none). 
Company
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current
Bank loans (at amortised cost) 65.5 – 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 65.5 – 
Non-current
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 298.2 307.4 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) – 66.0 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 298.2 373.4 
Cross-currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 1.6 – 
Interest rate swaps (at fair value: cash flow hedge) 1.5 3.7 
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments 3.1 3.7 
Non-current financial liabilities 301.3 377.1 
All derivative financial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial 
Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices). Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 85
The numbers
20 Financial liabilities continued
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows. 
Maturity
2011
£m
Effective
interest 
rate at 
March 2011
2010
£m
Effective
interest 
rate at 
March 2010
Current
Multi-currency revolving credit facilities:
  Euro – swapped to fixed November 2011 65.5 EURIBOR + 52.5bp – –
Non-current
Multi-currency revolving credit facility:
  Euro – swapped to fixed November 2011 – – 66.0 EURIBOR + 52.5bp
Loan notes:  US$ swapped into £ April 2013 67.4 5.32% 71.2 5.32%
  US$ swapped into £ April 2016 78.0 5.31% 82.4 5.31%
  Sterling April 2016 10.0 5.27% 10.0 5.27%
  Euro April 2014 31.6 4.74% 31.8 4.74%
  Euro April 2017 34.8 4.85% 35.1 4.85%
  Euro swapped into £ April 2014 66.4 5.04% 66.9 5.04%
  Sterling April 2017 10.0 5.84% 10.0 5.84%
298.2 373.4 
Details of the Group’s interest rate management strategy and interest rate swaps are included in Notes 31 and 32.
21 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group has one defined benefit pension scheme in the UK which was closed to future service accrual from 1 April 2010. This pension 
scheme is a final salary scheme that had previously been closed to new employees joining after 30 June 2006. Employees joining after this 
date and those members of the defined benefit pension scheme on its closure to future service accrual were invited to join the Dairy Crest 
Group defined contribution plan. 
During the year ended 31 March 2010, Wexford Creamery Limited became a disposal group held for sale. As a result the Wexford pension 
scheme is not included in the analysis below at 31 March 2010. Furthermore, the Group’s controlling interest in this company was sold in  
June 2010. Further details are provided in Notes 8 and 30.
The most recent full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund was carried out as at 31 March 2010 by the fund’s independent 
actuary using the projected unit credit method. Full actuarial valuations are carried out triennially. This valuation resulted in a deficit of  
£137 million compared to the IAS19 deficit of £142.4 million reported at that date. Future cash funding is expected to continue at £20 million 
per annum.
The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the consolidated income statement and the funded 
status and amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet for the defined benefit plans. This scheme is wholly funded. 86 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
21 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Net benefit expense recognised in the consolidated income statement
Dairy Crest Group
pension plans
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current service cost – 9.5 
Curtailment gains (see Note 4) – (16.9)
Interest cost on benefit obligation 45.4 39.5 
Expected return on scheme assets (45.4) (39.0)
Net benefit (income)/expense – (6.9)
Net actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in other comprehensive income
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 22.5 134.2 
Experience gains arising on scheme liabilities 16.4 7.9 
Gain/(loss) arising from changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 21.7 (259.8)
Net actuarial gain/(loss) 60.6 (117.7)
Related tax (15.9) 33.3 
Net actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in other comprehensive income 44.7 (84.4)
Actual returns on plan assets were £67.9 million (2010: £173.2 million).
Defined benefit obligation 
Fair value of scheme assets: – Equities 65.7 63.6 
  – Bonds and cash 239.0 234.0 
  – Equity return swaps valuation 90.5 70.0 
  – Property and other 55.3 51.4 
  – Insured retirement obligations 268.1 261.1 
718.6 680.1 
Defined benefit obligation: – Uninsured retirement obligations (510.6) (561.4)
  – Insured retirement obligations (268.1) (261.1)
Total defined benefit obligation (778.7) (822.5)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (60.1) (142.4)
Related deferred tax asset 15.6 39.9
Net pension liability (44.5) (102.5)
The March 2007 actuarial review resulted in the Group making ongoing cash contributions of 18.3% of pensionable salary into the UK defined 
benefit pension scheme. These contributions ceased on 31 March 2010 on closure of this scheme to future service accrual. The final cash 
contributions for March 2010 were paid over in April 2010. In addition, from October 2009, the Group has been making additional funding 
contributions to the scheme of £20 million per annum. This resulted in cash payments of £10 million in the year ended 31 March 2010 and  
£20 million in the year ended 31 March 2011. The new schedule of contributions resulting from the full March 2010 actuarial valuation has  
not yet been formally adopted but no change is anticipated to the existing agreement of payments of £20 million per annum.
In December 2008, certain obligations relating to retired members were hedged by the purchase of an insurance contract. A further insurance 
contract for retired members was purchased in June 2009 resulting in coverage for all members who retired up to August 2008. These 
contracts are included within scheme assets and their value will always be equal to the obligation as calculated under IAS 19 for those 
members covered. This will reduce the volatility of the reported defined benefit obligations in future periods.
The purchase of the second insurance contract in June 2009 was funded by the sale of equities. Subsequently, in order to re-establish an 
appropriate equity weighting of scheme assets, the Fund purchased equity total return swaps (synthetic equity). These instruments comprise 
an asset leg and a liability leg. The asset leg generates a return based on UK and overseas equity indices and the liability leg incurs a cost 
based on LIBOR plus margin. At inception, the principal value of each leg was £200 million. The positive valuation of synthetic equity at  
31 March 2011 and 2010 reflects the underlying strength in equities subsequent to the swap purchase. Credit risk is minimised since collateral 
is provided by the counterparties to the benefit of the Fund when the instruments are in the money. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 87
The numbers
21 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates with the exception of the insured retirement obligations 
which equal the IAS 19 valuation of obligations which they cover. The expected rate of return on equities of 8.0% (March 2010: 7.8%) reflects 
historic UK equity returns with an assumption for 2011 that the equity market rally in 2010/11 will continue in the medium term. The equity 
return assumption represents a reasonable risk premium of c.3.5% over gilts. It is within the range of assumptions typically used by companies 
of a similar size. This return assumption is also applied to the equity leg on equity total return swaps. The liability leg cost assumption is based 
upon medium-term LIBOR yields. The expected rate of return on bonds of 5.2% (March 2010: 5.1%) is based upon the gross redemption 
yields available on a similar profile of gilts and corporate bonds.
The average duration of scheme liabilities is approximately 19 years (2010: 19 years). Discount rate assumptions for each reporting period  
are based upon quoted AA-rated corporate bond indices, excluding collateralised bonds, with maturities matching the scheme’s expected 
benefit payments. 
In 2010 the Government announced that in future salary increases to deferred pensions (in excess of guaranteed minimum pensions (‘GMPs’)) 
and to GMPs accrued after 6 April 1988 will be linked to the Consumer Prices Index (‘CPI’) instead of the Retail Prices Index (‘RPI’). In the 
second half of the year ended 31 March 2011, having reviewed the Scheme rules and previous communications with members, the Trustee 
and Company concluded that no constructive obligations had been created counter to the Scheme rules and that therefore those rules  
would apply. Under the Scheme rules RPI continues to be applied for pensions in payment but in future, statutory increases shall be  
applied for the majority of deferred members (being CPI). The result of this change, which has been communicated to members, is to  
reduce future pension inflation assumptions for deferred members when determining Scheme liabilities. The impact has been to reduce 
Scheme liabilities by approximately £43 million. The impact of this change, along with other actuarial valuation movements, has been taken  
to other comprehensive income.
The RPI inflation assumptions are determined by adopting a yield curve approach, based on the break-even rate of inflation implied by fixed 
interest gilt yields and index-linked yields. Applying this approach to the Scheme’s projected benefit payments gives an average break-even 
inflation assumption of 3.5%. The CPI inflation assumption is determined by reference to adjusted RPI rather than by reference to CPI-linked 
investments where the market is small and illiquid. The principal differences between RPI and CPI are (i) the formula effect due to RPI using 
arithmetic means and CPI geometric means, and (ii) the bundles of goods considered – CPI excludes mortgage payments and other housing 
costs. On average, since 1999, RPI inflation has been approximately 0.7% points higher than CPI inflation with 0.5% due to the formula effect 
and 0.2% due to the components included. The assumption used at 31 March 2011 is that CPI inflation will continue to track 0.7% points 
below RPI inflation and is therefore set at 2.8%. Pension increase assumptions are based on RPI with an adjustment to reflect caps within  
the Scheme rules.
Mortality assumptions have been updated in the year ended 31 March 2011 based on analysis of the membership data performed as part  
of the March 2010 full actuarial valuation. The result is an increase in life expectancy assumptions of approximately 1.7 years.
The scheme deficit is highly dependent upon these input assumptions which are set at the reporting period end dates. A 0.1% decrease in  
the discount rate assumption would increase the scheme obligation by approximately £14 million (2010: £16 million). A 0.1% increase in the 
inflation assumption would increase the scheme obligation by approximately £11 million (2010: £10 million). An increase in life expectancy 
across all members of one year would increase the scheme obligation by approximately £40 million (2010: £24 million).
The net benefit expense for the year for Wexford Creamery Limited, included in the table above, amounted to nil (2010: £0.5 million). The  
fair value of plan assets, the obligation and the net scheme deficit as at 31 March 2010 are disclosed in Note 8. There were no material 
movements in the Wexford pension scheme liabilities between 31 March 2010 and the disposal of a controlling interest in that company  
in June 2010. 88 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
21 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
Dairy Crest Group
Pension Fund
2011
£m
2010
£m
Opening defined benefit obligation (822.5) (576.3)
Current service cost – (9.5)
Curtailment gains – 16.9 
Interest cost (45.4) (39.5)
Contributions by employees – (5.9)
Actuarial gains/(losses) 38.1 (251.9)
Wexford scheme obligations transferred to disposal group held for sale – 12.2 
Exchange impact – 0.3 
Benefits paid 51.1 31.2 
Closing defined benefit obligation (778.7) (822.5)
Movement in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
Opening fair value of scheme assets 680.1 513.0 
Expected return 45.4 39.0 
Actual less expected return 22.5 134.2 
Contributions by employer 21.7 29.7 
Contributions by employees – 5.9 
Wexford scheme assets transferred to disposal group held for sale – (10.2)
Exchange impact – (0.3)
Benefits paid (51.1) (31.2)
Closing fair value of plan assets 718.6 680.1 
The principal assumptions used in determining retirement benefit obligations for the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund are shown below:
2011
%
2010
%
Key assumptions:
Rate of increase in salaries n/a 5.2 
Price inflation (RPI) 3.5 3.7 
Price inflation (CPI) 2.8 n/a
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old non-retired male (years) 22.6 20.9 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old retired male (years) 21.5 19.8 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old non-retired female (years) 25.0 23.2 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old retired female (years) 23.8 22.1 
Discount rate 5.7 5.7 
Expected return: – Equities 8.0 7.8 
  – Gilts and bonds 5.2 5.1 
  – Synthetic equity exposure on equity swap contracts 8.0 7.8 
  – LIBOR exposure on equity swap contracts 4.6 4.7 
  – Property and other 7.0 7.0 
  – Insured retirement obligations 5.7 5.7  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 89
The numbers
21 Retirement benefit obligations continued
History of experience gains and losses:
2007
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 691.8 684.8 513.0 680.1 718.6 
Present value of defined benefit obligation (692.2) (653.2) (576.3) (822.5) (778.7)
Net (deficit)/surplus (0.4) 31.6 (63.3) (142.4) (60.1)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities 1.7 1.9 6.8 7.9 16.4 
Adjustments arising from changes in underlying assumptions 28.4 77.1 106.2 (259.8) 21.7 
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets 2.7 (68.3) (231.1) 134.2 22.5 
Net actuarial gain/(loss) 32.8 10.7 (118.1) (117.7) 60.6 
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income since 1 April 2004 is £96.8 million 
(2010: £157.4 million) and in the Company statement of other recognised income and expense is nil (2010: nil). The directors are unable to 
determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on transition to IFRS, and taken directly to equity of £93.2 million, is 
attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those pension schemes. Consequently, the directors are unable to determine the 
amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Group statement of other recognised income and expense 
before 1 April 2004.
The Company recognises no liabilities on its balance sheet, or charges or credits in its income statement or statement of recognised income 
and expense in relation to the Group pension plans. The legal sponsor of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund is Dairy Crest Limited.
The Group has charged £7.8 million in respect of the Dairy Crest Group defined contribution scheme in the year ended 31 March 2011 (2010: 
£1.5 million). The increase compared to last year results from the closure of the defined benefit scheme to future service accrual on 1 April 
2010 and the subsequent increase in members of the defined contribution scheme in the year ended 31 March 2011. The Company has made 
no charge in respect of the Dairy Crest Group defined contribution scheme in the year ended 31 March 2011 (2010: nil).
22 Trade and other payables 
Consolidated Parent Company
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Trade payables* 137.2 97.2 – – 
Other tax and social security 7.8 9.4 – – 
Other creditors* 20.6 21.4 – – 
Accruals* 105.7 102.3 8.2 8.0 
271.3 230.3 8.2 8.0 
*Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
23 Deferred income
Current
2011
£m
2010
£m
Grants 0.5 0.5 
Other 0.1 0.1 
0.6 0.6 
Non-current
Grants 7.4 7.2 
Other 0.1 0.1 
7.5 7.3 
With the exception of a £0.8 million grant received in 2010/11 with respect to investment in a biomass boiler at Davidstow, the Group has met all 
applicable conditions attaching to grants at 31 March 2011 and all previously received grants were unconditional at that date. 
During the year two new biomass boilers were installed at the Davidstow cheese manufacturing site. Capital expenditure amounted to £3.9 million 
and we have received cash grants of £0.8 million during the year ended 31 March 2011 from the South West of England Regional Development 
Agency. This grant is conditional upon certain conditions principally regarding continued use and ownership of the boilers until 29 November 2014.
Deferred income of £0.6 million relating to Wexford Creamery Limited was transferred into a disposal group held for sale during the year ended 
31 March 2010 (see Note 8). 90 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
24 Provisions
OFT
provision
(including
legal fees)
£m
Onerous
contract
£m
Total
£m
At 1 April 2009 9.6 0.5 10.1 
Released in the year as exceptional (see Note 4) (2.2) – (2.2)
Utilised (0.1) (0.5) (0.6)
At 31 March 2010 – Current 7.3 – 7.3 
Charged during the year on disposal of Wexford Creamery Limited (see Note 30) – 3.6 3.6 
Utilised – (0.7) (0.7)
Discount unwind – 0.1 0.1 
At 31 March 2011 – Current 7.3 3.0 10.3 
Office of Fair Trading (‘OFT’)
An exceptional provision was charged in 2007/08 in relation to the settlement of the OFT investigation into milk price initiatives (including legal 
costs). The amount of the fine provided was £9.4 million plus legal fees and reflected the early resolution agreement that was reached with  
the OFT in December 2007. In April 2010, the OFT announced that parties to the 2007 Statement of Objections will get a penalty reduction 
provided each company continues to co-operate with the OFT. Accordingly, the provision has been reduced to reflect our best estimate of  
the penalty ultimately payable (£7.1 million) plus legal fees expected to be incurred (£0.2 million). This fine is dependent upon the Group’s 
continued full co-operation with the OFT until the matter is settled. Settlement is expected to be reached in the year ending 31 March 2012 
and therefore the related provision has been classified as current.
Onerous contracts
In June 2010, the Group disposed of 50% of the share capital of Wexford Creamery Limited (‘WCL ’). As part of the disposal, the Group 
entered into an agreement to purchase guaranteed minimum volumes of cheese from WCL for a period of five years from the date of disposal. 
The price paid by the Group for that cheese is determined by reference to cost plus margin. Realisations for commodity cheese fluctuate  
and at the date of disposal a provision of £3.6 million was charged in order to provide for the cost of the cheese purchase arrangements.  
At 31 March 2011 the provision amounted to £3.0 million. See also Note 30.
At 31 March 2009 the Group had one milk supply contract with a middle ground customer which, due to unprecedented increases in milk 
costs in 2007/08 and a subsequent weakening of cream prices, had became onerous. The remaining provision of £0.5 million was utilised in 
the year ending 31 March 2010.
25 Share capital
Authorised
2011
Thousands
2010
Thousands
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 240,000 240,000 
Issued and fully paid Thousands £m
At 31 March 2009 133,264 33.3 
Issued for cash on exercise of share options – – 
At 31 March 2010 133,264 33.3 
Issued for cash on exercise of share options 42 – 
At 31 March 2011 133,306 33.3 
During the year ended 31 March 2011 41,836 shares were issued at a premium of £84,509 for an aggregate consideration of £94,968 (2010: 
none). Exercises of LTISP options are fulfilled by the issue of existing shares from the Dairy Crest Employees’ Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’) 
– see Note 26.  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 91
The numbers
26 Notes to statement of changes in equity
Consolidated
The shares held by the ESOP are available to satisfy awards under LTISP (see Note 27).
At 31 March 2011 the ESOP held 134,830 shares (2010: 171,015 shares) in the Company at a cost of £0.6 million (2010: £0.7 million).  
The ESOP was established in August 1996 to purchase shares in the Company in order to hedge certain future obligations of the Group 
including shares awarded under the LTISP and the ESOS. During the year the Trustee of the ESOP issued 86,185 (2010: 312,708) shares 
following exercises of LTISP options. The ESOP purchased 50,000 ordinary shares in the year ended 31 March 2011 at the prevailing market 
price of £3.95 (2010: nil). The market value of the shares held by the ESOP, which are listed on the London Stock Exchange, was £0.5 million 
at 31 March 2011 (2010: £0.6 million).
Other reserves – Consolidated
Merger
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
At 31 March 2010 55.9 0.6 9.9 66.4 
Total recognised in other comprehensive income – (0.6) (1.7) (2.3)
At 31 March 2011 55.9 – 8.2 64.1 
At 31 March 2009 55.9 3.2 17.4 76.5 
Total recognised in other comprehensive income – (2.6) (7.5) (10.1)
At 31 March 2010 55.9 0.6 9.9 66.4 
The merger reserve includes the premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Dairy Crest Limited in 1996. The cumulative amount of 
goodwill charged against the merger reserve is £86.8 million (2010: £86.8 million). The reserve is not distributable.
The hedging reserve records the gains and losses on hedging instruments, to the extent that they are effective cash flow hedges. Any gains and 
losses previously recorded in the hedging reserve are reclassified in profit and loss when the underlying hedged item affects profit and loss.
The translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries 
offset by the movements on loans and derivatives designated to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Parent Company
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account is presented for the Company. The profit for  
the year dealt with in the accounts of the Company is £26.6 million (2010: £7.0 million loss) including dividends received from subsidiary 
companies of £34.0 million (2010: nil). Dividends paid amounted to £25.4 million (2010: £24.3 million) which, along with a credit for share  
based payments of £0.3 million (2010: £0.5 million) resulted in a £1.5 million increase in retained earnings (2010: £30.8 million decrease).
In 1996 the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of Dairy Crest Limited. Consideration was in the form of cash and the issue  
of 109.8 million ordinary shares of 25 pence each. The fair value of the shares issued was estimated as £170.2 million. The capital reserve  
of £142.7 million, shown in the statement of changes in equity, represents the difference between the fair value of shares issued and their 
nominal value of £27.5 million.
27 Share based payment plans
Group
The Group has three share option schemes in operation.
The Dairy Crest Long Term Incentive Share Plan (‘LTISP’)
This is a long-term incentive scheme under which awards are made to directors and senior managers consisting of the right to acquire shares 
for a nominal price subject to the achievement of financial targets based on (i) total shareholder return (‘TSR’) over a three-year period versus 
comparator companies and (ii) growth in adjusted basic earnings per share or, on the 2006 to 2008 awards, economic profit. From 2009, the 
TSR element was increased from 50% to 60% of the awards granted. The vesting period for grants made under this scheme is three years 
with an exercise period of seven years. On 28 June 2010 861,651 options were granted under the LTISP scheme (June 2009: 1,062,106). 
There are no cash settlement alternatives. 92 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
27 Share based payment plans continued
Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme
All employees are eligible to join the Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme which allows employees to use regular monthly savings to purchase 
shares. Options are granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the shares. No financial performance criteria are attached to 
these options and they vest three years from the date of grant with an exercise period of six months. On 26 June 2009 4,461,240 options were 
granted under the Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme at a grant price of 227 pence. No options were granted in the year ended 31 March 2011. 
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
In addition, from 2005/06, bonuses earned that are in excess of 50% of basic salary are deferred in shares with a vesting period of three 
years. The only vesting condition is continuing employment. The cost of these shares are charged over four years (being the year the bonus 
related to and the three-year vesting period) and is based on the number of shares issued and the share price at date of issue. Deferred 
shares to the value of nil are to be issued in relation to the year ended 31 March 2011 (2010: £0.6 million).
The number of share options and weighted average exercise price for each of the schemes is set out as follows:
LTISP* Sharesave scheme
Number Number
Weighted 
average
exercise
price
(pence)
Options outstanding at 1 April 2010 2,071,382 4,481,625 239.1 
Options granted during the year 861,651 – – 
Reinvested dividends 138,480 – – 
Options exercised during the year (41,076) (41,836) 227.0 
Options forfeited during the year (1,072,663) (584,007) 248.0 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2011 1,957,774 3,855,782 237.8 
Exercisable at 31 March 2011 26,976 – – 
Options outstanding at 1 April 2009 1,754,221 976,789 487.0 
Options granted during the year 1,062,106 4,461,240 227.0 
Reinvested dividends 134,713 – – 
Options exercised during the year (311,373) – – 
Options forfeited during the year (568,285) (956,404) 436.1 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2010 2,071,382 4,481,625 239.1 
Exercisable at 31 March 2010 64,719 – – 
* The weighted average exercise price for LTISP options is nil.
Sharesave scheme options are exercisable up to March 2013 at prices ranging from 227 pence to 487 pence (March 2010: exercisable up to 
March 2013 at a prices ranging from 227 pence to 487 pence). LTISP options are exercisable at varying dates up to June 2020 (March 2010: 
July 2019). 
The remaining weighted average contractual life of options outstanding at 31 March 2011 is 8.64 years for the LTISP and 1.86 years for the 
Sharesave Scheme (2010: 8.64 years and 2.85 years respectively). The weighted average share price on exercise of LTISP options was  
£3.73 (2010: £3.55) and £3.76 on exercise of Sharesave options (2010: none were exercised).
The fair value factor of the Sharesave Scheme options issued in June 2009 is 30% giving a fair value of £0.68 per option granted. This has 
been computed using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The key assumptions used in the valuation model for the June 2009 grant were: 
Expected share price volatility 43%, risk-free rate of interest 2.4% and dividend yield 6.5%. The volatility assumption is based on the historical 
volatility of the Dairy Crest Group plc share price over a period commensurate with the expected option life, ending on the grant date of the 
option. There were no Sharesave Scheme options granted during the year ended 31 March 2011. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 93
The numbers
27 Share based payment plans continued
The LTISP has market and non-market based performance conditions. The fair value of the market performance element of the LTISP awards 
is calculated using a Monte Carlo option pricing model. The fair value factor for the award made in June 2010 is 73% for the TSR element and 
100% for the EPS element (June 2009: 75% TSR and 100% Economic Profit) giving a fair value of £3.34 per option granted (2009: £2.74).  
The share price on granting 2010 awards was £3.99 (2009: £3.14). The non-market performance element of the LTISP is based on EPS and 
the charge for this is the value of shares expected to vest calculated by reference to the share price at the date of grant. Volatility assumptions 
are made for Dairy Crest Group plc and comparator companies based on historical volatility of share prices over a period commensurate with 
the option life. 
The input assumptions for the LTISP grant in the year ended 31 March 2011 were as follows:
Term 3 years (2010: 3 years)
Volatility 46% (2010: 47%)
Risk-free rate 1.3% (2010: 2.1%)
Average volatility of comparator TSR 52% (2010: 50%)
TSR correlation (Dairy Crest vs comparators) 27% (2010: 26%)
The expected life of the LTISP options is assumed to be equal to the vesting period, being three years.
The Group expense arising from share option plans for the year ended 31 March 2011 is £1.3 million (2010: £2.4 million) (see Note 10).
Company
The number of share options and weighted average exercise price for each of the schemes for employees of the Company is set out as follows:
LTISP Sharesave Scheme
Number Number
Weighted 
average
exercise price
(pence)
Options outstanding at 1 April 2010 806,329 15,988 227.0 
Options granted during the year 305,429 – – 
Reinvested dividends 54,696 – – 
Options exercised during the year – – – 
Options forfeited during the year (437,482) – – 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2011 728,972 15,988 227.0 
Exercisable at 31 March 2011 – – – 
Options outstanding at 1 April 2009 576,794 1,848 487.0 
Options granted during the year 386,876 15,988 227.0 
Reinvested dividends 46,685 – – 
Options exercised during the year (69,382) – – 
Options forfeited during the year (134,644) (1,848) 487.0 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2010 806,329 15,988 227.0 
Exercisable at 31 March 2010 – – – 
Sharesave Scheme options are exercisable up to March 2013 at a price of 227 pence (March 2010: up to March 2013 at a price of 227 pence). 
LTISP options are exercisable at varying dates up to June 2020 (2010: July 2019). The remaining weighted average contractual life of options 
outstanding at 31 March 2011 is 8.68 years for the LTISP and 1.92 years for the Sharesave Scheme (2010: 8.74 years and 2.92 years 
respectively). There were no exercises of Sharesave Scheme options in the year ended 31 March 2011 (2010: nil). 
The Company expense arising from share option plans for the year ended 31 March 2011 was £0.3 million (2010: £0.5 million). 94 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
28 Commitments and contingencies
Operating lease commitments
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain land and buildings, vehicles and equipment. There are no material renewal options, 
escalation clauses or purchase options included in the lease contracts. There are no contingent rentals or operating leases or material 
sub-leases. There are no significant restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases. Excluding land and buildings, these 
leases have an average life of between three and seven years. 
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 March are as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Within one year 24.2 24.1 
After one year but not more than five years 48.6 51.6 
More than five years 13.0 16.5 
Finance leases
The Group finance leases principally comprise certain items of plant and equipment at the Davidstow site. The initial lease term is for 10 years 
with a further renewal term of seven years. There are no purchase options and escalation clauses and there is no sub-leasing of the assets or 
contingent rentals. Future minimum payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are  
as follows:
2011 2010
Minimum
payments
£m
Present 
value of
payments
£m
Minimum
payments
£m
Present 
value of
payments
£m
Within one year 2.9 2.5 2.8 2.3 
After one year but not more than two years 3.0 2.8 2.9 2.5 
After two years but not more than five years 4.4 4.3 7.4 7.0 
After more than five years – – – – 
Total minimum lease payments 10.3 9.6 13.1 11.8 
Less: amounts representing finance charges (0.7) – (1.3) – 
Present value of minimum lease payments 9.6 9.6 11.8 11.8 
Trading guarantees
The Group has provided guarantees and counter-indemnities which totalled £2.9 million at 31 March 2011 (2010: £0.1 million). These 
guarantees are made by Philpot Dairy Products Limited, a subsidiary company, to customers as performance bonds and to the Rural 
Payment Agency in relation to EU subsidies claimed.
Capital commitments
Group
2011
£m
2010
£m
Future capital expenditure contracted on property, plant and equipment 14.4 6.1  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 95
The numbers
29 Related party transactions
In June 2010, the Group disposed of its controlling interest in Wexford Creamery Limited (‘WCL ’) – see Note 30. WCL has been treated as an 
equity accounted associate from June 2010 to 31 March 2011. On disposal, the Group contracted to purchase guaranteed minimum volumes 
of cheese from WCL for a period of five years from the date of disposal. In the period from disposal to 31 March 2011, the cost of cheese 
purchased was £6.1 million (2010: nil). Further explanation is included in Note 24.
In the year ended March 2010, Ashton Associates, a partnership between Mr and Mrs S M D Oliver received £18,104 for administration and 
secretarial services covering the operations of the Chairman’s office. 
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group and Company
2011
£m
2010
£m
Short-term employee benefits 2.7 3.1 
Share-based payments 0.3 0.5 
Total compensation paid to key management personnel* 3.0 3.6 
*  Further details relating to compensation of key management personnel are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. This includes a description of pension 
arrangements and any cash supplements paid.
Key management personnel comprise executive and non-executive Board members of Dairy Crest Group plc. The senior management team 
is small and all key decisions are made by either the three executive directors in the Executive Management Committee or by the Group Board 
which meets regularly. 
Dairy Crest Limited, a subsidiary company, incurred costs of £2.4 million (2010: £4.1 million) from the Company for the provision of 
management and administrative services carried out on its behalf. Dairy Crest Limited received £2.1 million (2010: £3.4 million) for the 
remuneration of the Company’s employees which had been paid by Dairy Crest Limited. 
Interest charges of £0.2 million (2010: £0.2 million) were incurred by the Company from Dairy Crest Limited on a loan reflecting an interest rate 
of LIBOR+100 basis points. Interest income of £9.9 million (2010: £9.5 million) was received by the Company from Dairy Crest Limited on a 
loan reflecting an interest rate of 5.3% (2010: 5.3%) and a further £0.4 million was received by the Company from Dairy Crest Limited on 
floating rate loans paying LIBOR plus margin (2010: £1.7 million). The Company received net interest of £0.1 million (2010: £0.3 million charge) 
from Dairy Crest Limited on a cross-currency swap paying LIBOR and receiving EURIBOR.
30 Business combinations and disposals
Year ended 31 March 2011
Disposals
On 12 June 2010 the Group sold 50% of the shares in Wexford Creamery Limited (‘WCL ’) for cash proceeds of €9 million. This disposal  
was effected by way of a share repurchase by WCL. At the same time, the Group entered into two option agreements over its remaining  
30% ownership.
The first option agreement granted a five-year call option to the majority shareholder, being Wexford Milk Producers (‘WMP’), over 10% of 
WCL share capital for a fixed price of €1.8 million. After five years the Group will have the right to exercise a put option at a fixed price of  
€1.8 million. The combination of put and call options gives rise to near certainty of exercise and, along with the fixed option price, provides 
evidence that this option in substance comprises deferred consideration on a further 10% of the ordinary shares of WCL. In substance  
the Group has affected a disposal of 60% of the shares of WCL with 10% of the consideration being deferred. The amount of deferred 
consideration recorded at 12 June 2010 after conversion into Sterling and appropriate discounting was £1.3 million. The carrying amount  
at 31 March 2011 was £1.4 million.
The second option agreement granted an eight-year call option to WMP over 20% of the WCL share capital for a price of €3.6 million adjusted 
for 20% of post-tax profits, excluding WCL share buy-back financing costs. After eight years the Group will have the right to exercise a put 
option based on the same pricing formula. The swap was initially valued at £1.6 million and there have been no material movements in the 
valuation in the period to 31 March 2011.
The completion arrangements included a five-year cheese supply agreement with the Group agreeing to buy minimum guaranteed cheese 
volumes based on a cost plus margin formula. Volumes decrease over the five-year agreement. At the transaction date, £3.6 million was 
charged by the Group in order to provide for the cost of the cheese purchase arrangements. The balance of this provision at 31 March 2011 
was £3.0 million.
The disposal resulted in the release of non-controlling interests in WCL (£2.8 million) and in the reclassification to profit and loss of net 
investment hedges previously taken to other comprehensive income (£1.7 million). Furthermore, the Group incurred £0.2 million on legal and 
professional fees in relation to this disposal. 96 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
30 Business combinations and disposals continued
The final gain on disposal can be analysed as follows and is recorded as an exceptional item in the year ended 31 March 2011.
£m
Sales proceeds – cash consideration 7.5 
Sales proceeds – deferred consideration 1.3 
Book value of assets disposed (see below) (10.3)
Recognition of initial fair value of 20% shareholding – equity accounted associate 1.1 
Recognition of initial fair value of option over 20% shareholding 1.6 
Provision for future cheese costs (3.6)
Derecognition of non-controlling interest 2.8 
Other fees and costs (0.2)
Gain on disposal of controlling interest before recycling 0.2 
Amounts reclassified to profit and loss 1.7 
Final gain on disposal of controlling interest 1.9 
Book value of assets disposed:
31 March
 2011
£m
12 June
2010
£m
Investments in joint ventures 0.6 0.5 
Deferred tax asset 0.3 0.2 
Inventories 4.6 8.7 
Trade and other receivables 5.8 8.3 
Cash and short-term deposits 7.5 3.3 
Trade and other payables (4.7) (8.1)
Retirement benefit obligations (2.0) (1.9)
Deferred income (0.6) (0.5)
Current tax liability (0.3) (0.2)
11.2 10.3 
Of the decrease of £0.9 million in net asset value in the period to disposal, £0.7 million was a result of translation differences due to Sterling 
strengthening against the Euro. The initial equity accounted fair value of our 20% shareholding includes additional share buy-back related 
borrowings in WCL post disposal.
Cash impact of disposal: £m
Cash proceeds 7.5 
Cash and short-term deposits sold with WCL (3.3)
Other fees and costs (0.2)
4.0 
Acquisitions
During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Group acquired the goodwill of a bottled milk buyer for cash consideration of £0.1 million resulting 
in goodwill of £0.1 million. 
Year ended 31 March 2010
On 20 June 2009, the Group completed the sale of 16 depots to Medina Dairy Limited. The Group retained supply of packed milk into these 
depots and ownership of land and buildings where relevant. Proceeds amounted to £1.4 million and the Group incurred fees and other costs 
of £0.2 million resulting in a net cash inflow of £1.2 million. The loss on disposal amounted to £0.4 million and can be analysed as follows:
£m
Proceeds 1.4 
Book value of inventories (0.1)
Book value of trade receivables (1.6)
Book value of trade and other creditors 0.1 
Other fees and costs (0.2)
Loss on disposal (0.4) Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 97
The numbers
30 Business combinations and disposals continued
In June 2009 the Group took advantage of call options agreed on the acquisition of its initial 50% stake, and acquired the remaining 50%  
of the ordinary share capital of Fayrefield Foodtec Limited for gross consideration of £2.5 million. The provisional fair value of the identifiable 
assets and liabilities of the business at the date of acquisition was as follows:
Fair value
to Group
£m
Book
value
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.8 0.8 
Inventories 1.2 1.2 
Receivables 1.3 1.3 
Cash 0.8 0.8 
Payables (1.1) (1.1)
Net assets 3.0 3.0 
Goodwill 1.7 
4.7 
Comprising: Cash consideration in December 2007 2.0 
  Cash consideration in June 2009 2.5 
  Fees and other 0.2 
From the date of acquisition, Fayrefield Foodtec Limited contributed £5.8 million to Group revenue and £(0.2) million to Group post-tax profit 
for the year. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 April 2009, Group revenues would have been £1,632.1 million and Group profit for the year 
would have been £52.6 million.
No material fair value adjustments were made to the book value of assets acquired as accounting policies were consistent with Group policies 
and no further recognisable intangible assets were identified. Factors affecting goodwill include the benefits that might accrue to the wider 
Dairy Crest Group from future new product development.
31 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The objective of the treasury function, which is accountable to the Board, is to manage the Group’s and Company’s financial risk, secure 
cost-effective funding for the Group’s operations and to minimise the effects of fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates on the value  
of the Group’s and Company’s financial assets and liabilities, on reported profitability and on cash flows.
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans and overdrafts, loan notes, finance leases and cash and short-term deposits. 
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various other financial assets 
and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions; principally interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward currency contracts.  
The purpose is to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of finance. It is, and has 
been throughout 2011 and 2010, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, price risk and credit risk. 
Information on how these risks arise is set out below, as are the objectives, policies and processes agreed by the Board for their management 
and the methods used to measure each risk. Derivative instruments are used to change the economic characteristics of financial instruments 
in accordance with the Group’s treasury policies. The Group’s accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in the Accounting 
Policies note.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s objectives are:
–  to ensure that forecast peak net borrowings, plus a prudent operating headroom are covered by committed facilities which mature after  
at least 12 months; 
– to ensure that prudent headroom versus bank and loan note covenant ratios are forecast for the next three years;
– to maintain flexibility of funding by employing diverse sources of funds (eg use of non-bank markets such as private placements); and
– to avoid a concentration of facility maturities in any particular year. 
The maturity analysis of Group borrowings is set out in Note 20. At 31 March 2011 the Group’s total credit facilities amounted to £638.1 million 
(2010: £648.5 million) excluding finance leases of £9.6 million (2010: £11.8 million) and the impact of cross-currency swaps on US Dollar and 
Euro loan notes of £11.8 million (2010: £20.5 million). The facilities at both 31 March 2011 and 2010 consisted of:
– £85 million plus €175 million multi-currency revolving credit facility repayable at maturity in July 2013;
– £100 million multi-currency revolving credit facility repayable at maturity in November 2011; and
– loan notes totalling £298.2 million (2010: £307.4 million) repayable between April 2013 and April 2017. 98 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
31 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Undrawn revolving credit facilities at 31 March 2011 amounted to £274.4 million (2010: £275.1 million). This can be analysed as follows:
2011
Drawn down
£m
2011
Facility
£m
2010
Drawn down
£m
2010
Facility
£m
November 2006 five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility 65.5 100.0 66.0 100.0
July 2008 five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility – 239.9 – 241.1
Total 65.5 339.9 66.0 341.1
Headroom 274.4 275.1
Cash and short-term deposits 49.9 20.0
Effective headroom 324.3 295.1
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by closely managing cash generation by its operating businesses and monitoring performance to 
budgets and forecasts. Capital investment is carefully controlled, with detailed authorisation limits in place up to Executive level and cash 
payback criteria considered as part of the investment appraisal process. Short-term and long-term cash and debt forecasts are constantly 
reviewed and there are regular treasury updates to the Executive highlighting facility headroom and net debt performance. The increased 
focus on cash generation over the three years ended 31 March 2011 has resulted in significantly lower levels of borrowings and increased 
facility headroom.
Day-to-day cash management utilises undrawn revolving credit facilities, overdraft facilities and occasionally short-term money market 
deposits if there is excess cash.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to the risk for changes in market interest rates relate primarily to the Group’s long-term debt obligations with a floating 
interest rate.
The Group’s policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The Group’s long-term strategy is to keep 
between one third and three quarters of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest in the medium term. To manage this mix in a cost-efficient 
manner, the Group has issued fixed coupon loan notes and also enters into interest rate swaps on a portion of its floating bank borrowings, 
in which the Group agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable rate interest amounts calculated by 
reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. These swaps are designated to hedge underlying debt interest cash flow obligations. 
In the short-term the proportion of fixed and floating rate borrowings can go outside the long-term range.
At 31 March 2011, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps, 100% of the Group’s borrowings were at a fixed rate of interest 
(2010: 100%). The proportion of fixed interest borrowings is higher than our long-term target, however interest rate swaps against borrowings 
of €74 million (2010: €74 million) will expire in November 2011 and, depending on borrowing requirements at that time, the proportion of fixed 
rate borrowings will then reduce in the future. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 99
The numbers
31 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Foreign currency risk
The Group has invested in operations outside the UK and also buys and sells a small amount of goods in currencies other than Sterling. As a 
result the value of the Group’s non-Sterling revenues, purchases, assets, liabilities and cash flows can be affected by movements in exchange 
rates – predominantly Euro/Sterling.
The Group mitigates the effect of its structural currency exposures by borrowing to some extent in the same functional currency as the foreign 
operation into which it invests. The foreign operations hedged in this way are St Hubert SAS (France) and until its classification into a disposal 
group held for sale in March 2010, Wexford Creamery Limited (Ireland); St Hubert is a Euro-denominated subsidiary. Our policy is to hedge 
100% of the inventories and tangible fixed assets and 33% of goodwill and intangible assets exposure of overseas subsidiaries through 
borrowings and/or cross-currency swaps in Euros. At present, our only currency exposure is Euros. At 31 March 2011 and 2010, all 
borrowings designated as a net investment hedge are done so on a pre-tax basis and no cross-currency swaps are utilised as part of the 
hedging relationship. 
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the relevant entity’s functional currency and therefore transaction exposures are 
limited. This can be seen in Note 17 that the only significant non-Sterling debtors are in Euros and these predominantly relate to the functional 
currency of St Hubert. The Group trades skimmed milk products and bulk butter mainly to customers in Europe and Central and South 
America. The Group also exports its own skimmed milk products, bulk butter and other branded products. The Group’s policy requires 
foreign currency sales and purchases through Philpot Dairy Products Limited, a subsidiary company, to be hedged by foreign exchange 
contracts once the transaction is committed so that the margin on the transaction can be fixed. There are currently no sales between the  
UK business and St Hubert.
Currency exposures on other transactions, such as certain capital expenditure denominated in a foreign currency, are hedged following 
approval of the project using forward foreign exchange contracts.
In 2006, the Group issued loan notes denominated in $US with a face value of $233 million. At the same time, cross-currency swaps were 
implemented to hedge the interest and principal repayment cash flows. These have the effect of fixing the liability in Sterling at £133 million. 
The principal amount and interest and principal payment dates on these swaps match those on the loan notes exactly and all swaps are with 
counterparties with strong credit ratings. There is no profit and loss exposure in relation to $US debts as any retranslation impact on the profit 
and loss account is offset by reclassification of amounts from other comprehensive income into profit and loss. 
In 2009, the Group entered into cross-currency swaps on €75 million of its loan notes denominated in Euros in order to hedge the future 
interest and principal repayment cash flows. This has the effect of fixing the liability in Sterling at £67 million. The principal amount and interest 
and principal payment dates on these swaps match those on the loan notes exactly and all swaps are with counterparties with strong credit 
ratings. There is no profit and loss exposure in relation to this €75 million of debt as any retranslation impact on the profit and loss account is 
offset by reclassification of amounts from other comprehensive income into profit and loss.
Price risk
The Group is exposed to price risk related to certain commodities and their by-products used by the Group’s businesses. The principal 
non-milk commodities that affect input prices for the Group are vegetable oils, gas, electricity, diesel, heavy fuel oil and crude oil by-products 
(used in packaging). 
The Group monitors prices on an ongoing basis in order to assess the impact that movements have on profitability and to assess whether the 
amount of forward cover is appropriate. This includes vegetable oil contracts and energy which is generally contracted one season in advance 
for both Summer and Winter energy but with some requirement contracted at more regular intervals. 
The Group regularly reviews relevant commodity markets and levels of future cover. Fixed price contracts are only entered into with the 
approval of the Commodity Risk Committee.  100 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
31 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Credit risk 
It is the Group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. The Group only offers 
these terms to recognised, creditworthy third parties. In addition, receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that 
the Group’s history of bad debt losses is not significant. 
The Customer Direct doorstep business trades with individuals and receives cash payments on a weekly basis. Cash and debt management 
is a crucial part of this business and cash collection and balances due are closely monitored to ensure write-downs are minimised.
Debtor days outstanding are closely monitored throughout the year and action is taken promptly when payment terms are breached.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, trade and other 
debtors (excludes prepayments) and certain derivative instruments, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty. 
The maximum exposure for the Group is equal to the carrying amount of these financial assets of £212.0 million (2010: £175.3 million).  
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk. 
All borrowings are through banks with long-term credit ratings of A or above. Funds temporarily surplus to business requirements are invested 
overnight through deposit accounts with mainstream UK commercial banks with a credit rating of A or better. The Group currently has no 
requirement to place deposits for a longer period, accordingly counterparty risk is considered to be acceptable. Derivative financial 
instruments are contracted with a range of banks with long-term credit ratings of A or above to avoid excessive concentration of financial 
instruments with one counterparty.
Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains an appropriate level of gearing in order to support  
its business and maximise shareholder value. In addition, the Group monitors its forecast net debt to EBITDA ratios in order that they are 
comfortably within its banking covenant requirements. The maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio for the purposes of bank covenants is 3.5 
times. At 31 March 2011 the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 2.2 times (March 2010: 2.4 times).
The Group monitors its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions or changes in Group 
structure. Possible mechanisms for changing capital structure include adjusting the level of dividends, issuance of new shares or returning 
capital to shareholders. No significant changes in capital structure have been implemented in the year ended 31 March 2011 or 2010.  
There have been no changes in the objectives, policies and procedures during the last two years.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by shareholders’ funds. The definition of net debt is included in 
Note 34. The gearing ratio at March 2011 and 2010 can be analysed as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Net debt 311.6 337.2
Shareholders’ funds 365.5 292.8
Gearing ratio 85% 115%
Dividends
Details of dividends paid and proposed during the year are given in Note 7. The dividend policy is to maintain a progressive dividend whilst 
seeking to maintain a level of dividend cover between 2.0 and 2.5 times. The final proposed dividend for 2010/11 is 14.2 pence representing  
a 4% increase on last year (2010: 13.6 pence). Total dividends paid and proposed in respect of the year ended 31 March 2011 amount to  
19.7 pence, representing an increase of 4% (2010: 18.9 pence).  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 101
The numbers
32 Financial instruments 
An explanation of the Group’s financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies is set out in the discussion of Treasury 
policies in Note 31.
Consolidated
Interest rate maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate risk. 
No other financial assets and liabilities, other than those shown below, are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
At 31 March 2011
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Fixed rate
Bank loans* (65.5) – – – – – (65.5)
Loan notes* – – (67.4) (98.0) – (132.8) (298.2)
Finance leases (2.5) (2.8) (3.0) (1.3) – – (9.6)
Forward currency contracts 0.5 – – – – – 0.5 
Interest rate swaps (1.5) – – – – – (1.5)
Deferred consideration – – – – 1.4 – 1.4 
Cross-currency swaps – – 7.5 (1.6) – 8.9 14.8 
Floating rate
Option to sell 20% holding in WCL – – – – – 1.6 1.6 
Cash at bank and in hand 49.9 – – – – – 49.9 
At 31 March 2010      
Fixed rate
Bank loans* – (66.0) – – – – (66.0)
Loan notes* – – – (71.2) (98.7) (137.5) (307.4)
Finance leases (2.3) (2.5) (2.7) (2.9) (1.4) – (11.8)
Forward currency contracts (0.3) – – – – – (0.3)
Interest rate swaps – (3.7) – – – – (3.7)
Cross-currency swaps – – – 11.5 0.5 13.4 25.4 
Floating rate
Cash at bank and in hand 20.0 – – – – – 20.0 
Bank loans – – – – – – – 
* Classified as fixed rate after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial instruments 
classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings. There is no impact on the Group’s equity resulting from movements 
in interest rates other than in relation to the $US/GBP and EUR/GBP cross-currency swaps used as a cash flow hedge on $US and EUR loan 
notes. The impact on equity is nil over the life of the instruments as these swaps comprise an effective hedge. At 31 March 2011 and 2010, all 
Group borrowings were at fixed rates of interest (see Note 31).
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes non-derivative floating 
rate financial instruments except those where interest rate swaps have been used as cash flow hedges. This is due to the fact that gains and 
losses on the hedging instrument offset losses and gains on the non-derivative floating rate financial instrument which are subject to the 
hedge and are matched in both profit and loss and cash terms. No non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments have profit and loss exposure 
due to floating rates as a result of interest rate swaps. 102 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
32 Financial instruments continued
The 2011 analysis below reflects similar reasonably possible changes in interest rates to 2010 – upside LIBOR expectations assumed last year 
were not realised but are still expected at March 2011.
 
Increase/
decrease in
basis points 
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
£m
Effect on
equity
£m
2011
Sterling + 200 1.0 1.4 
Euro + 200 – 8.0 
Dollar + 200 – 8.2 
Sterling – 50 – (0.4)
Euro – 50 – (2.1)
Dollar – 50 – (2.2)
2010
Sterling + 200 0.4 1.7 
Euro + 200 – 11.7 
Dollar + 200 – 10.7 
Sterling – 50 – – 
Euro – 50 – (3.5)
Dollar – 50 – (3.0)
Equity price risk
The Group holds no listed equity investments and is not subject to equity price risk other than through the pension scheme (Note 21).
Credit risk
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group unless otherwise disclosed. The maximum credit risk exposure relating 
to financial assets is represented by carrying value as at the balance sheet date (see Note 31).
Foreign currency risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in Sterling/Euro exchange rate with all other variables held 
constant, of the Group’s profit before tax and the Group’s equity.
  
Increase/
decrease in
Sterling/Euro 
rate 
Effect 
on profit 
before tax
£m
Effect on
equity*
£m
2011
Euro Sterling depreciation – 10% (0.7) (14.7)
 Sterling appreciation + 10% 0.7 12.0 
2010
Euro Sterling depreciation – 10% (0.7) (14.8)
 Sterling appreciation + 20% 0.7 22.2 
The Group has no significant foreign currency risk apart from Euros. 
* Equity exposure results from the Group’s net investment hedging arrangements (see Note 31). Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 103
The numbers
32 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy on managing its liquidity risk is set out in Note 31.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2011 and 2010 based on contractual 
undiscounted payments of interest and principal. 
At 31 March 2011
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Loan Notes (15.8) (15.8) (79.3) (105.3) (7.3) (135.1) (358.6)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes): 
 payment leg (10.4) (10.4) (68.8) (3.8) (3.8) (71.4) (168.6)
 receipt leg 11.6 11.6 75.1 4.5 4.5 78.0 185.3 
Bank loans (66.0) – – – – – (66.0)
Interest rate swaps (on €74m bank debt): 
 payment leg (1.7) – – – – – (1.7)
 receipt leg 0.5 – – – – – 0.5 
Finance leases (2.9) (3.0) (3.1) (1.3) – – (10.3)
At 31 March 2010
Loan Notes (16.3) (16.3) (16.3) (83.4) (106.4) (147.4) (386.1)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes): 
 payment leg (10.4) (10.4) (10.4) (68.8) (3.8) (75.2) (179.0)
 receipt leg 12.1 12.1 12.1 79.2 4.8 87.2 207.5 
Bank loans (0.8) (66.5) – – – – (67.3)
Interest rate swaps (on €74m bank debt): 
 payment leg (3.0) (1.7) – – – – (4.7)
 receipt leg 0.8 0.5 – – – – 1.3 
Finance leases (2.8) (2.9) (3.0) (3.1) (1.3) – (13.1)
Forward currency contracts and short-term payables all mature within one year. 
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the 
financial statements.
Fair values
 
Carrying amount Fair value
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Financial assets
Current
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 19) 49.9 20.0 49.9 20.0 
Forward currency contracts (Note 18) 1.0 0.1 1.0 0.1 
Non-current
Deferred consideration 1.4 – 1.4 – 
Wexford Creamery Limited option (Note 18) 1.6 – 1.6 – 
Cross-currency swaps (Note 18) 16.4 25.4 16.4 25.4 
Financial liabilities
Current
Current obligations under finance leases (Note 20) (2.5) (2.3) (2.5) (2.3)
Current instalments due on bank loans (Note 20) (65.5) – (65.5) – 
Forward currency contracts (Note 20) (0.5) (0.4) (0.5) (0.4)
Non-current
Non-current obligations under finance leases (Note 20) (7.1) (9.5) (7.1) (9.5)
Non-current instalments due on bank loans (Note 20) – (66.0) – (66.0)
Loan notes (Note 20) (298.2) (307.4) (286.9) (293.1)
Cross-currency swaps (Note 20) (1.6) – (1.6) – 
Interest rate swaps (Note 20) (1.5) (3.7) (1.5) (3.7)
The above table excludes trade and other receivables and payables as their fair value approximates carrying value. The fair value of interest 
rate swaps and forward currency contracts has been determined by the third party financial institution with whom the Group holds the 
instrument, in line with the market value of similar instruments. The fair value of borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected 
future cash flows at prevailing interest rates. 104 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
32 Financial instruments continued
Interest rate swaps
The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 March 2011 was €74.0 million (£65.5 million) (2010:  
€74.0 million (£66.0 million)). Interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 
2011 the fixed interest rates vary from 4.045% to 4.053% (2010: 4.045% to 4.053%). The floating rate of interest on the receipt leg of these 
swaps is EURIBOR (2010: EURIBOR). The hedged item is the interest cash flows on €74 million of borrowings under the revolving credit 
facilities at floating EURIBOR – the margin is not hedged. The loss deferred in equity will reverse in the interest line in the income statement 
during the next year (being the life of the swap) (2010: two years). 
Cross-currency swaps
The notional principal amount of the outstanding USD/GBP cross-currency swap contracts at 31 March 2011 was $233.0 million (£133.0 
million) (2010: $233.0 million (£133.0 million)). These cross-currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash flow 
hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2011 and 2010 the fixed interest rates varied from 5.305% to 5.315%. The 
gain deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (operating costs) during the next two to five years (being the life of the swaps).
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP cross-currency swap contracts at 31 March 2011 was €75.0 million (£67.0 million) 
(2010: €75.0 million (£67.0 million)). These cross-currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash flow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2011 and 2010 the fixed interest rates varied from 4.955% to 5.180%. The loss deferred  
in equity will reverse in the income statement (operating costs) during the next three to four years (being the life of the swaps).
Hedge of net investment in foreign entities
The Group has Euro denominated borrowings which it has designated as a hedge of the net asset investment in St Hubert SAS, its subsidiary 
in France. The fair value of the Euro borrowings at 31 March 2011 was £131.9 million (2010: £132.9 million). The foreign exchange gain of  
£1.0 million (2010: £6.0 million) on translation of the borrowings into sterling has been recognised in other comprehensive income.
Forward currency contracts
The Group has entered into certain forward currency contracts in order to hedge the Sterling cost of currency-denominated future purchases 
and receipts. These forward currency purchases have been designated as cash flow hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. They  
all have a duration of less than one year and any gains or losses deferred will then be reclassified to the income statement (operating costs).
Borrowing facilities
The Group has undrawn committed long-term borrowing facilities available at 31 March 2011 of £274.4 million (2010: £275.1 million) in respect 
of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date. These undrawn facilities expire in November 2011 (£34.5 million) and July 2013 
(£239.9 million). 
Company
Interest rate maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate 
risk. No other financial assets and liabilities, other than those shown below, are exposed directly to interest rate risk. 
At 31 March 2011
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Fixed rate
Bank loans* (65.5) – – – – – (65.5)
Loan notes – – (67.4) (98.0) – (132.8) (298.2)
Interest rate swaps (1.5) – – – – – (1.5)
Intercompany receivables 206.4 – – – – – 206.4 
Cross-currency swaps – – 8.0 (1.6) – 9.4 15.8 
Floating rate
Intercompany payables (48.2) – – – – – (48.2)
At 31 March 2010      
Fixed rate
Bank loans* – (66.0) – – – – (66.0)
Loan notes – – – (71.2) (98.7) (137.5) (307.4)
Interest rate swaps – (3.7) – – – – (3.7)
Intercompany receivables 187.7 – – – – – 187.7 
Cross-currency swaps – – – 11.5 0.5 13.4 25.4 
Floating rate
Intercompany payables (30.5) – – – – – (30.5)
* These have been classified as fixed rate after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 105
The numbers
32 Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant,  
of the Company’s profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings. There is no impact on the Company’s equity resulting  
from movements in interest rates other than in relation to the $US/GBP and EUR/GBP cross-currency swaps used as a cash flow hedge  
on $US and EUR loan notes. The impact on equity is nil over the life of the instruments as these swaps comprise an effective hedge. 
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes non-derivative floating 
rate financial instruments except those where interest rate swaps have been used as cash flow hedges. This is due to the fact that gains and 
losses on the hedging instrument offset losses and gains on the non-derivative floating rate financial instrument which are subject to the 
hedge and matched in both profit and loss and cash terms. No non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments have profit and loss exposure 
due to floating rates as a result of interest rate swaps.
The 2011 analysis below reflects similar reasonably possible changes in interest rates to 2010 – upside LIBOR expectations assumed last year 
were not realised but are still expected at March 2011.
Increase/
decrease in
basis points
Effect on
equity
£m
2011
Sterling + 200 1.4 
Euro + 200 8.0 
Dollar + 200 8.2 
Sterling – 50 (0.4)
Euro – 50 (2.1)
Dollar – 50 (2.2)
2010
Sterling + 200 1.7 
Euro + 200 11.7 
Dollar + 200 10.7 
Sterling – 50 – 
Euro – 50 (3.5)
Dollar – 50 (3.0)
Equity price risk
The Company holds no listed equity investments and is not subject to equity price risk.
Credit risk
The maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount of financial assets.
Foreign currency risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in Sterling/Euro exchange rate with all other variables held 
constant, of the Company’s profit before tax and the Company’s equity.
Increase/
decrease in
Euro rate
Effect on
profit before
tax
£m
Effect on
equity
£m
2011
Euro Sterling depreciation – 10% – – 
Sterling appreciation + 10% – – 
2010
Euro Sterling depreciation – 10% – – 
Sterling appreciation + 20% – – 
The Company has no significant foreign currency liabilities other than Euros. Euro borrowings are matched by inter-company cross-currency 
swaps with no resultant profit before tax or equity exposure for the Company.  106 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
32 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The Company’s policy on managing its liquidity risk is set out in Note 31. 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2011 and 2010 based on contractual 
undiscounted payments of interest and principal. 
At 31 March 2011
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Loan notes (15.8) (15.8) (79.3) (105.3) (7.3) (135.1) (358.6)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes): 
 payment leg (10.4) (10.4) (68.8) (3.8) (3.8) (71.4) (168.6)
 receipt leg 11.6 11.6 75.1 4.5 4.5 78.0 185.3 
Intra-group cross-currency swaps: 
 payment leg (133.6) – – – – – (133.6)
 receipt leg 133.7 – – – – – 133.7 
Bank loans (66.0) – – – – – (66.0)
Interest rate swaps (on €74m bank debt): 
 payment leg (1.7) – – – – – (1.7)
 receipt leg 0.5 – – – – – 0.5 
At 31 March 2010
Loan notes (16.3) (16.3) (16.3) (83.4) (106.4) (147.4) (386.1)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes): 
 payment leg (10.4) (10.4) (10.4) (68.8) (3.8) (75.2) (179.0)
 receipt leg 12.1 12.1 12.1 79.2 4.8 87.2 207.5 
Intra-group cross-currency swaps: 
 payment leg (135.3) – – – – – (135.3)
 receipt leg 134.9 – – – – – 134.9 
Bank loans (0.8) (66.5) – – – – (67.3)
Interest rate swaps (on €74m bank debt): 
 payment leg (3.0) (1.7) – – – – (4.7)
 receipt leg 0.8 0.5 – – – – 1.3 
Forward currency contracts, and short-term payables and accruals all mature within one year. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 107
The numbers
32 Financial instruments continued
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Company’s financial instruments that are carried  
in the financial statements.
Carrying amount Fair value
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Financial assets
Current
Other receivables (Note 17) 158.2 157.2 158.2 157.2 
Non-current
External cross-currency swaps (Note 18) 16.4 25.4 16.4 25.4 
Financial liabilities 
Current
Current instalments due on bank loans (Note 20) (65.5) – (65.5) – 
Non-current
Non-current instalments due on bank loans (Note 20) – (66.0) – (66.0)
Loan notes (Note 20) (298.2) (307.4) (286.9) (293.1)
Cross-currency swaps (Note 20) (1.6) – (1.6) – 
Interest rate swaps (Note 20) (1.5) (3.7) (1.5) (3.7)
No other financial assets and liabilities are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
Other receivables comprise the net of all intercompany balances with Dairy Crest Limited. All intercompany balances are repayable on 
demand and are subject to interest based on LIBOR plus a margin with the exception of one intercompany receivable from Dairy Crest Limited 
of £197.6 million (2010: £187.7 million) on which interest is receivable at 5.3% (2010: 5.3%).
Interest rate swaps
The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 March 2011 was €74.0 million (£65.5 million) (2010: €74.0 
million (£66.0 million)). Interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2011 
the fixed interest rates varied from 4.045% to 4.053% (2010: 4.045% to 4.053%). The floating rate of interest on the receipt leg of these swaps 
is EURIBOR (2010: EURIBOR). The hedged item is the interest cash flows on €74.0 million of borrowings under the revolving credit facilities  
at floating EURIBOR – the margin is not hedged. The loss deferred in equity will reverse in the interest line in the income statement during the 
next year (being the life of the swap) (2010: two years). 
Cross-currency swaps
External
The notional principal amount of the outstanding USD/GBP cross-currency swap contracts at 31 March 2011 was $233.0 million (£133.0 million) 
(2010: $233.0 million (£133.0 million)). These cross-currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash flow hedges 
and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2011 and 2010 the fixed interest rates varied from 5.305% to 5.315%. The gain 
deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (operating costs) during the next two to five years (being the life of the swaps).
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP cross-currency swap contracts at 31 March 2011 was €75.0 million (£67.0 million) 
(2010: €75.0 million (£67.0 million)). These cross-currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash flow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2011 and 2010 the fixed interest rates varied from 4.955% to 5.180%. The loss deferred  
in equity will reverse in the income statement (operating costs) during the next three to four years (being the life of the swaps).
Intercompany
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP floating rate cross-currency swap contracts at 31 March 2011 with Group 
companies was €150.0 million (£132.8 million) (2010: €150.0 million (£133.8 million)). The Company receives EURIBOR and pays LIBOR. 
Intercompany cross-currency swaps have not been designated as cash flow hedges and any gain or loss arising on revaluation is credited  
or charged to the income statement. These swaps are used in order to minimise currency exchange risk in the Company and match the  
€149 million (£131.9 million) of external Euro-denominated borrowings at 31 March 2011 (2010: €149 million (£132.9 million)).
Borrowing facilities
The Company has undrawn committed long-term borrowing facilities available at 31 March 2011 of £274.4 million (2010: £275.1 million) in 
respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date. These undrawn facilities expire in November 2011 (£34.5 million) and  
July 2013 (£239.9 million).  108 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
Notes to the financial statements continued
33 Cash flow from operating activities
Year ended
31 March 
2011
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2010
£m
Profit before taxation 77.8 77.8 
Finance costs and other finance income 20.6 22.9 
Impairment of assets on creation of disposal group held for sale – 16.0 
Share of associate and joint ventures' net loss/(profit) 0.2 (0.1)
Profit on sale of controlling interest (1.9) – 
Profit on disposal of joint venture – (2.0)
Profit on operations 96.7 114.6 
Depreciation 30.9 35.8 
Amortisation of internally generated intangible assets 3.6 3.0 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 8.7 9.2 
Exceptional items (0.7) (20.6)
Release of grants (0.6) (0.7)
Share based payments 1.3 2.4 
Profit on disposal of depots (1.8) (3.4)
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement (21.7) (20.1)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (10.8) 28.9 
Increase in receivables (14.3) (3.4)
Increase in payables 36.8 0.2 
Cash generated from operations 128.1 145.9 
No cash was generated from operations for the Company in the year ended 31 March 2011 (2010: nil).
34 Analysis of net debt
Group
At 1 April
2010
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2011
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 20.0 29.9 – 49.9 
Borrowings (current) – (65.5) – (65.5)
Borrowings (non-current) (373.4) 65.5 9.7 (298.2)
Finance leases (11.8) 2.2 – (9.6)
(365.2) 32.1 9.7 (323.4)
Cash included in disposal group (Note 8) 7.5 (7.5) – – 
Impact of cross-currency swaps* 20.5 – (8.7) 11.8 
Net debt (337.2) 24.6 1.0 (311.6)
At 1 April
2009
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Transfer
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2010
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 107.5 (79.7) (7.5) (0.3) 20.0 
Borrowings (non-current) (541.6) 150.6 – 17.6 (373.4)
Finance leases (13.8) 2.0 – – (11.8)
(447.9) 72.9 (7.5) 17.3 (365.2)
Cash included in disposal group (Note 8) – – 7.5 – 7.5 
Impact of cross-currency swaps* 32.1 – – (11.6) 20.5 
Net debt (415.8) 72.9 – 5.7 (337.2)
*  The Group and Company have $233 million and €75 million of loan notes against which cross-currency swaps have been put in place to fix interest and principal 
repayments in Sterling (2010: $233 million and €75 million). Under IFRS, currency borrowings are retranslated into Sterling at year end exchange rates. The cross-
currency swaps are recorded at fair value (Note 32) and incorporate movements in both market exchange rates and interest rates. The Group defines net debt so as 
to include the effective Sterling liability where cross-currency swaps have been used to convert foreign currency borrowings into Sterling. The £11.8 million adjustment 
included above (2010: £20.5 million) converts the Sterling equivalent of Dollar and Euro loan notes from year end exchange rates (£211.7 million (2010: £220.5 million)) to 
the fixed Sterling liability (£200.0 million (2010: £200.0 million)). This amount forms part of the overall swap fair value of £17.4 million (2010: £25.4 million) shown in Note 32.  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 109
The numbers
34 Analysis of net debt continued
Company
At 1 April
2010
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2011
£m
Borrowings (current) – (65.5) – (65.5)
Borrowings (non-current) (373.4) 65.5 9.7 (298.2)
(373.4) – 9.7 (363.7)
Borrowings (non-current) – impact of cross-currency swaps 20.5 – (8.7) 11.8 
(352.9) – 1.0 (351.9)
At 1 April
2009
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2010
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 0.3 (0.3) – – 
Borrowings (non-current) (518.0) 127.0 17.6 (373.4)
(517.7) 126.7 17.6 (373.4)
Borrowings (non-current) – impact of cross-currency swaps 32.1 – (11.6) 20.5 
(485.6) 126.7 6.0 (352.9)
35 Post balance sheet event
Following a Board decision in April 2011, on 17 May 2011, the Group announced that, subject to a consultation process, production of its 
leading dairy spread brand, Clover, would be consolidated into its site in Kirkby, Liverpool. The manufacturing process is currently split 
between Kirkby and Crudgington, Shropshire. This consolidation will result in approximately 90 redundancies at Crudgington and the creation 
of approximately 45 jobs at Kirkby. The consolidation is not expected to be completed until 2012. The net book value of property, plant and 
equipment at Crudgington affected by this change continues to be supported by the underlying value in use and therefore no impairment has 
been recognised at 31 March 2011.
36 Corporate information
The consolidated accounts of Dairy Crest Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 were authorised for issue in accordance with  
a resolution of the directors on 18 May 2011 and the consolidated and Company balance sheets were signed on the Board’s behalf by  
Mr M Allen and Mr A S N Murray. Dairy Crest Group plc is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the  
United Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. 110 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011
We have audited the financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc 
for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the 
Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, Consolidated and Parent Company 
Balance Sheets, Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of 
Changes in Equity, Consolidated and Parent Company Statements 
of Cash Flow, Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 36. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as 
regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 54, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and 
express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in 
the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 
March 2011 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;
•  the Parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006;
•  the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and
•  the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement 
set out on pages 48 to 54 with respect to internal control and 
risk management systems in relation to financial reporting 
processes and about share capital structures is consistent with 
the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you, if 
in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•  the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
•  a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by 
the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•  the directors’ statement, set out on page 45, in relation to 
going concern;
•  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 
2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and
•  certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
directors’ remuneration.
Andrew Walton (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London
18 May 2011
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Dairy Crest Group plc Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 111
The numbers
Consolidated income statement summary
2007
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
Segment revenue
 Cheese 194.6 255.5 244.2 260.0 223.1 
 Spreads 178.7 234.5 284.2 277.7 285.5 
 Dairies 925.7 1,067.6 1,108.2 1,081.2 1,089.8 
 Other 10.3 12.1 11.0 10.8 6.1 
Group 1,309.3 1,569.7 1,647.6 1,629.7 1,604.5 
Segment profit
 Cheese 20.5 34.8 34.3 16.9 28.0 
 Spreads 32.4 38.1 59.5 54.0 53.3 
 Dairies 27.1 31.6 7.9 34.9 27.1 
 Associates and joint ventures 10.0 7.7 7.3 0.1 (0.2)
Group including share of joint ventures 90.0 112.2 109.0 105.9 108.2 
Less: share of associates and joint ventures (10.0) (7.7) (7.3) (0.1) 0.2 
Group 80.0 104.5 101.7 105.8 108.4 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (2.7) (9.0) (9.6) (9.2) (8.7)
Exceptional items (10.4) (21.1) (24.0) 2.0 (1.1)
Profit on disposal of joint venture – – 50.4 2.0 – 
Finance costs (19.2) (26.2) (29.5) (22.4) (20.6)
Other finance (costs)/income – pensions 9.5 10.1 6.9 (0.5) – 
Share of joint ventures’ net (loss)/profit 7.4 7.7 7.3 0.1 (0.2)
Profit before tax 64.6 66.0 103.2 77.8 77.8 
Adjusted profit before tax 70.8 86.0 79.5 83.5 87.6 
Balance sheet summary
Property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangibles, investments 767.8 817.8 837.1 794.4 800.6 
Inventories, receivables, payables, deferred income and provisions 105.3 98.2 86.8 43.7 21.9 
Total operating assets 873.1 916.0 923.9 838.1 822.5 
Financial instruments excluding amounts included in net debt 6.5 12.5 4.2 0.9 5.0 
Tax (85.1) (97.6) (92.0) (70.3) (90.3)
Retirement obligations (0.4) 31.6 (63.3) (142.4) (60.1)
Disposal group held for sale (excluding cash) – – – 3.7 – 
Net debt (451.0) (474.8) (415.8) (337.2) (311.6)
Net assets 343.1 387.7 357.0 292.8 365.5 
Non-controlling interests (4.0) (5.1) (4.7) (3.0) – 
Shareholders’ equity 339.1 382.6 352.3 289.8 365.5 
Cash flow summary
Generated from operating activities 94.2 108.4 129.1 145.9 128.1 
Dividends from joint ventures 8.9 7.3 2.9 0.1 – 
Fixed asset investments (net of grants) (36.3) (34.0) (49.3) (26.9) (48.5)
66.8 81.7 82.7 119.1 79.6 
Interest paid (15.3) (22.9) (30.3) (22.1) (19.8)
Taxation paid (6.1) (6.7) (9.2) (10.5) (16.1)
Dividends paid (27.7) (30.8) (32.3) (24.3) (25.4)
Purchase of businesses (293.3) (7.8) (1.3) (1.9) (0.1)
Other items (principally asset disposals) 104.8 (37.3) 49.4 18.3 7.4 
Movement in net debt (170.8) (23.8) 59.0 78.6 25.6 
Basic earnings per share (pence) 38.5 41.1 56.8 40.6 43.2 
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence)* 41.2 51.7 45.0 44.5 47.1 
* Adjusted to remove pension interest credit/charge.
Group financial history Shareholder information
Company Registrar and shareholder enquiries
Administrative enquiries concerning your shareholdings in the 
Company, such as the loss of share certificates, change of 
address, dividend payment arrangements, amalgamation of 
accounts or requests for the Report and Accounts, please 
contact the Company’s registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, 
Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Equiniti also provides online facilities for shareholders to check 
their holdings and update their details. Registering is easy and 
there is no fee involved, simply access www.shareview.co.uk.
Payment of dividends
Shareholders may arrange to have their dividends paid directly 
into a bank or building society account using the Bankers 
Automated Clearing System (BACS). Bank mandate forms are 
available from Equiniti whose details appear above.   
Low cost share dealing service
If you do not have share dealing arrangements in place, Dairy 
Crest has a low cost share dealing service arranged by Natwest 
Stockbrokers. Shareholders wishing to use the service should 
contact Natwest Stockbrokers Corporate and Employee 
Services at Premier Place, 2½
 
Devonshire Square,
London EC2M 4BA. 
Telephone: 0808 208 4433 
Gifting shares to charity
Shareholders who have a small holding of shares on the 
register the value of which makes them uneconomic to sell, may 
donate these shares to charity under the Sharegift Scheme – 
administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation – a registered 
charity. Information can be found at www.sharegift.org
Telephone: 020 7930 3737.  
General information
General information about Dairy Crest can be found on our 
corporate website, www.dairycrest.co.uk
Investors who have questions relating to the Group’s 
business activities should contact: 
Investor Relations, Dairy Crest Group plc, Claygate House, 
Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN 
Telephone: 01372 472200  
email: investorrelations@dairycrest.co.uk 
Financial calendar
Dividends Final
Ex-dividend Wednesday 22 June 2011
Record date Friday 24 June 2011 
Payment date Thursday 4 August 2011
Group results (anticipated)
Half Year (Interims) November 2011
Preliminary Announcement  
of 2011/12 results May 2012
2011/12 Report and Accounts  
circulation June 2012
Analysis of ordinary shareholders at 17 May 2011 Holders
Number % Shares %
Category
Individuals and other holders 18,459 87.24 30,547,898 22.91
Insurance companies, pension funds, banks, 
nominees and limited companies 2,700 12.76 102,761,983 77.09 
21,159 100.00 133,309,881 100.00
Size of holdings
Up to 5,000 shares 19,501 92.16 26,153,767 19.62
5,001 – 20,000 shares 1,382 6.53 10,372,016 7.78
20,001 – 100,000 shares 164 0.78 7,322,939 5.49
Over 100,000 shares 112 0.53 89,461,159 67.11
21,159 100.00 133,309,881 100.00 
112 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 This report is printed on Amadeus Silk paper.  
This paper has been independently certified as meeting 
the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) 
and was manufactured at a mill that is certified to the 
ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards.  
The inks used are all vegetable based.
Printed at The Midas Press Ltd.
Designed and produced by Tor Pettersen & Partners.
Photographic direction by Hudson Wright Associates.
Board photography by Ed Hill. Dairy Crest Group plc   Annual Report 2011
Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey KT10 9PN
Company No: 3162897
Visit our website at 
www.dairycrest.co.uk
http://investor.dairycrest.co.uk
Dairy Crest Group plc 
Annual Report 2011
FULL OF  
BRIGHT IDEAS
