 Dairy Crest Group plc 
Annual Report 2012
DOING THE 
RIGHT 
THING Doing the right thing
Dairy Crest Group plc is the UK’s leading 
dairy foods company, processing and selling 
fresh milk and branded dairy products in the 
UK and Europe. The company has a clear 
strategy, a strong vision, robust values and 
good people.
 We have made progress this year by 
sticking to our strategy and continuing to 
invest in our leading brands and our 
factories. Our willingness to proactively 
reshape our business to cope with new 
challenges will result in long-term value 
creation for everyone with an interest in 
Dairy Crest. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 1
Contents
Overview Governance Business review The numbers
  THE NUMBERS
 57 Consolidated income statement
 57 Consolidated statement of
  comprehensive income
 58 Consolidated and Parent
  Company balance sheets
 59 Consolidated statement of
  changes in equity
 60 Parent Company statement of
  changes in equity
 61 Consolidated and Parent
  Company statement of cash flows
 62 Accounting policies
 68 Notes to the financial statements
 110 Independent Auditor’s Report
 111 Group financial history
 112 Shareholders’ information
  OVERVIEW
Who we are and what we do
 2 Dairy Crest at a glance
 4 Vision, values and measures
Procurement, people and 
performance
 6 Group Procurement
 8 Our people
 10 The Directors
 12 Management team
 13  Chairman’s Statement
 14  Chief Executive’s review
 16 Principal risks and uncertainties
  BUSINESS REVIEW
The business in detail
 19 Spreads
 22 Cheese
 24 Dairies
 27 Milk Procurement
 29 Corporate Responsibility
 34 Financial review
  GOVERNANCE
  38 Directors’ Remuneration Report
 46 Directors’ Report
 50 Corporate governance
 56 Statement of Directors’
  responsibilities 2 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Spreads revenue
20% 58%
33% 14%
66% 9%
Spreads proﬁt
Cheese revenue Cheese proﬁt
Dairies revenue Dairies proﬁt
*% of total Group
 (excluding associates 
 and other revenue)
At a glance
Vision



























Country Life milk Fresh milk to 
retailers
Doorstep delivery 
– ‘milk&more’
No1 UK 
branded cheese
No1 flavoured 
milk drink
No1 variant 
spread in France
No1 UK 
dairy spread
Dairy Crest produces leading 
spreads and butter brands at two 
factories in the UK and one in 
France. These brands have strong 
distribution through retailers in both 
countries. We focus on three key 
brands, St Hubert in France and 
Clover and Country Life in the UK.
Dairy Crest has the leading cheese 
brand in the UK, Cathedral City, 
and a world-class cheese supply 
chain. Cathedral City is made at our 
Davidstow creamery in Cornwall from 
milk supplied by local dairy farmers. 
The cheese is matured, cut and 
wrapped at our purpose-built facility in 
Nuneaton from where it is despatched 
to retailers. We also have a smaller 
cheese packing facility at Frome, 
Somerset which provides the business 
with additional flexibility.
We process and deliver fresh 
conventional, organic and flavoured 
milk to major retailers, ‘middle ground’ 
customers including smaller retailers, 
coffee shops and hospitals and 
residential customers.
 We also manufacture and sell FRijj, 
the leading fresh flavoured milk brand, 
cream and milk powders.


 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 3
Nuneaton
Frome
Davidstow
Kirkby
Crudgington
Ludres
Chard
Severnside
Chadwell
Heath
Hanworth
Fenstanton
Foston
Aintree
Divisions
Spreads
 UK Spreads 
 St Hubert
Cheese
Dairies
Markets
Total grocery £98bn 08 09 10 11 12
Segment proﬁt*** 
(£m)
Revenue 
(£m)
Dairy is one 
of the largest 
food categories 
worth £10bn**
474.8
415.8
337.2
311.6
336.4
Net debt
(£m)
Dairy
£10bn
08 09 10 11 12
1,569.7
1,647 .6
1,629.7
1,604.5
1,632.1
08 09 10 11 12
104.5
101.7
105.8
108.4
108.7
** 
Source: Kantar 
52 w/e 18 March 12
***
Before exceptionals 
and amortisation of 
acquired intangibles:
excludes associates


 50%

















 7%


39%















Overview
 4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Our vision, values and measures









































 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 5
Key brand Market
Market
rank
Brand
growth
2011/12*
Market
growth
2011/12**
Cathedral City UK Cheese No1 branded cheese
12% 4%
Clover UK Butter, Spreads, Margarine No1 dairy spread
16% 12%
Country Life UK Butter, Spreads, Margarine No3 UK butter
-1% 12%
St Hubert Oméga 3 French non-butter spread No1 spread in France
19% 6%
FRijj Fresh flavoured milk No1 flavoured milk drink
7% 27%
*Dairy Crest value sales 12 months to 31/3/12 v 12 months to 31/3/11 **Nielsen, IRI data 52 weeks to 31/3/12
Key performance indicators
For further 
information
2012 employee 
survey results:
Our people p8
milk&more revenue 
now £1.2m
per week
Segmental reviews 
p19
Financial review 
p34
Segmental reviews 
p19
87.6
87.4
Adjusted proﬁt 
before tax (£m)
12
11
Segmental reviews 
p19
332
331
Milk processed per employee 
(000 litres)
12
11
10% of 2011/12 
revenue from 
innovation in the 
last 3 years
Cost base – 
new initiatives 
in 2011/12 will 
deliver £22m 
annualised savings
Corporate 
Responsibility 
report p29
Received a BiTC Gold Award in 2012.
Last year we were benchmarked with a 
Silver rating
Overall employee engagement score 
increased by 2 points to 56%. 
Compares to UK-wide average engagement 
decrease of 3 points to 48% 
Response rate 
improved to 
88% 
(2011: 87%)
2012 Corporate 
Responsibility 
survey results:
Overview
We want to earn 
consumers’ loyalty 
by providing healthy, 
enjoyable, convenient 
products
We aim to meet 
consumers’ needs and 
go where this takes us
As we grow, we look 
after our people and the 
communities in which 
we work Driving value in mature markets
A key part of Dairy Crest’s consistent strategy has been to 
reduce our costs and drive efﬁciencies year in and year out.
 We set ourselves the target to reduce our costs by  
£20 million each year, and use the money saved to give 
greater value to consumers, increase marketing spend and 
boost Dairy Crest’s proﬁts.
 In the year ended 31 March 2012 we saved £22 million 
from a range of initiatives, up from £20 million the previous 
year.
 This allowed us to offset some of the inﬂationary 
pressures facing consumers from higher commodity costs, 
boost the amount we spent on marketing our key brands 
and maintain adjusted proﬁt before tax in challenging 
trading conditions.
Group Procurement – Focus on cost reduction
Working with suppliers
Our Procurement team has delivered purchasing savings 
totalling £14 million in the last two years. This team is 
responsible for working with suppliers to drive change and 
deliver sustainable value to Dairy Crest. The focus is on 
continuous improvement in quality, service and innovation 
while at the same time managing risk.
 Dairy Crest spends over £550 million each year on 
externally sourced goods and services, excluding milk, so 
controlling our costs and ensuring we maximise value for every 
pound spent is essential. We operate in an ethical, sustainable 
and corporately responsible way and expect our suppliers 
to do the same. We have implemented a supplier Corporate 
Responsibility programme across our top 50 suppliers, setting 
out the standards we expect from them.
 Our supply base remains a key source of current and future 
innovation as we look to seek out and deliver new solutions.
Cost reduction in practice – e-auctions drive costs down
We have embraced technology to drive better purchasing and 
our e-sourcing strategy has led to savings in areas such as 
gas, plastic packaging and logistics.
Cost reduction in practice – innovative new milk bottles
Working up and down the supply chain we have developed 
a new lighter milk bottle that uses 15% less plastic and is 
easier for consumers. The dual objectives of a lighter bottle 
and improved performance have been achieved with a new 
design that does not force the material as far into each of the 
bottle corners. In reducing the distance to the corners of the 
bottle there is a considerable reduction in the weight of material 
required.
 A further important element of the innovative design is the 
positioning of the handle at a corner edge of the bottle. Stored 
in the fridge, the handle can therefore be positioned facing 
outwards, making it easier for consumers.
 In an initial trial, 30,000 bottles carried stickers which gave 
consumers careline information in case they were not satisfied 
with the new bottle. However, no complaints were received 
and consumers clearly like the new design. 
 A full roll-out of the new bottles will take place in 2012/13.  
Our milkmen will deliver them to some of the one million British 
homes that receive supplies of Country Life milk from us and we 
also expect to supply the new bottles to all our other customers.
£22million 
annualised cost savings during 
the year – allowing us to spend 
more on marketing and offset 
inﬂation for our consumers
6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
WINNER
‘Our Procurement 
team has won the 2012 
Procurement Leaders 
Award for People 
Development’. Managing risk 
Dairy Crest purchases vegetable oil and products derived 
from crude oil such as resins and diesel. These markets can 
be volatile and we do all we can to minimise risk for ourselves 
and our customers. We use sophisticated risk management 
strategies via a multi-functional Risk Committee, that gives us 
the best possible insight into volatile markets so we get fewer 
surprises.
 We receive daily market reports from relevant parts of our 
supply chain and have developed contingency plans for key 
commodities and ingredients. For example, dual sourcing of 
base oils reduces our exposure to unforeseen global events 
and supply constraints.
Overview
Cost reduction in practice – Single spreads tub design
In the year ended 31 March 2012 we concluded a seamless 
move to a single spreads tub design for both our French 
and UK spreads operations. The new tub is lighter and thus 
reduces cost and waste and buying more means we buy 
better. Moving to a single tub also makes our supply chain 
more robust.
£m 10/11 11/12
Production efficiencies 5 7
Overheads 5 3
Purchasing 5 9
Distribution 5 3
Total 20 22 Our aim is for all of our staff to have the opportunity to reach their full 
potential. We want Dairy Crest to be a leading light when it comes to 
supporting diversity in the workplace and for our staff to be fully aware of, 
engaged by and supportive of our business strategy.
Our people
WE RESPECT
We value our people and are 
stronger together
Attracting and retaining talent – Living it!
In 2011 we launched an employer brand ‘Living it!’ with the aim 
of attracting and retaining the best people. The programme 
highlights why Dairy Crest is a great place to work. Since 
launching ‘Living it!’ we have also formally integrated our Vision 
and Values into our interview process to make sure we only 
recruit people who fit with our culture and are happy and willing 
to champion our values.
Diversity 
We are committed to providing an inclusive working environment 
where everyone feels valued and respected. We recognise that 
people from different backgrounds, experiences and abilities 
can bring fresh ideas and innovations to improve our working 
practices and business, delivering commercial benefit and 
ultimately shareholder value. Diversity is especially important for 
a business that makes everyday consumer goods bought and 
consumed by a diverse group of people. 
 We believe that for people to be at their best they need to 
achieve an appropriate work-life balance and any employee 
regardless of their hierarchical position, location, role or length of 
service should feel that they are treated flexibly in their ways of 
working.
 Our aim is to have a workforce that reflects the communities 
where we operate. Employees will be encouraged to reach 
their full potential regardless of their age, gender, marital status 
(including civil partnerships), disability, nationality, colour, ethnic 
origin, sexual orientation or religious affiliation. Dairy Crest 
does not tolerate discrimination or harassment on any of these 
grounds.
To help us achieve our aims we introduced or enhanced several 
of our polices during the year, including:

retirement working patterns policies


policies
The results of these actions have been very positive. In 2011/12 
95% of women returned from maternity leave – up from 70% 
in 2009 and the number of staff applying for flexible working 
hours reached record levels (80% of requests were approved). 
Our flexible working practices policy was taken up by male and 
Helping staff reach their potential
We are pleased to report that the e-learning portal we launched 
last year to help us widen learning opportunities across our 
whole workforce continues to grow in popularity and to date 
over 1,700 employees have accessed the site. The site contains 
over 100 online courses that can be accessed at any time by 
employees at work or at home – a real advantage for a business 
that operates 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
1, 7 00
employees have accessed the new 
e-learning portal
During the year we successfully piloted a focused training and 
development programme for our front line managers to help 

business from 2012. Operation managers in Customer Direct 
have implemented an online tool which helps them identify their 
strengths and areas for development.
 We have also enhanced our talent programme to help us 
better identify employees who have the potential to do bigger 
 the programme called ‘My Career’ and we have increased the 
number of senior managers who have taken on mentoring roles 
to support them.
 As well as developing our leaders of tomorrow we recognise 
the importance of continuing to develop our leaders of today. 
After a detailed analysis of the needs of managers, our 
management programme now includes a 360-degree feedback 
process so managers can get feedback from their subordinates, 
peers and managers. The programme also provides them with 
a ‘skills gaps’ analysis which helps them better identify their 
strengths and areas for improvement.
 Since December 2010 senior managers across the business 
have continued to benefit from our membership of the Swiss 
IMD business school’s ‘learning resources portal’. The portal 
gives access to a range of relevant podcasts, articles, videos 
and helps them access global best business practice.
8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 9
female employees and by staff working in our factories and 
offices. A recent example included a father of two who wanted to 
change his hours so he could drop his children off at school.
In addition we have also:

employment advisers at our site in Frome in connection with 
the ‘Two Ticks’ symbol – the symbol officially recognises us a 
being an employer that has made a commitment to employ, 
keep and develop the abilities of disabled staff



95% 
women returned to work from 
maternity leave – up from 70% in 
2009
Listening to staff 
Since launching our employee survey in 2007 we have 
conducted three further surveys to get the views of our staff 
on a range of areas including: strategy and leadership; values 
and corporate responsibility; customers and quality; learning, 
development and teamwork; wellbeing and recognition; and 
workplace environment. 

response rate of 88%, well above the UK average of 79% and 
there was an overall improvement in staff engagement compared 
to 2010 – engagement rising by 2%. Following a detailed review 
of the results, we have engaged with our workforce and have 
developed local action plans, which will be put in place.
 During their careers with Dairy Crest our employees may 

provide access to a confidential telephone counselling and legal 
information service that operates 24 hours a day.
 At times companies have to make tough decisions including 
 is the case we are committed to doing everything we can to 
support employees including providing access to professional 
outplacement services designed to ease their transition into a 

financial advice available.
88% 
respondents to the employee 
survey – well above the UK average 
of 79%
Communications

what is happening across our business. 
 To achieve this we have in place tailored staff briefings that 
regularly take place at each of our places of work, we publish a 
staff magazine and our staff intranet is available to all staff both 
at work (including through free internet cafes in our factories) and 
at home through their private internet connections. 
 In 2011 we held strategy road shows at every location in 
the business (over 120 in total took place), which all staff were 
required to attend. To ensure we engaged every employee the 
road shows took place during day and night shifts and senior 
directors and managers led them. Each month Mark Allen, our 
Chief Executive, visits one of our manufacturing sites and hosts 
an employee Q&A session. All staff are able to email Mark via a 
specially set up email address.
Reward & recognition
Our reward and recognition scheme, whereby all staff can 
nominate a colleague for a financial award for a job well done, 
continues to prove popular with staff. In 2011/12 almost 1,000 
members of staff were successfully nominated for a recognition 
award. 
 Membership of our sharesave scheme has also continued 
to grow and by the end of the financial year 35% of staff were 
members of the scheme. Almost 43% of staff are members of 
our stakeholder pension scheme. 
Overview 10 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
3
2
1
Dairy Crest is led by an 
experienced Board of Directors, 
which today comprises three 
Executive Directors, one Non-
executive Chairman and four 
independent Non-executive 
Directors. Together the Executive 
Directors have over 30 years 
experience of the business.
 The Board sets strategy and 
monitors progress. Day-to-day 
matters are the responsibility of 
the Management Board, which 
today comprises the three 
Executive Directors, the Company 
Secretary & General Counsel and 
five other senior managers.
*
 Audit Committee Member
† Remuneration Committee Member
‡ Nomination Committee Member
◊ Corporate Responsibility Committee 
Member
Δ Management Board Member
# Not a Board Member
1. Mark Allen
Chief Executive ◊ Δ
Appointed a Director in 2002 and became Chief 

August 1991. He was formerly with Shell UK Ltd. He 
is Chairman of The Prince’s Rural Action Programme 
and a Trustee for The Prince’s Countryside Fund. He 
is Vice Chairman of Dairy UK and a Non-executive 

2. Alastair Murray 
Finance Director ◊ Δ
Appointed in September 2003. He was Finance 
Director of The Body Shop International plc from 

Dalgety Food Ingredients Limited.
3. Martyn Wilks 
Executive Managing Director ◊ Δ

Snackfood Division of Masterfoods USA, and has 
held senior management positions within the Mars 
and Masterfoods Groups including Managing Director 
of Mars, France.
Executive Directors Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 11
5 7 9
4 6 8
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
Solicitors
Eversheds LLP
Principal Bankers 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Rabobank International, London Branch 
Lloyds TSB plc
Santander UK plc
Corporate Brokers
J. P. Morgan Cazenove
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Registered Office
Claygate House, 
Littleworth Road, 
Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN
Registered in England: 
No. 3162897
Board and main Committee meetings
The following Directors held office during the year. The number of Board and Committee meetings 
attended by Directors in the year is shown in the table below. The numbers in brackets show the 
maximum number of meetings Directors could have attended during 2011/12.
1  Anthony Fry was appointed as chairman of the Nomination 
Committee on 12 May 2011 and stood down from the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee on the same day.
2  Alastair Murray was appointed as a member of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee on 12 May 2011.
3  Martyn Wilks was appointed as a member of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee on 12 May 2011.
4  Stephen Alexander was appointed as a member of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees on 12 May 2011 and chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee on 18 May 2012.
5  Sue Farr was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2011 and 
a member of the Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility 
Committees on 18 May 2012.
6  Richard Macdonald was appointed a member and chairman of 
the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 12 May 2011 and 
Senior Independent Director on 18 May 2012.
7  Howard Mann stood down from the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee and as chairman of the Nomination Committee (but 
remained a member) on 12 May 2011 and stood down from the 
Board and all Committees on 18 May 2012.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CR Management Board
Mr A Fry
1
11(11) – – – – –
Mr M Allen 11(11) – – – 3(4) 32(36)
Mr A S N Murray
2
10(11) – – – 3(4) 22(36)
Mr M Wilks
3
11(11) – – – 4(4) 30(36)
Mr S Alexander
4
11(11) 3(3) 5(5) – – –
Mr A Carr-Locke 11(11) 4(4) 5(5) – 1(4) –
Ms S Farr
5
7(7) – – – – –
Mr R Macdonald
6
11(11) – – – 4(4) –
Mr H Mann
7
10(11) 4(4) 5(5) – – –
4. Anthony Fry 
Chairman ‡
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in July 2007, 
as Chairman on 1 January 2010 and as chairman of 
the Nomination Committee in May 2011. Until March 
2011 he was Senior Adviser of Evercore Partners in 
the firm’s London office. He has previously held senior 
appointments at Lehman Brothers, Credit Suisse 
and the Rothschild Group in a career in merchant 
banking which has spanned more than 30 years. In 
November 2010 he was appointed Chairman of Cala 
Group Limited and in March 2011 he was appointed 
Chairman of Espirito Santo Investment Bank UK. He 
is a Non-executive Director of Control Risks and the 
BBC Trust and has served on the boards of Mowlem, 
The British Standards Institution and Southern Water 
as well as numerous not-for-profit organisations.
5. Stephen Alexander
Non-Executive Director 
*
 † ‡
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in January 
2011 and chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
in May 2012. He is chairman of Immediate Media 
Company Ltd, an Operating Partner at OpCapita 
LLP and Chairman of Look Ahead Housing and 
Care. Previously Chairman of Maltby Capital Ltd 
(parent company of EMI Group), Chairman of Odeon 
Cinemas, Chief Executive of Hillsdown Holdings Ltd 
and held senior positions with Allied Domecq PLC 
and Imperial Foods. He was also Senior Independent 
Director at Devro plc.
6. Andrew Carr-Locke
Non-Executive Director 
*
 † ‡
Appointed as a Non-executive Director and chairman 
of the Audit Committee in August 2009. A Fellow of 
the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, 
he has previously held senior finance positions at 
Courtaulds Textiles, Diageo, Bowater Scott and 
Kodak and was Group Finance Director at George 
Wimpey plc until 2007. He has previously held 
non-executive directorships at Royal Mail Holdings, 
Venture Production and AWG. In April 2010 he 
was appointed Executive Chairman of Countryside 
Properties PLC.
7. Sue Farr
Non-Executive Director † ◊
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 
2011. She is a member of the Executive Management 
Team of Chime Communications PLC, a position she 
has held since 2003. She has extensive marketing 
communications experience, having served as 
Marketing Director of the BBC for 7 years, Director 
of Corporate Affairs, Thames Television for 3 years 
and Director of Corporate Communications, Vauxhall 
Motors. She is a Trustee of the Historic Royal Palaces 
and a Non-executive Director of Motivcom plc.
8. Richard Macdonald
Non-Executive Director 
*
 ◊
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 
2010, chairman of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee in May 2011 and Senior Independent 
Director in May 2012. He had a 30 year career with 
the National Farmers Union, serving as Director 
General for 13 years. He is a Non-executive Director 
of Moy Park Limited and Chairman of DEFRA’s Better 
Regulation Task Force. He is also a governor of The 
Royal Agricultural College Cirencester, a member 
of the board of the National Institute of Agricultural 
Botany and a trustee of Farm Africa.
9. Robin Miller
Company Secretary & General 
Counsel ◊ Δ #
Appointed in April 2008. He is a solicitor having 
worked in private practice and in-house in both retail 
and international manufacturing, latterly with Gallaher 
Group Plc.
Non-Executive Directors and Advisers
Overview 12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
11 13
10 12
10. Toby Brinsmead Δ
Managing Director, Dairies
Appointed to his current role in 2011, having 
previously been Managing Director, Liquid Products 
since 2008. Toby joined Dairy Crest in 1996 and held 
a number of finance roles before becoming Finance 
Director, Dairies. He worked in retail and healthcare 
sectors before joining Dairy Crest.
11. Arthur Reeves ◊ Δ
Corporate Affairs Director
Appointed to his current role in 2008, with 
responsibility for corporate communications and 
investor relations. Arthur, a qualified Chartered 
Accountant, joined Dairy Crest 23 years ago and has 
previously held management positions in its Cheese 
business and Milk Purchasing. 
12. Roger Robotham Δ
Director of Corporate Development
Roger joined Dairy Crest in 1996 as Group Financial 
Controller before being appointed Director of 
Financial Control in 2000. He is a qualified Chartered 
Accountant and worked at Price Waterhouse for over 
13 years. Roger was appointed to his current role in 
2006.
13. Mike Sheldon Δ 
Milk Procurement Director
Mike joined Dairy Crest from PepsiCo 19 years 
ago and has held senior management positions in 
Purchasing and Dairies before taking up his current 
role in 2012.
Management Board
Day-to-day matters are 
the responsibility of the 
Management Board, which 
currently comprises the three 
Executive Directors, the 
Company Secretary and five 
other senior managers. Other 
senior managers attend by 
invitation. The Management 
Board normally meets weekly.
◊ Corporate Responsibility 
Committee Member
Δ Management Board Member Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 13
Chairman’s statement
shareholders; and to many other individuals 
and groups. Balancing the interests of these 
is never easy, but remains a key priority for 
the Board. 
 We have recently received the results 
of our latest employee survey and are 
encouraged by the progress we have made, 
although there is always more to do. We 
have had to take some difficult decisions 
on staffing levels this year, and since the 
year end we have announced a proposal 
to consult on the closure of two dairies. 
We will do all we can to help the almost 
500 employees who are affected by these 
proposals.
 Our relationship with the dairy farmers 
who supply their milk to us is very important. 
Without them we would not have a business. 
During the year we have paid record prices 
to our dairy farmers and despite a recent 
reduction they remain at historically high 
levels – as they have to be to reflect high 
on-farm costs. This has encouraged many 
of the farmers who supply us to invest in 
their businesses to provide a growing milk 
supply and contribute to a more stable UK 
dairy sector. We remain committed to paying 
fair, market-related milk prices.
 On behalf of the Board I would like to 
thank all of the people who work for Dairy 
Crest directly or indirectly for their important 
contribution over the past year.
Corporate responsibility
Dairy Crest is a responsible business and 
we aim to ensure that we align commercial 
and corporate responsibility strategies for 
the benefit of all our stakeholders. This year 
we are pleased to have been awarded a 
gold Corporate Responsibility Index rating 
by Business in the Community and to have 
been the leading new entrant into their 
public rating. We take a practical approach 
to Corporate responsibility. For example, 
as part of our plan to create a more diverse 
workforce, rather than setting quotas for the 
number of women we employ at different 
Strategy
The Board remains determined to take 
proactive action to position Dairy Crest for 
the future, in line with our well established 
strategy of growing brands, driving 
efficiencies, improving the quality of earnings 
and making acquisitions and disposals 
which generate value for shareholders. 
 The strategic review of the Group’s 
French spreads business and the proposed 
restructuring of the Dairies business are in 
line with this strategy and are right for the 
long-term future of the Group.
 The review of our French branded 
spreads business is evaluating all options 
including a potential divestment of St 
Hubert. A disposal would reduce Dairy 
Crest’s debt and provide us with a number 
of alternatives including releasing some 
proceeds to shareholders, investing in 
our core business and making strategic 
acquisitions of branded dairy and chilled 
foods businesses in the UK. 
Vision and Values
The Group’s long-standing Vision and 
Values continue to underpin how the 
business is run. The Board has had to make 
some difficult decisions in response to the 
challenging environment the business faces, 
and our Vision and Values have provided a 
reliable framework within which these can 
be made and implemented.
 Consumers come first for Dairy Crest, 
and understanding our consumers has 
ensured that we have continued to drive 
added value sales. We know that bringing 
exciting new products to market is important 
to both retailers and consumers and we are 
pleased that the investment we have made 
in new product development and marketing 
in recent years is starting to deliver 
accelerated results.
 We also have responsibilities towards 
our employees and franchisees; to the dairy 
farmers who commit to our business by 
selling us all the milk from their farms; to our 
levels in the business, we have committed 
to a stretching target that 90% of employees 
return to work for us after maternity leave.
Board changes
The Board is responsible for the long-term 
success of the Group. To achieve this it 
requires the best possible mix of skills and 
experience. 
 During the year Sue Farr was appointed 
as a Non-executive Director and since the 
year end Howard Mann, our longest-serving 
Non-executive Director, has stepped down, 
having served nine years. I would like to take 
this opportunity to thank Howard for his 
important contribution and to welcome Sue 
to the Board.
Increased dividend recommended
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 14.7 pence per share, making a full year 
dividend of 20.4 pence, an increase of 
4% over the previous year. This dividend 
is covered 2.4 times by adjusted basic 
earnings per share in line with our policy for 
dividend cover of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
Summary
We have made progress this year by sticking 
to our strategy and continuing to invest in 
our leading brands and our factories. Our 
willingness to reshape our business to cope 
with new challenges will result in long-term 
value creation for everyone with an interest 
in Dairy Crest.
 
In a challenging trading environment the Board is pleased that 
Dairy Crest’s broadly based business has delivered stable pre-
exceptional profits. The quality of Dairy Crest’s earnings has also 
improved as a higher proportion of total sales and profits has 
been generated by the Group’s branded Foods businesses. 
WE LEAD
We value success and strive 
to be the best
Overview
Anthony Fry Chairman
23 May 2012 14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
We are also proactively shaping our 
business for the future and in March 
2012 announced a strategic review 
of our French spreads business, St 
Hubert, which is progressing. Since 
the year end we have also announced a 
series of actions to restore our Dairies 
business to a satisfactory level of 
profitability in the medium term. 
Market background
The start of the year saw significant cost 
price inflation in both the UK and France. 
We had to achieve a balance between 
recovering this through higher selling prices 
and continuing to grow sales volumes. 
Chief Executive’s review
Dairy Crest’s results for the year 
demonstrate the continued benefit 
of being a broadly based business. 
Double digit growth from our branded 
Spreads and Cheese businesses has 
offset unsatisfactory results in Dairies. 
 We have maintained adjusted Group 
profits despite facing inflationary cost 
pressures of around £80 million this 
year by making annualised cost savings 
of around £22 million and achieving 
selling price increases. This has been 
made possible by a programme of 
consistent investment in developing 
our key brands and building a modern, 
efficient supply chain. 
I am pleased that we were successful in 
driving further efficiencies throughout our 
business, which allowed us to minimise the 
cost increases we needed to pass onto our 
customers. Our success is evidenced by our 
maintained profitability and increased sales 
of our key brands.
 In the final quarter of the year dairy 
commodity markets fell sharply and this 
added to the downward pressure on the 
profitability of our Dairies business, which had 
faced difficult trading conditions throughout 
the year. We have responded decisively to the 
challenges facing this business by consulting 
on the closure of two of our dairies, 
increasing some selling prices and reducing 
some of our raw milk purchase prices.
 Consumer confidence remains fragile 
and we expect the markets in which we 
operate to remain challenging.
Trading performance
We increased sales and markedly improved 
our sales mix as we grew our key brands. 
Sales of our five key brands slowed in 
the first half as we obtained selling price 
increases that were necessary to offset 
inflationary input costs, but a strong second 
half resulted in both volume and value 
growth for the year as a whole.
 We have continued to invest strongly 
behind all of our key brands and are 
committed to their ongoing growth. 
Cathedral City and St Hubert both achieved 
Total Revenue up 2%
 Strong growth in Foods (revenue 
+10%), supported by continued 
progress from key brands
 More focused Dairies business 
(revenue -2%), as action taken to 
improve customer mix 
Adjusted profit before tax 
maintained in challenging trading 
conditions
Exceptional non-cash impairment 
charges in Dairies of £81.7 million 
leads to a reported loss
Key net debt to EBITDA ratio at 2.2 
well within covenant of 3.5
Proposed final dividend up 4% at 
14.7p per share, demonstrating 
a commitment to progressive 
dividend policy
Sales of five key brands up 11% 
 Record market shares for Cathedral 
City and St Hubert in fourth quarter
Innovation driving added value 
sales and efficiencies
 10% of sales now derived from 
products and services developed in 
the last three years, such as Chedds 
and FRijj the Incredible 
 milk&more weekly sales up to £1.2 
million
Input cost increases of around £80 
million recovered through cost 
savings and selling price increases
£22 million annualised cost savings 
delivered during the year, with a 
further £20 million identified for 
2012/13 
Business In The Community gold 
award reflects strong commitment 
to Corporate responsibility
Strategic review of French 
spreads business 
progressing
Decisive steps taken since 
year end to return Dairies 
business to a satisfactory 
level of profitability in the 
medium term
Branded food acquisition, 
MH Foods, widened 
product portfolio
Financial highlights Operating highlights Strategic highlights Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 15
Brand Market Market growth* Brand growth**
UK cheese +4% +12%
UK butter, spreads, margarine +12% +16%
UK butter, spreads, margarine +12% -1%
French non-butter spreads +6% +19%
Fresh ﬂavoured milk +27% +7%
Total + 1 1 %
* ACN, IRI data to 19 March 2012  ** Dairy Crest sales 12 months to 31 March 2012 v 12 months to 31 March 2011
record market shares in the fourth quarter 
and Cathedral City was short listed to be 
Marketing Week’s brand of the year against 
five other brands including Heinz, John 
Lewis and the BBC. We were also delighted 
to win the Grocer magazine’s branded dairy 
supplier of the year award.
 Innovation remains hugely important 
to Dairy Crest and we have an ongoing 
focus to develop new products, services 
and ways of working. During 2011 we 
launched four new ranges, two in France (St 
Hubert 5 Céréales and St Hubert Spécialité 
Culinaire) and two in the UK (Chedds and 
FRijj The Incredible). A good performance 
by all four has contributed to an increase in 
sales derived from products and services 
developed in the last three years to 10% of 
overall sales, ahead of last year and in line 
with our ambitious long-term target. 
 During the year we also widened our 
product base with the purchase of the 
branded food business MH Foods. This 
business manufactures healthy ‘one calorie’ 
spray cooking oils under the FryLight brand 
and we are making good progress with our 
plans to develop its sales and profits.
 We have already commenced initiatives 
in the current financial year that will again 
deliver over £20 million of annualised cost 
savings, equivalent to around 2.5% of our 
cost base excluding milk and commodity 
ingredients. We achieved the same target in 
the year ended 31 March 2012.
Dairies review
In a very challenging trading environment, 
our Dairies business did not achieve an 
acceptable level of profitability. On top of 
downward pressure on selling prices in 
a tough consumer environment and an 
extremely competitive ‘middle-ground’, the 
whole sector suffered from steeply falling 
dairy commodity markets. 
 Lower returns from these dairy 
commodity markets offset an improved 
second half performance, which was 
supported by the actions we took in the 
business during the year. These included 
increased sales of innovative new products 
including milk&more, FRijj The Incredible, 
milk bags and 1% fat milk, as well as 
efficiency improvements generated in part 
by the three year, £75 million investment in 
our core liquid dairies.
 Since the year end we have continued 
to act decisively to protect the future of our 
Dairies business and have announced a 
series of initiatives to restore this business to 
a satisfactory level of profitability, including the 
difficult decisions to consult on the closures 
of two dairies, reduce some of our milk 
purchase prices, make further depot closures 
and cut a number of head office jobs.
 We are now the only UK listed dairy 
business and the only major liquid milk 
processor predominantly in British 
ownership. From a strong core of three 
modern and well invested liquid milk dairies 
we will continue to review all elements of this 
business to ensure its ongoing strength.
Financial summary
Adjusted Group profit before tax was 
essentially flat at £87.4 million (2011: £87.6 
million). Adjusted basic earnings per share 
increased by 5% to 49.4 pence (2011: 47.1 
pence). However exceptional, non-cash 
impairment charges associated with our 
Dairies business led to a reported loss before 
tax of £10.1 million and a basic loss per share 
of 12.8 pence (2011: reported profit £77.8 
million, basic earnings per share 43.2 pence).
 Group net debt at 31 March 2012 was 
£336.4 million (2011: £311.6 million), principally 
reflecting higher cheese stocks, which are 
necessary to fuel the growth in Cathedral 
City, offset by strong quarter four cash 
collection.
Current trading
In the current financial year, we are seeing 
continued strong momentum in our Foods 
businesses and we expect Dairies to benefit 
from the decisive action we are taking and 
our continued discipline on costs.
Overview
Mark Allen Chief Executive
23 May 2012 16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Risk register
Accounts reviews
Management board
Divisional boards
Threats to objectives identified
Performance monitored
Business objectives set or reviewed
Existing controls assessed
Threats quantified
Improvements implemented
Leadership teams
Group board
We manage risk to help us achieve our strategic objectives 
and protect our reputation.
The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of the Group’s 
risk management processes and the Board is responsible for the 
appropriate identification of risks and the effective implementation of 
mitigating activities. 
 Internal Audit scrutinise certain assurance mechanisms in place 
to mitigate risks. This process explicitly recognises the relationship 
between Internal Audit and risk management. The Audit Committee 
is satisfied that the processes are adequate and appropriate. Further 
details are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 50 
to 56.
 The Group’s risk register is compiled through a combination 
of business unit risk registers and Board input. The Board formally 
reviews the Group risk register when the annual budget is set and at 
each of the two forecast reviews throughout the year. The Company 
Secretary and General Counsel is responsible for highlighting to the 
Board any changes to the Group’s risk registers identified during 
the intervening periods. The risk register review conducted during 
the year helps to ensure that a model of continued risk appraisal is 
embedded in the Group. 
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk area and potential impact Mitigating controls
Commercial risks 
Loss of key customer
There is strong competition between suppliers to our key customers. We face 
competition on both our branded and retailer branded products. To compete 
we have to purchase raw materials effectively, operate the supply chain 
efficiently, price our products competitively and continually innovate. 
If we fail to do this we could lose sales.
No one customer accounts for a significant proportion of total revenues and 
we continually strive to widen our customer base. Despite challenging trading 
conditions we have maintained investment in marketing our branded products. 
We continue our capital expenditure programme for our core dairies sites 
into the third year of investment that will deliver further efficiencies into the 
supply chain. Our innovation programme continues to generate new products 
that reinforce our appeal to customers. We recognise the importance of 
strong customer relationships and the executive team play an active part in 
maintaining and developing these. They are also involved in major customer 
negotiations. We conduct customer surveys to benchmark our performance 
and we continuously monitor the service and quality levels provided to our 
customers and consumers, and have procedures in place to react quickly to 
any issues. Our commitment to corporate responsibility remains a key part of 
our business strategy, and is an important part of our overall proposition to 
customers.
Reduced demand from consumers
Consumers could move away from dairy products for economic, health, 
ethical or other reasons leading to lower sales and profits.
Consumers are at the heart of our business and we regularly monitor 
consumer trends. We continue to promote the health benefits provided by 
dairy products and develop healthier products. We continue to maintain our 
focus on developing a compelling new product development pipeline, enabling 
us to react to consumer trends, for example with more environmentally-friendly 
packaging, and healthier variants of branded goods. Dairy products are staple 
purchases for most households and we focus on marketing to maintain 
market share and profit levels through continued difficult trading conditions.
Input cost volatility
Volatile milk and non-milk costs (vegetable oils, diesel, electricity, gas and 
packaging) could reduce margins unless we can manage cost risk, find other 
cost efficiencies elsewhere or increase selling prices.
For more information refer to: 
Chief Executive’s review
Segmental reviews
Milk Procurement
This area is closely reviewed by the Management Board which has established 
a risk committee to monitor and hedge forward non-milk commodity prices as 
appropriate. The risks associated with purchasing large volumes of milk have 
been reduced by establishing milk pools linked to major customers. We seek 
to absorb short term cost movements through supply chain efficiencies. Our 
purchasing and commercial teams have clear lines of communication between 
them to ensure customers are kept aware of changes to our cost base and 
requests for price increases can be fully justified. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 17
Not all of the risks listed are within the Group’s control and others may be unknown 
or may currently be considered immaterial but could turn out to be material in the 
future. The risks set out in this section, together with their associated mitigation 
activities, should be considered in the context of the Group’s risk management and 
internal control framework, details of which are set out in the Corporate Governance 
Report on pages 50 to 56 and the cautionary statement regarding forward looking 
statements at the start of the Directors’ Report on page 46.
Risk area and potential impact Mitigating controls
Operational risks
Restricted milk supply
Restricted milk supply due to economic factors, weather, fuel availability or an 
epidemic which affects dairy cows could restrict milk supply. This in turn could 
lead to lower sales and profits. Consumer confidence in dairy products could 
also be adversely affected.
For more information refer to:
Milk Procurement
We invest significant resources in maintaining strong relationships with our milk 
suppliers by attending forums and discussing current issues and pressures 
that affect both the farms and our business. The majority of our milk comes 
directly from farms under contracts that include a notice period of at least one 
year. Our experienced Milk Procurement team understand milk production 
and are alert to changes in supply. We closely monitor the milk price we pay 
to suppliers in order to ensure we can purchase the right quantity of milk to 
meet demand forecasts and have established procedures for allocating milk 
between our businesses if a short-term shortfall in supply does arise. We 
have contingency plans established for major incidents and work closely with 
DEFRA and industry bodies to ensure these are appropriate. These plans are 
regularly tested and reviewed with the Management Board. 
Other operational risks
An accident, product contamination, the failure of equipment or systems, or 
deliberate act could disrupt production, affect food safety, cause injury, and/
or cause reputational damage with adverse consequences. We are also reliant 
on information technology and exposed to losses in the event that systems 
fail.
Dairy Crest takes product quality very seriously and has rigorous quality 
controls in place to minimise potential risks. Plans are maintained to respond 
quickly to any product quality concerns and minimise any impact to the 
Group. Our business is also committed to the health & safety of all our 
employees and maintains systems aimed at ensuring everyone is able to 
complete their work safely. All of our manufacturing sites have a trained 
engineering resource, are supported by our major equipment suppliers and 
hold appropriate stocks of spare parts. They also all have fire protection 
systems and regular fire drills. Our information technology systems are 
regularly backed up and duplicated in the majority of areas. We have 
procedures in place to help us deal with major incidents and insurance cover 
for property damage and business interruption risks.
People risks
Recruitment and retention
We need to retain high quality employees to provide customers and 
consumers with safe, high quality products and services.
For more information refer to:
Our people
We carry out rigorous selection procedures and benchmark pay and benefits 
to ensure we can attract and retain the best people. We have a wide bonus 
scheme and a range of other incentives to reward good performance. There is 
a performance review and talent management scheme to identify and develop 
our own people. We undertake regular surveys to monitor the relationship with 
our employees and their engagement.
Financial risks
Liquidity
We have to ensure that we have the appropriate capital structure in place to 
allow us to run the business. 
For more information refer to:
Financial review
Note 30 to the Accounts
We are comfortably within our debt headroom and covenants and have a 
good mixture of long-term credit facilities with supportive financial institutions 
who know our business. Increased funding requirements into the defined 
benefit pension scheme could reduce liquidity. We closed the scheme to 
future accrual in 2010 and have taken out insurance to meet the liabilities 
associated with many of our retired members. 
Legal and compliance risks
Our sector is subject to a number of complex statutory requirements. There is 
a risk of fines or lawsuits and reputational damage if we fail to comply.
We have a strong in-house legal function supported by external advisers. 
We have undertaken Group wide training in respect of competition law and 
actively monitor and adjust to ongoing legal and regulatory changes. We have 
a Business Conduct Policy, and a programme designed to ensure that all 
relevant employees understand what is and is not permissible under the UK 
Bribery Act.
Major project risk
To remain competitive we periodically undertake major transformational 
projects following strategic reviews. Successful execution of these projects is 
often key to delivering strategic objectives.
We have a good track record of managing projects and use experienced and 
appropriately skilled senior managers to lead these. Supervisory governance 
structures are also put in place to help successful delivery. We are aware that 
too much change concentrated in a short timescale can be detrimental and 
manage this by ensuring key project resource is full time with appropriate 
backfilling and use of third parties.
Overview WE CREATE
We constantly look for new and 
better ways of doing things Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 19
Spreads
£ million 2011/12 2010/11
Revenue 328.7 285.5
Profit 63.0 53.3
Margin 19.2% 18.7%
Dairy Crest
Unilever 30%
Arla 29%
Private 
label    
15%    
Other 8%
Source: Nielsen 52 w/e 31 March 2012
Share of UK retail butters and 
spreads market by value
Source: IRI 52 w/e 1 April 2012
Share of French retail non-butter 
spreads by value
St Hubert
Unilever 41%
Lactalis 
13%   
Other 7%
18% 39%
We manufacture butter and spreads in the UK, and spreads in 
France and have strong market positions in both these countries 
as well as in Italy.
 Consumption of spreads in the markets in which we operate 
has continued to edge back (year on year volumes are down 2%) 
but higher prices, reflecting higher input costs, have led to value 
growth in both UK (+12%) and France (+6%). Both these markets 
remain strongly branded. 
 We have broadly maintained our market share in the UK, with a 
good performance by Clover being offset by lower sales of 
Country Life, and have increased our market share in France, 
benefiting from strong growth in our market-leading brand St 
Hubert Oméga 3. We continue to increase expenditure on 
advertising and promotions and to drive innovation. 
 For the year ended 31 March 2012, revenue of £328.7 million is 
up 15% from last year, segment profit of £63.0 million is up 18% 
and a segment margin of 19% is the same as last year. 
strategic review of this business which could 
lead to a potential divestment. 
 During the year the total non-butter 
French Spreads market grew to €397 
million. St Hubert increased its market 
share to a record 39%, reflecting the 
growth of St Hubert Oméga 3, St Hubert 
Bio and the successful launch of two new 
innovative products, St Hubert 5 Céréales 
and St Hubert Spécialité Culinaire. The 
business also benefited from the temporary 
delisting of competitors’ products by some 
customers. 
 In Italy our market-leading Vallé brand 
has performed well and has maintained its 
market share at 62%.
St Hubert 
St Hubert achieves 
market leadership as 
market share increases 
to a record 39%
St Hubert manufactures spreads at Ludres 
in North Eastern France, for distribution 
across France and to Italy. It was acquired 
in January 2007 from Uniq plc, and under 
Dairy Crest’s ownership the business has 
prospered and has consistently grown 
market share and profits. In March 2012 
we announced that we had commenced a 
Business review
Business review 20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
 16% 
sales growth for Clover 
UK Spreads
Another strong 
performance, led by 
Clover, our largest 
spreads brand
We manufacture butters and spreads in 
two factories in the UK, at Kirkby near 
Liverpool and at Crudgington in Shropshire, 
using cream from our Dairies business, and 
distribute them to UK retailers through our 
national distribution centre in Nuneaton. 
 The UK butter, spreads and margarine 
market grew 12% in the year to £1.3 billion, 
reflecting a small reduction in volume 
being more than offset by significant price 
increases. Input costs, most notably cream 
and vegetable oils, continued to rise in the 
first half of the year and we had to increase 
our selling prices as a result.
 We broadly maintained our market share. 
Our largest brand, Clover, grew ahead of the 
market. However, Country Life sales have 
fallen back slightly. These two key brands 
were well supported by Utterly Butterly, 
which also grew ahead of the market. 
Clover remains the UK’s leading dairy 
spread and has grown market share again 
this year. Total sales are up 16%. Sales of 
Clover Lighter are now 17% of total Clover 
sales and grew by 27% in the year. We 
have advertised Clover and Clover Lighter 
separately this year in order to continue to 
appeal to both health and taste conscious 
consumers. 
 Country Life is the only major British 
butter brand and we have continued to 
highlight this in our advertising. Country 
Life Spreadable outperformed the market, 
albeit from a relatively small base. However, 
Country Life block butter sales fell back as 
we reflected higher input costs in our selling 
prices sooner than our competitors and 
chose to improve our overall margins. 
 Higher levels of promotional activity have 
supported both Country Life and Clover as 
Business review  | Spreads continued
we and our retail customers react to offset 
the economic pressure on consumers. 
 We will grow profits in our UK Spreads 
business by making it more efficient and 
are in the process of consolidating Clover 
production at our Kirkby site. During the 
year, we also completed the rationalisation 
of our packaging across all our brands to a 
single shape. As well as reducing costs, this 
also makes our supply chain more robust.  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 21
Business review 22 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
UK retail cheese market volumes were 
broadly flat in the year with values increasing 
by 4% to £2.5 billion. The market has 
been predominantly retailer own label, 
but Cathedral City has again increased its 
market share and is now approaching 10% 
of the total market following a 12% sales 
increase in the year. We have continued 
to advertise and promote Cathedral City 
strongly using our successful advertising 
campaign, ‘the nation’s favourite’, which 
reflects the brand’s strength. 
 Cathedral City now dominates the 
branded everyday cheese category and 
achieved a market share of over 50% of the 
category in March 2012. It has outperformed 
its rivals in this category and its sales now 
exceed those of the next four brands 
combined. In line with our strategy to widen 
the appeal of Cathedral City to account for 
all tastes, all the brand’s variants including 
Lighter, Mild and Extra mature have grown 
faster than the largest selling Mature variant. 
 In addition to Cathedral City’s strong 
performance, we have also made good 
progress with our Davidstow brand. In the 
past this was positioned as a ‘sub-brand’, 
carrying both the Davidstow name and that 
of the retailer, but last year we replaced the 
sub-brand in Sainsbury’s and Tesco with 
a new Davidstow cheddar and we now 
have firm plans to continue to widen its 
distribution with other major retailers. 
 We want to widen our consumer base 
and during the year we launched Chedds, 
a new snack brand for children. Chedds 
aims to solve the dilemma facing parents 
who want their children to benefit from the 
calcium and other nutrients cheese provides 
from a product they don’t see as artificial. 
Made from 100% Cathedral City cheddar, 
Chedds balances being tasty and fun 
for kids with a vote of approval from their 
parents. Chedds has already gained good 
penetration and has a strong repeat rate – 
we plan to advertise on television later this 
year to continue to drive growth. 
 Profits in our cheese business have 
been supported by strong returns from 
whey and by efficiency measures across 
the supply chain. At Davidstow we have 
been able to improve further the ‘hit rate’ by 
Business review continued
£ million 2011/12 2010/11
Revenue 229.6 223.1
Profit 35.5 28.0
Margin 15.5% 12.6%
Dairy Crest has the leading cheese brand in the UK, Cathedral 
City, and a world class supply chain. Cathedral City is made at 
our Davidstow creamery in Cornwall from milk supplied by around 
400 local dairy farmers. The cheese is matured, cut and wrapped 
at our state of the art facility in Nuneaton from where it is 
despatched to retailers. 
 We also make Davidstow branded cheddar and supply a small 
quantity of high quality retailer branded cheddar. This year we 
have entered a new market with Chedds, the first 100% cheddar 
snack for kids. 
 Reported revenue for the year ended 31 March 2012 grew on a 
like for like basis by 7% to £229.6 million after adjusting for the sale 
of our majority stake in Wexford Creamery in June 2010. Segment 
profits increased by 27% to £35.5 million resulting in a segment 
margin of 15% (2011: profit of £28.0 million and 13% margin). 
Source: Nielsen 52 w/e 31 March 2012
Other 90%
Share of the total UK retail
cheese market by value
10%
Cathedral
      City
Cheese
consistently producing the highest quality 
cheese, which reduces ‘downgrade’ and 
improves average realisations. At Nuneaton 
we have continued to increase the speed 
of the packing machines and delivered 
improved efficiencies. 
 Improved profitability has allowed us to 
increase the price we pay our dairy farmers 
for the milk they supply to Davidstow to 
record highs of nearly 29 pence per litre, 
reinforcing the ‘virtuous circle’ of market 
leading brands, facilities and milk prices. 
 Looking forward we have a great 
opportunity to deliver growth in revenue 
and profits in this business through a 
combination of consumer-led innovation 
and marketing. Further new products are 
planned which will target different consumer 
groups. We have made more cheese at 
Davidstow to meet demand, which, together 
with higher milk prices, has resulted in an 
increase in cheese stocks. Planned capacity 
improvements will allow us to continue to 
grow in the future. 
The ‘virtuous circle’ of 
market leading brands 
and facilities has 
delivered strong proﬁt 
growth and record 
high milk prices to our 
farmers  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 23
Business review 24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
achieved in our Dairies business, much of it 
by increasing manufacturing efficiencies and 
reducing administration costs associated 
with our depot network. 
 In addition, since the year end we have 
announced further depot closures and head 
office job losses and the proposed closure 
of two dairies. We have also cut some of our 
milk purchase prices, principally reflecting 
lower cream returns.
 We will continue to review the 
geographic and customer mix of this 
business to ensure its ongoing strength.
A more efficient business with less 
exposure to the middle ground
Our proposals to close Aintree and 
Fenstanton dairies would concentrate our 
milk business into three modern dairies 
which have benefited from our ongoing £75 
million investment programme and one glass 
bottling site. All four of the dairies would be 
operating at or around optimum throughput 
with fewer sales to the middle ground. In 
addition, we continue to operate our milk 
balancing creamery at Severnside and our 
small, specialist creamery at Chard.
7 % 
growth in FRijj sales
A tough year for Dairies
Along with the rest of the sector 2011/12 has 
been a tough year for our Dairies business. 
Average selling prices remained flat year on 
year, reflecting the full year impact of last 
year’s intense competition in the middle 
ground and major tender negotiations, 
improved by mid-year selling price increases. 
Reduced retail selling prices in supermarkets 
have also put pressure on our residential 
sales volumes. In the last four months of the 
year cream realisations fell away while milk 
purchase prices remained at historic highs. 
 We have embarked on a series of 
actions designed to restore our Dairies 
business to an acceptable level of 
profitability over the medium term. We also 
have a continuous programme of innovation 
which has led to increased sales of new 
products including milk&more, FRijj the 
Incredible, milk bags and 1% fat milk. 
 Our focus remains on cost, quality and 
service, and our ongoing three year £75 
million investment programme is contributing 
to improved efficiencies. We have a 
programme across Dairy Crest as a whole 
to deliver £20 million of annualised savings 
each year, and the bulk of this has been 
The Dairies Division processes and delivers fresh conventional, 
organic and flavoured milk to major retailers, ‘middle ground’ 
customers (including, for example, smaller retailers, coffee shops 
and hospitals) and residential customers.
 We also manufacture and sell FRijj, the leading fresh flavoured 
milk brand, cream, and milk powders.
 Reported revenue fell by 2% to £1,069.0 million and in a tough 
trading environment, segment profit fell to £10.2 million (2011: 
£27.1 million), resulting in an unsatisfactory segment margin of 1% 
(2011: 2.5%).
Dairies
£ million 2011/12 2010/11
Revenue 1,069.0 1,089.8
Profit 10.2 27.1
Margin 1.0% 2.5%
Business review continued
No.1
market leader in fresh 
ﬂavoured milk with FRijj 
and supermarket own 
label
A strong performance from FRijj
We have grown sales of our branded 
milkshake, FRijj, by 7% compared to last 
year. The market for flavoured milk remains 
buoyant and we have invested in production 
capacity to enable us to continue to grow 
sales. FRijj is the largest fresh flavoured milk 
brand and has nearly half of that market. 
We expect to see ongoing growth.
 Market growth has been driven by 
premium products and during the year 
we launched a new premium range, ‘FRijj 
The Incredible’ to participate in this sector 
of the market. This is proving popular and 
is widening the appeal of FRijj to a larger 
consumer group. 
 We have completed a trial to produce 
longer life FRijj using UHT milk and this 
will allow us to increase penetration in 
convenience outlets.
Residential deliveries
Delivering milk to customers’ doorsteps 
remains a key part of our business. We 
have around 1 million residential customers 
and have a network of over 2,100 milkmen 
including around 1,500 franchisees. 
Reduced selling prices in supermarkets 
£ 1.2m
weekly milk&more sales Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 25
Business review
have put pressure on our residential sales 
volumes which were down 12% at the half 
year stage and 10% over the year. Since  
the year end, the rate of decline has fallen to 
around 9%.
 Our internet doorstep delivery 
proposition, milk&more, continues to make 
progress and we now have 210,000 active 
customers. Weekly sales are now £1.2 
million. We remain committed to making 
milk&more a success, although pressure 
from lower retail selling prices has slowed 
down the growth of milk&more in the short 
term. 
Ingredients
Our ingredients operation provides us 
with a valuable balancing solution for 
seasonal raw milk supplies and cream. 
We minimise throughput in this business 
to reduce our exposure as far as possible 
to dairy commodity markets. However our 
Dairies business does generate substantial 
volumes of cream, not all of which is used 
by our Spreads business. Prices for dairy 
ingredients increased in the first half of the 
year but fell back sharply in the last quarter 
and since the year end.   Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 27
Recruitment / security of milk supply
We have increased the proportion of milk we 
buy from direct supply from 73% to 79%. 
This is a key part of our strategy and our 
farmer recruitment programme will continue 
to replace milk from third parties until we 
reach our target volume of 85%. We also 
successfully launched a ‘volume incentive 
scheme’ to reward farmers on standard 
liquid contracts for increasing production. 
We are now looking to extend this scheme 
to more of our farmers.
Contracts
Recognising the diverse range of dairy farm 
types and business models we buy milk 
from, we continue to develop new contracts. 
In 2010 we offered a two-year, stable priced 
contract and around 100 suppliers chose 
this option. During the life of the contract 
on-farm costs escalated and we had to 
intervene and make a discretionary payment 
contrary to the principle of a stable price.
All our supplying farms meet the Red Tractor 
farm assurance and Dairy Crest quality 
standards. We take this very seriously and 
are proud of achieving results considerably 
higher than the dairy industry average.
 In addition to our core activity of 
sourcing milk to meet the needs of the 
business, we work closely with Dairy Crest 
Direct (“DCD”), the independent organisation 
which represents our supplying dairy farmers, 
to explore initiatives to add value and deliver 
greater efficiency for both parties. 
External Environment
The 2011/12 year has continued to be 
challenging for the dairy sector with higher 
production costs throughout the supply 
chain at a time when household incomes 
were also being squeezed.
 For farmers, significant milk price 
increases (shown in the chart below) have 
helped to offset the impact of these higher 
costs and create an environment where 
there was evidence of increased farm 
investment. Total milk production in Great 
Britain grew for a second consecutive year. 
However since the year end we have had 
to reduce some of the prices we pay for 
milk as have most milk purchasers. This is 
disappointing but unavoidable given weak 
dairy commodity markets.
 In addition to financial challenges the 
dairy industry, like other agricultural sectors, 
has remained in the public eye with the 
increasing focus on animal welfare and the 
type of farming systems under which milk is 
produced. Consumers want to know how 
their food is produced and are much better 
informed about farming methods. 
  At Dairy Crest we allow our farmers to 
farm in the way that is most suitable to their 
type of business and the resources that are 
available to them. Our focus is on the level of 
stockmanship and expertise to deliver high 
standards of animal health and welfare and 
therefore milk quality.
Dairy Crest sources 2.1 billion litres of milk annually – currently 
almost 80% of this volume comes direct from around 1300 dairy 
farms located throughout England & South Wales. 
 The Milk Procurement team works very closely with our 
supplying farmers to ensure an efficient and sustainable supply of 
high quality milk. We have adopted a partnership approach and 
our aim is to build long-term relationships with our farmers. We 
offer a range of contract options to suit all business types as well 
as providing professional support and advice on our contract 
requirements and all aspects of milk production and animal 
welfare requirements. 
Milk Procurement
Business review continued
Business review
30
25
20
2010-11
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
2011-12
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
Monthly Farmgate prices 
Great Britain (pence per litre)
23.4
26.3
26.5
28.9
Source: DairyCo Datum
80% 
of our milk is sourced 
directly from UK dairy 
farms 28 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Business review  | Milk Procurement continued
In the light of this we have reviewed whether 
we can offer stable price contracts going 
forward. We continue to try different ideas 
and have successfully introduced another 
new contract in both liquid and cheese 
milk supplying areas. The Dairy Crest Farm 
Business Contract offers larger farms the 
opportunity to share the benefit from any 
additional efficiency savings we can achieve. 
 We are continuing to evaluate new 
contract opportunities and pricing 
mechanisms with DCD so we can offer 
greater flexibility and choice to all our farmers.
Farmer support & training
We continue to develop the unique farm 
advisory service, White Gold, to offer further 
support to our farmers. One example is a 
water resource model, which aims to create 
greater awareness of current water utilisation 
to help deliver efficiency improvements in the 
future. We are also working to expand the 
herd health initiative provided by Edinburgh 
University as part of the White Gold service. 
 Our regionally based farm liaison team 
are continually participating in additional 
training and awareness events to ensure that 
they are fully informed and up to date with 
the latest dairy knowledge and legislation.
Country Life – new customer 
opportunities
Our Country Life farm package, which 
includes farm standards in addition to the 
Red Tractor Assured Dairy Scheme, is 
enabling us to build new propositions for 
customers. The Country Life farm  
standards focus on efficiency, sustainability 
and key consumer issues including 
environmental issues. 
Retailer pools
We continue to work with our existing 
retailer milk pools to increase efficiency 
and sustainability and explore new market 
opportunities that deliver consumer 
or farmer value. Examples include the 
M&S ‘Better for You’ milk initiative, 
the development of a Sainsbury Dairy 
Development Group cost of production 
pricing model, and further cow welfare 
monitoring initiatives for the Waitrose Dairy 
Farmer Milk Scheme. In addition, with 
Morrisons we have initiated a series of Focus 
Farm events to raise awareness of topical 
issues including health & safety on farms. 
Distribution
Our distribution operation has been a 
focus for achieving greater efficiency whilst 
maintaining service levels to farmers and 
customers. Two new transport depots 
in Carmarthen and West Thurrock have 
increased efficiency within our ex-farm 
operation and reduced carbon emissions. 
Extensive work has taken place to ensure 
the fleet is better able to cope with adverse 
weather conditions.
Agri Assist 
Agri Assist, the joint venture between  
DCD and Dairy Crest, continues to explore 
cost saving and revenue generating 
initiatives. These include a specialist online 
carbon assessment tool now used by 
over 400 farmers and a group electricity 
purchasing deal.
Looking ahead
With the number of dairy farmers in the 
UK being in decline, succession remains 
a key concern. Dairy Crest is a long-term 
supporter of a number of initiatives to 
encourage and support the next generation 
of dairy farmers. We are proud to sponsor 
the Dairy Crest/RABDF Student Award 
and the Dairy Crest/NFU South West 
Scholarship Fund. Once again these 
programmes have shown the enormous 
talent that exists, and that we need to retain 
within this sector for the future. We are also 
exploring how we can work more closely 
with some of the agricultural colleges in our 
core milk collection regions.
Summary
Dairy Crest recognises and values the 
huge efforts our farmers make in producing 
top quality milk to the highest standards 
of animal welfare and environmental 
management. We are proud of the strong 
relationship we have built up with our 
farmers and DCD, and recognise this as one 
of the core foundations of our business.
 We have held a number of on-farm 
training and awareness events with our staff 
throughout the other areas of the business, 
in order to give them the opportunity to see 
first hand the key role our farmers play within 
Dairy Crest. We have also given our farmers 
the opportunity to understand more about 
what happens to their milk further up the 
supply chain and the importance of meeting 
the needs of our consumers.
400 
farmers are now using 
the online carbon 
assessment tool 
supplied by Agri Assist Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 29
Business review
Dairy Crest is a responsible business and we align 
commercial and corporate responsibility strategies 
for the benefit of all stakeholders.
 Our future success depends on our ability to 
meet a range of pressing environmental and social 
needs – that is why Corporate Responsibility is so 
important to us.
 More information can be found in our Corporate 
Responsibility Online Report.
Corporate Responsibility
WE CARE
We act responsibly with a 
passion to do the right thing 30 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Environment
Business review | Corporate Responsibility continued
Climate change
As the UK’s leading dairy 
manufacturer and processor 
we play an active role in 
tackling climate change, 
reducing waste and looking 
after the natural environment.
Carbon dioxide emissions contribute to 
climate change and we are determined to 
lead the agenda by reducing our energy 
consumption and dependency on fossil fuel.
 Following on from the work we did to 
measure our carbon emissions in 2002, 
in 2007 we created an official partnership 
with the Carbon Trust and formed our 
Internal Carbon Management Group. We set 
ourselves the target of reducing our carbon 
emissions by 30% – against 2007 levels by 
2020. We are pleased to report that thanks 
to the work done across the business 
and the impact of the two biomass boilers 
(officially opened by HRH Prince Charles 
in Davidstow) we reduced our emissions in 
2011/12 by over 12% in just 12 months.
 As well as reducing emissions from our 
sites we have continued to invest in our 
transport fleet, knowing that a modern fleet 
can take advantage of modern, greener 
technology. Examples of investments made 
include acquiring 33 new milk tankers (our 
fleet is 150 strong), which are fitted with 
more efficient milk pumps and Isotrak 
telematics systems and acquiring 60 new 
vehicles with Euro 5 standard engines which 
have enabled us to reduce our nitrogen 
oxide levels.
We recognise that we cannot address climate 
change in isolation and in order to play 
our full part in helping to tackle this issue 
we need to work in collaboration with our 
suppliers, in particular our farming suppliers 
to help them reduce their carbon footprint. 
 To help achieve this, we created a 
unique on-farm carbon measurement 
tool with DCD, which has been endorsed 
by the Carbon Trust. Results from a pilot 
programme, in which over 100 Dairy Crest 
farmer suppliers participated, showed that 
the average carbon emissions (equivalent) 
per litre of milk was 18% below the average 
for Western Europe.
We were delighted to be the highest new entry in this year’s 
Business in the Community’s Corporate Responsibility Index, 
achieving a Gold Award (94%). Taking part in the Index has been 
hugely beneficial to us as it has let us take stock of the vast array of 
environmental, marketplace, workplace and community activities we 
are engaged in, and helped us formalise our corporate responsibility 
strategy in the form of 40 public pledges – these pledges are 
published in our Corporate Responsibility Online Report. 
 We were also delighted to be included in the prestigious 
Corporate Knights Global 100 List of the world’s most sustainable 
businesses.
 When fully integrated into a business, corporate responsibility 
sparks creative, innovative ideas and it helps achieve a better 
understanding of the needs of our consumers. As highlighted 
below, and in our online report, over the course of the last year we 
have made good progress towards this.
GOLD  GOLD  GOLD 94% 
Business in the 
Community’s 
Corporate 
Responsibility 
Index
 12% 
reduction in CO
2
 
emissions Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 31
Business review
In response to concerns over the increasing 
level of obesity in the UK we developed 
great-tasting lighter variants of our key brands 
including Country Life Spreadable Lighter, 
Cathedral City Lighter and Clover Lighter 
and we have championed 1% milk through 
our doorstep delivery service and national 
retailers. The results continue to be positive 
with Clover Lighter and Country Life Lighter 
growing by 27% and 32% respectively 
and Cathedral City Mature Lighter cheddar 
remaining by far the top selling lower fat 
cheddar cheese. Sales of 1% milk have also 
remained at over 19 million litres.
As well as investing in creating lighter 
variants of our core brands we have also 
reformulated Utterly Butterly in order to 
reduce levels of saturated fat; created 
Davidstow Lighter cheddar; and, in 
partnership with WeightWatchers, created 
a low fat double cream, a low fat crème 
fraîche and a low fat custard. In France, we 
have continued to add healthy variants to 
our St Hubert range of spreads including  
St Hubert 5 Céréales, a spread that contains 
seeds and grains. St Hubert Oméga 3 
remains the biggest selling health spread  
in France.
 In 2011 we underlined our commitment 
to healthier food products through the 
acquisition of MH Foods, the manufacturer 
of FryLight and SaladLight.
After listening to consumers, in particular 
parents of young children, who told us that 
the ‘kids cheese market’ was too dominated 
by what are perceived as ‘unnatural’, 
‘processed’ cheeses, in 2011 we launched 
‘Chedds’ a brand new cheddar snack for 
children made from 100% real mild cheddar 
cheese. Significantly each pack of Chedds 
provides a child aged between 7 and 10 with 
about a quarter of their daily calcium needs.
 Added together, our lighter food brands, 
the reformulation of our products, and 1% 
milk have removed a total of 12,600 tonnes 
of saturated fat from consumer diets since 
their introduction.
 In 2012 we became the first major  
UK dairy manufacturer and processor 
to sign up to the Department of Health’s 
Responsibility Deal.
Reducing waste
We aim to reduce the waste 
that arises throughout our 
supply chain, from the point 
at which goods enter our 
doors right through to the 
point when our products are 
consumed. Where waste is 
unavoidable we look for ways 
of diverting it from landfill by 
reusing or recycling it. We 
also consider the materials 
used in our packaging and 
aim to minimise their 
environmental impact during 
use and disposal.
We are pleased to report that in 2011/12, 
across our manufacturing sites, we achieved 
an 88% landfill avoidance of our solid waste 
– ensuring we are on course to achieve 
our target of zero waste to landfill by 2015. 
This progress has been achieved largely 
due to the combined efforts of our staff and 
our waste broker, 707 , both of whom have 
identified alternative recycling options.
 We are always looking for new and more 
environmentally friendly ways of packaging 
our products and over the course of the 
year we reduced the amount of plastic used 
to make our spreads tubs, we developed 
a new two and four pint plastic milk bottle 
that uses about 15% less plastic than its 
current equivalent, we continued to promote 
milk bag and JUGIT and all of our standard 
plastic milk bottles now are made with at 
least 15% recycled plastic (our target is to 
use 50% by 2020). Finally our cream is now 
packed in polypropylene pots which means 
they are easier to recycle.
 As the first dairy company to sign up to 
WRAP’s Courtauld Commitment we remain 
fully committed to its second phase ‘Love 
Food, Hate Waste’.
Natural resources
We are committed to 
reducing the amount of water 
used in our manufacturing 
processes by 20% by 2015 
against 2007 levels.
Over the course of 2011/12 we have 
continued to focus on the amount of water 
we use at our manufacturing sites with the 
net result that we have reduced water usage 
by 14% since 2007 and are on course to 
achieve our target of reducing water usage 
by 20% by 2015.
 With an increasing focus on reducing 
the amount of water used in farming we are 
helping dairy farmers measure and reduce 
the amount of water they use through 
‘WaterWell’, an innovative water-auditing 
programme. Initial results of this programme 
will be gathered later this year.
 We recognise the most positive impact 
we can have on improving biodiversity is by 
supporting farmers in their quest to protect 
and improve the natural environment. To 
ensure we do this to the best of our ability, 
we have helped farmers put in place 
on-farm environmental initiatives including 
incentivising some farmers to keep part of 
their land fallow for wildlife.
Marketplace
 12,600 tonnes 
of saturated fat saved from consumer diets
Healthier products
We are committed to 
creating healthy, tasty, 
enjoyable products, making 
it easier for consumers to 
choose healthier foods and 
to play our part in helping to 
tackle obesity.
 15% 
recycled plastic used in 
all our standard plastic 
milk bottles 32 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Business review  | Corporate Responsibility continued
Workplace
We are committed to 
ensuring the safety of all of 
our employees, franchisees, 
contractors and other people 
affected by our activities.
Our safety at work objective is very simple: 
we want everyone who works for us, and 
with us, to go home to his or her family at 
the end of their working day without any 
injury or occupational ill health. To achieve 
this objective we have in place a number 
of initiatives that focus on areas which are 
of particular relevance to our business, 
examples being ‘safe behaviours’ and 
‘employee engagement’.
 Our commitment to reduce accidents 
has continued apace and since introducing 
our NVQ Carrying and Delivering Goods 
programme in our Dairies Division last year, 
over 2,000 staff have completed the course. 
This practical programme has helped staff 
further to improve their driving skills and to 
avoid injuries and accidents.
 Driving on public roads is undoubtedly 
the most hazardous aspect of many of 
our staff’s jobs. We are pleased that CPC 
training for our LGV drivers continues to be 
delivered in-house for all Divisions by our 
internal IDAS team. By having an accredited 
training centre we can be more flexible when 
it comes to delivering the training and we 
can spend longer focusing on issues that 
are more relevant to Dairy Crest.
 Over the course of the year we also 
launched a ‘manual handling campaign’ 
and completed a ‘safe footwear pilot’ to 
reduce slips amongst our staff in our Dairies 
business.
 Whilst any accident in the workplace 
is unacceptable, our safety awareness 
programme ‘STAR’ (Stop, Think, Assess, 
Review) and the ‘safety days’ held across 
our network of depots, have helped us 
reduce accidents in the year.
 A healthy workforce is vital to the future 
success of our business. In order to achieve 
our aims we have put in place a number of 
health awareness programmes including 
free health MOTs for all Dairy Crest staff. As 
part of our partnership with the British Heart 
Foundation, their team will be supporting 
our occupational health team in developing 
a proactive wellbeing programme including 
providing staff with advice and healthy living 
literature.
 Further information about our employees  
is on pages 8 and 9.
Community
We are committed to looking 
after the communities where 
we work.
With 16 factories and offices and over 100 
depots across England and Wales, we 
know that the actions we take often have 
a significant influence on the communities 
where we are based. As the main employer 
in many areas, we believe we have a 
unique opportunity to play a positive role in 
supporting projects at a local and national 
level.
 To ensure the work we do in our local 
communities adds real value to society we 
focus on supporting issues and projects 
that:

knowledge


Workplace
Community
Dairy Crest has
 16 
factories and ofﬁces 
and over 
 100
depots across England 
and Wales 
As a champion of the British dairy industry 
we are pleased to report that every drop 
of the 2.1 billion litres of milk we purchased 
in 2011/12 was from British farms and that 
79% of it came from over 1,300 farmers 
who have a direct supply contract with us. 
We offer our supplying farmers a fair and 
competitive milk price, help them focus on 
efficiency and best practice throughout 
the milk supply chain and provide advice 
and support services on issues such as 
legislation, animal welfare and wildlife 
support.
 We also work collaboratively with other 
suppliers and in 2011 we introduced an 
ethical supply policy. The policy is designed 
to extend our vision and values across a 
diverse and extensive supplier base, whilst 
recognising that those who supply our 
business with much needed goods and 
services operate in a variety of different 
cultural environments.
Working with farmers and suppliers
We are dedicated to working 
with dairy farmers and other 
suppliers and will proactively 
work with them to exceed 
best practice.
2,000 
staff have completed 
the NVQ Carrying 
and Delivering Goods 
programme Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 33
Business review
We aim to use our community programme 
to inspire staff, provide them with useful 
experience and promote team building.
 With this is mind, our community 
strategy is divided into four strands:
1.  Looking after the countryside 
and broader environment
2. Promoting healthy living
3.  Supporting education and 
employability
4.  Engaging with local 
communities
Looking after the countryside and 
broader environment
We buy about one sixth of the milk 
produced in Britain each year and we know 
that a healthy, vibrant countryside is as vital 
to rural communities and dairy farmers as 
it is to our future success. As an added 
incentive, we estimate that people living in 
rural regions account for about 19% of our 
consumer base.
 To ensure we play our full part in 
maintaining sustainable rural communities, 
we’ve made ‘looking after the countryside 
and broader environment’ a key strand 
of our community programme and we 
principally do this through our involvement 
with the Prince’s Rural Action Programme, 
the Countryside Fund and charity 
partnerships like Pub is the Hub.
Promoting healthy living
In tandem with our strategy of increasing 
sales of healthier variants of our products, 
our aim is to use our community programme 
to encourage staff and consumers to live 
healthier lifestyles.
 To achieve this, in 2011 we went into 
partnership with the British Heart Foundation, 
the UK’s leading heart charity, which aims to 
prevent premature death from heart disease. 
The aim of the partnership is to:

Foundation’s activities to our approximately 
1 million doorstep customers and raise 
money for the charity

resources and experience to support our 
staff wellbeing campaign – including our 
occupational health teams working with 
their nurses.
Supporting education  
and employability
The current economic climate has had 
a disproportionately negative impact on 
young people, with youth unemployment 
over double the national average. To make 
sure we are able to play our part in helping 
this next generation onto the career ladder, 
we have set up a number of education 
programmes catering for GCSE, A-Level, 
undergraduate and postgraduate students 
and, in September, we will be launching  
an engineering apprenticeship programme 
to add to our award winning dairy 
technologist course.
 Significantly we formalised our 
commitment to helping the employability 
of young people by signing the IGD’s 
employability pledge in April 2011 and in 
2012 we became a founding member of the 
IGD’s Communities Industry Working Group 
and we will be playing a key role in the 
industry body’s ‘Skills for Work Week’ taking 
place in September 2012.
 Since 2009 we have supported the 
Utterly Butterly Ukulele Orchestra musical 
project that gives children the opportunity 
of learning a musical instrument, in this 
case a ukulele made out of an empty 
Utterly Butterly tub, fishing wire and wood. 
Importantly the project is aligned to the 
national school curriculum. Since the 
project’s launch, almost 10,000 ukuleles 
have been made.
Engaging with local communities
Our local community programme makes 
up the fourth strand of our community 
programme and in keeping with the overall 
strategy it focuses on:

and direct contribution to the communities 
where our workplaces are based

education, the environment or the 
countryside.
 
Local community committees at each of 
our places of work run our community 
programmes. Each committee has 
responsibility for its own budget and for the 
decisions it makes. As well as providing 
financial support we also give all staff across 
the business the opportunity of taking one 
day off a year to volunteer for a good cause 
of their choice. Over the course of 2011/12 
our staff have supported about 100 local 
good causes through volunteering their  
work time, product donations or a direct 
financial donation.  34 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Business review continued
Financial review
08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12
1,569.7
1,647 .6
1,629.7
1,604.5
1,632.1
Cash generated 
from operations
(£m)
Revenue
(£m)
24.4
20.1
18.9
19.7
Adjusted earnings
per share  
(pence)
51.7
45.0
44.5
47 .1
49.4
Segment proﬁt 
(£m)
104.5
101.7
105.8
108.4
108.7
108.4
129.1
145.9
128.1
84.5
122
116
115
85
123
5.7
Total dividends 
per share 
(pence)
Gearing
(%)
Mar 07 Sep 07 Mar 08 Sep 08 Mar 09 Sep 09 Mar 10 Sep 10 Mar 11 Sep 11 Mar 12
3.0
2.8
2.6
2.4
2.2
2.0
500
450 
400 
350 
300 
250 
200 
Net debt
Net debt (£m – left scale)
Net debt / EBITDA 
(multiples – right scale)
451 459 475 491 416 380 337 335 312 365 336
Before exceptional items 
and amortisation of acquired 
intangibles; excluding 
associates & joint ventures
Before exceptional items, 
amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and pension 
interest charges / income
Overview
We continue to make progress against our strategy of growing branded sales, delivering cost savings 
and controlling cash. In doing so, we have benefited again this year from being a broadly based 
business with strong performances from our branded Spreads and Cheese divisions compensating 
for more challenging trading in Dairies. 
Delivery against our strategy
Sales of our five key brands have increased by 11% in the year and we continue to invest more in 
marketing and new product development to drive future brand growth. We have delivered on our cost 
saving targets across the business to help mitigate inflationary cost pressures. Furthermore, we have 
invested in our core Dairies processing sites in order to drive efficiencies and increase capacity, which 
will facilitate the planned closure of two non-core sites in 2012/13. Net debt has increased over the 
year, however a strong focus on cash has limited the increase to £24.8 million despite the acquisition 
of MH Foods, the Office of Fair Trading (“OFT”) settlement, continued capital investment in our core 
Dairies business and a cheese stock build driven by increased production and milk cost rises. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 35
Segment revenue
2012 2011 Change. Change.
£m £m £m. %.
Cheese 229.6 223.1 6.5) 2.9) 
Spreads 328.7 285.5 43.2) 15.1)
Dairies 1,069.0 1,089.8  (20.8) (1.9)
Other 4.8 6.1 (1.3) (21.3)
Total segment revenue 1,632.1 1,604.5 27.6) 1.7)
Group revenue increased by 1.7% to £1,632.1 million. Cheese 
revenue increased by £6.5 million despite the comparative number 
including Wexford Creamery Limited until June 2010, after which 
point its results were no longer consolidated into the Group following 
the disposal of our controlling interest. Spreads revenues have grown 
in both the UK and France, benefiting from volume growth in our key 
brands and price increases achieved. Dairies revenues have declined 
by 1.9% as growth with major retail and milk&more have been more 
than offset by volume declines in the residential channel. Other 
revenue represents third party distribution undertaken by our national 
distribution centre in Nuneaton.
Segment operating profit
2012. 2011. Change. Change.
£m. £m. £m. %.
Cheese 35.5) 28.0) 7.5) 26.8) 
Spreads 63.0) 53.3) 9.7) 18.2)
Dairies 10.2) 27.1) (16.9) (62.4)
Share of associates (0.3) (0.2) (0.1) n/a)
Total segment profit 108.4) 108.2) 0.2) 0.2)
Remove share of 
associates 0.3) 0.2) 0.1) n/a)
Acquired intangible 
amortisation (9.1) (8.7) (0.4) (4.6)
Group profit on 
operations (pre-
exceptionals) 99.6) 99.7) (0.1) (0.1)
Segment profit is quoted before the impact of exceptional items 
and amortisation of acquired intangibles and includes our share of 
associates’ loss after tax. On this basis, total segment profit was up 
£0.2 million or 0.2%. 
Our Cheese business has performed well in the year reflecting the 
strength of our Cathedral City brand, the benefit of improved whey 
realisations, improved supply chain efficiencies and the delayed profit 
and loss impact of higher milk costs due to cheese maturation times. 
We successfully implemented a reduced pack size for Cathedral City 
in the first half despite which full year tonnage grew by 5%.
Spreads profits have increased helped by strong performances from 
St Hubert Oméga 3 and Clover. Furthermore, St Hubert benefited 
from the temporary delisting of competitors’ products by some 
customers for part of the year.
Dairies profitability has been impacted by an increasingly tough 
trading environment and a marked fall in cream realisations in the 
final quarter of the year. This had led to a £16.9 million reduction 
in profits to £10.2 million despite higher property profits of £4.6 
million (2011: £1.8 million). We are proactively reducing the cost base 
within our Dairies segment through depot closures, supply chain 
efficiency savings, head office job losses and the proposed closures 
of two processing sites at Aintree in Liverpool and Fenstanton in 
Cambridgeshire. These actions are designed to restore the segment 
to an acceptable level of profit in the medium term. 
Reported pre-exceptional Group profit on operations decreased by 
0.1% to £99.6 million; a result that demonstrates the benefits of being 
a broadly based dairy business with a strong performance in Cheese 
and Spreads offsetting lower margins in Dairies.
Exceptional items
There are a number of exceptional items recorded in the year albeit 
these comprise principally non-cash asset impairments. They are 
analysed below.
The tough trading conditions experienced by our Dairies segment 
have reduced profits and cash flows in the year ended 31 March 
2012. Although actions are underway to reduce the cost base and 
restore acceptable profitability in the medium term, the outlook for 
the segment is weaker than it was in 2011. This, combined with the 
volatility of assumptions in forecasting due to the commoditised 
nature of the business and the competitive environment, has led 
management to conclude that the carrying value of Dairies goodwill 
cannot be supported based on value in use. We have therefore 
decided to fully impair the carrying value of Dairies goodwill resulting 
in an exceptional charge of £70.7 million in the year ended 31 March 
2012. 
Furthermore, we have announced a major restructuring of our Dairies 
operations with the expected closure of processing sites at Aintree 
and Fenstanton, subject to consultation. These closures are expected 
to be completed during 2012/13 and as a result, property, plant and 
equipment at these sites can no longer be supported by their value 
in use. As a consequence we have written down the carrying value of 
assets at the two sites along with certain intangibles and stocks with 
a resultant exceptional charge of £11.0 million.
We continue a major restructuring of depot administration activities in 
our Dairies segment. This restructure is delivering more streamlined 
and centralised back office support functions and generating 
significant cost savings. Exceptional cash costs in the year amount to 
£5.3 million of which the majority comprises redundancy costs. We 
expect to incur a final £7 million in 2012/13.
We announced in February 2012 that a customer, Quadra Foods 
Limited, had gone into administration. As a result, a bad debt 
provision of £4.3 million has been charged as an exceptional item. 
In addition, we previously purchased products from Farmright 
Limited, a member of the same group as Quadra, which has also 
gone into administration. Under IFRS the recognition criteria for 
assets is higher than that for liabilities therefore, despite that in the 
opinion of management set-off arrangements were in place for these 
companies, only the provision for bad debt has been charged as 
exceptional as the outcome with regard to Farmright Limited is not 
virtually certain. We remain in communication with the administrator.
In May 2011 we announced the consolidation of Clover manufacture 
into one site at Kirkby. As a result we have charged an exceptional 
cost of £2.6 million in the year ended 31 March 2012 representing 
the write down of certain assets that are made obsolete as a result 
of the move in production and redundancy costs at our site in 
Crudgington. A further £2-3 million is expected to be incurred in the 
first half of 2012/13 at which point all Clover manufacture will have 
been transferred.
Interest
Finance charges have increased by £0.4 million (2%) to £21.0 million. 
Margins on the new revolving credit facility signed in October 2011 
are slightly higher than the facilities that were replaced and borrowing 
levels have been somewhat higher this year. At 31 March 2012, all 
borrowings under the revolving credit facilities are at floating rates of 
interest based on LIBOR plus a margin of 135 basis points, however 
Business review 36 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Dividends 
The proposed final dividend of 14.7 pence per share represents an 
increase of 3.5% on last year’s final dividend of 14.2 pence. Together 
with the interim dividend of 5.7 pence per share this gives a total 
dividend of 20.4 pence per share for the full year. This represents 
an increase of 3.6% on the dividend declared for 2010/11. The 
final dividend will be paid on 2 August 2012 to shareholders on the 
register on 22 June 2012.
Pensions
In June 2011, the final schedule of contributions was agreed with the 
Trustee and this results in cash payments of £20 million per annum 
into the defined benefit pension scheme which, from April 2010, has 
been closed to future service accrual. We continue to proactively 
seek ways of reducing pension scheme risks and during the year 
ended 31 March 2012, £14.6 million of liabilities (based on the IAS 19 
valuation basis) were extinguished by way of an enhanced transfer 
value exercise.
The reported IAS 19 pension deficit at 31 March 2012 was £79.8 
million compared to £60.1 million at 31 March 2011 and £109.9 
million at 30 September 2011. Asset returns were relatively strong in 
the year; however bond yields have decreased and the discounted 
level of pension liabilities has therefore increased. The actuarial loss 
reported in other comprehensive income for the year is £46.2 million 
(2011: £60.6 million gain). 
Cash flow
We continue to focus on cash and although net debt has increased 
during the year from £311.6 million to £336.4 million, this includes 
the effect of the acquisition of MH Foods (£12.3 million) and the OFT 
settlement (£7.3 million). Cash generated from operations was £84.5 
million in the year (2011: £128.1 million). This includes a working 
capital outflow of £20.6 million (2011: £11.7 million inflow) caused by 
the higher value of cheese stocks compared to March 2011 - £129.8 
million in March 2012 versus £113.9 million last year. Stock value 
increases are a result of increased manufacturing to support future 
volume growth and milk cost increases effected during 2011. As was 
the case last year, we received some early settlement of invoices 
from customers at March 2012.
Capital expenditure of £53.3 million was marginally higher than last 
year (2011: £49.3 million). Significant investment continues across our 
core milk processing infrastructure, principally the sites at Severnside, 
Chadwell Heath and Foston. This investment improves efficiencies 
and importantly, increases capacity, which will facilitate the planned 
closure of two other Dairies sites in 2012/13, subject to consultation. 
The result going forward will be a smaller, well-invested Dairies 
manufacturing base with improved efficiencies and higher levels of 
capacity utilisation. Cash receipts from the disposal of fixed assets 
amounted to £12.6 million comprising £5.8 million from the sale of 
closed depots and £6.8 million relating to the sale and operating 
leaseback of certain plant and equipment at our Severnside site 
(2011: £2.5 million total receipts from disposal of fixed assets).
Cash interest and tax payments amounted to £23.6 million and £14.1 
million respectively (2011: £19.8 million and £16.1 million). Interest 
payments are £3.8 million higher than last year mainly reflecting 
upfront fees of £3.0 million paid in relation to the new revolving credit 
facility and the issuance of loan notes during 2011. Tax payments are 
predominantly incurred in relation to the St Hubert business as UK 
corporation tax payments are reduced by relief on the ongoing levels 
of cash contributions into the pension scheme.
 
most of our borrowings are loan notes at fixed coupons. A further 
$85 million of loan notes (£54.5 million) were issued to investors in 
November 2011. 
Other finance income of £5.5 million (2011: nil) comprises the net 
expected return on pension scheme assets after deducting the 
interest cost of the defined benefit obligation. This is based on 
assumptions made at the start of the financial year. This amount can 
be highly volatile year on year as it comprises the net of expected 
returns and interest costs, both of which are dependent upon 
financial market conditions at 31 March each year. We therefore 
exclude this item from headline adjusted profit before tax.
Interest cover excluding pension interest, calculated on total segment 
profit, remains comfortable, at 5.2 times (2011: 5.3 times).
 
Profit before tax
2012 i 20111  Changee Changee
£m i £mni £mn %%
Total segment profit 108.4) 108.2) 0.2) 0.2) 
Finance costs (21.0) (20.6) (0.4) (2.0)
Adjusted profit before tax 87.4) 87.6) (0.2) (0.2)
Amortisation of acquired 
intangibles (9.1) (8.7) (0.4) (4.6)
Exceptional items (93.9) (1.1) (92.8) n/a)
Other finance income – 
pensions 5.5) –– 5.5) n/a)
Reported profit 
before tax (10.1) 77.8) (87.9) n/a)
The Group’s adjusted profit before tax (before exceptional items and 
amortisation of acquired intangibles) was broadly flat at £87.4 million 
(2011: £87.6 million). This is management’s key Group profit measure. 
The reported loss before tax was £10.1 million (2011: £77.8 million 
profit) due to exceptional items and in particular the impairment of 
Dairies goodwill of £70.7 million.
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax rate on profits excluding exceptional items 
and including associate’s tax was 24.1% (2011: 27.9%). The decrease 
in the effective rate of tax compared to last year is due to a number 
of factors including: the 2% reduction in the rate of UK corporation 
tax to 26%; the enactment in March 2012 of a further 2% reduction 
in the UK corporation tax rate in 2012/13 (which impact deferred 
tax balances at March 2012); the higher level of property profits in 
2011/12 which do not attract tax; and some other one-off items. We 
expect the effective rate to increase in 2012/13 as some of these 
factors do not repeat. 
Group result for the year
The reported Group loss for the year amounted to £17.1 million (2011: 
£57.5 million profit). 
(Loss)/earnings per share
The Group’s adjusted basic earnings per share increased by 5% to 
49.4 pence per share (2011: 47.1 pence per share). Adjusted profit 
before tax is broadly flat and this increase reflects the lower effective 
tax rate in the year. 
Basic earnings per share, which includes the impact of exceptional 
items, pension interest income and the amortisation of acquired 
intangibles, amounted to a loss of 12.8 pence per share (2011: 43.2 
pence earnings per share). 
Business review  | Financial review continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 37
Cash paid for the acquisition of MH Foods amounted to £12.3 
million (net of cash acquired with the business) (2011: £0.1 million of 
acquisitions). There were no proceeds from the sale of businesses, 
however in 2010/11 inflows of £4.0 million comprised proceeds from 
the sale of the Group’s controlling interest in Wexford Creamery 
Limited less fees and cash in the business disposed. 
Net debt
Net debt increased by £24.8 million to £336.4 million at the end of the 
year. Net debt is defined such that, where cross currency swaps are 
used as cash flow hedges to fix the interest and principal payments 
on currency debt, the swapped sterling liability is included rather than 
the retranslated foreign currency debt. It excludes any unamortised 
upfront facility fees. At 31 March 2012, gearing (being the ratio of net 
debt to shareholders’ funds) was 123% (2011: 85%).
Borrowing facilities
Group borrowing facilities comprise: £345.5 million of loan notes 
maturing between April 2013 and November 2021; and a £170 million 
plus €150 million multi-currency revolving credit facility expiring in 
October 2016. At 31 March 2012 there was £303.2 million effective 
headroom against committed facilities (2011: £324.3 million). 
On 12 October 2011 the Group agreed a new five-year revolving 
credit facility of £170 million plus €150 million with a syndicate of five 
banks. Additionally, in November 2011, the Group raised a further 
$85 million (£54.5 million) by way of a debt private placement with US 
investors comprising a mix of 7-year and 10-year notes. 
The new facility was used to refinance the previously existing bank 
facilities of: £100 million which was due to mature on 8 November 
2011; and £85 million plus €175 million which was due to mature on 
16 July 2013. These actions together leave overall Group facilities 
broadly unchanged but, importantly, deliver security of funding for the 
Group in the medium term, which we believe is especially important 
given current conditions in financial markets. 
Key financial covenants under the new facility are unchanged but 
margins have increased slightly, reflecting current market conditions. 
Borrowing facilities are subject to covenants which specify a 
maximum ratio of net debt to EBITDA of 3.5 times and a minimum 
interest cover ratio of 3.0 times. The Group remains comfortably 
within its covenants with a net debt to EBITDA ratio at 31 March 2012 
of 2.2 times (March 2011: 2.2 times).
Treasury policies
The Group operates a centralised treasury function, which controls 
cash management and borrowings and the Group’s financial risks. 
The main treasury risks faced by the Group are liquidity, interest rates 
and foreign currency. The Group only uses derivatives to manage 
its foreign currency and interest rate risks arising from underlying 
business and financing activities. Transactions of a speculative 
nature are prohibited. The Group’s treasury activities are governed 
by policies approved and monitored by the Board. These policies are 
summarised in Note 30 to the financial statements.
Net assets
Net assets at 31 March 2012 totalled £274.3 million (2011: £365.5 
million). This reduction principally reflects the impairment of goodwill 
in the Dairies segment. Combined goodwill, intangible assets and 
property, plant and equipment total £713.4 million (2011: £799.6 
million). Inventories of £187.8 million are £23.3 million higher than the 
previous year, mainly reflecting increases in maturing cheese stock 
values. 
Going concern
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern 
basis as the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate 
financial resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable 
future. In making this statement, the Group’s Directors have: reviewed 
the Group budget, strategic plans and available facilities; have made 
such other enquiries as they considered appropriate; and have 
taken into account ‘Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance 
for Directors of UK Companies 2009’ published by the Financial 
Reporting Council in October 2009. Further information is presented 
in the Directors’ Report on page 46.
Alastair Murray Finance Director
23 May 2012
Business review 38 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Composition of the Remuneration Committee 
The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee of Non-
executive Directors of the Company. During the year the Committee 
consisted of:






the Company and as chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 

Remuneration Committee from that date.


conﬂicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and they are not 


The Remuneration Committee has appointed 




Role of the Remuneration Committee







 Meeting Key activities




targets

conditions








Key Developments
2011/12 



























2012/13










increases this year to reﬂect the current economic environment. 


Summary of remuneration policy for 2012





 Directors’ remuneration report Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 39
Governance
Make up of remuneration






















Components of remuneration
 Base salary


Proposed 2012/13 increase Current annual salary*




 Bonus








Strategic objectives Basis of delivery Quantum
Base salary










Pension











Bonus







Deferred bonus





Issued in shares. 

deferred. 
LTISP



 
Three-year performance period.



targets.



0
20
40
60
80
100
LTISP
Bonus
Pension
Benefits
Base salary
M Wilks A Murray M Allen
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Bonus
Pension
Benefits
Base salary
M Wilks A Murray M Allen 40 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012

The LTISP is designed to encourage continuing improvement in the 
Group’s performance over the longer term. An LTISP award is 
payable in shares, rather than cash, to emphasise the alignment of 
interests between the participants and the Company’s shareholders. 
The LTISP has a three year performance cycle and pre-determined 
performance conditions, which must be met before awards under 
the LTISP can be exercised. Awards under the LTISP are granted 
annually. 
The Committee has decided to maintain the Adjusted Basic 
Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) growth targets for the 2012 LTISP 
awards. The Committee believes that adjusted EPS provides 
transparency for shareholders and participants as well as a strong 
line of sight to focus participants on achieving the Company’s 
earnings objectives, and believes that the targets outlined below are 
suitably stretching in the current environment.
Therefore, for the 2010, 2011 and proposed 2012 awards under the 
LTISP:


FTSE 250 (excluding ﬁnancial service companies, real estate 
companies and investment trusts).

a three year period.
The targets for the 2012 awards will be the same as for the 2011 
awards and are as follows:











Upper quartile Median Between median 

Pro rata
between
 Pro rata
between
 The targets for the 2010 awards were as follows:











Upper quartile Median Between median 

Pro rata
between

Pro rata
between

The value of shares awarded under the LTISP in any ﬁnancial year is 

salary, however the maximum potential awards for the year were set 


The Dairy Crest Executive Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”) was 



which may not be less than the market price of the shares as 
derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofﬁcial List at the 
 options under this scheme which were awarded as part of the 2010 

2010 LTISP).


options to be granted until the twentieth anniversary of ﬂotation, 
 employees and full time Directors. Employees enter into an approved 
savings contract over a three year term to make monthly 
contributions up to an overall maximum of £250 per month. At the 
end of the term, members have the right to buy ordinary shares in 
the Company at a price ﬁxed at the time of the option grant. The 

of the market price at the time of option grant.
A Sharesave grant was made in December 2011 in which 


At 1 April 2010, the Company closed its deﬁned beneﬁt scheme to 
future service accrual. As part of the transitional arrangements, 
employees whose notice periods were six months or greater 
 from the decision to close the scheme to future service accrual). This 
applied to Mark Allen and Alastair Murray. This service accrual was 

the deﬁned beneﬁt scheme, all members were offered active early 
retirement terms. This allows members to draw their pension early 
while continuing to work for the Company as long as an election was 

a lump sum amount of £221,510. Alastair Murray made no election 
to draw early pension payments.









From 1 April 2011 the Company has made contributions into the 
Dairy Crest deﬁned contribution pension scheme for both Mark Allen 
and Alastair Murray. The Company contributes up to the £50,000 
limit beyond which Mark Allen and Alastair Murray receive a cash 
supplement. Overall employer contributions plus cash supplements 

Directors’ remuneration report continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 41


These include the taxable value of company car beneﬁts, life 
assurance cover and Company contributions to medical insurance 
plans.


 the Board following a recommendation by the Chief Executive and 




Articles of Association. There are no pre-determined special 

in the event of loss of ofﬁce.

March 2012. There were no increases in fees during the year.
Annual fees
 £155,000

Audit Committee Chair £5,000
 £5,000
 £5,000
Senior Independent Director £5,000

 subject to audit, except for the details of service contracts on page 



In accordance with best practice as set out in the Code, all 
Executive Directors have a notice period not exceeding one year. All 
such Directors’ service contracts provide explicitly for termination 
payments in the event of termination by the Company other than on 
grounds of incapacity or in circumstances justifying summary 
 the value of annual salary, beneﬁts, pension and bonus for the notice 
 there is a mitigation clause in the service contract with respect to 
termination payments such that certain compensation payments are 
deferred. A summary of the service agreements of the Executive 
Directors is available on the Company’s website.
The service contracts and letters of appointment include the 
following terms:



M Allen 12
 12
 12






A Fry

A Carr-Locke

S Alexander
S Farr
 

executive Directors should not normally serve for more than nine 

Directors is available on the Company’s website. 
Details of the Directors offering themselves for election and 
re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting are set out in 

details at pages 10 to 11).  42 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Shareholdings above exclude options under the LTISP scheme and deferred shares for Executive Directors as part-payment of bonuses are 
shown as a separate column. These shares are released three years after the year in which the bonus was earned. An analysis of the 
movement in deferred bonus shares and deferred bonus share options (applicable from 2011) is set out below:
Bonus
year
Year of
award
Balance at
March 2011 Awarded
Dividend 
reinvestment
on issuance Issued
Balance at
March 2012
Mark Allen 2007/08
2009/10
2010/11 
2008
2010
2011
2,931
52,704
– 
–
–
5,070
708
–
– 
(3,639)
–
– 
–
52,704
5,070 
Alastair Murray 2009/10
2010/11 
2010
2011
36,571
– 
–
3,409
–
– 
–
– 
36,571
3,409 
Martyn Wilks 2009/10
2010/11
2010
2011
36,748
– 
–
3,426
–
–
–
–
36,748
3,426
The share prices at the date of award for the 2008, 2010 and 2011 awards were £3.28, £3.95 and £3.68 respectively. The share price at the 
date of exercise of the 2008 award was £3.75. Note that 2011 deferred bonuses were granted as options rather than as deferred shares and 
are not included in the table of Directors’ shareholdings above as they are not legally or beneﬁcially held by the Directors until vesting.
No Director holds a non-beneﬁcial interest in the Company’s share capital. There have been no changes in Directors’ shareholdings between 
31 March 2012 and 23 May 2012. The above interests exclude any rights to acquire shares under the LTISP arrangements, which are set out 
below.
External appointments
Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-executive Directors of other companies and it is recognised that exposure to such duties 
can broaden their experience and skills which will beneﬁt the Company. External appointments are subject to agreement by the Chairman and 
reported to the Board. Any external appointment must not conﬂict with a Director’s duties and commitments to Dairy Crest.
During the year, the fees received by executive Directors for external appointments were as follows:
Director Appointee company Additional positions held at appointee company Total fees (£000)*
Mark Allen Howdens Joinery Group plc Audit Committee member and Remuneration Committee member 23
* Total fees are as reported by Howdens for the ﬁnancial year up to 24 December 2011. Mark Allen was appointed to the Board on 31 May 2011. His fees were pro-rated 
to reﬂect the amount of time spent in the role during the year.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Shareholding guidelines
Directors are encouraged to build a shareholding in the Company equivalent to one year’s salary and to this end would normally retain 50% of 
net proceeds from share plans and bonus share awards until that shareholding is achieved. 
The interests of the Directors at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows:
As at 31 March 
2012
Beneﬁcial
As at 31 March 
2011/resignation
Beneﬁcial
As at 31 March 
2012
Deferred shares**
As at 31 March 
2011
Deferred shares **
A Fry 3,000 3,000 – – 
M Allen 139,801 136,162 52,704 55,635
A S N Murray 150,021 150,021 36,571 36,571
M Wilks 18,500 18,500 36,748 36,748
H Mann 20,000 20,000 – – 
A Carr-Locke 2,000 – – – 
R Macdonald 1,000 – – – 
S Alexander 1,000 – – – 
S Farr 4,465 – – – 
C Piwnica * – 5,000 – – 
N Monnery * – 5,000 – – 
* Holding at date of resignation
** This analysis excludes shares resulting from reinvested dividends on deferred shares, as Directors have no legal or beneﬁcial interest in such shares until and if the  
 Remuneration Committee exercises its discretion to award such shares at the end of the vesting period. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 43




2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2011 2012 2011
 £000 £000
 A Fry 155 155 155 M Allen 512 109 27 256 904 888 9 A Murray 341 69 1 21 171 603 9 343 79 13 171 606 1,196 257 1 61 598 2,113 18 48 48 A Carr-Locke 43 43
 43
 –
 –
 –
–43 –
 
 S Alexander 
 38
 –
 –
 –
–38 10
 –
 
 S Farr 
 16
 –
 –
 –
–16
 
 –

 –
 –
 –
 –
 –
 – –
 
 C Piwnica 
(resigned 9 December 2010)
 –
 –
 –
 –
 –
 – –
 
 188 188 159 1,539 257 1 61 598 2,456 18


Cash allowances principally comprise pension related salary supplements. Mark Allen and Alastair Murray were members of the deﬁned 
contribution scheme throughout 2011/12. The Company made contributions up to the £50,000 limit for employee and employer contributions. 
 

of basic salary.  44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012

The pension entitlements of the Directors from the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund, a deﬁned beneﬁts scheme, which have been excluded 











Accumulated
total accrued
pension at

£000










M Allen 52 00
 51 00
* Excluding inﬂation
The transfer value of each Director’s accrued beneﬁts at the end of the ﬁnancial year is set out below. The transfer values shown in the table 

date of calculation including stock market values and bond yields. Following the closure of the pension scheme to future accruals, there is no 
increase in accrued pension during the year other than inﬂationary increases.



As at

£000








M Allen  0 282
 0


accrual. 




The increase in transfer value in the year is purely a result of falling gilt yields which are used as the benchmark for discount rates used in the transfer value calculations.


March three years later. Actual and potential awards held by Executive Directors under LTISP at the beginning and end of the year, details of 
actual awards, awards vested during the year and their value, are as follows:













M Allen 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 90,012 2011 2009 2010 2011


met and there has been an increase in share price, the approved options may be exercised to deliver part of the total value of the LTISP subject only to capital gains 
tax. To the extent that value is delivered through these approved options, an equivalent proportion (in value) of the non-approved LTISP options will lapse. Options 






Directors’ remuneration report continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 45




return of Dairy Crest Group plc and the performance of the Food Producers and Processors sector of the FTSE and of the FTSE 250 index 
(excluding investment companies) of which the Company is a constituent member.


 

2011
Granted
in year
Exercised
in year

2012
M Allen 3,997
 3,997
 3,997
Share options in the above table represent the total awards made in 2009/10 assuming participants continue to save throughout the three 
year life of the Scheme.
 Scheme exercises during this period.
 



On behalf of the Board

 

160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
March 07        March 08        March 09        March 10        March 11        March 12
Dairy Crest Group plc
FTSE Food Producers and Processors
Dairy Crest – Relative Total Shareholder Return over ﬁve years
FTSE 250 (excluding investment companies) 46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
The Directors of Dairy Crest Group plc (the “Company”) present their 
sixteenth Annual Report to shareholders together with the audited 
ﬁnancial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year 
ended 31 March 2012. The purpose of the Annual Report is to 
provide information to members of the Company. The Company, its 
Directors, employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume 
responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown 
or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or 
liability is expressly disclaimed. It contains certain forward-looking 
statements with respect to the operations, performance and 
ﬁnancial condition of the Group. By their nature, these statements 
involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause 
results to differ from those anticipated. The forward-looking 
statements reﬂect knowledge and information available at the date of 
preparation of this Annual Report and, except to the extent required 
by applicable regulations or by law, the Group undertakes no 
obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in 
this Annual Report should be construed as a proﬁt forecast.
As the 2011/12 ﬁnancial year commenced after 29 June 2010, 
references to the Code in this Report are to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code of June 2010. 
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are the manufacture, processing 
and distribution of milk and dairy products. Further information can 
be found within the Business Review section at pages 19 to 37.
Going concern
The Group and Company’s business activities, together with factors 
likely to affect future development, performance and position are set 
out in the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 14 to 15, the business 
reviews on pages 19 to 37 and the review of principal risks and 
uncertainties on pages 16 to 17. The ﬁnancial position, cash ﬂows, 
liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the 
Financial Review on pages 34 to 37. In addition, notes 30 and 31 to 
the Accounts include the Group and Company’s objectives, policies 
and processes for managing its capital; its ﬁnancial risk 
management objectives; details of its ﬁnancial instruments and 
hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. 
As highlighted in Note 30, the Company and Group meet day-to-day 
working capital requirements through syndicated revolving credit 
facilities and ensure that forecast net borrowings plus a reasonable 
operating headroom are covered by committed facilities which 
mature at least 12 months after the year end. At 31 March 2012, 
effective headroom was £303.2 million. During the year we cancelled 
the old facilities and entered into a new three-year multi-currency 
revolving credit facility which matures in October 2016. The next 
maturity of funding is in April 2013 when $68.1 million of US loan 
notes are to be repaid. Repayment of these is intended to be out of 
existing bank facilities, which will still leave the Group with 
comfortable levels of facility headroom.
There were no breaches of bank covenants in the year ended 31 
March 2012 and projections do not indicate any breaches in the 
foreseeable future. Since the reduction of Euro denominated 
borrowings in the year ended March 2009, exchange rate 
ﬂuctuations no longer materially impact our bank covenant tests.
Forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible 
changes in trading performance, show that the Company and Group 
will be able to operate within the level of current facilities.
Having reviewed and taken into account Going Concern and 
Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the 
Directors are satisﬁed that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the ﬁnancial statements.
Business review
S417 of the Companies Act 2006 (“Companies Act”) requires that 
the Company sets out in this report a fair review of the business of 
the Group during the 2011/12 ﬁnancial year, including balanced and 
comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the 
Group during the ﬁnancial year and the position of the Group at the 
end of the year; together with information relating to environmental, 
employee, social and community matters. In addition, the Company 
is required to provide a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group and, to the extent necessary for an 
understanding of the business, the main trends and factors likely to 
affect the future development, performance and position of the 
Company’s business. The information satisfying the business review 
requirements is set out in this report: the Chairman’s Statement on 
page 13; the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 14 to 15; the 
Business Review on pages 19 to 37; the review of the principal risks 
and uncertainties on pages 16 to 17; and the Group Key 
Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) on page 5; all of which are 
incorporated into this Report by reference. The Corporate 
Governance Report and biographical and other information set out 
on pages 10 to 12 and on pages 50 to 56 form part of this Directors’ 
Report and are also incorporated into it by reference. 
Group results
The Group’s consolidated income statement set out on page 57 
shows a loss for the ﬁnancial year of £17.1 million compared with 
£57.5 million proﬁt in 2010/11.
Post balance sheet events
On 9 March 2012 the Group announced that it was undertaking a 
strategic review of its French branded spreads business, St Hubert. 
Since its acquisition in January 2007, St Hubert has consistently 
increased its market share and proﬁtability. However, the Group has 
been unable to make additional synergistic acquisitions in 
Continental Europe, as it envisaged at the time of acquisition, and 
believes that greater value may be generated for shareholders 
through the consideration of all available options for the business. 
This review is ongoing and is evaluating all possible options available 
to maximise shareholder value including potential divestment. A 
disposal would reduce the Group’s debt and provide a number of 
alternatives including releasing some proceeds to shareholders, 
investing in our core business and making strategic acquisitions of 
branded dairy and chilled foods businesses in the UK. Any disposal 
would be likely to occur within the next 12 months and would be 
subject to shareholder approval.
Dividends
The Directors are recommending a ﬁnal dividend of 14.7 pence 
(2011/12: 14.2 pence) per ordinary share, which if approved, will be 
paid to members on the register at the close of business on 22 June 
2012. Together, the ﬁnal dividend and interim dividend (5.7 pence 
per ordinary share paid on 26 January 2012) make total dividends 
for the year of 20.4 pence per ordinary share (2010/11: 19.7 pence).
Share capital
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company together 
with details of movements in the Company’s issued share capital 
during 2011/12 are shown in Note 24 to the ﬁnancial statements. As 
Directors’ report Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 47
Governance
at the date of this report, 133.357 million ordinary 25p shares were in 
issue and fully paid with an aggregate nominal value of £33.3 million.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Company’s 
Reports and Accounts; to attend and speak at General Meetings of 
the Company; to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights. To be 
effective, electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting 
instructions must be received at the Company’s registered ofﬁce, or 
such other place in the United Kingdom speciﬁed in the relevant 
notice of meeting, not later than 48 hours before a General Meeting. 
None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of 
the Company. There are no known arrangements under which 
ﬁnancial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the 
shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers 
or on voting rights. Shares acquired through Company share 
schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and 
have no special rights.
Transfer of shares
Subject to applicable statutes and regulations, there are no 
restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any class of 
shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
Shareholder waiver of dividends
The Company established an employee beneﬁt trust in 1996 which 
in certain circumstances holds shares in connection with the 
Group’s employee share incentive plans. As the registered holder, 
the voting rights in the shares are exercisable by the trustee. 
However, the trustee does not ordinarily exercise those rights and 
waives its entitlement to dividends.
Articles of association
Changes to the articles of association of the Company (“Articles”) 
must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the 
legislation in force from time to time.
No compensation for loss of ofﬁce
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or 
employee that would provide compensation for loss of ofﬁce or 
employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the 
Company’s share schemes and plans may cause options and 
awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to 
vest on a takeover.
Issue of shares
At the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) on 19 July 2011, 
shareholders renewed the authority for the Board under the Articles 
to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up 
to an aggregate nominal amount of £22,218,626.
Purchase of own shares
At the AGM on 19 July 2011, shareholders granted the Company 
authority to make market purchases of up to 13,331,175 of its issued 
ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided that: the minimum price 
which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 25 pence 
(exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes); the maximum price 
(exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes) which may be paid for 
any such ordinary share shall be not more than 5% above the 
average of the middle market prices for an ordinary share in the 
Company as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofﬁcial 
List for the ﬁve business days immediately preceding the date of 
purchase. The Company did not exercise this authority during the 
year and made no market purchases. Except in relation to a 
purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded 
before this authority expires and which will or may be executed 
wholly or partly after such expiry, the authority granted shall expire at 
the conclusion of this year’s AGM.
The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of both of the 
above-mentioned authorities or replacement of them with suitable 
alternatives, annually at the AGM. Approval will be sought from the 
shareholders at this year’s AGM to renew the authorities for a further 
year. 
Pensions
On 31 March 2010 the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension fund was 
closed to future accrual. Accordingly, the fund is now in run-off. It 
remains under the control of a corporate trustee, Dairy Crest Pension 
Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises four directors 
nominated by Dairy Crest Limited and three directors elected by all 
members. The pension fund’s assets are held separately from those 
of the Group and can only be used in accordance with the rules of the 
pension fund. Pension provision for employees is now made through 
a deﬁned contribution pension scheme. 
Signiﬁcant agreements – change of control
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may 
cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its 
subsidiaries are party, to take effect, alter or terminate. The 
agreements that are considered signiﬁcant are as follows:
Borrowing facilities
Non-compliance with the change of control clauses in the Group’s 
funding arrangements, or failure to reach agreement with the parties 
on revised terms, would require any acquirer to put in place 
replacement facilities. 
Essential contracts
It is vital that the Group is able to source high quality raw milk at the 
most competitive prices. To that end the Group has numerous 
contracts for its supply. While these contracts are collectively 
essential to the business, no single contract nor any single supplier 
of raw milk is critical to the Company’s business. 
The Company also has strong relationships with certain major 
retailers to supply them with liquid milk and other branded products. 
Individually these contracts are important to the business but not 
essential.
Substantial shareholdings
During the period and up to 23 May 2012, the Company has been 
notiﬁed in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
issued by the Financial Services Authority of the following interests of 
3% or more in the Company’s existing issued ordinary share capital.
Notified
No. of shares
Notified
percentage
of issued
share capital
Delta Lloyd & its Group of Companies 6,690,877 5.02%
The Company also received notiﬁcations during the period from 
Aviva plc and its subsidiaries, Prudential plc group of companies and 
M&G Investment Funds 3, the most recent from each of which, 
however, reported that they no longer have notiﬁable interests. No 
notiﬁcations have been received in the period from 1 April 2012 to 23 
May 2012. 48 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Directors
The names and biographical details of the current Directors of the 
Company and details of those who have served during the year are 
given on pages 10 to 11. The names of those persons who were 
Directors during the year but have retired or resigned from the Board 
are set out at page 11, together with the dates on which they left the 
Board.
The rules on appointment, re-appointment and retirement of 
Directors are contained in the Articles (see ‘Appointments to the 
Board’ on page 52). 
Directors’ interests
Details of the interests in the shares of the Company of the Directors 
holding ofﬁce as at the date of this report, along with those of the 
Directors who held ofﬁce during the year but retired or resigned from 
ofﬁce, and their immediate families appear in the Remuneration 
Report on page 41.
Details of the Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment 
appear in the Remuneration Report on page 41.
No Director had a material interest in any signiﬁcant contract with the 
Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year. Procedures for 
dealing with Directors’ conﬂicts of interest are in place and are 
operating effectively.
Directors’ and ofﬁcers’ indemnities and insurance
The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and 
Ofﬁcers and of its subsidiaries. The Directors, Secretary and other 
Ofﬁcers of the Company and of its subsidiaries are indemniﬁed by the 
Company to the extent permitted by company law. That indemnity 
provision has been in place during the year and remains in force. 
Employees
The Group employs approximately 6,000 people throughout the 
United Kingdom, France and Italy and depends on the skills and 
commitment of its employees in order to achieve its objectives. 
Personnel at every level are encouraged to make their fullest 
possible contribution to Dairy Crest’s success. 
Employees are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them 
and on issues affecting the Group’s performance through a variety 
of communication tools, including the Group intranet and the 
in-house magazine.
The Group has well-established consultation and negotiating 
arrangements with established trade unions.
Employees are encouraged to acquire shares in the Group through 
participation in the savings-related share option scheme (“Sharesave 
Scheme”). Details of this Scheme are set out in Note 26 to the 
ﬁnancial statements and at page 40 of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report. 
In recognition of the key part played by employee engagement in the 
Group’s long-term success, the Group has established a wide 
ranging programme aimed at promoting and enhancing employee 
engagement. The programme includes regular surveys in which all 
employees are invited to participate, to gauge the level of employee 
engagement within the Group. Once the outcome of the survey has 
been fed back to the Divisions, business units and departments, 
plans designed to maintain and improve employee engagement are 
prepared and implemented.
The Board is committed to ensuring that a culture free from both 
discrimination and harassment remains embedded within the Group. 
Discrimination of any sort is not tolerated. Proper consideration is 
given to applications for employment from disabled people who are 
employed whenever suitable vacancies arise. Wherever practicable, 
staff who become disabled during employment are retained. The 
Group practices equality of opportunity for all employees, 
irrespective of ethnic origin, religion, political opinion, gender, marital 
status, disability, age or sexual orientation.
Research and development
The Group has adopted a target of delivering 10% of its annual 
turnover through new product development. Focus continues to be 
on offering consumers a wide product mix, and especially the 
development of lower fat variants of existing products. Dairy Crest 
remains at the forefront of dairy industry developments to reduce 
packaging waste through innovation such as our patented jug and 
milk bag.
Land and buildings
Having obtained an informal valuation of certain of the Group’s land 
and buildings, the Directors are of the opinion that the current 
market value in existing use of the Group’s land and buildings slightly 
exceeds their book value.
Supplier payment policy
The Company is a holding company and had no amounts owing to 
trade creditors at 31 March 2012 (2010/11: nil). The Group’s creditor 
days outstanding at 31 March 2012 were 23.6 (2010/11 24.3 days) of 
purchases. With the exception of milk suppliers, the Group has 
standard payment terms of 60 days of receipt of invoice. Payment 
terms for purchases under major contracts are agreed as part of the 
contract negotiations.
Charitable and political donations
No political donations or expenditures were made or incurred during 
the year. Charitable donations amounted to £0.1 million (2010/11: 
£0.1 million). The Corporate Responsibility section of the Business 
review at pages 29 to 33 provides additional detail on the charitable 
activities of the Group and its employees. 
Disclosure of information to the auditor
So far as each Director in ofﬁce at the date of approval of this Report 
is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s External Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP (“Ernst & Young”) is 
unaware.
Each of the Directors has taken all steps that they might reasonably 
be expected to have taken in order to make themselves aware (i) of 
any relevant audit information and (ii) to establish that the Company’s 
External Auditor is aware of such information.
For the purposes of this statement on disclosure of information to 
the External Auditor, ‘relevant audit information’ is the information 
needed by the Company’s External Auditor in connection with the 
preparation of its report at page 110.
Directors’ responsibility statements
The responsibility statements required under Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 4.1 are set out on page 56.
Directors’ report continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 49
Governance
Annual general meeting
The AGM will be held at Eversheds LLP, One Wood Street, London, 
EC2V 7WS on Tuesday, 17 July 2012 at 12.00 pm. The Notice 
convening the meeting will be issued separately, together with 
details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes 
relating to each of the resolutions being proposed.
Auditor
Ernst & Young has expressed its willingness to continue as Auditor 
of the Company. A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young as the 
Company’s Auditor will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board:
Robin Miller 
Company Secretary
Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey KT10 9PN
Registered in England and Wales No. 3162897
23 May 2012 50 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
This Report explains the approach taken by the Company to 
compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code published by 
the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010. The Code is available 
at www.frc.org.uk.
The Company believes good governance is achieved through a 
combination of clear values, appropriate policy and an environment 
of transparency and accountability, all of which should apply to the 
Company’s dealings with all of its stakeholders. The work which 
commenced in 2007 with the adoption of a set of core values 
continues and has been further enhanced through the adoption of 
suitable policies and procedures, including, for example, the 
Governance framework
The Board
The Board leads and controls the Company in the delivery of 
long-term success and the discharge of the Company’s obligations 
to its shareholders and other stakeholders. It is collectively 
responsible for the Group’s strategy, values and governance and 
ensuring that the resources required to meet the Group’s objectives 
are available within a framework of prudent controls. Certain matters 
have been reserved to the Board whilst others have been delegated 
to its Committees. The Board’s principal responsibilities include:
 Approval of the Group’s long-term objectives and business 
strategy.
 Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
 Approval of the Company’s Interim and Preliminary Results 
Announcements and Annual Report and Accounts.
 Declaration of interim dividends and the recommendation of a ﬁnal 
dividend.
 Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control 
and risk management.
 Approval of the Company’s governance framework, including key 
Group policies, for example Health and Safety and Business 
Conduct.
 Approval of resolutions to be put to shareholders at the AGM. 
 
Committees
There are ﬁve Committees of the Board: Audit; Remuneration; 
Nomination; Corporate Responsibility and Management Board. The 
Code prescribes certain requirements for terms of reference for the 
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees. Each of the 
Board’s Committees’ terms of reference are published on the Group’s 
website and to the extent required, they comply with the Code.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee is chaired by Andrew Carr-Locke. The other 
members are Stephen Alexander and Richard Macdonald. Andrew 
is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants. 
Company’s competition compliance regime which includes 
compulsory training and testing for all relevant employees which was 
adopted in 2008, a Supplier Corporate Responsibility policy adopted 
in 2010 and the Group’s Business Conduct policy adopted in 2011; 
all of which set out the standards of ethical behaviour which the 
Company expects its suppliers and employees to exhibit. Additional 
information about the Group’s values and work undertaken around 
them can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section at pages 
29 to 33 and in the Group’s online Corporate Responsibility Report 
published at www.dairycrest.co.uk.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the Code 
throughout the year.
 
Consistent with the Guidance on Audit Committees, all members of 
the Committee are independent Non-executive Directors. Andrew is 
deemed by the Board to be the Audit Committee ﬁnancial expert 
with recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience and independent for 
the purposes of the Code. All of the Committee members have 
extensive commercial experience (see page 11). Further information 
on the Company’s application of the Code and on the Audit 
Committee and its work during the year is set out in its Report on 
pages 53 to 55.
The Remuneration Committee 
Stephen Alexander chairs the Committee. Andrew Carr-Locke and 
Sue Farr are the other members of the Committee. A detailed 
description of the Committee’s remit and work during 2011/12, 
including further information on the Company’s application of the 
principles of the Code, is contained in the Remuneration Report 
(which was approved by the Board) on pages 38 to 45. 
Nomination Committee 
The Committee is responsible for succession planning at Board 
level, overseeing the selection and appointment of Directors and 
making its recommendations to the Board. It is also responsible, in 
conjunction with the Chairman, for evaluating the commitments of 
individual Directors and the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board and ensures that the membership of the 
Board and its principal committees are refreshed periodically. Where 
appropriate, the Committee will prepare an outline of the role and 
capabilities required for particular appointments and use an external 
search consultancy and/or advertising in relation to Board 
appointments.
During 2011/12, the Committee’s focus remained on succession 
planning for the Board. With the assistance of external consultants it 
continued to search for additional candidates to join the Board to 
Corporate governance
Dairy Crest Group plc Board
Management Board
Strategic direction
Cross functional strategic support & planning
St Hubert
Health & Safety
Leadership
T eam
Vision & Values
Leadership
T eam
Sales
Leadership
T eam
Marketing
Leadership
T eam
Innovation
Leadership
T eam
HR
Leadership
T eam
Supply Chain
Leadership
T eam
IT/Systems
Leadership
T eam
Finance
Leadership
T eam
Dairies Board Foods Board
Strategy & policy Leadership Team Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 51
Governance
enhance further the balance of skills and diversity amongst its 
members. The Company has adopted a broad approach to diversity, 
interpreting it in its widest sense. It aims to achieve the best possible 
leadership for the Group by ensuring an appropriate balance of 
skills, backgrounds, experience and knowledge amongst the 
Directors. Following the Committee’s work in the prior year which 
resulted in the appointment of Richard Macdonald and Stephen 
Alexander, who brought with them valuable experience in FMCG 
and agricultural sectors, the Committee’s continued search 
(conducted with the assistance of external consultants) led to its 
recommendation that Sue Farr be invited to join the Board. The 
Committee felt that Sue’s communications experience would be of 
particular value to the Board, there being no Director with a speciﬁc 
background in communications; and that her marketing experience 
would help to augment the breadth of marketing experience 
available to the Company in the expectation that Howard Mann 
would, in line with the best practice requirements of the Code, be 
coming to the end of his tenure. The Committee continues to 
maintain a watching brief for additional candidates who might further 
improve the balance of skills, backgrounds, experience, knowledge 
and diversity amongst the Board.
Corporate Responsibility Committee 
The Committee oversees the Group’s corporate responsibility 
programme and ensures that key social, ethical and environmental 
risks are identiﬁed, assessed and prioritised. Richard Macdonald 
chairs the Committee. During the year, a number of changes were 
made to the membership of the Committee, reﬂecting a desire to 
ensure that its membership better reﬂects executive responsibility for 
the various component parts of the Group’s corporate responsibility 
strategy. Each of the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary & 
General Counsel and the Group HR Director are responsible for one 
of the Group’s values, reﬂecting the core elements of Business in the 
Community’s corporate responsibility framework, which the Group 
has adopted, and for ensuring they are embedded within the 
business. Details of the Committee’s activities during 2011/12 are set 
out in the Corporate Responsibility Report at pages 29 to 33.
Management Board 
The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which comprises 
the other Executive Directors and senior members of the Group’s 
executive team. During the year, the membership of the 
Management Board was extended to ensure that other key parts of 
the Group’s business are represented on it. Details of the members 
of the Management Board can be found at pages 10 to 12. The 
Management Board is responsible, amongst other matters, for 
implementing the Group’s strategic direction and monitoring the 
performance of the business and its control procedures on a 
day-to-day basis. Members normally meet weekly.
Frequency of meetings and membership
Details of the frequency of Board and Committee meetings during 
the year together with Directors’ attendance are set out in the table 
at page 11. Changes to the membership of the Board and its 
Committees are set out in the notes to the table on page 11.
Other committees
There are other committees within the Group’s governance 
framework (which are not committees of the Board) which are used 
to support the work of the Board and the Management Board. The 
St Hubert, Dairies and Foods Boards have day-to-day operational 
and proﬁt and loss accountability, and the Strategy and Policy 
Leadership Team (“SPLT”) and the other leadership teams below it, 
which are chaired by members of the SPLT, provide cross-functional 
strategic support, planning and guidance. They focus on assisting  
 
the Company in the management of its approach to key areas, such 
as health and safety. As appropriate, reports are provided by the 
various leadership teams to the Management Board, the SPLT and 
the Board
Chairman and Chief Executive
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of 
Chairman (who serves in a non-executive capacity) and Chief 
Executive which is set out in writing and which has been approved 
by the Board. The Chairman and Chief Executive work closely 
together to fulﬁl their responsibilities. As Chairman, Anthony Fry 
leads the Board and is accountable for ensuring the Board’s 
effectiveness in discharging its responsibilities, including 
safeguarding shareholder and other stakeholder interests and 
ensuring effective communication with shareholders. In conjunction 
with the Chief Executive he sets the agenda for Board meetings 
ensuring that adequate time is available for all agenda items, in 
particular, strategic issues, and facilitates the effective contribution of 
all Directors. He promotes a culture of openness among the Board 
and ensures constructive relations between Executive and Non-
executive Directors. He is supported by the Company Secretary in 
the discharge of his duties. As Chief Executive, Mark Allen has 
overall responsibility for the effective implementation of the strategy 
approved by the Board, for the Group’s business performance and 
day-to-day management of the Group’s operations, and for the 
effective management of the Group’s people and assets.
Non-executive Directors
As members of a unitary board, the Non-executive Directors 
scrutinise management’s performance in meeting agreed goals and 
objectives. The Board as a whole monitors the reporting of 
performance. The Chief Executive’s objectives, achievement of 
which inﬂuences his remuneration, are agreed with the 
Remuneration Committee following initial discussion with the 
Chairman. Performance against those objectives is scrutinised by 
the Remuneration Committee. The Audit Committee monitors and 
scrutinises the integrity of ﬁnancial information as well as the 
robustness and defensibility of ﬁnancial controls and systems of risk 
management. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for 
determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive 
Directors. The Nomination Committee has a prime role in selecting 
and appointing Executive Directors and in succession planning. The 
appointment of Directors to or the removal of Directors from the 
Board is a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
Howard Mann, who was considered independent for the purposes 
of the Code during the whole of his tenure, was the Senior 
Independent Director during the 2011/12 ﬁnancial year. When 
Howard stood down from the Board on 18 May 2012, Richard 
Macdonald succeeded him as Senior Independent Director. Richard 
is considered independent for the purposes of the Code and is 
available to shareholders as required.
The Chairman periodically meets individually or collectively with the 
Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors. 
The process for appraising the Chairman’s performance is set out 
on page 52. Were Directors to have unresolved concerns about the 
running of the Company or a proposed action, they would be 
recorded in the Board minutes. The Non-executive Directors 
recognise the principle that if on resignation from the Board a 
Director has unresolved concerns, that Director should provide a 
written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board. The 
concept that Non-executive Directors are free to question any 
executive decision of the Company is enshrined in the engagement 
letter of each Non-executive Director. 52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
The Composition of the Board
Board balance and independence
At the date of this Report, the Board has eight Directors (three 
Executive Directors, a Non-executive Chairman (who was 
independent on appointment) and four independent (for the 
purposes of the Code) Non-executive Directors). Their biographies, 
responsibilities and Committee memberships are set out on pages 
10 to 11. No Non-executive Director or the Chairman has any 
business or other relationship with the Group which may inﬂuence 
their independence or judgement and the Board believes them to be 
independent of management.
Following the recommendation contained in Lord Davies’ report, the 
Chairman has published a statement on Board diversity. Dairy Crest 
believes in the beneﬁts which diversity, in its broadest sense, brings 
and manages an ongoing refreshment and succession planning 
process for its Board which is intended to achieve an appropriate 
balance, amongst other things, of skills, backgrounds, experience 
and knowledge - all with the aim of providing the best possible 
leadership. The Board believes that it has an appropriate balance of 
Executive and Non-executive Directors with a suitable breadth of 
experience and backgrounds to provide effective leadership for the 
Group. The Company will maintain a highly proactive approach to 
the management of the Board to ensure that all Board appointments 
continue to reﬂect diversity. The full statement can be found on the 
Group’s website (www.dairycrest.co.uk).
Appointments to the Board
The Articles provide that the Directors or the members, by ordinary 
resolution, may appoint a director either to ﬁll a vacancy or as an 
additional director. A director appointed by the Directors shall retire 
at the next AGM following appointment and shall be eligible for 
election by the members.
Commitment
All Non-executive Directors (including the Chairman) conﬁrmed on 
appointment that they had sufﬁcient time available to fulﬁl their 
obligations as Directors and that they would inform the Board should 
the position change. Details of the Chairman’s other signiﬁcant 
professional commitments are included in his biography (page 11).
Summaries of Executive Directors’ service agreements and 
Non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment are published on the 
Company’s website. All signiﬁcant commitments of Non-executive 
Directors were disclosed to the Board prior to their appointment and 
the Board was informed of subsequent changes. No Executive 
Director is a non-executive director or chairman of a FTSE 100 
company. 
Development
The Company Secretary ensures that Directors undergo a 
comprehensive induction programme on appointment. Sue Farr’s 
induction programme included visits to the Group’s main operating 
sites (Foston, Nuneaton, Severnside, Frome and Davidstow). Those 
sites were chosen to ensure that Sue saw the full range of the 
Group’s operations. Sue met with managers and staff at each of the 
manufacturing, packing and logistic sites included in her induction 
programme. She received presentations explaining their histories 
and operations and undertook tours to see their activities ﬁrst hand. 
Through a tailored induction programme, Sue met with management 
and staff representing a cross section of the business including 
those at the Group’s head ofﬁce in Esher.
Directors variously receive independent training on technical 
accounting and other governance related matters from professional  
service providers and institutions and bulletins from the Group on 
developments in the dairy sector generally. The Directors keep 
abreast with the Group’s business through meetings and 
presentations by management below Board level and visits to 
operational sites.
Information and support
Under the Chairman’s stewardship, the Company Secretary advises 
the Board on all governance matters and ensures Board procedures 
are followed and applicable rules and regulations complied with. He 
ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with 
information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable the 
Board to discharge its duties. 
All Directors individually, the Board and each of the Board 
Committees, have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretariat and the Secretary. They all receive regular 
reports on corporate governance issues from the Company 
Secretariat. There are also procedures in place enabling Directors in 
the furtherance of their duties to seek independent professional 
advice at the Company’s expense.
Evaluation
With the help of an external facilitator, a review was conducted 
during March and April this year, the Board by then having worked 
together for almost a year after the majority of recent changes. The 
process adopted eschewed questionnaires in favour of facilitated 
discussion. It was aimed at identifying areas for improvement and 
enhancement. Recognising the importance of the Chairman’s role in 
the effectiveness of the Board, the evaluation of the Chairman’s 
performance was a key focus of the review (alongside the evaluation 
of other individual Directors).
The Chairman and Company Secretary identiﬁed a number of 
possible service providers and undertook a rigorous process to 
arrive at a recommendation for the Board to appointment 
Rathmullan Associates (“Rathmullan”), a boutique evaluation and 
performance audit consultancy. Rathmullan does not and has not 
provided other services to the Company. After appointment by the 
Board, the Chairman and Company Secretary agreed a brief with 
Rathmullan in accordance with the Board’s instructions and each of 
the Directors and the Company Secretary were then individually 
interviewed, following which, Rathmullan collated and provided 
feedback on the Board.
The review concluded that the Board is effective and Board 
relationships are working well with suitably challenging, constructive 
and respectful interaction between Directors. There would be 
beneﬁts, it concluded, from the Board being more visible to the 
wider business through more frequent visits to operational sites and 
from better focus on succession planning at the level immediately 
below the Board. No performance concerns related to individual 
Directors were identiﬁed.
As the incumbent and incoming Senior Independent Directors, 
Howard Mann and Richard Macdonald led the review of the 
Chairman’s performance. The Board reviewed the outcome of the 
review without the Chairman present and agreed feedback for him. 
The review was positive, the Board being satisﬁed with the 
appropriateness of allocation of Board time, especially for strategic 
matters. Directors were happy that the Chairman facilitates 
discussion at Board meetings well and pays appropriate attention to 
ensuring that all perspectives are aired. It was agreed that the 
Chairman should raise his own proﬁle in the wider business by 
undertaking more site visits alone and that the Board could be 
further enhanced by the Chairman facilitating more frequent 
interaction between Directors outside Board meetings.
Corporate governance continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 53
Governance
In addition to the broader review of their performance by their fellow 
Directors as part of the Board review, the performance of the 
Executive Directors in the context of their management and 
operational responsibilities was appraised in the normal way, in 
accordance with the Group’s performance and development review 
process which applies to all Hay Grade employees in the Group, 
irrespective of seniority. Under that process, the Chairman appraises 
the performance of the Chief Executive and the Chief Executive 
appraises the performance of the other Executive Directors. The 
outcome of the reviews of performance of all of the Executive 
Directors was scrutinised by the Remuneration Committee.
The Board’s Committees have considered their performance and 
action plans addressing areas considered appropriate for further 
enhancement.
 
Re-election
The Articles require all Directors to be elected annually. All Directors 
will stand for re-election at the Company’s 2012 AGM, except for 
Sue Farr who, consistent with the Articles will stand for election, 
having been appointed since the last AGM.
Having regard to the roles performed by each of the Directors, the 
individual input and contribution they make and their individual 
expertise and experience, the Board is satisﬁed that each 
candidate’s performance justiﬁes nomination for election or 
re-election by shareholders.
Financial and business reporting
The Directors recognise their responsibility to present a balanced 
and understandable assessment of the Company’s position and 
prospects. Their responsibility statement can be found at page 56.
An explanation of the Company’s business model can be found 
under ‘Strategy’ in the Chairman’s Statement at page 13 and at 
pages 19 to 37. The Directors make appropriate going concern 
statements in the Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements 
and the Annual Report and Accounts. The statement in this Report 
and Accounts can be found at page 46.
Risk management and internal control
The Board has responsibility for establishing the nature and extent of 
the signiﬁcant risks it is prepared to take in the achievement of its 
objectives, for the establishment and maintenance of systems of risk 
management and internal control and for reviewing their 
effectiveness. The Board conﬁrms that it has maintained sound 
systems of risk management and internal control throughout the 
year which it has regularly reviewed during the year and which it is 
satisﬁed accord with the FRC Guidance on Internal Control (revised 
October 2005). The systems are designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate risks entirely; accordingly, they cannot provide absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. They provide, 
however, reasonable assurance that potential problems can be 
promptly identiﬁed and appropriately remedied.
The key components of the risk management and internal control 
systems include:
 The reservation to the Board of control of, amongst other matters, 
all signiﬁcant strategic, ﬁnancial and organisational risks.
 A management structure which includes clear lines of 
responsibility and documented delegations of authority with 
appropriate policies, levels and rules for, amongst other matters, 
incurring capital expenditure or divesting of the Group’s assets.
 The operation of comprehensive ﬁnancial and strategic planning, 
forecasting and review processes including an annual budget 
approved by the Board and reviewed each July and November  
when, where required, appropriate remedial action is agreed.
 Exercise of oversight by the Audit Committee, with input from the 
Group’s Internal Auditor, over the Group’s control processes 
designed to ensure the integrity of internal and external ﬁnancial 
reporting.
 The preparation of monthly management accounts packs for the 
business, including KPI dashboards for each constituent part of 
the Group’s business, trading results, balance sheet and cash ﬂow 
information by business Division with comparison against prior 
year and budget, all of which are reviewed by the Management 
Board and the Board.
 Monthly scrutiny of performance against budget (including 
analysis of key trends, variances and key risks and plans for 
mitigation as well as the continued appropriateness of those risks) 
in meetings known internally as Accounts Reviews where each 
business Division and key department reports performance 
year-to-date and forecast against budget to a panel comprising 
the Management Board and other senior executives.
 Formal documented ﬁnancial controls and procedures including 
speciﬁc procedures for treasury transactions and the approval of 
signiﬁcant contracts.
 Quarterly completion by each business Division of a self-
assessment controls questionnaire that requires the approval of 
business unit management.
 Preparation and refreshment of risk registers which are reviewed 
by senior management, the Management Board and the Board 
with the assignment of individual responsibility for the ownership 
and mitigation of signiﬁcant risks to senior managers and 
independent assurance over the appropriate implementation and 
operation of mitigating activities provided by the Group’s Internal 
Auditor.
 Review by the Audit Committee of the Group’s risk register 
processes.
 Review and approval of the Audit Plan for the Group’s Internal 
Auditor together with progress against and revision of the Plan as 
appropriate, throughout the year.
 Receipt by the Audit Committee and the Management Board of all 
Group Internal Audit reports detailing audit issues noted, 
corrective action plans and progress against those plans.
Report of the Audit Committee
Members
Details of the members of the Committee at the date of this Report 
and any changes throughout the year together with details of 
attendance at meetings are set out at page 11.
Terms of reference
The Committee reviews its terms of reference at least annually, 
having regard, amongst other matters, to their continued compliance 
with the requirements of the Code, the FRC’s Guidance on Internal 
Control (revised October 2005) and the Guidance on Audit 
Committees (December 2010). Under its terms of reference, the 
Committee is responsible for providing advice to the Board on the 
Group’s Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements and Annual 
Report and Accounts; on accounting policies and on the control of 
its ﬁnancial and business risks as well as reviewing the work of the 
Internal and External Auditors.
Frequency of meetings
The Audit Committee met four times in 2011/12. The Chairman of the 
Audit Committee provided a report on the work of the Committee 
and any signiﬁcant issues that may have arisen at the Board meeting 
following each Committee meeting.  54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Attendees at meetings 
The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Chairman and other 
senior management attend Committee meetings by invitation of the 
Committee. Representatives of the Group’s External Auditor and the 
Head of Group Internal Audit also attend these meetings by 
invitation. In 2011/12, the External and Internal Auditors attended all 
meetings, had direct access to the Committee during the meetings 
and time was also set aside for them to have private discussions 
(jointly and independently) with the Committee, in the absence of 
management.
Audit Committee activity
During 2011/12, the Committee’s work schedule embraced the 
Code requirements to:
 Monitor the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements of the Company, 
and any formal announcements relating to the Group’s ﬁnancial 
performance, including reviewing signiﬁcant ﬁnancial reporting 
judgements and any disclosures contained in them.
 Review the Company’s internal ﬁnancial controls and its internal 
control and risk management systems and to make 
recommendations to the Board.
 Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s Internal Audit 
function.
 Make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the 
shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the 
appointment, re-appointment and removal of the External Auditor 
and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the 
External Auditor.
 Review and monitor the External Auditor’s independence and 
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into 
consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory 
requirements.
 Review the Group’s policy on the engagement of the External 
Auditor to supply non-audit services and report to the Board 
identifying matters in respect of which it considers action or 
improvement is needed and make recommendations as to the 
steps to be taken.
The Committee’s work during the period and up to the date of this 
Report included:
 Reviewing the Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements 
and the Annual Report and Accounts prior to their submission to 
the Board. In doing so, it took into account the External Auditor’s 
view and considered reports from ﬁnancial management and 
Group Internal Audit.
 Reviewing signiﬁcant accounting policies, ﬁnancial reporting 
issues and judgements used in the preparation of the Company’s 
Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements and the Annual 
Report and Accounts.
 Reviewing management’s letters of representation in connection 
with the Company’s ﬁnancial statements and the External 
Auditor’s management letter.
 Reviewing areas where control weaknesses had arisen or been 
identiﬁed by Group Internal Audit or the External Auditor and 
monitoring the mitigation and remediation plans of management.
 Reviewing the regular reports of the External Auditor and the 
comments provided on the strength of the Group’s internal 
controls.
 Receiving and reviewing regular reports from the Group’s Internal 
Audit function.
 Approving the External Audit Plan (including audit scope, level of 
materiality, resources dedicated to the audit engagement and the 
seniority expertise and experience of the engagement team) and 
satisfying itself as to the appropriateness and adequacy of the 
Plan.
 Evaluating the performance of the External Auditor and satisfying 
itself as to the effectiveness of the audit.
 Reviewing the Group’s risk management processes and controls; 
and their effectiveness.
 Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s whistle blowing 
procedures and satisfying itself that they allow for appropriate 
investigation and suitable follow-up actions.
 Reviewing the effectiveness of the Committee.
External Auditor
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with 
the External Auditor.
During the year, the Committee:
 Approved the audit engagement letters and fee proposal, and 
satisﬁed itself as to the External Auditor’s ability to conduct an 
effective audit for such fee.
 Reviewed and assessed the External Auditor’s independence and 
objectivity taking into account relevant UK professional and 
regulatory requirements. In doing so, the Committee reviewed the 
External Auditor’s own policies and procedures to safeguard its 
objectivity, independence and integrity together with its 
representations as to independence. The Committee received 
assurances from the Audit Engagement Partner that the External 
Auditor’s reward and remuneration structure included no 
incentives for audit engagement partners to cross sell non-audit 
services to audit clients.
 Reviewed the Group’s policy on the engagement of the External 
Auditor for the provision of non-audit services. The Committee 
was satisﬁed that such non-audit services as had been provided 
by the External Auditor during the year had been provided in 
accordance with the Group’s policy.
 Approved the annual Audit Plan and ensured that it was consistent 
with the scope of the audit engagement.
 Reviewed the ﬁndings of the audit, including discussion of any 
major issues arising, any accounting and audit judgements and 
the internal control reports (including responses from 
management and any proposed remedial action).
 Reviewed the effectiveness of the audit and the External Auditor.
 Reviewed the composition of the External Auditor’s team against 
auditor independence criteria, including the rotation of the Audit 
Engagement Partner.
Internal Audit function
The Committee is required to assist the Board to fulﬁl its 
responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans 
of the Group Internal Audit function. In doing so, the Committee:
 Reviewed and assessed the annual Internal Audit Plan and 
progress against it throughout the year.
 Reviewed all reports on the Group from Internal Audit.
 Reviewed the interaction between the Internal Audit function and 
External Auditor.
 Reviewed and monitored management’s responsiveness to the 
ﬁndings and recommendations of Group Internal Audit.
 Reviewed a report from the Head of Group Internal Audit on risk 
management & control.
 Reviewed the implementation of recommendations to enhance the 
effectiveness of Group Internal Audit arising from the independent 
review conducted by PwC in 2010/2011. As a result of that review, 
Group Internal Audit commenced audit of the existence and 
effectiveness of controls cited in the Group’s risk registers 
designed to mitigate against identiﬁed risks, thereby providing 
independent assurance to the Board, Management Board and 
others that the controls and mitigation which management states 
to have been implemented, have in fact been implemented and 
are operating effectively. Conversely where they have not been 
Corporate governance continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 55
Governance
implemented or are not effective, Group Internal Audit is able to 
ﬂag such issues to the Audit Committee and Board and to 
management so that appropriate remediation may be 
implemented. During the year, consistent with the outcome of 
PwC’s review, the nature and scope of audits undertaken by 
Group Internal Audit was extended to include operational audits 
and non-ﬁnancial risk audits in addition to the ﬁnancial control 
audits traditionally undertaken, for example, an audit of contracts 
against the Group’s purchasing and legal contracts review 
policies.
 Reviewed Group Internal Audit’s charter dealing with that 
function’s role, scope, resourcing, reporting responsibilities, 
organisational independence and assessment.
Policy on the engagement of the External Auditor for the 
provision of non-audit services
The Group’s policy was revised during the year. Although the policy 
already included a series of safeguards designed to ensure 
independence, the Committee felt that the Group’s policy should be 
strengthened further by the inclusion of a presumption against the 
use of the External Auditor for non-audit services. Accordingly, the 
External Auditor may now only be engaged for the provision of 
non-audit services, in contravention of that presumption, which are 
expressly permitted and not prohibited and where there is a 
demonstrable efﬁciency, audit enhancement, or cost beneﬁt in doing 
so, and alternative providers have been considered.
Use of the External Auditor for any of the following services is 
prohibited:
 Bookkeeping services and preparation of ﬁnancial information.
 Internal audit.
 The design, supply or implementation of ﬁnancial information 
systems.
 Payroll services and processing.
 Actuarial services.
 Executive management services including the secondment of staff 
to perform management functions.
 Recruitment services or other Human Resources functions.
 Legal, broker, investment or banking services.
 Appraisal or valuation services.
 Advice in co-ordination of risk assessments, methodology and 
systems.
 Any other service which the External Auditor considers might 
impair or appear to impair its independence.
 Any other service which may be deemed inappropriate by a 
relevant regulator.
Any engagement for the provision of non-audit services must be 
pre-authorised and must not be deemed to be inconsistent with the 
External Auditor’s objectivity and independence. The fee thresholds 
at which authorisation is required, have been reduced, thus 
curtailing further the scope for the engagement of the External 
Auditor for the provision of non-audit services. Under the revised 
policy, services with fees anticipated to be up to £25,000 must be 
pre-approved by the Group Finance Director and services where 
anticipated fees are over £25,000 must be pre-approved by the 
Group Finance Director and chairman of the Committee. Moreover, 
where aggregate estimated fees in any ﬁnancial year are more than 
75% of estimated Group audit fees, then before the Group Finance 
Director or Audit Committee chairman authorise the provision by the 
External Auditor of any additional non-audit services, the Committee 
shall formally review all fees for that ﬁnancial year.
Subject to the above approvals the following are permitted non-audit 
services under the policy:
 Due diligence and related advice for potential acquisitions, 
disposals or joint ventures (provided any potential conﬂict with 
vendor, purchaser or advisers is resolved).
 Advice on complex structured tax planning or tax planning for 
major corporate activity.
 Advice, review and / or assistance on governance over major 
projects impacting core IT systems.
 Review of IT systems and other controls and risk management 
processes.
 Provision of seminars and training with regard to auditing, tax and 
accounting matters (including the provision of online reference 
materials).
 Provision of services for the formatting and ﬁling of statutory 
accounts and / or tax returns.
 Assistance and consultation as to questions, comments or 
inquiries made by regulatory agencies.
 Data migration reviews.
 Advice and assistance with Group corporate structure.
 Provision of assistance with government grant applications.
External Auditor’s fees
Details of fees paid to the External Auditor for audit services, audit 
related services and other non-audit services may be found at Note 
3 to the Accounts on page 72.
Re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP
Ernst & Young was ﬁrst appointed as External Auditor to the 
Company in 1996. There are no contractual restrictions on the 
Company with regard to its appointment. The Audit Committee has 
not considered it necessary since its initial appointment to require 
the ﬁrm to tender competitively for the audit work. In the light of the 
assessments and review undertaken and having considered a 
recommendation of the Committee to re-appoint Ernst & Young as 
the Company’s and Group’s External Auditor, the Board endorsed 
the Committee’s recommendation which was approved by 
shareholders in July 2011.
At its meeting in May 2012, the Audit Committee considered the 
appropriateness of the re-appointment of Ernst & Young as the 
Group’s External Auditor for the 2012/13 year. In doing so it took 
account of the public report on the 2010/11 inspection of Ernst & 
Young published by the Audit Inspection Unit of the Financial 
Reporting Council, the Annual Report of the Audit Inspection Unit 
(2010/11), the Committee’s review of the External Auditor’s 
independence and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit 
process together with other relevant review processes conducted 
throughout the year. The Committee noted that a new Audit 
Engagement Partner would be appointed in accordance with Ernst 
& Young’s normal rotation policy and was satisﬁed that it should 
recommend to the Board the re-appointment of Ernst & Young as 
the Company’s and Group External Auditor at the AGM on 17 July 
2012.
Dialogue with shareholders
The Group believes it is important to explain business developments 
and ﬁnancial results to its shareholders and to understand any 
shareholder concerns, and that suitable arrangements are in place 
to ensure a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of 
major shareholders. The Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director have primary responsibility for investor relations. They are 
supported by the Company’s Corporate Affairs Director who, 
amongst other matters, organises presentations for analysts and 
institutional investors and holds meetings with key institutional 
shareholders to discuss strategy, ﬁnancial performance and 
investment activities immediately after the Interim and Preliminary 
Results Announcements. Slide presentations made to institutional  56 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
shareholders are also available on the Company’s website. All the 
Non-executive Directors, and, in particular, the Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director, are available to meet with major shareholders, if 
such meetings are required. Further ﬁnancial and business information 
is available on the Investors’ section of the Company’s website.
Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to the Board 
to ensure that the Non-executive Directors have a balanced 
understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders. 
This includes communication with the shareholders at the AGM, 
regular feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director on their meetings with major shareholders, and periodic 
reports to the Board on investor relations together with feedback 
from the Company’s brokers on the views of major shareholders.
The principal method of communication with private shareholders is 
through the Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements and the 
Annual Report and Accounts, the AGM and through the Company’s 
website.
Constructive use of the AGM 
A business review is presented by the Chairman at the AGM to 
facilitate shareholder understanding of the Group’s activities. 
Arrangements are made for all Directors to be available to answer 
shareholders’ questions. All Directors attended the AGM in July 
2011. Notice of the AGM is, in accordance with applicable company 
law and the Articles, either posted in hard copy to shareholders or 
posted on the Company’s website at least 21 days before the date 
of the AGM. Resolutions are proposed for each substantially 
separate issue. The Company proposes a resolution at the AGM 
relating to the Annual Report and Accounts. Details of the proxy 
voting on each resolution are announced at the AGM after the 
results of the show of hands are known. Proxy results, including the 
level of votes for and against resolutions, and abstentions are posted 
on the Company’s website following the conclusion of the meeting.
Access to information
Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements and Annual Reports 
and Accounts are published on the Company’s website. The 
Company continues to seek more opportunities to communicate 
with shareholders electronically, that being the most efﬁcient, cost 
effective and environmentally beneﬁcial manner of communication. 
Other information which shareholders and third parties are entitled 
to access is made available in accordance with legislative and 
regulatory requirements.
Approval 
The Corporate Governance Statement and the Audit Committee 
report contained in it have been approved by the Board.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in relation 
to the Group and Company financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable United 
Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union.
Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the ﬁnancial 
statements unless they are satisﬁed that they present fairly the 
ﬁnancial position of the Group and Company, ﬁnancial performance 
of the Group and cash ﬂows of the Group for that period. In 
preparing the ﬁnancial statements the Directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8, 
‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and 
Errors’ and then apply them consistently;
 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁc 
requirements in IFRSs is insufﬁcient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the ﬁnancial position of the Group and Company and 
performance of the Group; 
 state that the Group and Company has complied with IFRSs, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
ﬁnancial statements; and
 make judgements and estimates that are responsible and prudent.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Group’s and 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the ﬁnancial position of the Group and of the Company and 
enable them to ensure that the ﬁnancial statements comply with the 
Companies Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and of the 
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud or other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the Group’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
DTR 4.1 Statement
Each of the Directors, the names and functions of whom are set out 
on pages 10-11 conﬁrms that to the best of his/her knowledge, they 
have complied with the above requirements in preparing the ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with applicable accounting standards and 
that the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities and ﬁnancial position of the Group and the Company and of 
the Group’s income statement and the Company’s proﬁt for that 
period. In addition, each of the Directors conﬁrms that the 
management report represented by the Directors’ Report includes a 
fair review of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Company and Group, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
On behalf of the Board
Mark Allen  Chief Executive
Alastair Murray  Finance Director
Corporate governance continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 57
The numbers
Consolidated income statement
Year ended 31 March 2012
  Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
(Loss)/proﬁt for the year   (17.1) 57.5 
Net investment hedges:
Exchange differences on foreign currency net investments (19.3) (3.0)
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings designated as net investment hedges   7.7 1.0 
  (11.6) (2.0)
Actuarial (losses)/gains 20 (46.2) 60.6 
Amounts reclassiﬁed to proﬁt and loss on sale of controlling interest – (1.7)
Cash ﬂow hedges – reclassiﬁcation adjustment for gains in income statement 4.3 9.0 
Cash ﬂow hedges – losses recognized in other comprehensive income (8.3) (7.9)
Exchange difference on investment in associate (0.2) 0.1 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 6 11.9 (15.9)
Other comprehensive (loss)/gain for the year, net of tax   (50.1) 42.2 
Total comprehensive (loss)/gain for the year, net of tax   (67.2) 99.7 
Attributable to owners of the parent (67.2) 99.9 
Attributable to non-controlling interests   – (0.2)
2012 2011
Note
Before
exceptional
items
£m  
Exceptional
items
£m  
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m  
Exceptional
items
£m  
Total
£m
Group revenue 11,632.1 – 1,632.1 1,604.5 – 1,604.5 
Operating costs 2,3,4 (1,537.1) (93.9) (1,631.0) (1,506.6) (3.0) (1,509.6)
Other income – property 3 4.6   –   4.6 1.8   –   1.8 
Proﬁt on operations 99.6 (93.9) 5.7 99.7 (3.0) 96.7 
Finance costs 5 (21.0) – (21.0) (20.6) – (20.6)
Other ﬁnance income – pensions 5 5.5 – 5.5 – – – 
Share of associate’s net loss 14 (0.3) – (0.3) (0.2) – (0.2)
Proﬁt on sale of controlling interest 4, 29 –   –   – –   1.9   1.9 
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax 83.8 (93.9) (10.1) 78.9 (1.1) 77.8 
Tax expense 6 (20.1)  13.1   (7.0) (22.0)  1.7   (20.3)
Proﬁt/(loss) for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders   63.7   (80.8)  (17.1) 56.9   0.6   57.5 
           2012      2011
Earnings per share
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (pence) 8 (12.8) 43.2 
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (pence) 8 (12.8) 42.3 
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence)* 8 49.4 47.1 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (pence)* 8 48.5 46.2 
           2012      2011
Dividends
Proposed ﬁnal dividend (£m) 7 19.6 18.9 
Interim dividend paid (£m) 7 7.6 7.3 
Proposed ﬁnal dividend (pence) 7 14.7 14.2 
Interim dividend paid (pence) 7         5.7           5.5 
The consolidated income statement relates to continuing operations.
* Adjusted earnings per share calculations are presented to give an indication of the underlying operational performance of the Group. The calculations exclude 
exceptional Items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest in relation to the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme, the latter being highly dependent 
upon market assumptions at 31 March each year.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Year ended 31 March 2012 58 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets
At 31 March 2012
Consolidated Parent Company
  Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 282.9 284.3 – – 
Goodwill 11 260.0 335.5 – – 
Intangible assets 12 170.5 179.8 – – 
Investments 13 – – 479.5 477.8 
Investment in associate using equity method 14 0.5 1.0 – – 
Deferred consideration 29 1.3 1.4 – – 
Deferred tax asset 6 – – 0.7 – 
Financial assets – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 17 16.6 18.0 15.0 16.4 
    731.8 820.0 495.2 494.2 
Current assets
Inventories 15 187.8 164.5 – – 
Trade and other receivables 16 131.5 147.1 219.8 158.6 
Financial assets – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 17 0.3 1.0 – – 
Cash and short-term deposits 18 79.4 49.9 – – 
    399.0 362.5 219.8 158.6 
Total assets 1 1,130.8 1,182.5 715.0 652.8 
 
Equity and liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– Long-term borrowings 19 (419.7) (305.3) (407.2) (298.2)
– Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 19 (8.7) (3.1) (8.7) (3.1)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 20 (79.8) (60.1) – – 
Deferred tax liability 6 (69.4) (86.3) – (0.2)
Deferred income 22 (6.9) (7.5) – – 
    (584.5) (462.3) (415.9) (301.5)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (266.4) (271.3) (8.0) (8.2)
Financial liabilities
– Short-term borrowings 19 (2.0) (68.0) – (65.5)
– Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 19 – (0.5) – – 
Current tax liability (0.7) (4.0) – – 
Deferred income 22 (0.6) (0.6) – – 
Provisions 23 (2.3) (10.3) – – 
    (272.0) (354.7) (8.0) (73.7)
Total liabilities   (856.5) (817.0) (423.9) (375.2)
 
Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares 24 (33.3) (33.3) (33.3) (33.3)
Share premium (70.9) (70.8) (70.9) (70.8)
Interest in ESOP 0.6 0.6 – – 
Other reserves 25 (49.0) (64.1) (152.2) (153.4)
Retained earnings   (121.7) (197.9) (34.7) (20.1)
Total shareholders’ equity (274.3) (365.5) (291.1) (277.6)
Total equity and liabilities   (1,130.8) (1,182.5) (715.0) (652.8)
Mark Allen, Chief Executive
Alastair Murray, Finance Director
The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the directors on 23 May 2012. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 59
The numbers
Attributable to owners of the parent
2012
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Interest
in ESOP
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Non– 
controlling
interest
£m
Total
Equity
£m
At 31 March 2011 33.3 70.8 (0.6) 64.1 197.9 365.5 – 365.5 
Loss for the year – – – – (17.1) (17.1) – (17.1)
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):                             
Net investment hedges – – – (11.6) – (11.6) – (11.6)
Cash ﬂow hedges – – – (4.0) – (4.0) – (4.0)
Actuarial losses – – – – (46.2) (46.2) – (46.2)
Exchange difference on
investment in associate – – – (0.2) – (0.2) – (0.2)
Tax on components of other  
comprehensive income   –   –   –   0.7   11.2   11.9  – 11.9 
Other comprehensive loss – – – (15.1) (35.0) (50.1) – (50.1)
Total comprehensive loss – – – (15.1) (52.1) (67.2) – (67.2)
Issue of share capital – 0.1 – – – 0.1 – 0.1 
Share based payments – – – – 2.4 2.4 – 2.4 
Equity dividends – – – – (26.5) (26.5) – (26.5)
At 31 March 2012 33.3 70.9 (0.6) 49.0 121.7 274.3 – 274.3 
 
2011            
At 31 March 2010 33.3 70.7 (0.7) 66.4 120.1 289.8 3.0 292.8 
Proﬁt for the year – – – – 57.5 57.5 – 57.5 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):                        
Net investment hedges – – – (1.8) – (1.8) (0.2) (2.0)
Cash ﬂow hedges – – – 1.1 – 1.1 – 1.1 
Amounts reclassiﬁed to proﬁt  
and loss on sale of controlling 
interest – – – (1.7) – (1.7) – (1.7)
Actuarial gains – – – – 60.6 60.6 – 60.6 
Exchange difference on  
investment in associate – – – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1 
Tax on components of other  
comprehensive income   –   –   –   –   (15.9)  (15.9)  –   (15.9)
Other comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – (2.3) 44.7 42.4 (0.2) 42.2 
Total comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – (2.3) 102.2 99.9 (0.2) 99.7 
Disposal of non-controlling
interest – – – – – – (2.8) (2.8)
Issue of share capital – 0.1 – – – 0.1 – 0.1 
Purchase of shares by ESOP – – (0.2) – – (0.2) – (0.2)
Exercise of options – – 0.3 – (0.3) – – – 
Share based payments – – – – 1.3 1.3 – 1.3 
Equity dividends – – – – (25.4) (25.4) – (25.4)
At 31 March 2011 33.3 70.8 (0.6) 64.1 197.9 365.5 – 365.5 
 * Further details are provided in Note 25.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Year ended 31 March 2012 60 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
2012
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Capital
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Other
reserve*
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
At 31 March 2011 33.3 70.8 142.7 1.0 9.7 20.1 277.6 
Proﬁt for the year – – – – – 40.4 40.4 
Other comprehensive loss:                      
Cash ﬂow hedges – – – (3.8) – – (3.8)
Related tax   –   –   –   0.9   –   –   0.9 
Other comprehensive loss – – – (2.9) – – (2.9)
Total comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – (2.9) – 40.4 37.5 
Issue of share capital – 0.1 – – – – 0.1 
Share based payments – – – – 1.7 0.7 2.4 
Equity dividends – – – – – (26.5) (26.5)
At 31 March 2012 33.3 70.9 142.7 (1.9) 11.4 34.7 291.1 
 
2011         
At 31 March 2010 33.3 70.7 142.7 0.6 8.7 18.6 274.6 
Proﬁt for the year – – – – – 26.6 26.6 
Other comprehensive gain:                      
Cash ﬂow hedges – – – 0.4 – – 0.4 
Related tax   –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Other comprehensive gain – – – 0.4 – – 0.4 
Total comprehensive gains – – – 0.4 – 26.6 27.0 
Issue of share capital – 0.1 – – – – 0.1 
Share based payments – – – – 1.0 0.3 1.3 
Equity dividends – – – – – (25.4) (25.4)
At 31 March 2011 33.3 70.8 142.7 1.0 9.7 20.1 277.6 
 * Other reserve represents the share based payment credit in respect of amounts capitalised as investments (see Note 13).
Parent Company statement of changes in equity
Year ended 31 March 2012 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 61
The numbers
  Consolidated Parent Company
Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash generated from operations 32 84.5 128.1 – – 
Interest paid (23.6) (19.8) – – 
Taxation paid   (14.1) (16.1) – – 
Net cash ﬂow from operating activities   46.8 92.2 – – 
Cash ﬂow from investing activities
Capital expenditure (53.3) (49.3) – – 
Grants received 22 0.2 0.8 – – 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 12.6 2.5 – – 
Purchase of businesses (net of cash and debt acquired) 29 (12.3) (0.1) – – 
Sale of businesses 29 – 4.0 – – 
Amounts (paid to)/received from subsidiaries – – (28.0) 25.4 
Net cash (used)/generated in investing activities   (52.8) (42.1) (28.0) 25.4 
Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities
Repayment and cancellation of bank facilities (155.2) – (65.2)  – 
New bank facilities advanced 165.2 – 65.2 – 
Proceeds from issuance of loan notes 54.5 – 54.5 – 
Net repayment of borrowings under revolving credit facilities (0.1) – – – 
Dividends paid 7 (26.5) (25.4) (26.5) (25.4)
Purchase of shares by ESOP 25 – (0.2) – – 
Proceeds from issue of shares 24 0.1 0.1 – – 
Finance lease repayments 33 (2.4) (2.2) – – 
Net cash generated from/(used in) ﬁnancing activities   35.6 (27.7) 28.0 (25.4)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 29.6 22.4 – – 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 33 49.9 27.5 – – 
Exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents 33 (0.1) – – – 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 33 79.4 49.9 – – 
Memo: Net debt at end of year 33 (336.4) (311.6) (398.6) (351.9)
Consolidated and Parent Company statement of cash ﬂows
Year ended 31 March 2012 62 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Basis of preparation
The consolidated and Company ﬁnancial statements are presented 
in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million  
(£ million) except where otherwise indicated.
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union (‘EU’). The Company ﬁnancial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and 
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption 
provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to 
publish its individual income statement and related notes.
Having reviewed and taken into account Going Concern and 
Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the 
Directors are satisﬁed that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the ﬁnancial statements. See the Going Concern 
Statement on page 46 of the Directors’ Report.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a signiﬁcant risk 
of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial year are (i) the measurement of 
the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets and (ii) the 
measurement of deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme assets and 
obligations.
(i) The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual 
basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated. The 
assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of 
assets including intangible assets being principally brands. This 
requires estimation of future cash ﬂows and the selection of a 
suitable discount rate.
(ii) Measurement of deﬁned beneﬁt pension obligations requires 
estimation of future changes in inﬂation, mortality rates, the expected 
return on plan assets and the choice of a suitable discount rate.
Further analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty and 
sensitivities are included in the relevant notes to the accounts.
The key judgements made by management in the process of 
applying the Group accounting policies are those used to determine 
whether certain individual operating segments meet all of the 
aggregation criteria set out in IFRS 8 when aggregated for external 
reporting purposes. Those segments that have been aggregated 
and a description of the key judgements made in reaching that 
conclusion are set out in Note 1 of the accounts. 
Changes in accounting policies
The following accounting standards and interpretations became 
effective for the current reporting period:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRSs)
IAS 24 – Related Party Disclosures (Revised) 
Improvements to IFRS (issued April 2010) 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 14 (Amended) – Prepayments of a Minimum Funding 
Requirement.
IFRIC 19 – Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 
The application of these standards and interpretations has had no 
impact on the net assets, result and disclosures of the Group in the 
year ended 31 March 2012.
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards (with an 
effective date after the date of these accounts) and interpretations:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRSs)
IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments: Classiﬁcation and Measurement 
(effective from 1 January 2015)*
IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements (effective from 1 
January 2013)*
IFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements (effective from 1 January 2013)*
IFRS 12 – Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities (effective from 1 
January 2013)*
IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement (effective from 1 January 2013)*
IFRS 7 – Amendments to IFRS 7: Disclosures – Transfers of 
Financial Assets (effective 1 July 2011)
IAS 1 – Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements 
(effective from 1 July 2012)*
IAS 12 – Amendments to IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ - deferred tax: 
recovery of underlying assets (effective 1 January 2012)*
IAS 19 – Amendments to IAS 19: Employee Beneﬁts (effective from 
1 January 2013)*
IAS 27 – Separate Financial Statements (effective from 1 January 
2013)*
IAS 28 – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (effective 
from 1 January 2013)*
IAS 32 – Amendments to IAS 32: Financial Instruments – 
Presentation (effective from 1 January 2014)*
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 
(IFRIC)
IFRIC 20 – Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface 
Mine (effective from 1 January 2013)*
* Not yet endorsed by the EU.
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards 
and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s 
ﬁnancial statements in the period of initial application with the 
exception of the amendments to IAS 19 – Employee Beneﬁts. The 
principal impact on the Group of the application of this standard will 
be the requirement to use the discount rate when calculating 
expected returns on the asset component of pension cost. We 
currently calculate expected returns based on return assumptions 
on the actual classes of asset held. This change is likely to result in 
higher charges to the Consolidated Income Statement for the 
pension interest cost. There is no material impact on the reported 
pension liabilities each year end as the impact in the Consolidated 
Income Statement is mitigated by an offsetting change in the 
calculation of actuarial gains and losses in the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income – namely the difference between actual and 
expected asset returns will increase. 
Consolidation
The Group ﬁnancial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy 
Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 March each 
year using consistent accounting policies. All intercompany balances 
and transactions, including unrealised proﬁts and losses arising from 
intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full. 
Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the date 
on which control is transferred to the Group. Subsidiaries continue 
to be consolidated until the date that control ceases. 
Accounting policies
Year ended 31 March 2012 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 63
The numbers
Where the Group ceases to control a subsidiary, it (i) derecognizes 
the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary; (ii) 
derecognizes the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest; (iii) 
derecognizes the cumulative translation differences on net assets 
and borrowings designated as net investment hedges, previously 
recorded in other comprehensive income; (iv) recognizes the fair 
value of any investment or associate retained; (v) recognizes any 
surplus or deﬁcit in the consolidated income statement, and (vi) 
reclassiﬁes the parent’s share of components previously recognized 
in other comprehensive income or retained earnings as appropriate.
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not 
attributable, directly or indirectly, to the parent company and are 
presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance 
sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent. At 
31 March 2010, non-controlling interests represent the 20% interest 
in Wexford Creamery Limited not held by the Group.
Interest in associates 
The Group’s investments in associates are accounted for under the 
equity method of accounting. Associates are entities over which the 
Group exerts signiﬁcant inﬂuence. The Company and its associates 
use consistent accounting policies. The investment in associates is 
carried in the balance sheet at initial fair value plus post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of net assets, less any impairment in 
value and any distributions received. The consolidated income 
statement reﬂects the share of the post-tax results of associates. 
Where there has been a change recognized directly in the 
associates’ other comprehensive income, the Group recognizes its 
share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable in other 
comprehensive income. 
Foreign currency translation 
The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group plc 
and its United Kingdom (‘UK’) subsidiaries is Sterling (£). The 
functional currency of St Hubert SAS, a subsidiary company 
incorporated in France, is the Euro. 
Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the functional 
currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
Sterling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences on 
monetary items are taken to the income statement, except where 
recognized in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash ﬂow 
hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. 
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are 
translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates. The results of 
foreign subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at average rates of 
exchange for the year (being an approximation of actual exchange 
rates). Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the net 
investment in foreign subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, less 
exchange differences on borrowings, which ﬁnance or provide a 
hedge against those undertakings are taken to a separate 
component of equity as long as IFRS hedge accounting conditions 
are met. Exchange differences relating to foreign currency 
borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a 
foreign entity remain in equity until the disposal of the net investment, 
at which time they are recognized in the consolidated income 
statement. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost comprises the 
purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the 
asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of 
operating in the manner intended by management. Depreciation is 
calculated to write off the cost (less residual value) of property, plant 
and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line basis over 
the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:
Freehold buildings: 25 years
Leasehold land and buildings: 25 years or, if shorter, the 
period of the lease
Ofﬁce equipment: 4 to 6 years
Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years
Vehicles: 4 to 10 years
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for 
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. If the carrying value 
exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down 
to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of plant and 
equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value in 
use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks speciﬁc to the asset. For an asset that does not generate 
largely independent cash ﬂows, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated income 
statement.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon 
disposal or when no future economic beneﬁts are expected to arise 
from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on 
derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated income 
statement in the year that it is derecognized. 
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period 
of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the 
cost of the respective assets. 
All other borrowing costs are recognized as an expense in the period 
they occur.
Investments
The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost 
being the fair value of consideration paid, less provisions for 
impairment where appropriate.
Business Combinations and Goodwill
Business combinations from 1 April 2010 are accounted for using 
the acquisition method (previously used the purchase method). The 
cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the 
consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, 
and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The 
choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value 
or at the proportionate share of acquiree’s identiﬁable net assets is 
determined on a transaction by transaction basis. Acquisition costs 
incurred are expensed to proﬁt and loss.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the cost of 
the acquisition (see above) less net identiﬁable amounts of the assets 
acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business 
combination. Previously cost of goodwill was the excess of the cost 
of the business combination over the Group’s (acquirer’s) interest in 
the net fair value of the identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities.  64 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment 
annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. All goodwill was 
tested for impairment at the time of transition to IFRS and no 
impairment was identiﬁed.
Goodwill recognized under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition 
to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date and is not 
subsequently amortised.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the 
cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units expected to 
beneﬁt from the combination’s synergies. Impairment is determined 
by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to 
which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the 
cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment 
loss is recognized. Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating 
unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the 
goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the 
carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss 
on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this 
circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of the 
operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit 
retained.
The Group’s cash-generating units, for the purpose of considering 
goodwill, are ‘Dairies’ (previously ‘Liquid Products’ and ‘Customer 
Direct’ up to 31 March 2011), ‘UK Spreads’, ‘St Hubert’, ‘MH Foods’ 
and ‘Cheese’. These represent the lowest level at which goodwill is 
monitored for management purposes and are no larger than the 
Group’s operating segments.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been 
charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off against 
reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the 
business sold.
The Group has not restated business combinations prior to the 
transition date of 1 April 2004. Acquisitions prior to this date are 
recorded under previous accounting rules. 
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are 
capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value can 
be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future expected 
economic beneﬁts ﬂow to the Group. Following initial recognition, the 
carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any 
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. 
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either ﬁnite 
or indeﬁnite. Currently, all the Group’s intangible assets have ﬁnite 
useful lives and are amortised over 3 to 25 years. Acquired intangible 
assets principally comprise acquired brands and they have useful 
lives as follows:
St Hubert 25 years
Le Fleurier 15 years
Vallé 15 years
FryLight 15 years
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, 
where applicable, are made on a prospective basis. 
Intangible assets generated internally comprise software 
development expenditure. Software development is carried at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and is amortised over four to seven 
years. Internally generated intangible assets that are not yet available 
for use are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the 
cash-generating unit level or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Research and development
Expenditure on research is written off as incurred. Development 
expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future 
recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as 
required by IAS 38: Intangible Assets.
Recoverable amount of non-current assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any 
indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of 
impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of recoverable 
amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired and is written 
down to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the 
higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to 
sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, 
unless the asset does not generate cash inﬂows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials (on a ﬁrst in ﬁrst 
out basis), direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing 
overheads based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing 
each product to its present location and condition. Net realisable 
value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business 
less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognized and carried at original 
invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts. An 
estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full 
amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off when 
identiﬁed.
Assets in disposal groups classiﬁed as held for sale
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classiﬁed as held for 
sale only if available for immediate sale in their present condition; a 
sale is highly probable; and expected to be completed within one 
year from the date of classiﬁcation. Such assets are measured at the 
lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are not 
depreciated or amortised.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and 
short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
For the purposes of the Consolidated cash ﬂow statement, cash and 
cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as deﬁned 
above, net of bank overdrafts.
Interest bearing loans
All loans and borrowings are initially recognized at the fair value of 
the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the 
borrowing. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into 
account any issue costs and any discount or premium on 
settlement. Gains and losses are recognized in net proﬁt or loss 
when the liabilities are derecognized.
Accounting policies continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 65
The numbers
Net debt
The Group and Company deﬁne net debt as cash and cash 
equivalents, interest bearing loans and ﬁnance leases. The 
calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments with the exception of cross currency swaps to ﬁx foreign 
currency debt in Sterling where they are designated as cash ﬂow 
hedges. In this case the ﬁxed Sterling debt, not the underlying 
foreign currency debt retranslated, is included in net debt. It includes 
any cash or borrowings included within disposal groups classiﬁed as 
held for sale and excludes unamortised upfront facility fees.
Retirement beneﬁt obligations
The asset or liability in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt schemes is the 
present value of the relevant deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the balance 
sheet date less the fair value of plan assets and an adjustment for 
past service costs not yet vested. The independent actuary 
completes a full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest Group pension 
fund triennially. The obligation is updated annually for ﬁnancial 
reporting purposes by the actuary using the projected unit credit 
method. The present value of the obligation is determined by the 
estimated future cash outﬂows using interest rates of high quality 
corporate bonds, which have terms to maturity approximating the 
terms of the related liability. 
The current service costs, settlement gains or losses and any 
curtailment gains are recognized in operating costs in the 
consolidated income statement, classiﬁed as cost of sales, 
distribution costs or administrative expenses depending upon which 
area of the business active members are employed in. Past service 
costs are included in operating costs where the beneﬁts have 
vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the 
vesting period. The expected return on assets of funded deﬁned 
beneﬁt schemes and the interest on pension scheme liabilities 
comprise the ﬁnance element of the pension cost and the difference 
between these amounts are included in other ﬁnance income or 
costs. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience 
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized in 
full and are charged or credited to other comprehensive income in 
the period in which they arise.
The recognition of any future retirement beneﬁt surplus as calculated 
by the actuary as part of the annual update for reporting purposes, 
is limited to the present value, using an appropriate discount rate, of 
any real cash beneﬁt the Company will obtain in the future through 
cash (net of taxes or costs) on a winding up of the scheme. In order 
to calculate the potential future beneﬁts, or to establish whether a 
liability needs to be established under IFRIC 14, consideration is 
given to any minimum funding requirements agreed between the 
Company and the Pension Trustee.
Contributions to the Dairy Crest deﬁned contribution pension 
scheme are charged as an expense as they fall due. Any 
contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an 
accrual at that date. The Group has no further payment obligations 
once contributions have been paid.
Share based payments
Equity based performance payments
The Group and Company has issued equity-settled share based 
payment schemes for which they receive services from employees 
in consideration for the equity instrument. Equity-settled share 
based payment schemes are measured at fair value at the grant 
date by an external valuer using an appropriate pricing model. In 
valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any 
service and performance (vesting conditions), other than 
performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the 
Company (market conditions). Any other conditions which are 
required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled 
to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions. Like 
market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken 
into account in determining the grant date fair value.
The cost of equity settled transactions with employees is measured 
by reference to the fair value and is recognized as an expense over 
the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant 
employees became fully entitled to the award. At each balance sheet 
date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, 
representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and 
management’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest. The movement in cumulative expense since 
the previous balance sheet date is recognized in the income 
statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or 
non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of 
whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisﬁed, 
provided that all other performance or service conditions are satisﬁed.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled (including when a 
non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee is 
not met), it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, 
and any cost not yet recognized in the income statement for the 
award is expensed immediately.
Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over equity 
instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in the 
Company’s balance sheet.
Employees’ Share Ownership Plan (“ESOP”)
The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest “ESOP” Trust to 
satisfy Long Term Incentive Share Plan awards are presented as a 
deduction from equity in arriving at shareholders’ equity. 
Consideration received from the sale of such shares is also 
recognized in equity with no gain or loss recognized in the 
consolidated income statement.
The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to apply 
IFRS 2 Share-based payments only to awards made after 7 
November 2002. 
Leased assets
Assets acquired under ﬁnance leases, which transfer to the Group 
substantially all the risks and beneﬁts incidental to ownership of the 
leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value 
of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum 
lease payments. The net present value of future lease rentals is 
included as a liability on the balance sheet. The interest element of 
lease rentals is charged to the consolidated income statement in the 
year. Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and 
beneﬁts of ownership of the asset are classiﬁed as operating leases. 
Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Revenue
Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognized on 
delivery. Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods 
net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating 
sales within the Group. 
Dividend income is recognized when the Company’s right to receive 
payment is established. 66 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Other income
Other income comprises the proﬁt on disposal of closed sites and 
household depots. 
Exceptional items
Certain items are recorded separately in the consolidated income 
statement as exceptional. Only items of a material, one-off nature, 
which result from a restructuring of the business or some other 
event or circumstance are disclosed in this manner in order to give a 
better understanding of the underlying operational performance of 
the Group. The proﬁts arising on disposal of closed sites, other than 
as a result of depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional 
items. 
Government and other grants
Government grants are initially recognized at their fair value where 
there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all 
attaching conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to 
an expense item, it is recognized as income over the periods 
necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that 
it is intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to an asset, 
the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is 
released to the consolidated income statement over the expected 
useful life of the relevant asset in equal annual instalments.
Income tax
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount 
expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, 
based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the 
balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts for ﬁnancial reporting purposes, except 
as indicated below.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable 
temporary differences except:
 where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial 
recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at 
the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting proﬁt 
nor taxable proﬁt or loss; and
 in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint 
ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognized for all deductible 
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and 
unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁt 
will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, 
the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can 
be utilised except:
 where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset 
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, 
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting proﬁt 
nor taxable proﬁt or loss; and 
 in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint 
ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent 
that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the 
foreseeable future and taxable proﬁt will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁt will be available to allow 
all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Deferred 
income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that 
are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the 
liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 
are offset only if a legal enforcement right exists to set off current tax 
assets against current tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate 
to the same taxation authority and that authority permits the group 
to make a single net payment.
Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income if it 
relates to items that are charged or credited to other comprehensive 
income. Similarly, income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if 
it relates to items that are credited or charged directly to equity. 
Otherwise income tax is recognized in the income statement.
Financial assets
The Group and Company classiﬁes ﬁnancial assets that are within 
the scope of IAS 39 as: 
 ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt and loss;
 loans and receivables; 
 held-to-maturity investments; or 
 available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets, as appropriate. 
The Group and Company determines the classiﬁcation of ﬁnancial 
assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each 
ﬁnancial year-end. When ﬁnancial assets are recognized initially, they 
are measured at fair value. The Group and Company currently hold 
only loans and receivables.
Derivative instruments
The Group and Company use derivative ﬁnancial instruments such 
as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and interest 
rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and 
foreign currency ﬂuctuations. Such derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently re-measured to 
fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by 
reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with 
similar maturity proﬁles. The fair value of interest rate swap and 
cross-currency swap contracts is determined by reference to market 
values for similar instruments and speciﬁc valuations performed by 
counterparties at the balance sheet date.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classiﬁed as 
either: 
 fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes in 
the fair value of a recognized asset or liability;
 cash ﬂow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash 
ﬂows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with 
a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecast 
transaction, or a ﬁrm commitment in relation to foreign exchange 
exposure; or
 net investment hedges where they hedge the exposure to 
variability in the translated net assets of an overseas operation.
Neither the Group nor the Company has entered into any fair value 
hedges during the year.
Accounting policies continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 67
The numbers
Cash ﬂow hedges
In relation to cash ﬂow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge 
accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument 
that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognized directly in 
other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is 
recognized in the consolidated income statement. 
When the hedged ﬁrm commitment (in relation to foreign exchange 
exposure) or the highly probable forecast transactions results in the 
recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, then, at the time 
the asset or liability is recognized, the associated gains or losses 
that had previously been recognized in other comprehensive income 
are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or 
other carrying amount of the asset or liability. For all other cash ﬂow 
hedges, the gains or losses that are recognized in other 
comprehensive income are transferred to the consolidated income 
statement in the same year in which the hedged item affects the net 
proﬁt and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs, 
interest payments are made or when debt matures. For derivatives 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising 
from changes in fair value are taken directly to the consolidated 
income statement for the year. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
Where the Group hedges net investments in overseas entities 
through currency borrowings, the gains and losses on retranslation 
of those borrowings are recognized in other comprehensive income. 
If the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective 
portion of the hedge is recognized in other comprehensive income, 
with any ineffective portion being recognized in the consolidated 
income statement whenever applicable. Gains and losses 
accumulated in other comprehensive income are reclassiﬁed to the 
consolidated income statement on disposal of the foreign entity.
In order to satisfy hedge accounting, the Group (or Company) 
documents in advance the relationship between the item being 
hedged and the hedging instrument. The Group (or Company) also 
documents and demonstrates an assessment of the relationship 
between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows 
that the hedge has been and will be highly effective on an ongoing 
basis. The effectiveness testing is re-performed on a regular basis 
(being at least half-yearly) to ensure that the hedge remains highly 
effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualiﬁes for 
hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument recognized in other comprehensive income is 
retained in other comprehensive income until the highly probable 
forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognized in 
other comprehensive income is transferred to the consolidated 
income statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other ﬁnancial instruments or other host 
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and 
the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains 
or losses reported in the income statement. When the contracts are 
closely related and hedge accounting is adopted, they are 
designated at inception and treated as described above. 68 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
1 Segmental analysis
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be determined based on the Group’s internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(“CODM”). The CODM has been determined to be the Company’s Board members as they are primarily responsible for the allocation of 
resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments. 
The CODM uses trading proﬁt, as reviewed at monthly business review meetings, as the key measure of the segment’s results as it reﬂects the 
segment’s underlying trading performance for the period under evaluation. Trading proﬁt is a consistent measure within the Group and the 
reporting of this measure at the monthly business review meetings, which are organised according to the product types, has been used to 
identify and determine the Group’s operating segments. Trading proﬁt is deﬁned as proﬁt on operations before exceptional items and amortisation 
of acquired intangible assets, but includes the Group share of post-tax proﬁt of associates and joint ventures.
The Group’s operating segments at 31 March 2012 were ‘Cheese’, ‘UK Spreads’, ‘MH Foods’, ‘St Hubert’, ‘Dairies’ (previously ‘Liquid Products’ 
and ‘Customer Direct’), ‘Share of Associates and Joint Ventures’ and ‘Other’. Certain of these operating segments have been aggregated and the 
Group reports on ﬁve continuing segments within the business: ‘Cheese’, ‘Spreads’, ‘Dairies’, ‘Share of Associates and Joint Ventures’ and 
‘Other’.
In previous years, the Liquid Products and Customer Direct segments were aggregated into one reportable segment being Dairies. During the 
year ended 31 March 2012, these two businesses were merged with one senior management team now responsible for the whole of the 
Dairies segment. Since the restructuring, discrete ﬁnancial information for the former Liquid Products and Customer Direct divisions is no 
longer available or reviewed by either the Dairies senior management team or the CODM (in the past, segment information was based on 
allocations of the combined cost base which is not now necessary). The Dairies segment principally comprises the sale of non-branded fresh 
milk in the UK to a number of customers including major retail, foodservice and residential customers. The segment is managed on a 
combined basis including milk sourcing, production volumes, demand planning, technical, quality and distribution. The factories process and 
pack milk for a mix of customers which varies depending on customer and demand mix. Having considered these factors, management has 
judged that this business now comprises one operating segment under IFRS 8. 
For Group reporting purposes, the UK Spreads and St Hubert segments have been aggregated into one reportable segment being Spreads. 
Both of these segments operate within Western Europe where long-term GDP growth rates and spreads market growth rates are similar. Both 
manufacture predominantly branded dairy spreads, using similar production methods with a signiﬁcant investment in advertising and 
promotion. The two businesses have margins consistent with predominantly branded products. The key input risks faced by both businesses 
are similar (vegetable oil, packaging costs). The majority of sales are to major multiple retailers and distribution methods are similar. Having 
considered these factors, management has judged that the IFRS 8 aggregation criteria for these businesses have been met and that 
aggregation is appropriate. The Spreads segment also incorporates the MH Foods business acquired in June 2011. This business is branded, 
has similar end-customers as UK Spreads and shares the same input cost risks. Therefore management judges that this too meets the IFRS 8 
aggregation criteria. Furthermore, its revenue, result and assets do not represent more than 10% of the Group so the quantitative criteria for a 
reportable segment are not met.
The Cheese segment has not been aggregated with any other segment. This business manufactures predominantly branded cheese in the 
UK and sells mainly to retail customers.
Share of Associates and Joint Ventures forms a separate segment whose results are reviewed on a post-tax basis consistent with IFRS.
The Other segment comprises revenue earned from distributing product for third parties and certain central costs net of recharges to the 
operating segments. Generally, all central costs less external other revenue are recharged to the operating segments such that their result 
reﬂects the total cost base of the Group. Other segment proﬁt therefore is nil.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 69
The numbers
1 Segmental analysis continued
The segment results for the year ended 31 March 2012 and for the year ended 31 March 2011 and the reconciliation of segment measures to 
the respective statutory items included in the ﬁnancial statements are as follows:
    Year ended 31 March
Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
Segment external revenue
Cheese 229.6 223.1 
Spreads 328.7 285.5 
Dairies 1,069.0 1,089.8 
Other   4.8 6.1 
Total segment external revenue   1,632.1 1,604.5 
       
Segment proﬁt 
Cheese 35.5 28.0 
Spreads 63.0 53.3 
Dairies 10.2 27.1 
Share of associates’ net loss 14 (0.3) (0.2)
Total segment proﬁt 108.4 108.2 
Finance costs 5 (21.0) (20.6)
Adjusted proﬁt before tax 87.4 87.6 
Acquired intangible amortisation 12 (9.1) (8.7)
Exceptional items 4 (93.9) (1.1)
Other ﬁnance income – pensions 5 5.5 –
Group (loss)/proﬁt before tax   (10.1) 77.8 
       
Segment total assets
Cheese 216.2 199.6 
Spreads 498.0 507.3 
Dairies 279.0 370.2 
Share of associates 1.8 2.4 
Other   39.5 34.1 
Group 1,034.5 1,113.6 
Unsegmented assets 96.3 68.9 
Total assets   1,130.8 1,182.5 
       
Inter-segment revenue
Cheese 9.9 7.4 
Spreads 4.7 8.4 
Dairies – –
Elimination   (14.6) (15.8)
Total   – – 70 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
1 Segmental analysis continued
    Year ended 31 March
Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
Segment depreciation and amortisation (excluding amortisation of acquired intangible assets)
Cheese 6.0 5.5 
Spreads 6.2 6.2 
Dairies 19.4 19.8 
Other   2.5 3.0 
Total 3 34.1 34.5 
       
Segment additions to non-current assets
Cheese 5.5 7.4 
Spreads 28.8 8.3 
Dairies 30.5 32.3 
Other   3.1 4.1 
Total   67.9 52.1 
       
Segment exceptional items
Cheese – 1.9 
Spreads (2.6) –
Dairies (91.3) (3.0)
Share of associates   – –
Total 4 (93.9) (1.1)
Interest income and expense are not included in the measure of segment proﬁt reviewed by the CODM. Group treasury is centrally managed 
and external interest income and expense is mostly incurred in the UK and is not allocated to segments. Where interest is reviewed by the 
CODM it is done so on a net basis. Further analysis of the Group interest expense is provided in Note 5. 
Tax costs are not included in the measure of segment proﬁt reviewed by the CODM. Tax is centrally managed and the group effective tax rate, 
not individual segment tax rates, is reported.
Segment assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, inventories, receivables, assets in disposal group held 
for sale and investments in associates and joint ventures using the equity method and deferred consideration but exclude cash and cash 
equivalents, derivative ﬁnancial assets and deferred tax assets as these items are managed on a Group basis. Other segment assets 
comprise certain property, plant and equipment that is not reported in the segments. Total segment liabilities have not been presented as this 
measure is not regularly reviewed by or provided to the CODM.
Inter-segment revenue comprises the sale of ﬁnished Cheese and Spreads products to the Dairies segment on a cost plus basis and is 
included in the segment result. Other inter-segment transactions principally comprise sales of cream from the Dairies segment to the Spreads 
segment for the manufacture of butters. Cream sold into Spreads is priced by reference to external commodity markets and is adjusted 
regularly so as to reﬂect the costs that the Spreads segment would incur if it were a stand alone entity. Revenue from inter-segment cream 
sales is not reported as revenue to the CODM but as a reduction to the Dairies segment’s input costs.
Segment depreciation and amortisation excludes amortisation of acquired intangible assets of £9.1 million (2011: £8.7 million) as these costs 
are not charged in the segment result.
Segment additions to non-current assets comprise additions to goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through capital 
expenditure and acquisition of businesses.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 71
The numbers
1 Segmental analysis continued
Geographical information
  Year ended 31 March
External revenue attributed on basis of customer location
2012
£m
2011
£m
UK 1,450.1 1,429.6 
France 102.2 89.2 
Rest of world 79.8 85.7 
Total segment revenue (excluding joint ventures) 1,632.1 1,604.5 
 
Non-current assets* based on location    
UK 370.5 433.6 
France 338.0 360.6 
Rest of world 5.4 6.4 
Total 713.9 800.6 
* Comprises property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets and investments in associates.
The Group has one customer which represents more than 10% of total group revenues in the year ended 31 March 2012 (2011: none). This 
customer represents £175.7 million of revenue (10.8%) across the Cheese, Spreads and Dairies segments. 
The business segmentation above is based upon similar product groupings, namely cheese, spreads and dairies, and therefore the analysis of 
Group revenue by product and services is consistent with the revenue analysis presented above with the exception of non-milk product sales 
in the Dairies segment, which amounted to £100.1 million (2011: £112.3 million).
2 Operating costs
  Year ended 31 March 2012 Year ended 31 March 2011
Before
exceptional
items
£m  
Exceptional
Items
£m  
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m  
Exceptional
Items
£m  
Total
£m
Cost of sales 1,177.4 13.6 1,191.0 1,132.0 – 1,132.0 
Distribution costs 274.0 – 274.0 292.8 – 292.8 
Administrative expenses 85.7   80.3   166.0 81.8   3.0   84.8 
  1,537.1   93.9   1,631.0 1,506.6   3.0   1,509.6 
3  Other income and expenses
  Year ended 31 March 2012 Year ended 31 March 2011
Before
exceptional
items
£m
 
Exceptional
Items
£m
 
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
 
Exceptional
Items
£m
 
Total
£m
Proﬁt on disposal of depots 4.6 – 4.6 1.8 – 1.8 
The Group continues to rationalise its Dairies operations as a result of the ongoing decline in doorstep volumes. This rationalisation includes 
the closure of certain depots (the proﬁt on which is shown above) and rationalisation of the ongoing Dairies operations. These activities 
represent a fundamental part of the ongoing ordinary activities of the Dairies operations.  72 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
3  Other income and expenses continued
Proﬁt on operations before exceptional items is stated after (charging)/crediting
Year ended
31 March 
2012
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2011
£m
Release of grants 0.6 0.6 
Depreciation (30.9) (30.9)
Amortisation of intangibles – acquired (9.1) (8.7)
Amortisation of intangibles – internally generated (3.2) (3.6)
Operating lease rentals (31.0) (31.1)
Research and development expenditure (2.8) (2.6)
Cost of inventories recognized as an expense (1,146.7) (1,123.3)
Including: Write-down of inventories recognized as an expense (1.0) (1.0)
Reversals of write-downs in inventories   – – 
Remuneration paid to auditors
Year ended
31 March 
2012
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2011
£m
Audit of the ﬁnancial statements* 0.1 0.1 
Other fees: local statutory audits for subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 
taxation services 0.2 0.3 
other services 0.1 0.1 
* £10,000 (2011: £10,000) of this relates to the Company.
Other services in the year ended 31 March 2012 and 2011 comprised governance assurance services for an IT systems project.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual accounts of 
the Company because Group ﬁnancial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Ernst & Young LLP are auditors of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Scheme. Fees paid by the pension scheme for audit services are not 
included in the above table.
4 Exceptional items
Exceptional items comprise those items that are material and one-off in nature that the Group believes should be separately disclosed to 
assist in the understanding of the underlying ﬁnancial performance of the Group.
Year ended
31 March 
2012
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2011
£m
Depot administration restructuring costs (Dairies) (5.3) (3.0)
Impairment of goodwill, property, plant and equipment (Dairies) (81.7) – 
Provision for bad debts (Dairies) (4.3) – 
Restructuring costs (Spreads) (2.6) – 
  (93.9) (3.0)
Proﬁt on disposal of controlling interest in Wexford Creamery Limited – 1.9 
  (93.9) (1.1)
Tax relief on exceptional items 13.1 1.7 
  (80.8) 0.6 
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 73
The numbers
4 Exceptional items continued
Exceptional items in the year ended 31 March 2012 comprise:
 – £5.3 million of costs associated with the rationalisation of administrative activities and other structural changes in the Dairies depot 
network. This restructuring results in centralisation of back ofﬁce activities supporting the depot network. The majority of costs relate to 
redundancies (£2.2 million) and other incremental operating costs associated with delivery of the project (£3.1 million). The project will 
complete in 2012/13 with up to a further £7 million of expenditure anticipated.
 – Trading in the Dairies segment has been adversely impacted in 2011/12 by increased costs of milk, the ongoing level of competition in the 
sector and in the second half by signiﬁcant falls in the value of cream. Furthermore, volume declines in doorstep deliveries continue 
despite the growth of our milk&more business. A range of actions is underway in order to restore margins within Dairies to an acceptable 
level in the medium term and create a cost-efﬁcient, sustainable dairies business. These include the expected closure of sites referred to 
below (subject to consultation). However, the outlook for Dairies is weaker and more uncertain than it was in 2011. This, combined with 
the volatility of assumptions in forecasting future cash ﬂows due to the commoditised nature of the business and the competitive 
environment, has led management to conclude that the total carrying amount of Dairies goodwill of £70.7 million should be impaired as it 
cannot be supported on a value in use basis. This impairment reduces the carrying value of goodwill in this segment to nil. Further details 
are provided in Note 11.
Furthermore, the Group has announced a major restructuring of its Dairies operations with the expected closure of two processing sites 
at Aintree in Liverpool and Fenstanton in Cambridgeshire subject to consultation. These closures are expected to be completed in 
2012/13. As a result of the anticipated closures, the carrying value of property, plant and equipment at these sites can no longer be 
supported by a value in use calculation based upon future cash ﬂows generated by these assets. Consequently, the carrying value of 
property, plant and equipment has been impaired by £9.8 million at 31 March 2012. Further details are provided in Note 10. In addition, an 
impairment of £0.4 million has been recorded against intangible assets (see Note 12) and £0.8 million of inventories of engineering spares 
and packaging have been written off (see Note 15). 
At 31 March 2012, following the impairments of goodwill, property, plant and equipment and intangibles, there  remains property, plant 
and equipment and intangibles with a carrying value of £161.6 million in the Dairies segment.
 – On 13 February 2012, the Group announced that a customer, Quadra Foods Limited (“Quadra”) had gone into administration. As a result 
a bad debt provision of £4.3 million has been charged representing the entire amount owing from this customer. Bad debt write-offs of 
this size are extremely rare and management considers this a one-off incident which, due to its material size, has been classiﬁed as 
exceptional. The Group previously purchased fresh milk from Farmright Limited (“Farmright”), a member of the same group as Quadra, 
which has also gone into administration. In the opinion of management, set-off arrangements were agreed and in place between Dairy 
Crest Limited and Quadra/Farmright at the date of their going into administration, however this is being challenged in the administration 
process. Under IFRS the recognition criterion threshold for a contingent asset is higher than that required for a contingent liability and 
therefore, although a provision has been recorded against amounts due from Quadra, no exceptional gain has been recognized in the 
year ended 31 March 2012 in relation to amounts owed to Farmright as the outcome is not yet virtually certain.
 – On 17 May 2011, the Group announced that, subject to a consultation process, production of its leading dairy spread brand, Clover, 
would be consolidated into its site in Kirkby, Liverpool. The Clover manufacturing process is currently split between Kirkby, Liverpool and 
Crudgington, Shropshire. This consolidation will result in approximately 90 redundancies at Crudgington and the creation of 
approximately 45 jobs at Kirkby. The consolidation will not be completed until 2012/13, however exceptional costs of £2.6 million have 
been incurred in the year ending 31 March 2012. These predominantly comprise redundancy costs (£1.2 million) and the impairment of 
property, plant and equipment impacted by the restructured operations (£1.0 million). This impairment reduces the carrying value of 
equipment made redundant by this processing change to management’s best estimate of its fair value less costs to sell (see Note 10). In 
addition, inventories of engineering spares of £0.2 million have been written off (see Note 15) and other project costs of £0.2 million have 
been incurred. A further £2.5 million is expected to be incurred in the ﬁrst half of 2012/13 in relation to this consolidation comprising 
further redundancies and duplicate running costs during the transfer of physical production.
Exceptional items in the year ended 31 March 2011 comprised:
 – £3.0 million of costs associated with the rationalisation of administration activities in the Dairies depot network. Most of the cost related to 
redundancies (£2.5 million), but certain incremental running costs were incurred (£0.5 million).
 – On 12 June 2010 the Group sold 50% of the shares in Wexford Creamery Limited (“WCL ”) for cash proceeds of €9 million, resulting in a 
30% shareholding post-disposal and a loss of controlling interest to Wexford Milk Producers (“WMP”). At 31 March 2010, the assets and 
liabilities of WCL were disclosed as a disposal group held for sale and the carrying value of assets was impaired to reﬂect the estimated 
fair value less costs to sell. The ﬁnal gain on disposal of £1.9 million in 2010/11 included the reclassiﬁcation to proﬁt and loss of certain 
items previously taken to other comprehensive income and is further analysed in Note 29. 74 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
5 Finance costs and other ﬁnance income
Finance costs
Year ended 
31 March 
2012
£m
Year ended 
31 March 
2011
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts (at amortised cost) (20.5) (20.1)
Interest expense on ﬁnancial liabilities not at fair value through proﬁt and loss (20.5) (20.1)
Unwind of discount on provisions (Note 23) (0.2) (0.1)
Finance charges on ﬁnance leases (0.5) (0.6)
Total ﬁnance costs (21.2) (20.8)
Finance income on cash balances (ﬁnancial assets not at fair value through proﬁt and loss) 0.2 0.2 
Total net ﬁnance costs (21.0) (20.6)
Other ﬁnance income – pensions
Year ended 
31 March 
2012
£m
Year ended 
31 March 
2011
£m
Expected return on deﬁned beneﬁt plan assets (Note 20) 49.0 45.4 
Interest cost on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (Note 20) (43.5) (45.4)
5.5 – 
6 Tax expense
The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 March 2012 and 2011 are:
Consolidated income statement
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current income tax
Current income tax charge at 26% (2011: 28%) 12.5 16.8 
Adjustments in respect of previous years – current tax (1.1) (1.0)
– transfer from deferred tax (1.1) (0.6)
10.3 15.2 
Deferred income tax
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (4.0) 4.7 
Adjustment in respect of previous years – deferred tax (0.4) (0.2)
– transfer to current tax 1.1 0.6 
7.0 20.3 
Analysed: Before exceptional items 20.1 22.0 
 Exceptional items (13.1) (1.7)
7.0 20.3 
Reconciliation between tax expense and the (loss)/proﬁt before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK:
2012
£m
2011
£m
(Loss)/proﬁt before tax (10.1) 77.8 
Tax at UK statutory corporation tax rate of 26% (2011: 28%) (2.6) 21.8 
Adjustments in respect of previous years (1.5) (1.2)
Adjustment for overseas proﬁts taxed at different rates 2.8 2.1 
Adjustment in respect of associate’s losses 0.1 0.1 
Deferred tax adjustment for change in UK corporation tax rate (26% to 24%; 2011: 28% to 26%) (2.6) (1.1)
Non-deductible expenses 13.2 0.9 
Proﬁts offset by available tax relief (2.4) (2.3)
  7.0 20.3 
The effective pre-exceptional rate of tax on Group proﬁt before tax is 24.1% (2011: 27.9%).
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 75
The numbers
6 Tax expense continued
A number of changes to the UK corporation tax system were announced in the March 2012 Budget Statement. This included a reduction in 
the rate of UK corporation tax from 26% to 24%. This reduction was dealt with by resolution under the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act at 
the end of the Budget debate and as such was substantively enacted for IFRS purposes on 26 March 2012. We have adjusted deferred tax 
balances at 31 March 2012 to reﬂect the 24% rate. Note that substantial deferred tax liabilities in respect of St Hubert brands are calculated at 
the prevailing corporation tax rate in France and are therefore unaffected by these changes.
Further reductions to the main rate of UK corporation tax are proposed that will reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 22% by April 2014. These 
are expected to be separately enacted each year. We estimate that a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 22% would reduce the 
deferred tax liability by approximately £1.8 million.
Consolidated other comprehensive income
2012
£m
2011
£m
Deferred income tax related to items charged to other comprehensive income
  Tax (relief)/charge on actuarial gains and losses (11.2) 15.9 
  Valuation of ﬁnancial instruments (0.7) – 
Tax (credit)/charge (11.9) 15.9 
There were no income tax or deferred tax amounts charged to changes in equity in the year ended 31 March 2012 (2011: nil).
Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax at 31 March 2012 and 2011 relates to the following:
Deferred tax liability
2012
£m
2011
£m
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes (37.4) (41.3)
Goodwill and intangible assets (55.4) (63.4)
Financial instruments valuation – (0.3)
  (92.8) (105.0)
Deferred tax asset   
Government grants 1.8 2.1 
Share based payments 0.4 0.4 
Pensions 15.8 15.6 
Financial instruments valuation 0.3 – 
Other 5.1 0.6 
  23.4 18.7 
Net deferred tax liability (69.4) (86.3)
Both the UK and France had net deferred tax liabilities at the end of both years. Where deferred tax assets and liabilities are in the same tax 
jurisdiction, they are netted off. Deferred tax assets and liabilities in separate jurisdictions are not netted.
The Company has a deferred tax asset of £0.7 million at 31 March 2012 (2011: £0.2 million liability). This relates to temporary differences in 
respect of ﬁnancial instruments valuations.
The movement on the net deferred tax balance is shown below:
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Opening net deferred tax liability (86.3) (65.8)
Credit/(charge) to income statement 3.3 (5.1)
Credit/(charge) to other comprehensive income 11.9 (15.9)
Acquisition of business (1.6) – 
Exchange impact 3.3 0.5 
Closing net deferred tax liability (69.4) (86.3) 76 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
6 Tax expense continued
The movement on the deferred tax liability is shown below:
Deferred tax asset/(liability)
 
Goodwill and
intangible
assets
£m
Pensions
£m
Accelerated
tax
depreciation
£m
Other
timing
differences
£m
Total
£m
Balances at 31 March 2011 (63.4) 15.6 (41.3) 2.8 (86.3)
Credit/(charge) to income statement: continuing operations 6.3 (11.0) 3.9 4.1 3.3 
Credit to other comprehensive income – 11.2 – 0.7 11.9 
Acquisition of businesses (1.5) – (0.1) – (1.6)
Exchange impact 3.2 – 0.1 – 3.3 
Balances at 31 March 2012 (55.4) 15.8 (37.4) 7.6 (69.4)
Balances at 31 March 2010 (65.8) 39.9 (44.2) 4.3 (65.8)
Credit/(charge) to income statement: continuing operations 1.9 (8.4) 2.9 (1.5) (5.1)
Charge to other comprehensive income – (15.9) – – (15.9)
Exchange impact 0.5 – – – 0.5 
Balances at 31 March 2011 (63.4) 15.6 (41.3) 2.8 (86.3)
The Group has capital losses which arose in the UK of £63.8 million (2011: £70.4 million) that are available indeﬁnitely for offset against future 
taxable gains. Deferred tax has not been recognized in respect of these losses as there is no foreseeable prospect of their being utilised. The 
Group has realised capital gains amounting to £39.7 million (2011: £37 .0 million) for which rollover relief claims have or are intended to be made. 
7 Dividends paid and proposed
Declared and paid during the year
2012
£m
2011
£m
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2011: 14.2 pence (2010: 13.6 pence) 18.9 18.1 
Interim dividend for 2012: 5.7 pence (2011: 5.5 pence) 7.6 7.3 
  26.5 25.4 
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognized as a liability at 31 March)
  
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2012: 14.7 pence (2011: 14.2 pence) 19.6 18.9 
8 Earnings per share
Basic earnings/(losses) per share (“EPS”) on proﬁt/(loss) for the year is calculated by dividing proﬁt attributable to equity shareholders of the 
parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Basic EPS is calculated on the basis of Group proﬁt for the year less proﬁt attributable to non-controlling interests divided by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the proﬁt attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of 
all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. Note that in the circumstances where there is a basic loss per share, share 
options are anti-dilutive and therefore are not included in the calculation of diluted losses per share.
The shares held by the Dairy Crest Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (“ESOP”) are excluded from the weighted average number of 
shares in issue used in the calculation of earnings and diluted earnings per share.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 77
The numbers
8 Earnings per share continued
To show earnings per share on a consistent basis, which in the Directors’ opinion reﬂects the ongoing performance of the business more 
appropriately, adjusted earnings per share has been calculated. The computation for basic and diluted earnings per share (including adjusted 
earnings per share) is as follows:
Year ended 31 March 2012 Year ended 31 March 2011
Earnings
£m
Weighted
average no
of shares
million
Per share
amount
pence
Earnings
£m
Weighted
average no
of shares
million
Per share
amount
pence
Basic EPS on (loss)/proﬁt for the year
Net (loss)/proﬁt attributable to equity shareholders (17.1) 133.2 (12.8) 57.5 133.2 43.2 
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – – –  – 2.5 (0.9)
Diluted EPS on (loss)/proﬁt for the year (17.1)  133.2   (12.8) 57.5   135.7   42.3 
Adjusted basic EPS 
Basic EPS from continuing operations (17.1) 133.2 (12.8) 57.5 133.2 43.2 
Exceptional items excluding non-controlling interests (net of 
tax)
80.8 – 60.6 (0.6) – (0.5)
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (net of tax) 6.2 – 4.7 5.8 – 4.4 
Pension interest income (net of tax) (4.1) – (3.1) – – – 
Adjusted basic EPS 65.8   133.2   49.4 62.7   133.2   47.1 
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 2.5 (0.9) – 2.5 (0.9)
Adjusted diluted EPS 65.8   135.7   48.5 62.7   135.7   46.2 
There have been no transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of signing of 
these ﬁnancial statements.
9 Remuneration of employees and key management personnel
Number of employees – Group
Year ended
31 March 
2012
number
Year ended
31 March 
2011
number
Average number of employees:
Production 2,340 2,280 
Sales, distribution and administration 3,843 4,259 
Total employees 6,183 6,539 
Remuneration of employees, including key management personnel
Year ended
31 March 
2012
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2011
£m
Wages and salaries 199.4 202.0 
Social security costs 21.6 21.5 
Equity settled share based payments expense (Note 26) 2.4 1.3 
Pension costs (Note 20) 7.9 7.8 
  231.3 232.6  78 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
9 Remuneration of employees and key management personnel continued
The above costs include amounts paid to the Company’s Executive and Non-executive Directors. Further analysis is as follows:
Directors
Year ended
31 March 
2012
£000
Year ended
31 March 
2011
£000
Salaries and beneﬁts 1,515 1,466 
Bonuses 598 628 
Fees to non-executive directors 343 314 
Emoluments 2,456 2,408 
Payments to deﬁned contribution pension scheme 18 – 
Highest paid director
Salary and beneﬁts 648 621 
Bonus 259 267 
Emoluments 907 888 
Deﬁned beneﬁt accrued pension* – 35 
Vesting of deferred bonus shares 14 59
Gain on exercise of LTISP options – – 
Further information relating to directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2012 is provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 38 to 45.
* The deﬁned beneﬁt scheme closed to future accrual from 1 April 2010, although beneﬁts continued to accrue up until November 2011 consistent with the notice 
period of 12 months from the date that the cessation of service accrual was made. The reduction in accrued pension reﬂects a one-off early retirement lump sum paid. 
Further details are included in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 43.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 79
The numbers
10 Property, plant and equipment
Consolidated 2012
Land and
buildings
£m
Vehicles,
plant and
equipment
£m
Assets in
the course of 
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2011 187.9 285.3 22.2 495.4 
Additions 4.6 16.0 27.5 48.1 
Acquisition of businesses 0.1 0.4 – 0.5 
Disposals (2.5) (10.5) (5.0) (18.0)
Transfers and reclassiﬁcations 3.1 12.6 (15.7) – 
Exchange (0.6) (0.8) – (1.4)
At 31 March 2012 192.6 303.0 29.0 524.6 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2011 57.8 153.3 – 211.1 
Charge for the year 6.9 24.0 – 30.9 
Asset impairments 2.1 8.7 – 10.8 
Disposals (1.7) (8.5) – (10.2)
Exchange (0.3) (0.6) – (0.9)
At 31 March 2012 64.8 176.9 – 241.7 
Net book amount at 31 March 2012 127.8 126.1 29.0 282.9 
Consolidated 2011
    
Cost
At 1 April 2010 185.5 266.6 11.9 464.0 
Additions 3.0 21.0 20.6 44.6 
Disposals (1.0) (11.3) – (12.3)
Transfers and reclassiﬁcations 0.6 9.7 (10.3) – 
Exchange (0.2) (0.7) – (0.9)
At 31 March 2011 187.9 285.3 22.2 495.4 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2010 51.7 140.7 – 192.4 
Charge for the year 6.8 24.1 – 30.9 
Disposals (0.6) (11.0) – (11.6)
Exchange (0.1) (0.5) – (0.6)
At 31 March 2011 57.8 153.3 – 211.1 
Net book amount at 31 March 2011 130.1 132.0 22.2 284.3 
Following the decision to close, subject to consultation, two Dairies processing sites at Fenstanton, Cambridgeshire and Aintree, Liverpool in 
2012/13, the assets within these cash generating units and other assets in the Dairies supply chain were reviewed for evidence of impairment. 
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment at these sites and certain plant and equipment at our site in Foston, Derbyshire could no 
longer be supported by value in use and an impairment has been recorded to reduce the carrying value to management’s best estimate of fair 
value less costs to sell. Land and buildings at Aintree and Fenstanton have been impaired by £2.1 million resulting in a carrying value of £4.5 
million reﬂecting the best estimate of resale value of these sites, both of which are owned. Plant and equipment at Aintree, Fenstanton and 
Foston have been impaired by £7.7 million resulting in a carrying value of £0.2 million reﬂecting the best estimate of resale value less costs of 
sale or disposal. All of these impairments have been recorded as exceptional items in the Dairies segment (see Note 4). At 31 March 2012, 
there remains property, plant and equipment with a carrying value of £142.1 million in the Dairies segment after these impairments.
Following the decision in 2011 to transfer all Clover manufacture from Crudgington, Shropshire to Kirkby, Liverpool certain assets at Kirkby 
became obsolete as future plans for the utilisation of these assets had changed. Obsolete assets with a carrying value of £1.0 million were 
identiﬁed and these assets were impaired to nil value reﬂecting management’s best view as to their fair value less costs of removal and sale. 
This impairment has been recorded as an exceptional item in the Spreads segment (see Note 4).
Capitalised leases included in vehicles, plant and equipment comprise:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cost 32.2 32.3 
Accumulated depreciation (21.5) (20.1)
Net book amount 10.7 12.2  80 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
11 Goodwill
  £m
Cost
At 31 March 2010 339.1 
Additions (Note 29) 0.1 
Exchange (1.4)
At 31 March 2011 337.8 
Additions (Note 29) 6.7 
Exchange (11.5)
At 31 March 2012 333.0 
Accumulated impairment
At 31 March 2010 and 2011 (2.3)
Impairments in year ended 31 March 2012 (Dairies) (70.7)
At 31 March 2012 (73.0)
Net book amount at 31 March 2012 260.0 
Net book amount at 31 March 2011 335.5 
Impairment testing of goodwill
Acquired goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to ﬁve groups of cash generating units (‘CGUs’): Dairies, UK Spreads, 
St Hubert, MH Foods and Cheese. Prior to 2011/12, goodwill allocated to Dairies was separately allocated to Liquid Products and Customer 
Direct. Although the same Dairies sites process fresh milk for both businesses, the CODM used to review the results of each division 
separately based on an allocation of assets and costs. Because the CODM reviewed discrete results of the two divisions, they were separate 
operating segments under IFRS 8 and, as such, could not be tested for goodwill impairment at a higher level than this. During the year, Liquid 
Products and Customer Direct have been integrated into one segment reporting on a combined basis consistent with the underlying asset 
and cost base. As a result, goodwill impairment testing is now performed on the Dairies segment, it being the smallest identiﬁable group of 
assets that generates cash inﬂows that are largely independent of cash inﬂows from other groups of assets.
All CGUs are tested for impairment annually by comparing the carrying amount of that CGU with its recoverable amount. Recoverable amount 
is determined based on a value-in-use calculation using cash ﬂow projections based on ﬁnancial budgets and strategic plans approved by 
senior management covering a three-year period and appropriate growth rates beyond that. The discount rate applied to the projections is 
8.4% for UK Spreads, MH Foods and Cheese (2011: 8.3%), 9.7% for St Hubert (2011: 9.1%) and 9.4%  for Dairies (2011: 8.3% for Liquid 
Products and 8.7% for Customer Direct).
Discount rates are pre-tax and calculated by reference to average industry gearing levels, the cost of debt and the cost of equity based on the 
capital asset pricing model and CGU-speciﬁc risk factors. Discount rates have remained broadly in line with March 2011. The Dairies discount 
rate carries a higher risk due to the more commoditised nature of the business model.
The growth rate used to extrapolate cash ﬂows beyond the three-year period for UK Spreads, St Hubert, MH Foods and Cheese is 2.0% per 
annum (being the estimated UK and Euro zone long-term growth rate adjusted for industry growth rates and extrapolation risks) (2011: 2.0% 
per annum beyond year three). The growth rate used to extrapolate cash ﬂows beyond a ﬁve-year period for the Dairies CGU is 0.0% with 
cash ﬂows in the ﬁrst ﬁve years being based on extended strategic plans for that business (2011: Liquid Products and Customer Direct growth 
rates of 2.0% and 0.0% respectively beyond year three). 
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to groups of CGUs at 31 March 2012 is:
Dairies Nil (2011: Liquid Products £30.9 million, Customer Direct £39.8 million)
MH Foods £6.7 million (2011: nil)
UK Spreads £65.5 million (2011: £65.5 million)
St Hubert £185.7 million (2011: £197.2 million)
Cheese £2.1 million (2011: £2.1 million)
The key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations: 
Gross margin – budgeted gross margins are based initially on actual margins achieved in the preceding year further adjusted for projected 
input and output price changes, volume changes, new initiatives and anticipated efﬁciency improvements. The budgeted margins form the 
basis for strategic plans, which incorporate longer-term market trends.
Discount rates – reﬂect management’s estimate of the risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for each CGU. 
Raw materials prices – budgets are prepared using the most up to date price and forecast price data available. This is based on forward 
prices in the market place adjusted for any contracted prices at the time of forecast. The key resources are milk, vegetable oils, fuel oil, diesel, 
gas and electricity and packaging costs.
Growth rate estimates – for periods beyond the length of the strategic plans, growth estimates are based upon published industry research 
adjusted downwards to reﬂect the risk of extrapolating growth beyond a three year time frame. For the residential business, long-term rates of 
market decline as seen over recent years have been extrapolated forward offset by growth assumptions for milk&more.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 81
The numbers
11 Goodwill continued
The Directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each CGU where appropriate and to be 
realistically achievable in the light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
2011/12
Dairies CGU – impairment of goodwill
Dairies margins have been impacted in 2011/12 by a number of factors including higher input costs, falling realisations for cream (a by-product 
of milk production), the ongoing decline of residential sales and high levels of competition in the sector. Furthermore, weak UK consumer 
demand and a very competitive landscape have adversely impacted the Group’s expectations regarding the speed of recovery in future 
Dairies margins. In 2011 we highlighted that changes in key assumptions could cause the carrying value of the then Liquid Products and 
Customer Direct CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount. As described in Note 4, management has taken action to close certain sites in 
order to underpin factory utilisation and improve operating efﬁciencies. This combined with other activities will, in the opinion of management, 
restore margins to an acceptable level in the medium term. However, the outlook is signiﬁcantly weaker than it was in 2011 and margin 
recovery will take longer than previously anticipated. Given the inherent uncertainties of cash ﬂow forecasts in what is a predominantly 
commodity business in a competitive sector especially given the sensitivity of low absolute margins, management has concluded that it is 
appropriate to fully impair the carrying amount of Dairies goodwill as there is no assurance that it can be supported on a value in use basis, 
excluding the impact of restructuring activities.
Therefore, management has concluded that it is appropriate at this stage to fully impair the carrying value of Dairies goodwill resulting in an 
exceptional charge of £70.7 million recorded in the year ended 31 March 2012. After fully impairing goodwill and impairing certain other 
property, plant, equipment and intangible assets, the remaining carrying value of these items at 31 March 2012 is £161.6 million. As goodwill 
has been fully impaired, there is no headroom and any future adverse change in key assumptions would lead to further impairment against 
these assets. There are changes in key assumptions in the calculation of Dairies CGU value in use that could result in further impairments. The 
key assumptions are discount rates and annual cash ﬂows. A 1% increase in the discount rate applied, with all other assumptions unchanged, 
would result in a further impairment of approximately £20 million. A reduction in cash ﬂows of £2 million per annum in perpetuity, representing 
approximately 2% margin, with all other assumptions unchanged, would result in a further impairment of £22 million.
Other CGUs – sensitivity to changes in assumptions    
With regard to the assessment of value in use of the UK Spreads, St Hubert, MH Foods and Cheese CGUs, management believes that no 
reasonably possible change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
2010/11 
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions 
With regard to the assessment of value in use of the UK Spreads, St Hubert and Cheese CGUs, management believes that no reasonably 
possible change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.   
For the Customer Direct CGU, there are possible changes in key assumptions which could cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its 
recoverable amount although management believes that the assumptions used in performing the impairment test for this business are 
cautious. The key assumption is future growth rates. Management has assumed no growth after year three in the value in use calculation. 
Should any decline in the Customer Direct CGU continue and be greater than 10% per annum beyond year three then the value in use for this 
CGU could be reduced to a value approximately equal to its carrying amount.
For the Liquid Products CGU, there are possible changes in key assumptions which could cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its 
recoverable amount although management believes that the assumptions used in performing the impairment test for this business are 
cautious. The key assumptions are future margins and discount rate. Management has assumed growth in margins over the next three years 
following a decline in the year ended 31 March 2011. Should margins reduce by 20% each year versus assumptions used for impairment 
testing, then the value in use for this CGU could be reduced to below its carrying amount. Management has assumed a discount rate of 8.3% 
in calculating value in use. Should the discount rate increase to 10% then the carrying value would exceed the CGU’s recoverable amount.  82 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
12 Intangible assets
 
Assets in
the course of 
construction
£m
Internally
generated
£m
Acquired
intangibles
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 31 March 2010 – 22.5 204.4 226.9 
Additions 7.4 – – 7.4 
Write offs – – (5.8) (5.8)
Transfers and reclassiﬁcations (2.0) 2.0 – – 
Exchange – – (1.6) (1.6)
At 31 March 2011 5.4 24.5 197.0 226.9 
Additions 6.4 0.2 – 6.6 
Acquisitions – – 6.0 6.0 
Transfers and reclassiﬁcations (2.0) 2.0 – – 
Exchange – – (11.8) (11.8)
At 31 March 2012 9.8 26.7 191.2 227.7 
Accumulated amortisation
At 31 March 2010 – 6.2 34.7 40.9 
Write offs – – (5.8) (5.8)
Amortisation for the year – 3.6 8.7 12.3 
Exchange – – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 March 2011 – 9.8 37.3 47.1 
Impairments – 0.4 – 0.4 
Amortisation for the year – 3.2 9.1 12.3 
Exchange – – (2.6) (2.6)
At 31 March 2012 – 13.4 43.8 57.2 
Net book amount at 31 March 2012 9.8 13.3 147.4 170.5 
Net book amount at 31 March 2011 5.4 14.7 159.7 179.8 
Internally generated intangible assets comprise software development and implementation costs across manufacturing sites, the milk&more 
business and Head Ofﬁce. Acquired intangibles comprise predominantly brands acquired with the acquisition of businesses. The largest 
component within acquired intangibles are the brands acquired with St Hubert in January 2007. A further £6.0 million was recognized on the 
acquisition of Morehands Limited (MH Foods) in June 2011, representing an estimate of the “Frylight” brand. A useful life of 15 years has been 
assumed for this brand (see Note 29).
The remaining useful lives at 31 March 2012 for signiﬁcant intangible assets are as follows:
Acquired St Hubert brand 20 years
Acquired Le Fleurier brand 10 years
Acquired Vallé brand 10 years
Acquired Frylight brand 14 years
2012
– Additions in the year relate to the acquisition of Morehands Limited (see above and Note 29) and computer software development for the UK 
Group.
– Following the decision to close, subject to consultation, two Dairies sites, certain capitalised software development costs have been 
impaired by £0.4 million (see also Note 4 and Note 10).
2011
– Additions in the year relate primarily to computer software development for the UK Group.
– Write offs comprise two fully amortised acquired intangible assets (acquired contracts) previously recognized.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 83
The numbers
13 Investments
Company
Share grants
awarded in
subsidiaries
£m
Shares in
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2010 8.7 468.1 476.8 
Share based payment charge in subsidiary companies 1.0 – 1.0 
At 31 March 2011 9.7 468.1 477.8 
Share based payment charge in subsidiary companies 1.7 – 1.7 
At 31 March 2012 11.4 468.1 479.5 
Shares in subsidiary undertakings comprise an investment in Dairy Crest Limited of £239.2 million and an investment of £228.9 million in Dairy 
Crest UK Limited.
Share grants awarded in subsidiaries represents the cumulative cost of the Company’s grant of equity instruments, under share based 
payment awards, to employees of subsidiary undertakings.
At 31 March 2012 the principal subsidiary undertakings and other associates were:
Business
Percentage of
ordinary share
capital held
Subsidiary undertakings and associates:  
Dairy Crest Limited Manufacture of dairy products 100%
Philpot Dairy Products Limited* Trading in dairy products 100%
Fayreﬁeld Foodtec Limited* Manufacture and trading in dairy products and ingredients 100%
Morehands Limited* Manufacture of cooking oils 100%
Wexford Creamery Limited Manufacture of dairy products 30%
St Hubert SAS Manufacture of spreads in France 100%
* Investments are held by Dairy Crest Limited
The principal place of operation and country of incorporation of all subsidiary undertakings and associates is England  and Wales except for 
Wexford Creamery Limited which is in Ireland and St Hubert SAS, which is in France. 
Following the sale of 50% of the shares in Wexford Creamery Limited in June 2010, the Group shareholding in that Company  amounts to 30% 
of the ordinary shares. See Notes 14 and 29.
14 Investment in associates and joint ventures using equity method
The investment in associates using the equity method at 31 March 2012 is represented by a 20% interest in Wexford Creamery Limited 
(“WCL ”) which is involved in the manufacture of cheese in the Republic of Ireland. Following the sale of 50% of the ordinary shares of WCL in 
June 2010, the Group equity accounts for a 20% shareholding in that company. The Group holds a further 10% of the issued share capital of 
WCL however, due to the existence of ﬁxed-price put and call options in relation to this additional holding, it is considered deferred 
consideration and is not equity accounted.
The share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of associates (comprising Wexford Creamery Limited) at 31 March and for the years 
then ended, which are equity accounted for in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, are as follows:
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current assets 2.3 3.6 
Current liabilities (1.5) (2.2)
Non-current liabilities (0.3) (0.4)
  (1.8) (2.6)
Share of net assets 0.5 1.0 
 
Revenue 14.4 8.5 
Operating costs (14.6) (8.6)
Finance costs (0.1) (0.1)
Loss before tax (0.3) (0.2)
Tax expense – – 
Share of net loss (0.3) (0.2) 84 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
15 Inventories
 
Consolidated
  
2012
£m
2011
£m
Raw materials and consumables 35.8 30.4 
Finished goods 152.0 134.1 
  187.8 164.5 
Cheese inventories at 31 March 2012 totalled £129.8 million (2011: £113.9 million).
During the year ended 31 March 2012, £1.0 million of engineering and packaging inventories were written off comprising £0.8 million of 
inventories in Dairies and £0.2 million of inventories in Spreads. These write offs were necessitated by the planned closure of two Dairies sites 
(subject to consultation) and the consolidation of Clover manufacture into one site. See also Note 4.
16 Trade and other receivables
  Consolidated Parent Company
  
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Trade receivables 115.2 128.7 – – 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 218.8 158.2 
Other receivables 10.7 13.0 1.0 0.4 
Prepayments and accrued income 5.6 5.4 – – 
  131.5 147.1 219.8 158.6 
All amounts above, with the exception of prepayments and accrued income, are ﬁnancial assets.
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
    Consolidated
2012
£m
2011
£m
Sterling 98.5 104.7 
Euro 15.0 15.3 
Other 1.7 8.7 
  115.2 128.7 
There are no material concentrations of credit risk.
Trade receivables are non interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 days’ terms and are shown net of a provision for impairment. As at 31 
March 2012, trade receivables at nominal value of £8.3 million (2011: £5.3 million) were impaired and provided for. Movements in the provision 
for impairment of receivables were as follows:
    Consolidated
2012
£m
2011
£m
At 1 April 5.3 5.8 
Charge for the year – operating 1.1 1.2 
Charge for the year – operating (exceptional – see Note 4) 4.3 – 
Amounts written off (2.4) (1.7)
At 31 March 8.3 5.3 
Bad debt provisions are principally in the Dairies’ residential and mid sized commercial channels on debt over 90 days. These businesses sell 
product on the doorstep and to middle ground and foodservice customers. The Group has no history of bad debt with regard to sales to large 
multiple retailers. There were no impairment provisions on any other class of receivables at 31 March 2012 or 2011.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 85
The numbers
16 Trade and other receivables continued
At 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
  Past due, not impaired
Total
£m
Neither 
past
 due nor
 impaired
£m
30 – 60 days
£m
60 – 90 days
£m
> 90 days
£m
31 March 2012 115.2 103.3 9.4 2.5 – 
31 March 2011 128.7 120.2 7.0 1.5 – 
The credit quality of trade receivables is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where available, otherwise historical information 
relating to counterparty default rates is used.
17 Financial assets
(i) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
Consolidated  Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current
Forward currency contracts (cash ﬂow hedges) 31 0.3 1.0 
Non-current
Option to sell 20% holding in Wexford Creamery Limited 29, 31 1.6 1.6 
Cross currency swaps (cash ﬂow hedges) 31 15.0 16.4 
    16.6 18.0 
 
Company 
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Non-current
Cross currency swaps (cash ﬂow hedges) 31 15.0 16.4 
All derivative ﬁnancial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all, with the exception of the option to sell a 20% holding in 
Wexford Creamery Limited (“WCL ”), comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are 
based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
The WCL options comprise call and put options over 20% of the company for a price of €3.6 million adjusted for 20% of WCLs post-tax proﬁts 
from June 2010 until the date of exercise. This comprises a Level 3 valuation, namely that it is not based on inputs observable directly or 
indirectly. Management has valued this option by comparing the current equity accounted carrying value of the 20% holding with the 
estimated present value of consideration received from the exercise of the option. The difference between these amounts comprises the 
option value of £1.6 million at 31 March 2012. The principal input assumptions in valuing these options are (i) estimated future proﬁts of WCL 
which have been based upon best available budgets and forecasts (ii) an appropriate post-tax discount rate of 6% and (iii) an option exercise 
date of 2018. Over the period until exercise of these options, any movement in the fair value of these instruments is charged/credited to the 
income statement. See also Note 29.
There has been no material movement in the fair value of the WCL options between recognition in June 2010 and 31 March 2012.
18 Cash and short-term deposits
  Consolidated Parent Company
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash and short-term deposits 79.4 49.9 – – 
Cash at bank earns interest at ﬂoating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. 86 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
19 Financial Liabilities
Group 
 
Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 31 2.7 2.5 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) – 65.5 
Debt issuance costs    (0.7) – 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 2.0 68.0 
Forward currency contracts (at fair value: cash ﬂow hedge) 31 – 0.5 
Financial liabilities – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments     – 0.5 
Current ﬁnancial liabilities    2.0 68.5 
Non-current
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 31 4.5 7.1 
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 31 345.5 298.2 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) 31 71.7 – 
Debt issuance costs    (2.0) – 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 419.7 305.3 
Cross currency swaps (cash ﬂow hedges) 8.7 1.6 
Interest rate swaps (at fair value: cash ﬂow hedge) – 1.5 
Financial liabilities – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments     8.7 3.1 
Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities     428.4 308.4 
All derivative ﬁnancial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial 
Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows. 
  Maturity
2012
£m
Effective
Interest 
rate at 
March 2012
2011
£m
Effective
Interest 
rate at 
March 2011
Current
Multi-currency revolving credit facilities:
Euro – swapped to ﬁxed November 2011 – EURIBOR+ 52.5bps 65.5 EURIBOR+ 52.5bps
Finance leases 2.7 5.18% 2.5 5.18%
Debt issuance costs (0.7) – 
   2.0 68.0 
Non-current
Multi-currency revolving credit facilities:
Euro ﬂoating October 2016 61.7 EURIBOR+ 135bps – 
Sterling ﬂoating October 2016 10.0 LIBOR+ 135bps – 
Loan notes:
US$ swapped into £ April 2013 68.1 5.32% 67.4 5.32%
US$ swapped into £ April 2016 78.8 5.31% 78.0 5.31%
Sterling April 2016 10.0 5.27% 10.0 5.27%
Euro April 2014 29.8 4.74% 31.6 4.74%
Euro April 2017 32.7 4.85% 34.8 4.85%
Euro swapped into £ April 2014 62.5 5.04% 66.4 5.04%
Sterling April 2017 10.0 5.84% 10.0 5.84%
US$ swapped into £ November 2018 15.8 3.87% – 
US$ swapped into £ November 2021 37.8 4.52% – 
Finance Leases 4.5 5.18% 7.1 5.18%
Debt issuance costs (2.0) – 
   419.7 305.3 
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 87
The numbers
19 Financial Liabilities continued 
On 12 October 2011, the Group entered into a new ﬁve year revolving credit facility of £170 million plus €150 million with a syndicate of ﬁve 
banks. The existing £100 million and £85 million plus €175 million revolving credit facilities (maturing in November 2011 and July 2013 
respectively) were cancelled and repaid on 19 October 2011 using funds drawn under the new facility. Upfront debt issuance costs amounted 
to £3.0 million and these are charged to the consolidated income statement over four years being the expected life of the new facility before it 
is replaced. Unamortised debt issuance costs at 31 March 2012 amounted to £2.7 million (2011: nil) of which £0.7 million will amortise within 
12 months.
The Group raised $85 million (£54.5 million) by way of a debt private placement with US investors on 30 November 2011. These notes were a 
mix of seven-year ($25 million) and ten-year ($60 million) maturities. All principal and interest cash ﬂows have been swapped into Sterling at an 
exchange rate of 1.56 and interest rates of 3.87% and 4.52% on the seven and ten year notes respectively. 
The Group is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities which, if contravened, would result in its loans becoming 
immediately repayable. These covenants specify a maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio of 3.5 times, and minimum interest cover ratio of 3.0 
times. No covenants were contravened in the year ended 31 March 2012 (2011: None). Key covenants under the new revolving credit facility 
and the new debt private placement were unchanged from existing covenants.
Details of the Group’s interest rate management strategy and interest rate swaps are included in notes 30 and 31.
Company 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current
Bank loans (at amortised cost) – 65.5 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings – 65.5 
Non-current
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 345.5 298.2 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) 61.7 – 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 407.2 298.2 
Cross currency swaps (cash ﬂow hedges) 8.7 1.6 
Interest rate swaps (at fair value: cash ﬂow hedge) – 1.5 
Financial liabilities – Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 8.7 3.1 
Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 415.9 301.3 
All derivative ﬁnancial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial 
Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows:
   Maturity
2012
£m
Effective
interest 
rate at 
March 2012
2011
£m
Effective
interest 
rate at 
March 2011
Current
Multi-currency revolving credit facilities:
Euro – swapped to ﬁxed   November 2011 –   65.5 EURIBOR+ 52.5bps
Non-current                      –
Multi-currency revolving credit facilities:
Euro ﬂoating October 2016 61.7 EURIBOR+ 135bps –
Loan notes: 
US$ swapped into £ April 2013 68.1 5.32% 67.4 5.32%
US$ swapped into £ April 2016 78.8 5.31% 78.0 5.31%
Sterling April 2016 10.0 5.27% 10.0 5.27%
Euro April 2014 29.8 4.74% 31.6 4.74%
Euro April 2017 32.7 4.85% 34.8 4.85%
Euro swapped into £ April 2014 62.5 5.04% 66.4 5.04%
Sterling April 2017 10.0 5.84% 10.0 5.84%
US$ swapped into £ November 2018 15.8 3.87% – 
US$ swapped into £ November 2021 37.8 4.52% –  
407.2 298.2  88 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
20 Retirement beneﬁt obligations
The Group has one deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme in the UK which was closed to future service accrual from 1 April 2010. This pension 
scheme is a ﬁnal salary scheme that had previously been closed to new employees joining after 30 June 2006. Employees joining after this 
date and those members of the deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme on its closure to future service accrual were invited to join the Dairy Crest 
Group deﬁned contribution plan. 
The most recent full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund was carried out as at 31 March 2010 by the fund’s independent 
actuary using the projected unit credit method. Full actuarial valuations are carried out triennially. This valuation resulted in a deﬁcit of £137 million 
compared to the IAS19 deﬁcit of £142.4 million reported at that date. Future cash funding has been agreed to continue at £20 million per annum.
The following tables summarise the components of net beneﬁt expense recognized in the consolidated income statement and the funded 
status and amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet for the deﬁned beneﬁt plans. 
Dairy Crest Group
Pension Fund
Net beneﬁt (income)/expense recognized in the consolidated income statement
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current service cost – – 
Gain on settlement (see below) (0.3) – 
Interest cost on beneﬁt obligation 43.5 45.4 
Expected return on scheme assets (49.0) (45.4)
Net beneﬁt income (5.8) – 
 
Net actuarial (loss)/gain recognized in other comprehensive income    
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 21.9 22.5 
Experience (losses)/gains arising on scheme liabilities (6.5) 16.4 
(Loss)/gain arising from changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities (61.6) 21.7 
Net actuarial (loss)/gain (46.2) 60.6 
Related tax 11.2 (15.9)
Net actuarial (loss)/gain recognized in other comprehensive income (35.0) 44.7 
Actual returns on plan assets were £70.9 million (2011: £67.9 million).
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation    
Fair value of scheme assets: – Equities 72.7 65.7 
– Bonds and cash 293.2 239.0 
– Equity return swaps valuation 61.8 90.5 
– Property and other 58.8 55.3 
– Insured retirement obligations 279.6 268.1 
  766.1 718.6 
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation:  – Uninsured retirement obligations (566.3) (510.6)
– Insured retirement obligations (279.6) (268.1)
Total deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (845.9) (778.7)
Net liability recognized in the balance sheet (79.8) (60.1)
Related deferred tax asset 15.8 15.6 
Net pension liability (64.0) (44.5)
From October 2009, the Company has been making additional funding contributions to the scheme of £20 million per annum. The level of 
cash contributions will continue at this level until March 2018 based on the latest schedule of contributions which was signed in June 2011. 
This amount will include £2.8 million per annum of rental payments for land and buildings that are subject to a sale and leaseback agreement 
between the Group and the Scheme as part of the ﬁnal schedule of contributions. The land and buildings included in these arrangements are 
subject to long term leases and the Group will continue to beneﬁt from substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership. On this basis, 
under IFRS, these land and buildings continue to be recognized in property, plant and equipment and rental payments of £2.8 million per 
annum are treated as cash contributions, reﬂecting the substance of the arrangements.
In December 2008, certain obligations relating to retired members were hedged by the purchase of an insurance contract. A further insurance 
contract for retired members was purchased in June 2009 resulting in coverage for all members who retired up to August 2008. These 
contracts are included within scheme assets and their value will always be equal to the obligation as calculated under IAS 19 for those 
members covered. This will reduce the volatility of the reported deﬁned beneﬁt obligations in future periods.
The purchase of the second insurance contract in June 2009 was funded by the sale of equities. Subsequently, in order to re-establish an 
appropriate equity weighting of scheme assets, the Fund purchased equity total return swaps (synthetic equity). These instruments comprise 
an asset leg and a liability leg. The asset leg generates a return based on UK and overseas equity indices and the liability leg incurs a cost 
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 89
The numbers
20 Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
based on LIBOR plus margin. Credit risk is minimised since collateral is provided by the counterparties to the beneﬁt of the Fund when the 
instruments are in the money. At 31 March 2012, the valuation above comprises a positive equity exposure of £226.4 million and a negative 
LIBOR exposure of £164.6 million (2011: equity exposure of £290.7 million and LIBOR exposure of £200.2 million).
An Enhanced Transfer Value (“ETV”) exercise took place during the year ended 31 March 2012 which resulted in approximately 220 members 
transferring a total of £14.3 million in ETVs out of the Fund. The net gain as a result of this settlement of £0.3 million represents the difference 
between the £14.3 million transferred out and the corresponding liabilities, measured on an IAS 19 basis, at the date that the settlement 
became binding.
Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates with the exception of the insured retirement obligations 
which equal the IAS 19 valuation of obligations which they cover. The expected rate of return on equities of 8.0% (March 2011: 8.0%) reﬂects 
historic UK equity returns with an assumption for 2012 that the equity market rally in 2011/12 will continue in the medium term. The equity 
return assumption represents a reasonable risk premium over gilts. It is within the range of assumptions typically used by companies of a 
similar size. This return assumption is also applied to the equity leg on equity total return swaps. The liability leg cost assumption is based 
upon medium term LIBOR yields. The expected rate of return on bonds of 4.3% (March 2011: 5.2%) is based upon the gross redemption 
yields available on a similar proﬁle of gilts and corporate bonds.
The average duration of scheme liabilities is approximately 19 years (201 1: 19 years). Discount rate assumptions for each reporting period are based 
upon quoted AA-rated corporate bond indices, excluding collateralised bonds, with maturities matching the scheme’s expected beneﬁt payments. 
In 2010 the Government announced that in future salary increases to deferred pensions (in excess of guaranteed minimum pensions (“GMPs”) 
and to GMPs accrued after 6 April 1988 will be linked to the Consumer Prices Index (“CPI”) instead of the Retail Prices Index (“RPI”). In the 
second half of the year ended 31 March 2011, having reviewed the Scheme rules and previous communications with members, the Trustee 
and Company concluded that no constructive obligations had been created counter to the Scheme rules and that therefore those rules would 
apply. Under the Scheme rules RPI continues to be applied for pensions in payment but statutory increases are applied for the majority of 
deferred members (being CPI). The result of this change, which was communicated to members, was to reduce future pension inﬂation 
assumptions for deferred members when determining Scheme liabilities. The impact was to reduce Scheme liabilities by approximately £43 
million in 2010/11. 
The RPI inﬂation assumptions are determined by adopting a yield curve approach, based on the break-even rate of inﬂation implied by ﬁxed 
interest gilt yields and index-linked yields. Applying this approach to the Scheme’s projected beneﬁt payments gives an average break-even 
inﬂation assumption of 3.4%. The CPI inﬂation assumption is determined by reference to adjusted RPI rather than by reference to CPI-linked 
investments where the market is small and illiquid. The principal differences between RPI and CPI are (i) the formula effect due to RPI using 
arithmetic means and CPI geometric means, and (ii) the bundles of goods considered – CPI excludes mortgage payments and other housing 
costs. The assumption used at 31 March 2012 is that CPI inﬂation will track 1.0% points below RPI inﬂation in the long term (0.8% formula 
effect and 0.2% component effect) and is therefore set at 2.4%. Pension increase assumptions are based on RPI with an adjustment to reﬂect 
caps within the Scheme rules.
Mortality assumptions were updated in the year ended 31 March 2011 based on analysis of the membership data performed as part of the 
March 2010 full actuarial valuation. The result was an increase in life expectancy assumptions of approximately 1.7 years. The same mortality 
input assumptions have been used for March 2012 with no material resultant change in life expectancies.
The scheme deﬁcit is highly dependent upon input assumptions which are set at the reporting period end dates. A 0.1% decrease in the 
discount rate assumption would increase the scheme obligation by approximately £17 million (2011: £14 million). A 0.1% increase in the inﬂation 
assumption would increase the scheme obligation by approximately £16 million (2011: £11 million). An increase in life expectancy across all 
members of one year would increase the scheme obligation by approximately £43 million (2011: £40 million).
Dairy Crest 
Group Pension Fund
Movement in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations is as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Opening deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (778.7) (822.5)
Settlement gains 0.3 – 
Interest cost (43.5) (45.4)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (68.1) 38.1 
Beneﬁts paid 44.1 51.1 
Closing deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (845.9) (778.7)
Movement in the fair value of plan assets is as follows:    
Opening fair value of scheme assets 718.6 680.1 
Expected return 49.0 45.4 
Actual less expected return 21.9 22.5 
Contributions by employer 20.7 21.7 
Beneﬁts paid (44.1) (51.1)
Closing fair value of plan assets 766.1 718.6  90 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
20 Retirement beneﬁt obligations continued
The principal assumptions used in determining retirement beneﬁt obligations for the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund are shown below:
Key assumptions:
2012
%
2011
%
Price inﬂation (RPI) 3.4 3.5 
Price inﬂation (CPI) 2.4 2.8 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old non-retired male (years) 22.5 22.6 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old retired male (years) 21.6 21.5 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old non-retired female (years) 25.2 25.0 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old retired female (years) 24.0 23.8 
Discount rate 5.0 5.7 
Expected return: – Equities 8.0 8.0 
– Gilts and bonds 4.3 5.2 
– Synthetic equity exposure on equity swap contracts 8.0 8.0 
– LIBOR exposure on equity swap contracts 3.3 4.6 
– Property and other 7.0 7.0 
– Insured retirement obligations 5.0 5.7 
History of experience gains and losses:
 
2008
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 684.8 513.0 680.1 718.6 766.1 
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation   (653.2) (576.3) (822.5) (778.7) (845.9)
Net (deﬁcit)/surplus   31.6 (63.3) (142.4) (60.1) (79.8)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities 1.9 6.8 7.9 16.4 (6.5)
Adjustments arising from changes in underlying assumptions 77.1 106.2 (259.8) 21.7 (61.6)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets (68.3) (231.1) 134.2 22.5 21.9 
Net actuarial gain/(loss)   10.7 (118.1) (117.7) 60.6 (46.2)
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognized in the statement of other comprehensive income since 1 April 2004 is £143.0 million 
(2011: £96.8 million) and in the Company statement of other recognized income and expense is nil (2011: nil). The directors are unable to 
determine how much of the pension scheme deﬁcit recognized on transition to IFRS, and taken directly to equity of £93.2 million, is 
attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those pension schemes. Consequently, the directors are unable to determine the 
amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognized in the Group statement of other recognized income and expense 
before 1 April 2004.
The Company recognises no liabilities on its balance sheet, or charges or credits in its income statement or statement of recognized income 
and expense in relation to the Group pension plans. The legal sponsor of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund is Dairy Crest Limited.
The Group has charged £7.9 million in respect of the Dairy Crest Group deﬁned contribution scheme in the year ended 31 March 2012 (2011: 
£7.8 million). The Company has made no charge in respect of the Dairy Crest Group deﬁned contribution scheme in the year ended 31 March 
2012 (2011: nil).
21 Trade and other payables 
  Consolidated Parent Company
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Trade payables* 146.0 137.2 – – 
Other tax and social security 7.8 7.8 – – 
Other creditors* 15.7 20.6 – – 
Accruals* 96.9 105.7 8.0 8.2 
  266.4 271.3 8.0 8.2 
* Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 91
The numbers
22 Deferred income
Current
2012
£m
2011
£m
Grants 0.5 0.5 
Other 0.1 0.1 
  0.6 0.6 
Non-current    
Grants 6.9 7.4 
Other – 0.1 
  6.9 7.5 
In 2010/11 two new biomass boilers were installed at the Davidstow cheese manufacturing site. Capital expenditure amounted to £3.9 million 
and we have received cash grants of £0.8 million during the year ended 31 March 2011 and £0.2 million during the year ended 31 March 2012 
from the South West of England Regional Development Agency. This grant is conditional upon certain conditions – principally regarding 
continued use and ownership of the boilers until 29 November 2014. With the exception of the grant relating to the biomass boiler at 
Davidstow, the Group has met all applicable conditions attaching to grants at 31 March 2012 and all previously received grants were 
unconditional at that date. 
23 Provisions
 
OFT 
provision
(including
legal fees)
£m
Onerous
contracts
£m
Total
£m
At 31 March 2010 – Current 7.3 – 7.3 
Charged during the year on disposal of Wexford Creamery Limited (see Note 29) – 3.6 3.6 
Utilised – (0.7) (0.7)
Discount unwind – 0.1 0.1 
At 31 March 2011 – Current 7.3 3.0 10.3 
Utilised (7.3) (0.9) (8.2)
Discount unwind – 0.2 0.2 
At 31 March 2012 – current – 2.3 2.3 
Ofﬁce of Fair Trading (“OFT”)
An exceptional provision was charged in 2007/08 in relation to the settlement of the OFT investigation into milk price initiatives (including legal 
costs). The amount of the ﬁne provided was £9.4 million plus legal fees and reﬂected the early resolution agreement that was reached with the 
OFT in December 2007. In April 2010, the OFT announced that parties to the 2007 Statement of Objections would get a penalty reduction 
provided each company continued to co-operate with the OFT. Accordingly, the provision was reduced to reﬂect our best estimate of the 
penalty ultimately payable (£7.1 million) plus legal fees expected to be incurred (£0.2 million). The penalty was settled on 11 October 2011.
Onerous contract
In June 2010, the Group disposed of 50% of the share capital of Wexford Creamery Limited (“WCL ”). As part of the disposal, the Group 
entered into an agreement to purchase guaranteed minimum volumes of cheese from WCL for a period of ﬁve years from the date of disposal. 
The price paid by the Group for that cheese is determined by reference to cost plus margin. Realisations for commodity cheese ﬂuctuate and 
at the date of disposal a provision of £3.6 million was charged in order to provide for the cost of the cheese purchase arrangements. At 31 
March 2012 the provision amounted to £2.3 million.
24 Share capital
Authorised
2012
Thousands
2011
Thousands
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 240,000 240,000 
Issued and fully paid Thousands £m
At 31 March 2010 133,264 33.3 
Issued for cash on exercise of share options 42 – 
At 31 March 2011 133,306 33.3 
Issued for cash on exercise of share options 45 – 
At 31 March 2012 133,351 33.3  92 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
24 Share capital continued
During the year ended 31 March 2012 45,195 shares were issued at a premium of £91,294 for an aggregate consideration of £102,593 (2011: 
41,836 shares at a premium of £84,509 for an aggregate consideration of £94,968). Exercises of LTISP options are fulﬁlled by the issue of 
existing shares from the Dairy Crest Employees’ Share Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) – see Note 25. 
25 Notes to statement of changes in equity
Consolidated
The shares held by the ESOP are available to satisfy awards under LTISP (see Note 26).
At 31 March 2012 the ESOP held 127,939 shares (2011: 134,830 shares) in the Company at a cost of £0.6 million (2011: £0.6 million). The 
ESOP was established in August 1996 to purchase shares in the Company in order to hedge certain future obligations of the Group including 
shares awarded under the LTISP, ESOS and the deferred bonus plan. During the year the Trustee of the ESOP issued 6,891 (2011: 86,185) 
shares following exercises of LTISP options and deferred bonuses. In the year ended 31 March 2011 the ESOP purchased 50,000 ordinary 
shares at the prevailing market price of £3.95 (2012: nil). The market value of the shares held by the ESOP, which are listed on the London 
Stock Exchange, was £0.4 million at 31 March 2012 (2011: £0.5 million).
Other reserves – Consolidated
 
Merger
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
At 31 March 2011 55.9 – 8.2 64.1 
Total recognized in other comprehensive income – (3.3) (11.8) (15.1)
At 31 March 2012 55.9 (3.3) (3.6) 49.0 
At 31 March 2010 55.9 0.6 9.9 66.4 
Total recognized in other comprehensive income – (0.6) (1.7) (2.3)
At 31 March 2011 55.9 – 8.2 64.1 
The merger reserve includes the premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Dairy Crest Limited in 1996. The cumulative amount of 
goodwill charged against the merger reserve is £86.8 million (2011: £86.8 million). The reserve is not distributable.
The hedging reserve records the gains and losses on hedging instruments, to the extent that they are effective cash ﬂow hedges. Any gains and 
losses previously recorded in the hedging reserve are reclassiﬁed in proﬁt and loss when the underlying hedged item affects proﬁt and loss.
The translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries 
offset by the movements on loans and derivatives designated to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Parent Company
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate proﬁt and loss account is presented for the Company. The proﬁt for the 
year dealt with in the accounts of the Company is £40.4 million (2011: £26.6 million) including dividends received from subsidiary companies of 
£46.8 million (2011: £34.0 million). Dividends paid amounted to £26.5 million (2011: £25.4 million) which, along with a credit for share based 
payments of £0.7 million (2011: £0.3 million) resulted in a £14.6 million increase in retained earnings (2011: £1.5 million increase).
In 1996 the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of Dairy Crest Limited. Consideration was in the form of cash and the issue of 
109.8 million ordinary shares of 25 pence each. The fair value of the shares issued was estimated as £170.2 million. The capital reserve of 
£142.7 million, shown in the statement of changes in equity, represents the difference between the fair value of shares issued and their 
nominal value of £27.5 million.
26 Share based payment plans
Group
The Group has three share option schemes in operation.
The Dairy Crest Long Term Incentive Share Plan (“LTISP”)
This is a long-term incentive scheme under which awards are made to directors and senior managers consisting of the right to acquire shares 
for a nominal price subject to the achievement of ﬁnancial targets based on (i) total shareholder return (“TSR”) over a three year period versus 
comparator companies and (ii) growth in adjusted basic earnings per share. From 2009, the TSR element was increased from 50% to 60% of 
the awards granted. The vesting period for grants made under this scheme is 3 years with an exercise period of 7 years. On 1 July 2011 
995,183 options were granted under the LTISP scheme (June 2010: 861,651). There are no cash settlement alternatives. 
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 93
The numbers
26 Share based payment plans continued
Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme
All employees are eligible to join the Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme, which allows employees to use regular monthly savings to purchase 
shares. Options are granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the shares. No ﬁnancial performance criteria are attached to 
these options and they vest three years from the date of grant with an exercise period of six months. On 16 December 2011 1,445,978 options 
were granted under the Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme at a grant price of 265 pence. No options were granted in the year ended 31 March 
2011. There are no cash settlement alternatives.
Deferred bonus scheme
From 2005/06, bonuses earned that are in excess of 50% of basic salary are deferred in shares (and from 2011 in share options) with a vesting 
period of three years. The only vesting condition is continuing employment. The cost of these shares is charged over four years (being the year 
the bonus was earned and the three-year vesting period) and is based on the number of shares issued (or from 2011 over which nil cost 
options are granted) and the share price at the date of issue. Deferred shares to the value of nil are to be issued in relation to the year ended 
31 March 2012 (2011: £43,810).
The number of share options and weighted average exercise price for each of the schemes is set out as follows:
  LTISP* Sharesave scheme
Number Number
Weighted 
average
exercise 
price
(pence)
Options outstanding at 1 April 2011 1,957,774 3,855,782 237.8 
Options granted during the year 995,183 1,445,978 265.0 
Reinvested dividends 158,226 – – 
Options exercised during the year (3,252) (45,195) 227.0 
Options forfeited during the year (1,247,523) (488,155) 313.4 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2012 1,860,408 4,768,410 238.4 
Exercisable at 31 March 2012 25,563 – – 
 
Options outstanding at 1 April 2010 2,071,382 4,481,625 239.1 
Options granted during the year 861,651 – – 
Reinvested dividends 138,480 – – 
Options exercised during the year (41,076) (41,836) 227.0 
Options forfeited during the year (1,072,663) (584,007) 248.0 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2011 1,957,774 3,855,782 237.8 
Exercisable at 31 March 2011 26,976 – – 
* The weighted average exercise price for LTISP options is nil.
Sharesave scheme options are exercisable up to September 2015 at prices ranging from 227p to 265p (March 2011: exercisable up to March 
2013 at prices ranging from 227p to 487p). LTISP options are exercisable at varying dates up to July 2021 (March 2011: June 2020). 
The remaining weighted average contractual life of options outstanding at 31 March 2012 is 8.71 years for the LTISP and 1.67 years for the 
Sharesave Scheme (2011: 8.64 years and 1.86 years respectively). The weighted average share price on exercise of LTISP options was £3.49 
(2011: £3.73) and £3.47 on exercise of Sharesave options (2011: £3.76).
The fair value factor of the Sharesave Scheme options issued in December 2011 is 22% giving a fair value of £0.58 per option granted. This 
has been computed using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The key assumptions used in the valuation model for the December 2011 
grant were: Expected share price volatility 38%, risk free rate of interest 0.5% and dividend yield 6.2%. The volatility assumption is based on 
the historical volatility of the Dairy Crest Group plc share price over a period commensurate with the expected option life, ending on the grant 
date of the option. There were no Sharesave Scheme options granted during the year ended 31 March 2011. 94 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
26 Share based payment plans continued
The LTISP has market and non-market based performance conditions. The fair value of the market performance element of the LTISP awards 
is calculated using a Monte Carlo option pricing model. The fair value factor for the award made in July 2011 is 65% for the TSR element and 
100% for the EPS element (June 2010: 73% TSR and 100% EPS) giving a fair value of £2.91 per option granted (2010: £3.34). The share price 
on granting 2011 awards was £3.68 (2010: £3.99). The non-market performance element of the LTISP is based on EPS and the charge for this 
is the value of shares expected to vest calculated by reference to the share price at the date of grant. Volatility assumptions are made for Dairy 
Crest Group plc and comparator companies based on historical volatility of share prices over a period commensurate with the option life. 
The input assumptions for the LTISP grant in the year ended 31 March 2012 were as follows:
Term 3 years (2011: 3 years)
Volatility 40% (2011: 46%)
Risk free rate 1.3% (2011: 1.3%)
Average volatility of comparator TSR 44% (2011: 52%)
TSR correlation (Dairy Crest vs comparators) 22% (2011: 27%)
The expected life of the LTISP options is assumed to be equal to the vesting period, being three years.
The Group expense arising from share option plans for the year ended 31 March 2012 is £2.4 million (2011: £1.3 million) (See Note 9).
Company
The number of share options and weighted average exercise price for each of the schemes for employees of the Company is set out as follows:
  LTISP Sharesave scheme
Number Number
Weighted 
average
exercise 
price
(pence)
Options outstanding at 1 April 2011 728,972 15,988 227.0 
Options granted during the year 343,252 – – 
Reinvested dividends 58,852 – – 
Options exercised during the year – – – 
Options forfeited during the year (447,804) – – 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2012 683,272 15,988 227.0 
Exercisable at 31 March 2012 – – – 
 
Options outstanding at 1 April 2010 806,329 15,988 227.0 
Options granted during the year 305,429 – – 
Reinvested dividends 54,696 – – 
Options exercised during the year – – – 
Options forfeited during the year (437,482) – – 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2011 728,972 15,988 227.0 
Exercisable at 31 March 2011 – – – 
Sharesave Scheme options are exercisable up to March 2013 at a price of 227p (March 2011: up to March 2013 at a price of 227p). LTISP 
options are exercisable at varying dates up to July 2021 (2011: June 2020). The remaining average weighted average contractual life of options 
outstanding at 31 March 2012 is 8.76 years for the LTISP and 0.92 years for the Sharesave Scheme (2011: 8.68 years and 1.92 years 
respectively). There were no exercises of Sharesave Scheme options or LTISP options in the year ended 31 March 2012 (2011: nil). 
The Company expense arising from share option plans for the year ended 31 March 2012 was £0.7 million (2011: £0.3 million).
27 Commitments and contingencies
Operating lease commitments
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain land and buildings, vehicles and equipment. There are no material renewal options, 
escalation clauses or purchase options included in the lease contracts. There are no contingent rentals or operating leases or material 
sub-leases. There are no signiﬁcant restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases. Excluding land and buildings, these 
leases have an average life of between 3 and 7 years.
During the year ended 31 March 2012, certain assets at our Severnside facility were sold for cash consideration of £6.8 million. This 
equipment has been leased back under an operating lease with a six year term. The assets subject to the operating lease have an average 
useful economic life of approximately ten years. There are no purchase option clauses or any contingent lease rentals.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 95
The numbers
27 Commitments and contingencies continued
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 March are as follows:
 
2012
£m
2011
£m
Within one year 26.0 24.2 
After one year but not more than ﬁve years 49.6 48.6 
More than ﬁve years 17.2 13.0 
Finance leases
The Group ﬁnance leases principally comprise certain items of plant and equipment at the Davidstow site. The initial lease term is for 10 years with a 
further renewal term of 7 years. There are no purchase options and escalation clauses and there is no sub-leasing of the assets or contingent rentals. 
Future minimum payments under ﬁnance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows:
    2012 2011
Minimum
payments
£m
Present 
value of 
payments
£m
Minimum
payments
£m
Present 
value of 
payments
£m
Within one year 2.9 2.7 2.9 2.5 
After one year but not more than two years 3.3 3.2 3.0 2.8 
After two years but not more than ﬁve years 1.3 1.3 4.4 4.3 
After more than ﬁve years – – – – 
Total minimum lease payments 7.5 7.2 10.3 9.6 
Less: amounts representing ﬁnance charges (0.3) – (0.7) – 
Present value of minimum lease payments 7.2 7.2 9.6 9.6 
Trading guarantees 
The Group has provided guarantees and counter-indemnities which totalled £3.4 million at 31 March 2012 (2011: £2.9 million). These 
guarantees are made principally by Philpot Dairy Products Limited, a subsidiary company, to customers as performance bonds and to the 
Rural Payment Agency in relation to EU subsidies claimed.
Capital commitments
Group
  
2012
£m
2011
£m
Future capital expenditure contracted on property, plant and equipment 12.3 14.4 
28 Related party transactions
In June 2010, the Group disposed of its controlling interest in Wexford Creamery Limited (“WCL ”). WCL has been treated as an equity 
accounted associate from June 2010 to 31 March 2012. On disposal, the Group contracted to purchase guaranteed minimum volumes of 
cheese from WCL for a period of ﬁve years from the date of disposal. In the year ended 31 March 2012 the cost of cheese purchased was 
£8.9 million (2011: £6.1 million). 
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group and Company
2012
£m
2011
£m
Short-term employee beneﬁts 2.8 2.7 
Share-based payments 0.7 0.3 
Total compensation paid to key management personnel* 3.5 3.0 
Key management personnel comprise Executive and Non-executive Board members of Dairy Crest Group plc. The senior management team 
is small and all key decisions are made by either the three Executive directors in the Executive Management Committee or by the Group 
Board which meets regularly.         
* Further details relating to compensation of key management personnel are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report. This includes a description of pension 
arrangements and any cash supplements paid. 96 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
28 Related party transactions continued
Dairy Crest Limited, a subsidiary company, incurred costs of £2.4 million (2011: £2.4 million) from the Company for the provision of 
management and administrative services carried out on its behalf. Dairy Crest Limited received £2.1 million (2011: £2.1 million) for the 
remuneration of the Company’s employees which had been paid by Dairy Crest Limited. 
Interest charges of £0.2 million (2011: £0.2 million) were incurred by the Company from Dairy Crest Limited on a loan reﬂecting an interest rate 
of LIBOR+100 basis points. Interest income of £11.4 million (2011: £9.9 million) was received by the Company from Dairy Crest Limited on a 
loan reﬂecting an interest rate of 5.3% (2011: 5.3%) and a further £0.3 million was received by the Company from Dairy Crest Limited on 
ﬂoating rate loans paying LIBOR plus margin (2011: £0.4 million). The Company paid net interest of £0.4 million (2011: £0.1 million credit) from 
Dairy Crest Limited on a cross-currency swap paying LIBOR and receiving EURIBOR.
29 Business combinations and disposals
Year ended 31 March 2012 
Acquisition
On 30 June 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Morehands Limited (trading as MH Foods), a manufacturer of 
branded low calorie spray oils and salad dressings. Initial cash consideration was £11.9 million, with further consideration of £1.6 million paid in 
October 2011. The ﬁnal fair value of the identiﬁable assets and liabilities of the business at the date of acquisition was:
 
Fair value
to Group
£m
Book
value
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.5 
Intangible asset – Frylight brand 6.0 – 
Inventories 0.6 0.6 
Receivables 1.5 1.5 
Cash 1.2 1.2 
Payables (0.9) (0.9)
Current tax (0.5) (0.5)
Deferred tax (1.6) (0.1)
Net assets 6.8 2.3 
Goodwill 6.7 
  13.5 
Comprising:
Cash consideration 13.5 
The Frylight brand is estimated to have a useful economic life of 15 years and the amount capitalised as an intangible asset and related 
deferred tax will be amortised over this period. This life is consistent with the 15-25 year useful economic lives assumed on the acquisition of 
St Hubert. Goodwill, representing the cost of acquisition less net identiﬁable assets and liabilities assumed on acquisition, arises on 
consolidation only and there is no amortisation or related tax deduction in the accounts of Dairy Crest Limited, the acquiring entity. Group 
reported revenue and result would not be materially different had the acquisition occurred on 1 April 2011. Revenue and proﬁt from the date of 
acquisition to 31 March 2012 were £5.8 million and £1.3 million respectively. The Group incurred fees of £0.3 million in relation to this 
acquisition which have been charged to administrative expenses in the income statement in the year ended 31 March 2012.
Goodwill of £6.7 million comprises certain intangible beneﬁts of the acquisition that could not be individually separated and reliably measured 
due to their nature. These include the synergistic beneﬁts resulting from access to the wider group’s sales channels, marketing expertise and 
product development pipeline.
Year ended 31 March 2011
Disposals
On 12 June 2010 the Group sold 50% of the shares in Wexford Creamery Limited (“WCL ”) for cash proceeds of €9 million. This disposal was effected 
by way of a share repurchase by WCL. At the same time, the Group entered into two option agreements over its remaining 30% ownership.
The ﬁrst option agreement granted a ﬁve year call option to the majority shareholder, being Wexford Milk Producers (“WMP”), over 10% of 
WCL share capital for a ﬁxed price of €1.8 million. After ﬁve years the Group will have the right to exercise a put option at a ﬁxed price of €1.8 
million. The combination of put and call options gives rise to near certainty of exercise and, along with the ﬁxed option price, provides evidence 
that this option in substance comprises deferred consideration on a further 10% of the ordinary shares of WCL. In substance the Group has 
effected a disposal of 60% of the shares of WCL with 10% of the consideration being deferred. The amount of deferred consideration 
recorded at 12 June 2010 after conversion into Sterling and appropriate discounting was £1.3 million. The carrying amount at 31 March 2012 
was £1.3 million (2011: £1.4 million).
The second option agreement granted an eight year call option to WMP over 20% of the WCL share capital for a price of €3.6 million adjusted 
for 20% of post-tax proﬁts, excluding WCL share buy-back ﬁnancing costs. After eight years the Group will have the right to exercise a put 
option based on the same pricing formula. The swap was initially valued at £1.6 million and there have been no material movements in the 
valuation in the period to 31 March 2012. See Note 17.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 97
The numbers
29 Business combinations and disposals continued 
The completion arrangements included a ﬁve year cheese supply agreement with the Group agreeing to buy minimum guaranteed cheese 
volumes based on a cost plus margin formula. Volumes decrease over the ﬁve year agreement. At the transaction date, £3.6 million was 
charged by the Group in order to provide for the cost of the cheese purchase arrangements. The balance of this provision at 31 March 2012 
was £2.3 million (2011: £3.0 million). See Note 23.
The disposal resulted in the release of non-controlling interests in WCL (£2.8 million) and in the reclassiﬁcation to proﬁt and loss of net 
investment hedges previously taken to other comprehensive income (£1.7 million). Furthermore the Group incurred £0.2 million on legal and 
professional fees in relation to this disposal.
The ﬁnal gain on disposal can be analysed as follows and is recorded as an exceptional item in the year ended 31 March 2011.
    £m 
Sales proceeds – cash consideration 7.5 
Sales proceeds – deferred consideration 1.3 
Book value of assets disposed (see below) (10.3)
Recognition of initial fair value of 20% shareholding – equity accounted associate 1.1 
Recognition of initial fair value of option over 20% shareholding 1.6 
Provision for future cheese costs (3.6)
Derecognition of non-controlling interest 2.8 
Other fees and costs   (0.2)
Gain on disposal of controlling interest before recycling 0.2 
Amounts reclassiﬁed to proﬁt and loss 1.7 
Final gain on disposal of controlling interest   1.9 
Book value of assets disposed:
 
31 March 
2010
£m 
12 June
2010
£m 
Investments in joint ventures 0.6 0.5 
Deferred tax asset 0.3 0.2 
Inventories 4.6 8.7 
Trade and other receivables 5.8 8.3 
Cash and short-term deposits 7.5 3.3 
Trade and other payables (4.7) (8.1)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations (2.0) (1.9)
Deferred income (0.6) (0.5)
Current tax liability (0.3) (0.2)
    11.2 10.3 
Of the decrease of £0.9 million in net asset value in the period to disposal, £0.7 million was a result of translation differences due to Sterling 
strengthening against the Euro. The initial equity accounted fair value of our 20% shareholding includes additional share buy-back related 
borrowings in WCL post disposal.
Cash impact of disposal: £m
Cash proceeds 7.5
Cash and short-term deposits sold with WCL (3.3)
Other fees and costs (0.2)
  4.0
Acquisitions
During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Group acquired the goodwill of a bottled milk buyer for cash consideration of £0.1 million resulting 
in goodwill of £0.1 million. 
30 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The objective of the treasury function, which is accountable to the Board, is to manage the Group’s and Company’s ﬁnancial risk, secure 
cost-effective funding for the Group’s operations and to minimise the effects of ﬂuctuations in interest rates and exchange rates on the value of 
the Group’s and Company’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, on reported proﬁtability and on cash ﬂows.
The Group’s principal ﬁnancial instruments comprise bank loans and overdrafts, loan notes, ﬁnance leases and cash and short-term deposits. 
The main purpose of these ﬁnancial instruments is to raise ﬁnance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various other ﬁnancial assets 
and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations. 98 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
The Group also enters into derivative transactions; principally interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts. The 
purpose is to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of ﬁnance. It is, and has been 
throughout 2011 and 2012, the Group’s policy that no trading in ﬁnancial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, price risk and credit risk. 
Information on how these risks arise is set out below, as are the objectives, policies and processes agreed by the Board for their management 
and the methods used to measure each risk. Derivative instruments are used to change the economic characteristics of ﬁnancial instruments 
in accordance with the Group’s treasury policies. The Group’s accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in the Accounting 
Policies note.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s objectives are:
 – to ensure that forecast peak net borrowings, plus a prudent operating headroom are covered by committed facilities which mature after at 
least 12 months; 
 – to ensure that prudent headroom versus bank and loan note covenant ratios are forecast for the next three years;
 – to maintain ﬂexibility of funding by employing diverse sources of funds (eg use of non-bank markets such as private placements); and
 – to avoid a concentration of facility maturities in any particular year. 
The maturity analysis of Group borrowings is set out in Note 19. At 31 March 2012 the Group’s total credit facilities amounted to £640.5 million 
(2011: £638.1 million) excluding ﬁnance leases of £7.2 million (2011: £9.6 million) and the impact of cross-currency swaps on US Dollar and 
Euro loan notes of £8.6 million (2011: £11.8 million). The facilities at 31 March 2012 and 2011 consisted of:
March 2012
 – £170 million plus €150 million multi-currency revolving credit facility repayable at maturity in October 2016; and
 – loan notes totalling £345.5 million repayable between April 2013 and November 2021.
March 2011
 – £85 million plus €175 million multi-currency revolving credit facility repayable at maturity in July 2013;
 – £100 million multi-currency revolving credit facility repayable at maturity in November 2011; and
 – loan notes totalling £298.2 million repayable between April 2013 and April 2017.
Undrawn revolving credit facilities at 31 March 2012 amounted to £223.8 million (2011: £274.4 million). This can be analysed as follows:
2012
Drawn down
£m
2012
Facility
£m
2011
Drawn down
£m
2011
Facility
£m
October 2011 5-year multi-currency revolving credit facility 71.7 295.0 n/a n/a
November 2006 5-year multi-currency revolving credit facility n/a n/a 65.5 100.0
July 2008 5-year multi-currency revolving credit facility n/a n/a – 239.9
Total 71.7 295.0 65.5 339.9
Headroom 223.8 274.4
Cash and short term deposits 79.4 49.9
Effective headroom 303.2 324.3
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by closely managing cash generation by its operating businesses and monitoring performance to 
budgets and forecasts. Capital investment is carefully controlled, with detailed authorisation limits in place up to Executive level and cash 
payback criteria considered as part of the investment appraisal process. Short-term and long-term cash and debt forecasts are constantly 
reviewed and there are regular treasury updates to the Executive highlighting facility headroom and net debt performance. The increased 
focus on cash generation over the ﬁve years ended 31 March 2012 has resulted in signiﬁcantly lower levels of borrowings and increased facility 
headroom.
Day-to-day cash management utilises undrawn revolving credit facilities, overdraft facilities and occasionally short-term money market 
deposits if there is excess cash.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 99
The numbers
30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to the risk for changes in market interest rates relate primarily to the Group’s long-term debt obligations with a ﬂoating 
interest rate.
The Group’s policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of ﬁxed and variable rate debt. The Group’s long-term strategy is to keep between 
one third and three quarters of its borrowings at ﬁxed rates of interest in the medium term. To manage this mix in a cost-efﬁcient manner, the 
Group has issued ﬁxed coupon loan notes and also enters into interest rate swaps from time to time on a portion of its ﬂoating bank 
borrowings, in which the Group agrees to exchange, at speciﬁed intervals, the difference between ﬁxed and variable rate interest amounts 
calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. These swaps are designated to hedge underlying debt interest cash 
ﬂow obligations. In the short-term the proportion of ﬁxed and ﬂoating rate borrowings can go outside the long-term range.
At 31 March 2012, 83% of the Group’s borrowings were at a ﬁxed rate of interest (2011: 100%). The proportion of ﬁxed interest borrowings is 
slightly higher than our long-term target, however the ﬁrst tranche of loan notes is due to mature in April 2013 and with no need for additional 
facilities this will increase the amount drawn under revolving credit facilities at ﬂoating rates. Therefore in the medium term we expect the ﬁxed 
proportion of borrowings to return to the target range.
The Group’s borrowing facilities require minimum interest cover of 3.0 times. 
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk is shown (by way of a sensitivity analysis) in Note 31.
Foreign currency risk
The Group has invested in operations outside the UK and also buys and sells a small amount of goods in currencies other than Sterling. As a 
result the value of the Group’s non-Sterling revenues, purchases, assets, liabilities and cash ﬂows can be affected by movements in exchange 
rates – predominantly Euro/Sterling.
The Group mitigates the effect of its structural currency exposures by borrowing to some extent in the same functional currency as the foreign 
operation into which it invests. The foreign operation hedged in this way is St Hubert SAS (France). St Hubert is a Euro-denominated 
subsidiary. Our policy is to hedge 100% of the inventories and tangible ﬁxed assets and 33% of goodwill and intangible assets exposure of 
overseas subsidiaries through borrowings and/or cross-currency swaps in Euros. At present, our only currency exposure is Euros. At 31 
March 2012 and 2011, all borrowings designated as a net investment hedge are done so on a pre-tax basis and no cross currency swaps are 
utilised as part of the hedging relationship. 
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the relevant entity’s functional currency and therefore transaction exposures are 
limited. It can be seen in Note 16 that the only signiﬁcant non-Sterling debtors are in Euros and these predominantly relate to the functional 
currency of St Hubert. The Group trades skimmed milk products and bulk butter mainly to customers in Europe and Central and South 
America. The Group also exports its own skimmed milk products, bulk butter and other branded products. The Group’s policy requires 
foreign currency sales and purchases through Philpot Dairy Products Limited, a subsidiary company, to be hedged by foreign exchange 
contracts once the transaction is committed so that the margin on the transaction can be ﬁxed. There are currently no sales between the UK 
business and St Hubert.
Currency exposures on other transactions, such as certain capital expenditure denominated in a foreign currency, are hedged following 
approval of the project using forward foreign exchange contracts.
In 2006, the Group issued loan notes denominated in $US with a face value of $233 million. At the same time, cross-currency swaps were 
implemented to hedge the interest and principal repayment cash ﬂows. These have the effect of ﬁxing the liability in Sterling at £133.0 million. 
The principal amount and interest and principal payment dates on these swaps match those on the loan notes exactly and all swaps are with 
counterparties with strong credit ratings. There is no proﬁt and loss exposure in relation to $US debts as any retranslation impact on the proﬁt 
and loss account is offset by reclassiﬁcation of amounts from other comprehensive income into proﬁt and loss. 
In 2009, the Group entered into cross-currency swaps on €75 million of its loan notes denominated in Euros in order to hedge the future 
interest and principal repayment cash ﬂows. This has the effect of ﬁxing the liability in Sterling at £67.0 million. The principal amount and 
interest and principal payment dates on these swaps match those on the loan notes exactly and all swaps are with counterparties with strong 
credit ratings. There is no proﬁt and loss exposure in relation to this €75 million of debt as any retranslation impact on the proﬁt and loss 
account is offset by reclassiﬁcation of amounts from other comprehensive income into proﬁt and loss.
In November 2011, the Group issued loan notes denominated in $US with a face value of $85 million. At the same time, cross-currency swaps 
were implemented to hedge the interest and principal repayment cash ﬂows. These have the effect of ﬁxing the liability in Sterling at £54.5 
million. The principal amount and interest and principal payment dates on these swaps match those on the loan notes exactly and all swaps 
are with counterparties with strong credit ratings. There is no proﬁt and loss exposure in relation to $US debts as any retranslation impact on 
the proﬁt and loss account is offset by reclassiﬁcation of amounts from other comprehensive income into proﬁt and loss. 100 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Price risk
The Group is exposed to price risk related to certain commodities and their by-products used by the Group’s businesses. The principal 
non-milk commodities that affect input prices for the Group are vegetable oils, gas, electricity, diesel, heavy fuel oil and crude oil by-products 
(used in packaging). 
The Group monitors prices on an ongoing basis in order to assess the impact that movements have on proﬁtability and to assess whether the 
amount of forward cover is appropriate. This includes vegetable oil contracts and energy, which is generally contracted one season in 
advance for both Summer and Winter energy but with some requirement contracted at more regular intervals. 
The Group regularly reviews relevant commodity markets and levels of future cover. Fixed price contracts are only entered into with the 
approval of the Commodity Risk Committee comprising senior operational and ﬁnance management and external advisers. 
Credit risk
It is the Group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit veriﬁcation procedures. The Group only offers 
these terms to recognized, creditworthy third parties. In addition, receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that 
the Group’s history of bad debt losses is not signiﬁcant. In the year ended 31 March 2012 one customer, Quadra Foods Limited, went into 
administration and the outstanding balance of £4.3 million has been fully provided. The material size of this provision and the one-off nature of 
bad debts of this kind has resulted in this provision being charged to exceptional items (see Note 4).
The Dairies doorstep business trades with individuals and receives cash payments on a weekly basis. Cash and debt management is a crucial 
part of this business and cash collection and balances due are closely monitored to ensure write-downs are minimised.
Debtor days outstanding are closely monitored throughout the year and action is taken promptly when payment terms are breached.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other ﬁnancial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, trade and other 
debtors (excludes prepayments) and certain derivative instruments, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty. 
The maximum exposure for the Group is equal to the carrying amount of these ﬁnancial assets of £223.5 million (2011: £212.0 million). There 
are no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk. 
All borrowings are through banks with long-term credit ratings of A or above. Funds temporarily surplus to business requirements are invested 
overnight through deposit accounts with mainstream UK commercial banks with a credit rating of A or better. The Group currently has no 
requirement to place deposits for a longer period, accordingly counterparty risk is considered to be acceptable. Derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments are contracted with a range of banks with long-term credit ratings of A or above to avoid excessive concentration of ﬁnancial 
instruments with one counterparty.
Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains an appropriate level of gearing in order to support its 
business and maximise shareholder value. In addition, the Group monitors its forecast net debt to EBITDA ratios in order that they are 
comfortably within its banking covenant requirements. The maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio for the purposes of bank covenants is 3.5 
times. At 31 March 2012 the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 2.2 times (March 2011:2.2 times).
The Group monitors its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions or changes in Group 
structure. Possible mechanisms for changing capital structure include adjusting the level of dividends, issuance of new shares or returning 
capital to shareholders. No signiﬁcant changes in capital structure have been implemented in the year ended 31 March 2012 or 2011. There 
have been no changes in the objectives, policies and procedures during the last two years.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by shareholders’ funds. The analysis of net debt is included in Note 
33. The gearing ratio at March 2012 and 2011 can be analysed as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Net debt 336.4 311.6
Shareholders’ funds 274.3 365.5
Gearing ratio 123% 85%
Dividends
Details of dividends paid and proposed during the year are given in Note 7. The dividend policy is to maintain a progressive dividend whilst 
seeking to maintain a level of dividend cover between 2.0 and 2.5 times. The ﬁnal proposed dividend for 2011/12 is 14.7 pence representing  
a 3.5% increase on last year (2011: 14.2 pence). Total dividends paid and proposed in respect of the year ended 31 March 2012 amount to  
20.4 pence, representing an increase of 3.6% (2011: 19.7 pence).
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 101
The numbers
31 Financial instruments 
An explanation of the Group’s ﬁnancial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies is set out in the discussion of Treasury 
policies in Note 30.
Consolidated 
Interest rate maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate risk. 
No other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, other than those shown below, are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
At 31 March 2012
< 1 year
£m 
 
>1 <2 years
£m 
 
>2 <3 years
£m 
 
>3 <4 years
£m
 
>4 <5 years
£m 
 
> 5 years
£m 
 
Total
£m 
Fixed rate
Loan notes* – (68.1) (92.3) – (88.8) (96.3) (345.5)
Finance leases (2.7) (3.2) (1.3) – – – (7.2)
Forward currency contracts 0.3 – – – – – 0.3 
Deferred consideration – – – 1.3 – – 1.3 
Cross currency swaps –   5.9   (4.8)  –   9.1   (3.9)  6.3 
Floating rate
Bank loans – – – – (71.7) – (71.7)
Option to sell 20% holding in WCL – – – – – 1.6 1.6 
Cash at bank and in hand 79.4   –   –   –   –   –   79.4 
At 31 March 2011                    
Fixed rate
Bank loans* (65.5) – – – – – (65.5)
Loan notes* – – (67.4) (98.0) – (132.8) (298.2)
Finance leases (2.5) (2.8) (3.0) (1.3) – – (9.6)
Forward currency contracts 0.5 – – – – – 0.5 
Interest rate swaps (1.5) – – – – – (1.5)
Deferred consideration – – – – 1.4 – 1.4 
Cross currency swaps –   –   7.5   (1.6)  –   8.9   14.8 
Floating rate
Option to sell 20% holding in WCL – – – – – 1.6 1.6 
Cash at bank and in hand 49.9   –   –   –   –   –   49.9 
* Classiﬁed as ﬁxed rate after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Interest on ﬁnancial instruments classiﬁed as ﬂoating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on ﬁnancial instruments 
classiﬁed as ﬁxed rate is ﬁxed until the maturity of the instrument.
Interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s proﬁt before tax through the impact on ﬂoating rate borrowings. There is no impact on the Group’s equity resulting from movements 
in interest rates other than in relation to the $US/GBP and EUR/GBP cross-currency swaps used as a cash ﬂow hedge on $US and EUR loan 
notes. The impact on equity is nil over the life of the instruments as these swaps comprise an effective hedge. At 31 March 2012 83% of 
Group borrowings were at ﬁxed rates of interest (2011: 100%) (see Note 30).
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes non-derivative ﬂoating 
rate ﬁnancial instruments except those where interest rate swaps have been used as cash ﬂow hedges. This is due to the fact that gains and 
losses on the hedging instrument offset losses and gains on the non-derivative ﬂoating rate ﬁnancial instrument which are subject to the 
hedge and are matched in both proﬁt and loss and cash terms. No non-derivative ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments have proﬁt and loss exposure 
due to ﬂoating rates as a result of interest rate swaps.
The 2012 analysis below reﬂects similar reasonably possible changes in interest rates to 2011 – upside LIBOR expectations assumed last year 
were not realised but are still expected at March 2012. 102 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
31 Financial instruments continued
 
 
Increase/
decrease in 
basis points 
Effect 
on proﬁt 
before tax
£m
Effect on
equity
£m
2012
Sterling + 200 1.0 1.3
Euro + 200 (0.8) 6.8
Dollar + 200 – 14.9
Sterling – 50 (0.2) (0.3)
Euro – 50 0.2 (1.7)
Dollar   – 50 –  (4.1) 
2011
Sterling + 200 1.0 1.4 
Euro + 200 – 8.0 
Dollar + 200 – 8.2 
Sterling – 50 – (0.4)
Euro – 50 – (2.1)
Dollar   – 50 – (2.2)
Equity price risk
The Group holds no listed equity investments and is not subject to equity price risk other than through the pension scheme (Note 20).
Credit risk
There are no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk within the Group unless otherwise disclosed. The maximum credit risk exposure relating 
to ﬁnancial assets is represented by carrying value as at the balance sheet date (see Note 30).
Foreign currency risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in Sterling/Euro exchange rate with all other variables held 
constant, of the Group’s proﬁt before tax and the Group’s equity.
  
Increase/
decrease in
Sterling/
Euro rate 
Effect on
proﬁt
before tax
£m
Effect on
equity*
£m
2012
Euro Sterling depreciation – 10% (0.5) (13.8)
  Sterling appreciation + 10% 0.4 11.3 
2011
Euro Sterling depreciation – 10% (0.7) (14.7)
  Sterling appreciation + 10% 0.7 12.0 
The Group has no signiﬁcant foreign currency risk apart from Euros.
* Equity exposure results from the Group’s net investment hedging arrangements (see Note 30).
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 103
The numbers
31 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy on managing its liquidity risk is set out in Note 30.
The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 March 2012 and 2011 based on contractual 
undiscounted payments of interest and principal.
At 31 March 2012
< 1 year
£m 
>1 <2 years
£m 
>2 <3 years
£m 
>3 <4 years
£m 
>4 <5 years
£m 
 
> 5 years
£m 
Total
£m 
Loan Notes (17.6) (81.8) (101.6) (9.4) (93.1) (104.2) (407.7)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes): 
payment leg (12.8) (71.2) (6.1) (6.1) (73.7) (63.6) (233.5) 
receipt leg 13.5 77.7 6.7 6.7 80.9 61.5 247.0 
Bank loans (71.7) ––––– (71.7)
Finance leases (2.9) (3.3) (1.3) – – – (7.5) 
At 31 March 2011
Loan Notes (15.8) (15.8) (79.3) (105.3) (7.3) (135.1) (358.6)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):
payment leg (10.4) (10.4) (68.8) (3.8) (3.8) (71.4) (168.6)
receipt leg 11.6 11.6 75.1 4.5 4.5 78.0 185.3 
Bank loans (66.0) – – – – – (66.0)
Interest rate swaps (on €74m bank debt):
payment leg (1.7) – – – – – (1.7)
receipt leg 0.5 – – – – – 0.5 
Finance leases (2.9) (3.0) (3.1) (1.3) – – (10.3)
Forward currency contracts and short-term payables all mature within 1 year. 
Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments that are carried in the 
ﬁnancial statements.
Fair values
  Carrying amount Fair value
2012
£m
 
2011
£m
2012
£m
 
2011
£m
Financial assets
Current
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 18) 79.4 49.9 79.4 49.9 
Forward currency contracts (Note 17) 0.3 1.0 0.3 1.0 
Non-current
Deferred consideration 1.3 1.4 1.3 1.4 
Wexford Creamery Limited option (Note 17) 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 
Cross currency swaps (Note 17) 15.0   16.4 15.0   16.4 
Financial liabilities
Current
Current obligations under ﬁnance leases (Note 19) (2.7) (2.5) (2.7) (2.5)
Current instalments due on bank loans (Note 19) – (65.5) – (65.5)
Forward currency contracts (Note 19) – (0.5) – (0.5)
Non-current
Non-current obligations under ﬁnance leases (Note 19) (4.5) (7.1) (4.5) (7.1)
Non-current instalments due on bank loans (Note 19) (71.7) – (71.7) – 
Loan notes (Note 19) (345.5) (298.2) (355.8) (286.9)
Cross currency swaps (Note 19) (8.7) (1.6) (8.7) (1.6)
Interest rate swaps (Note 19) –   (1.5) –   (1.5)
The above table excludes trade and other receivables and payables as their fair value approximates carrying value. The fair value of interest 
rate swaps and forward currency contracts has been determined by the third party ﬁnancial institution with whom the Group holds the 
instrument, in line with the market value of similar instruments. The fair value of borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected 
future cash ﬂows at prevailing interest rates. 104 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
31 Financial instruments continued
Interest rate swaps
The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 March 2012 was nil (2011: €74.0 million (£65.5 million)). 
Interest rate swaps were previously designated as cash ﬂow hedges and met the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2011 the ﬁxed 
interest rates varied from 4.045% to 4.053%. The ﬂoating rate of interest on the receipt leg of these swaps was EURIBOR. The hedged item 
was the interest cash ﬂows on €74 million of borrowings under the revolving credit facilities at ﬂoating EURIBOR – the margin was not hedged. 
Cross currency swaps
The notional principal amount of the outstanding USD/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2012 was $318.0 million (£187 .5 million) 
(2011: $233.0 million; £133.0 million). These cross currency swaps have both legs at ﬁxed interest rates, are designated as cash ﬂow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2012 the ﬁxed interest rates varied from 3.863% to 5.315% (2011: 5.305% to 5.315%). The 
gain deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (operating costs) during the next one to ten years (being the life of the swaps).
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2012 was €75.0 million (£67.0 million) 
(2011: €75.0 million; £67.0 million). These cross currency swaps have both legs at ﬁxed interest rates, are designated as cash ﬂow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2012 and 2011 the ﬁxed interest rates varied from 4.955% to 5.180%. The loss deferred in 
equity will reverse in the income statement (operating costs) during the next two to three years (being the life of the swaps).
Hedge of net investment in foreign entities
The Group has Euro denominated borrowings which it has designated as a hedge of the net asset investment in St Hubert SAS, its subsidiary 
in France. The fair value of the Euro borrowings at 31 March 2012 was £124.2 million (2011: £131.9 million). The foreign exchange gain of £7.7 
million (2011: £1.0 million) on translation of the borrowings into Sterling has been recognized in other comprehensive income.
Forward currency contracts
The Group has entered into certain forward currency contracts in order to hedge the Sterling cost of currency-denominated future purchases 
and receipts. These forward currency purchases have been designated cash ﬂow hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. They all 
have a duration of less than one year and any gains or losses deferred will then be reclassiﬁed to the income statement (operating costs).
Borrowing facilities
The Group has undrawn committed long-term borrowing facilities available at 31 March 2012 of £223.8 million (2011: £274.4 million) in respect 
of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date. These undrawn facilities expire in October 2016 (2011: November 2011 (£34.5 
million) and July 2013 (£239.9 million)).
Company 
Interest rate maturity proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Company’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate 
risk. No other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, other than those shown below, are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
At 31 March 2012
< 1 year
£m
 
>1 <2 years
£m
 
>2 <3 years
£m
 
>3 <4 years
£m
 
>4 <5 years
£m
 
> 5 years
£m
 
Total
£m
Fixed rate
Loan notes – (68.1) (92.3) – (88.8) (96.3) (345.5)
Intercompany receivables 268.0 – – – – – 268.0 
Cross currency swaps –   5.9   (4.8)  –   9.1   (3.9)  6.3 
Floating rate
Bank loans – – – – (61.7) – (61.7)
Intercompany payables (49.2)  –   –   –   –   –   (49.2)
At 31 March 2011                    
Fixed rate
Bank loans* (65.5) – – – – – (65.5)
Loan notes – – (67.4) (98.0) – (132.8) (298.2)
Interest rate swaps (1.5) – – – – – (1.5)
Intercompany receivables 206.4 – – – – – 206.4 
Cross currency swaps –   –   8.0   (1.6)  –   9.4   15.8 
Floating rate
Intercompany payables (48.2)  –   –   –   –   –   (48.2)
* These have been classiﬁed as ﬁxed rate after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Company’s proﬁt before tax through the impact on ﬂoating rate borrowings. There is no impact on the Company’s equity resulting from 
movements in interest rates other than in relation to the $US/GBP and EUR/GBP cross-currency swaps used as a cash ﬂow hedge on $US 
and EUR loan notes. The impact on equity is nil over the life of the instruments as these swaps comprise an effective hedge.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 105
The numbers
31 Financial instruments continued 
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes non-derivative ﬂoating 
rate ﬁnancial instruments except those where interest rate swaps have been used as cash ﬂow hedges. This is due to the fact that gains and 
losses on the hedging instrument offset losses and gains on the non-derivative ﬂoating rate ﬁnancial instrument which are subject to the 
hedge are matched in both proﬁt and loss and cash terms. No non-derivative ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments have proﬁt and loss exposure 
due to ﬂoating rates as a result of interest rate swaps.
The 2012 analysis below reﬂects similar reasonably possible changes in interest rates to 2011 – upside LIBOR expectations assumed last year 
were not realised but are still expected at March 2012.
 
 
Increase/
decrease in
basis points
Effect on
equity
£m
2012
Sterling + 200 1.3
Euro + 200 6.8
Dollar + 200 14.9
Sterling – 50 (0.3)
Euro – 50 (1.7)
Dollar   – 50 (4.1) 
2011
Sterling + 200 1.4 
Euro + 200 8.0 
Dollar + 200 8.2 
Sterling – 50 (0.4)
Euro – 50 (2.1)
Dollar   – 50 (2.2)
Equity price risk
The Company holds no listed equity investments and is not subject to equity price risk.
Credit risk
The maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount of ﬁnancial assets.
Foreign currency risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in Sterling/Euro exchange rate with all other variables held 
constant, of the Company’s proﬁt before tax and the Company’s equity.
   
Increase/
decrease in 
Euro rate 
Effect on 
proﬁt before 
tax
£m 
Effect on 
equity
£m
2012
Euro Sterling depreciation – 10% – – 
  Sterling appreciation + 10% – – 
2011
Euro Sterling depreciation – 10% – – 
  Sterling appreciation + 10% – – 
The Company has no signiﬁcant foreign currency liabilities other than Euros. Euro borrowings are matched by inter-company cross currency 
swaps with no resultant proﬁt before tax or equity exposure for the Company.  106 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
31 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The Company’s policy on managing its liquidity risk is set out in Note 30. 
The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the Company’s ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 March 2012 and 2011 based on contractual 
undiscounted payments of interest and principal. 
At 31 March 2012
< 1 year
£m 
 
>1 <2 years
£m 
 
>2 <3 years
£m 
 
>3 <4 years
£m 
 
>4 <5 years
£m 
 
> 5 years
£m 
 
Total
£m 
Loan Notes (17.6) (81.8) (101.6) (9.4) (93.1) (104.2) (407.7) 
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes): 
payment leg (12.8) (71.2) (6.1) (6.1) (73.7) (63.6) (233.5)
receipt leg 13.5 77.7 6.7 6.7 80.9 61.5 247.0
Intra-group cross currency swaps: 
payment leg (126.3) – – – – – (126.3) 
receipt leg 126.3 – –––– 126.3 
Bank loans  (61.7)  –   –   –   –   –   (61.7) 
At 31 March 2011                    
Loan Notes (15.8) (15.8) (79.3) (105.3) (7.3) (135.1) (358.6)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes): 
payment leg (10.4) (10.4) (68.8) (3.8) (3.8) (71.4) (168.6)
receipt leg 11.6 11.6 75.1 4.5 4.5 78.0 185.3 
Intra-group cross currency swaps: 
payment leg (133.6) – – – – – (133.6)
receipt leg 133.7 – – – – – 133.7 
Bank loans (66.0) – – – – – (66.0)
Interest rate swaps (on €74m bank debt): 
payment leg (1.7) – – – – – (1.7)
receipt leg 0.5   –   –   –   –   –   0.5 
Forward currency contracts and short-term payables and accruals all mature within 1 year.
Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Company’s ﬁnancial instruments that are carried in 
the ﬁnancial statements.
Carrying amount Fair value
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Financial assets
Current
Other receivables (Note 16) 218.8 158.2 218.8 158.2 
Non-current
External cross currency swaps (Note 17) 15.0   16.4 15.0   16.4 
Financial liabilities 
Current
Current instalments due on bank loans (Note 19) – (65.5) – (65.5)
Non-current
Non-current instalments due on bank loans (Note 19) (61.7) – (61.7) – 
Loan notes (Note 19) (345.5) (298.2) (355.8) (286.9)
Cross currency swaps (Note 19) (8.7) (1.6) (8.7) (1.6)
Interest rate swaps (Note 19) –   (1.5) –   (1.5)
No other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
Other receivables comprise the net of all intercompany balances with Dairy Crest Limited. All intercompany balances are repayable on 
demand and are subject to interest based on LIBOR plus a margin with the exception of one intercompany receivable from Dairy Crest Limited 
of £263.6 million (2011: £197.6 million) on which interest is receivable at 5.0% (2011: 5.3%).
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 107
The numbers
31 Financial instruments continued
Interest rate swaps
The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 March 2012 was nil (2011: €74.0 million (£65.5 million)). 
Interest rate swaps were designated as cash ﬂow hedges and met the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2011 the ﬁxed interest rates 
varied from 4.045% to 4.053%. The ﬂoating rate of interest on the receipt leg of these swaps was EURIBOR. The hedged item was the 
interest cash ﬂows on €74.0 million of borrowings under the revolving credit facilities at ﬂoating EURIBOR – the margin was not hedged. 
Cross currency swaps 
External
The notional principal amount of the outstanding USD/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2012 was $318.0 million (£187 .5 million) 
(2011: $233.0 million, £133.0 million). These cross currency swaps have both legs at ﬁxed interest rates, are designated as cash ﬂow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2012 the ﬁxed interest rates varied from 3.863% to 5.315% (2011: 5.305% to 5.315%). The 
gain deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (operating costs) during the next one to ten years (being the life of the swaps).
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2012 was €75.0 million (£67.0 million) 
(2011: €75.0 million; £67.0 million). These cross currency swaps have both legs at ﬁxed interest rates, are designated as cash ﬂow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2012 and 2011 the ﬁxed interest rates varied from 4.955% to 5.180%. The loss deferred in 
equity will reverse in the income statement (operating costs) during the next two to three years (being the life of the swaps).
Intercompany
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP ﬂoating rate cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2012 with Group 
companies was €150.0 million (£125.0 million) (2011: €150.0 million (£132.8 million)). The Company receives EURIBOR and pays LIBOR. 
Intercompany cross currency swaps have not been designated as cash ﬂow hedges and any gain or loss arising on revaluation is credited or 
charged to the income statement. These swaps are used in order to minimise currency exchange risk in the Company and match the €149 
million (£124.2 million) of external Euro-denominated borrowings at 31 March 2012 (2011: €149 million; £131.9 million).
Borrowing facilities
The Company has undrawn committed long-term borrowing facilities available at 31 March 2012 of £223.8 million (2011: £274.4 million) in 
respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date. These undrawn facilities expire in October 2016 (2011: November 2011 
(£34.5 million) and July 2013 (£239.9 million)). 
32 Cash ﬂow from operating activities
 
Year ended
31 March 
2012
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2011
£m
(Loss)/proﬁt before taxation (10.1) 77.8 
Finance costs and other ﬁnance income 15.5 20.6 
Share of associate and joint ventures’ net loss 0.3 0.2 
Proﬁt on sale of controlling interest – (1.9)
Proﬁt on operations 5.7 96.7 
Depreciation 30.9 30.9 
Amortisation of internally generated intangible assets 3.2 3.6 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 9.1 8.7 
Exceptional items 80.2 (0.7)
Release of grants (0.6) (0.6)
Share based payments 2.4 1.3 
Proﬁt on disposal of depots (4.6) (1.8)
Proﬁt on disposal of plant and equipment (0.2) – 
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognized in the income statement (21.0) (21.7)
Increase in inventories (23.9) (10.8)
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 9.4 (14.3)
(Decrease)/increase in payables (6.1) 36.8 
Cash generated from operations 84.5 128.1 
No cash was generated from operations for the Company in the year ended 31 March 2012 (2011: nil). 108 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
33  Analysis of net debt
Group
At 1 April
2011
£m
Cash
ﬂow
£m
Non-cash
movement
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2012
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 49.9 29.6 – (0.1) 79.4 
Borrowings (current) (65.5) 63.7 – 1.8 – 
Borrowings (non-current) (298.2) (128.1) – 9.1 (417.2)
Finance leases (9.6) 2.4 – – (7.2)
Debt issuance costs – 3.0 (0.3) – 2.7 
  (323.4) (29.4) (0.3) 10.8 (342.3)
Debt issuance costs excluded – (3.0) 0.3 – (2.7)
Impact of cross-currency swaps* 11.8 – – (3.2) 8.6 
Net debt (311.6) (32.4) – 7.6 (336.4)
 
At 1 April
2010
£m
Cash ﬂow
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2011
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 20.0 29.9 – 49.9 
Borrowings (current) – (65.5) – (65.5)
Borrowings (non-current) (373.4) 65.5 9.7 (298.2)
Finance leases (11.8) 2.2 – (9.6)
  (365.2) 32.1 9.7 (323.4)
Cash included in disposal group 7.5 (7.5) – – 
Impact of cross-currency swaps* 20.5 – (8.7) 11.8 
Net debt (337.2) 24.6 1.0 (311.6)
* The Group and Company have $318 million and €75 million of loan notes against which cross-currency swaps have been put in place to ﬁx interest and principal 
repayments in Sterling (2011: $233 million and €75 million). Under IFRS, currency borrowings are retranslated into Sterling at year end exchange rates. The cross-
currency swaps are recorded at fair value (Note 31) and incorporate movements in both market exchange rates and interest rates. The Group deﬁnes net debt so as 
to include the effective Sterling liability where cross-currency swaps have been used to convert foreign currency borrowings into Sterling. The £8.6 million adjustment 
included above (2011: £11.8 million) converts the Sterling equivalent of Dollar and Euro loan notes from year end exchange rates (£263.1 million (2011: £211.7 million)) to 
the ﬁxed Sterling liability (£254.5 million (2011: £200.0 million)). This amount forms part of the overall swap fair value of £15.0 million (2011: £16.4 million) shown in Note 31.
Company 
At 1 April
2011
£m
Cash ﬂow
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2012
£m
Borrowings (current) (65.5) 63.7 1.8 – 
Borrowings (non-current) (298.2) (118.1) 9.1 (407.2)
  (363.7) (54.4) 10.9 (407.2)
Borrowings (non-current) – impact of cross-currency swaps 11.8 – (3.2) 8.6 
  (351.9) (54.4) 7.7 (398.6)
  
At 1 April
2010
£m
Cash ﬂow
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2011
£m
Borrowings (current) – (65.5) – (65.5)
Borrowings (non-current) (373.4) 65.5 9.7 (298.2)
  (373.4) – 9.7 (363.7)
Borrowings (non-current) – impact of cross-currency swaps 20.5 – (8.7) 11.8 
  (352.9) – 1.0 (351.9)
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 109
The numbers
34 Post balance sheet event
On 9 March 2012 the Group announced that it was undertaking a strategic review of its French branded spreads business St Hubert. This 
business forms part of the Spreads reportable segment.  Since its acquisition in January 2007, St Hubert has consistently increased its market 
share and proﬁtability. However, the Group has been unable to make additional synergistic acquisitions in Continental Europe as it envisaged 
at the time of acquisition and believes that greater value may be generated for shareholders through the consideration of all available options 
for the business. This review is ongoing and is evaluating all possible options available to maximise shareholder value including potential 
divestment. A disposal would reduce the Group’s debt and provide a number of alternatives including releasing some proceeds to 
shareholders, investing in our core business and making strategic acquisitions of branded dairy and chilled foods businesses in the UK. Any 
disposal would be likely to occur within the next 12 months and would be subject to shareholder approval.
35 Corporate information
The consolidated accounts of Dairy Crest Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 were authorised for issue in accordance with a 
resolution of the Directors on 23 May 2012 and the consolidated and Company balance sheets were signed on the Board’s behalf by Mr M 
Allen and Mr A S N Murray. Dairy Crest Group plc is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the United 
Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. 110 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc 
for the year ended 31 March 2012 which comprise the Consolidated 
Income Statement, Consolidated and Parent company Balance 
Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the 
Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity 
and the related notes 1 to 35. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that 
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union and, as regards the parent company ﬁnancial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have 
formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 56, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a 
true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable 
assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. In 
addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the 
annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for 
our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion:
 the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 
2012 and of the group’s loss for the year then ended;
 the group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
 the parent company ﬁnancial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 the ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006
In our opinion:
 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; 
 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial 
year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the ﬁnancial statements; and
 the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement 
set out on pages 50 to 56, with respect to internal control and 
risk management systems in relation to ﬁnancial reporting 
processes and about share capital structures is consistent with 
the ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to  
you if, in our opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law 
are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or 
 a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by 
the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 the directors’ statement, set out on page 46, in relation to going 
concern; and
 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 50 
to 56 relating to the company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code speciﬁed for our 
review; and
 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
directors’ remuneration.
Andrew Walton (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London
23 May 2012
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Dairy Crest Group plc Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 111
The numbers
Consolidated income statement summary
2008
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
Segment revenue
Cheese 255.5 244.2 260.0 223.1 229.6 
Spreads 234.5 284.2 277.7 285.5 328.7 
Dairies 1,067.6 1,108.2 1,081.2 1,089.8 1,069.0 
Other 12.1 11.0 10.8 6.1 4.8 
Group 1,569.7 1,647.6 1,629.7 1,604.5 1,632.1 
Segment proﬁt
Cheese 34.8 34.3 16.9 28.0 35.5 
Spreads 38.1 59.5 54.0 53.3 63.0 
Dairies 31.6 7.9 34.9 27.1 10.2 
Associates & joint ventures 7.7 7.3 0.1 (0.2) (0.3)
Group including share of joint ventures 112.2 109.0 105.9 108.2 108.4 
Less: share of associates & joint ventures (7.7) (7.3) (0.1) 0.2 0.3 
Group 104.5 101.7 105.8 108.4 108.7 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (9.0) (9.6) (9.2) (8.7) (9.1)
Exceptional items (21.1) (24.0) 2.0 (1.1) (93.9)
Proﬁt on disposal of joint venture – 50.4 2.0 – – 
Finance costs (26.2) (29.5) (22.4) (20.6) (21.0)
Other ﬁnance income/(charges) – pensions 10.1 6.9 (0.5) – 5.5 
Share of associates’ & joint ventures’ net (loss)/proﬁt 7.7 7.3 0.1 (0.2) (0.3)
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax 66.0 103.2 77.8 77.8 (10.1)
Adjusted proﬁt before tax 86.0 79.5 83.5 87.6 87.4 
 
Balance sheet summary
Property, plant & equipment, goodwill and intangibles, investments 817.8 837.1 794.4 800.6 713.9 
Inventories, receivables, payables, deferred income & provisions 98.2 86.8 43.7 21.9 45.8 
Total operating assets 916.0 923.9 838.1 822.5 759.7 
Financial instruments excluding amounts included in net debt 12.5 4.2 0.9 5.0 0.9
Tax (97.6) (92.0) (70.3) (90.3) (70.1)
Retirement obligations 31.6 (63.3) (142.4) (60.1) (79.8)
Disposal group held for sale (excluding cash) – – 3.7 – – 
Net debt (474.8) (415.8) (337.2) (311.6) (336.4)
Net assets 387.7 357.0 292.8 365.5 274.3 
Non-controlling interests (5.1) (4.7) (3.0) – – 
Shareholders’ equity 382.6 352.3 289.8 365.5 274.3 
        
Cash ﬂow summary
Generated from operating activities 108.4 129.1 145.9 128.1 84.5 
Dividends from joint ventures 7.3 2.9 0.1 – – 
Fixed asset investments (net of grants) (34.0) (49.3) (26.9) (48.5) (53.1)
  81.7 82.7 119.1 79.6 31.4 
Interest paid (22.9) (30.3) (22.1) (19.8) (23.6)
Taxation paid (6.7) (9.2) (10.5) (16.1) (14.1)
Dividends paid (30.8) (32.3) (24.3) (25.4) (26.5)
Purchase of businesses (7.8) (1.3) (1.9) (0.1) (12.3)
Other items (principally asset disposals) (37.3) 49.4 18.3 7.4 20.3 
Movement in net debt (23.8) 59.0 78.6 25.6 (24.8)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 41.1 56.8 40.6 43.2 (12.8)
Adjusted basic earnings per share (pence)* 51.7 45.0 44.5 47.1 49.4 
* Adjusted basic earnings per share excludes exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest.
Group ﬁnancial history 112 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012
Shareholders’ information
Company Registrar and shareholder enquiries
If you have administrative enquiries concerning your shareholdings  
in the Company, such as the loss of share certiﬁcates, change of 
address, dividend payment arrangements, amalgamation of 
accounts, please contact the Company’s registrar by writing  
to, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU or by telephone on (UK) 0871 664 9266. 
(Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras). Lines are open 
8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday. From overseas please  
call +44 800 181 4706.
Capita also provides online facilities for shareholders to check their 
holdings and update their details. Registering is easy, and there is  
no fee involved, simply access www.dairycrestshares.com
Payment of dividends
Shareholders may arrange to have their dividends paid directly into a 
bank or building society account using the Bankers Automated 
Clearing System (BACS). Bank mandate forms are available from 
Capita whose details appear above or you can register your 
mandate details online at www.dairycrestshares.com
Low cost share dealing service
If you do not have share dealing arrangements in place, Dairy Crest 
has a low cost share dealing service arranged by Capita Share 
Dealing Services. Shareholders wishing to use the service should 
either visit the Capita Share Dealing website at www.capitadeal.com 
or call 0871 664 0445 during London stock market hours. 
Gifting shares to charity
Shareholders who have a small holding of shares on the register 
whereby their value makes them uneconomic to sell, may donate 
these shares to charity under the Sharegift Scheme – administered 
by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation – a registered charity. Information 
can be found at www.sharegift.org Telephone: 020 7930 3737.
General information
General information about Dairy Crest can be found on our 
corporate website, www.dairycrest.co.uk
Investors who have questions relating to the Group’s business 
activities should contact: 
Investor Relations, Dairy Crest Group plc, Claygate House, 
Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN
Telephone: 01372 472200
e-mail: investorrelations@dairycrest.co.uk
Financial calendar
Dividends Final
Ex-dividend Wednesday 20 June 2012
Record date Friday 22 June 2012 
Payment date Thursday 2 August 2012
Group results (Anticipated)
Half Year (Interims) November 2012
Preliminary Announcement 
of 2012/13 results May 2013
2012/13 Report and Accounts 
circulation June 2013
Analysis of ordinary shareholders at 22 May 2012
Holders
Number % Shares %
Category
Individuals and other holders 18,296 87.42 30,362,524 22.77
Insurance companies, pension funds, banks,
   nominees and limited companies 2,632 12.58 102,995,408 77.23
20,928100.00 133,357,932 100.00
Size of holdings
Up to 5,000 shares 19,277 92.11 25,893,885 19.42
5,001 – 20,000 shares 1,375 6.57 10,457,350 7.84
20,001 – 100,000 shares 158 0.76 6,919,067 5.19
Over 100,000 shares 118 0.56 90,087,630 67.55
20,928100.00 133,357,932 100.00  This report is printed on Hello Silk paper. 
This paper has been independently certified as meeting the 
standards of the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) and was 
manufactured at a mill that is certified to the ISO14001 and 
EMAS environmental standards. 
The inks used are all vegetable based.
Printed at Pureprint.
Designed and produced by Tor Pettersen & Partners.
Photographic direction by Hudson Wright Associates.
Board photography by Ed Hill.  Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey KT10 9PN
Company No: 3162897
Visit our website at 
www.dairycrest.co.uk
http://investor.dairycrest.co.uk
