 Dairy Crest Group plc 
Annual Report 2013 Report of the Directors
Notice : Limitations on Director liability –  
Pages 2 to 56 inclusive of this document comprise 
the Report of the Directors which has been prepared 
and presented in accordance with and in reliance 
upon English company law and liabilities of the 
Directors in connection with that report shall be 
subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by 
such law. English company law also provides a safe 
harbour limiting the liability of Directors in respect of 
statements in and omissions from the Report of the 
Directors contained on pages 2 to 56. The purpose 
of the Annual Report and the Report of the Directors 
contained in it is to provide information to members 
of the Company. The Company, its Directors, 
employees, agents and advisers do not accept or 
assume responsibility to any other person to whom 
this document is shown or into whose hands it 
may come and any such responsibility or liability is 
expressly disclaimed.
Cautionary statement regarding forward 
looking statements – The Group’s reports including 
this document and written information released or 
oral statements made to the public in future, by or 
on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking 
statements. By their nature, these statements involve 
uncertainty since future events and circumstances 
can cause results to differ materially from those 
anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect 
knowledge and information available at the time of 
their preparation and, except to the extent required 
by applicable regulations or by law, the Group 
undertakes no obligation to update these forward-
looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report 
should be construed as a profit forecast. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 1
Contents
Overview Governance Business review The numbers
  THE NUMBERS
 57 Independent auditor’s report
 58 Consolidated income statement
 59 Consolidated statement
  of comprehensive income
 60 Consolidated and Parent
  Company balance sheets
 61 Consolidated statement
  of changes in equity
 62 Parent Company statement
  of changes in equity
 63 Consolidated and Parent
  Company statement of cash flows
 64 Accounting policies
 70 Notes to the financial statements
 113 Group financial history
 1 14 Shareholders’ information
  OVERVIEW
Who we are and what we do
 2 At a glance
 4 Our vision, values and measures
 6 Going where consumers take us
 8 Our people
 10 The Directors
 12 Management team
 13  Chairman’ s statement
 14  Chief Executive’s review
 16 Principal risks and uncertainties
  BUSINESS REVIEW
The business in detail
 18 Spreads
 20 Cheese
 22 Dairies
 24 Milk Procurement
 26 Corporate Responsibility
 30 Financial review
  GOVERNANCE
  34 Corporate governance
 41 Directors’ remuneration report
 53 Additional statutory information
 56 Statement of Directors’
  responsibilities
Good through & through
Dairy Crest Group plc is the largest UK-owned dairy food 
company. We process and market nutritious fresh milk and 
branded dairy products. The Company has a clear strategy,  
a strong vision, robust values and good people. 
 In a transformational year we have sold our French spreads 
business to focus on the UK; rationalised our Dairies business; 
introduced an innovative new milk purchase contract for our 
farmers that provides greater transparency and reduces 
volatility and initiated a process to move to one business 
structure focusing on consumer driven growth and an 
integrated supply chain.
 We are a responsible business and have been shortlisted  
to be Business in the Community’s Company of the Year 2013.
 Dairy Crest is well positioned to generate growth which will 
benefit everyone associated with the business. 2 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
At a glance
Divisions
Spreads revenue
14% 37%
Spreads proﬁt
48% 17%
Cheese revenue Cheese proﬁt
69% 15%
Dairies revenue Dairies proﬁt
*% of total Group (excluding associates 
and other revenue)
Dairy Crest produces leading 
spreads and butter brands at two 
factories in the UK. These brands 
have strong distribution through 
retailers. We focus on two key  
brands Clover and Country Life.
% of total Group 
(excluding associates and other revenue)
Dairy Crest has the leading cheese 
brand in the UK, Cathedral City, 
and a world-class cheese supply 
chain. Cathedral City is made at our 
Davidstow creamery in Cornwall from 
milk supplied by local dairy farmers. 
The cheese is matured, cut and 
wrapped at our purpose-built facility  
in Nuneaton from where it is 
despatched to retailers. We also have 
a smaller cheese packing facility at 
Frome, Somerset which provides the 
business with additional flexibility.
We process and deliver fresh 
conventional, organic and flavoured 
milk to major retailers, ‘middle ground’ 
customers including smaller retailers, 
coffee shops and hospitals and 
residential customers.
 We also manufacture and sell FRijj, 
the leading fresh flavoured milk brand, 
cream and milk powders.
Vision
•	We are proud of our links to the countryside, our dairy heritage 
and the part they play in everyday life
•	We want to earn the right to consumers’ loyalty by providing 
healthy, enjoyable, convenient products
•	We aim to meet consumers’ needs and go where this takes us
•	As we grow, we will look after our people and the communities 
where we work
Dairy Crest is the largest UK-owned dairy company, processing 
and selling fresh milk and branded dairy products in the UK
Strategy
•	To build market-leading positions in branded and added 
value markets
•	To focus on cost reduction and efficiency improvements
•	To improve quality of earnings and reduce risk
•	To generate organic growth and to make acquisitions and 
disposals where they will generate value
•	
On-going growth for Cathedral City  
ahead of market
•	
Recent innovation, Chedds and 
Selections, delivering growth  
and widening appeal
•	
Good progress with premium  
Davidstow brand
•	
Improved second half margins from  
actions taken to restore profitability
•	
FRijj sales up 5% in strongly  
growing market
•	
Cost savings will contribute  
to future profit growth
•	
Clover and Country Life, our two  
key brands in this sector, both  
increased value and volume share 
•	
MH Foods, maker of Frylight  
one-cal cooking spray, purchased  
in 2011, is making good progress
•	
Efficiency improvements –  
Production of Clover moved from 
Crudgington to Kirkby in the year  
and project underway to close 
Crudgington in 2014
Highlights
Spreads Cheese Dairies
Contribution to Group
Who we are
72236_Glasshouse_p01-p17.indd   2 05/06/2013   10:35 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 3
09 10 11 12 13
Segment proﬁt** 
(£m)
Revenue 
(£m)
415.8
337.2
311.6
336.4
59.7
Net debt
(£m)
09 10 11 12 13
1,555.5
1,530.6
1,502.2
1,514.7
1,381.6
09 10 11 12 13
79.0
71.4
73.5
68.6
69.3
Dairy is one of the 
largest food categories 
worth £10bn
*
**
Before exceptionals 
and amortisation of 
acquired intangibles
Total grocery £98bn
Dairy
£10bn
*
From Kantar – 
52 weeks ended 
24 March 2013
Overview
Chard
Severnside
Chadwell Heath
Hanworth
Foston
Crewe
Whitland
Nuneaton
Frome
Davidstow
Kirkby
Crudgington
Erith
Key
Spreads
Cheese
Dairies
No1 UK 
dairy spread
No1 UK 
branded cheese
Production sites
Country Life milk Fresh milk to 
retailers
Doorstep delivery 
– ‘milk&more’
No1 flavoured 
milk drink
Spreads
Cheese
Dairies
Markets Financial highlights
Dairy Crest has consolidated 
its organisation into a 
single structure focused on 
consumer driven growth with 
an integrated supply chain  4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Our vision, values and measures
Our values Value measures
Improve our employee 
survey results
Our profit will grow every year
10% of our annual turnover will 
come from consumer innovation. 
Internal innovation will reduce our 
cost base every year
Improve our Corporate 
Responsibility survey results
WE RESPECT
We value our people and are 
stronger together
WE LISTEN
Consumers are at the heart of 
our business
WE LEAD
We value success and strive 
to be the best
WE CREATE
We constantly look for new and 
better ways of doing things
WE CARE
We act responsibly with a 
passion to do the right thing
Grow share of our consumers’ 
purse and be Number 1 or 2 in 
the markets we serve
We have created a strong vision and 
robust values for the business.  
We have value measures supported  
by key performance indicators that  
give a clear indication of progress 
We do not expect to achieve every 
value measure every year, but by 
making it clear what our targets are we 
believe that we have set a framework 
that will help us deliver continuous 
improvements in performance Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 5
Report of the Directors
Key brand Market
Market
rank
Brand
growth
2012/13*
Market
growth
2012/13*
Cathedral City UK Cheese No1 branded cheese 5% 2%
Clover UK Butter, Spreads, Margarine No1 dairy spread -1% -3%
Country Life UK Butter, Spreads, Margarine No3 UK butter 1% -3%
FRijj Flavoured milk No1 flavoured milk drink 5% 10%
*Nielsen data 52 weeks to 30/03/13
Our vision, values and measures
Key performance indicators
For further 
information
Employee  
survey results*:
Our people p8
Business review 
p18
Financial review 
p30
368
343
Milk processed per employee 
(000 litres)
47.5
50.6
Adjusted proﬁt 
before tax (£m)
13
12
13
12
Business review 
p18
368
343
Milk processed per employee 
(000 litres)
47.5
50.6
Adjusted proﬁt 
before tax (£m)
13
12
13
12
5% of total 
2012/13 revenue 
from innovation in 
the last three years
9% of 2012/13 
key brand revenue 
from innovation in 
the last three years
Cost base – new 
initiatives in 2012/13 
delivered £23m 
annualised savings
Corporate 
Responsibility 
report p26
Received a BITC Platinum 
Big Tick Award in 
2013 and shortlisted to be BITC’s 
Company of the Year 2013
Overall employee engagement score 
56%. 
Compares to UK-wide average engagement 
decrease of three points to 48% 
Response rate 
88%
* Next survey due in 
September 2013
2013 Corporate 
Responsibility 
survey results:
Overview
We are proud of 
our links to the 
countryside, our 
dairy heritage and 
the part these play 
in everyday life 
We want to earn 
consumers’ loyalty 
by providing 
healthy, enjoyable, 
convenient 
products
We aim to meet 
consumers’ needs 
and go where this 
takes us
As we grow, we 
look after our 
people and the 
communities in 
which we work
Our vision 
72236_Glasshouse_p01-p17.indd   5 04/06/2013   02:19 A key part of our Vision is that we listen to consumers and react as their needs change.  
We have recently completed a project to gain a deeper understanding of the dairy category  
in UK supermarkets which accounts for over  
£10 billion of shopper purchases each year.
To do this we have analysed market data, interviewed shoppers at the point of purchase and  
held discussion groups to refine findings and recommendations.
Dairy products are consumed by 99% of all UK households which each spend £386 per year  
on them.
Going where consumers take us
14 million litres of 
milk are sold in the 
UK every day
Cheese features in 
over 5.5 billion meals 
in the UK every year
The average 
household in the UK 
buys cream 12 times 
a year
29 packs of butter 
and spreads are 
bought in the UK 
every second
Report of the Directors
6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Bringing dairy to life – from a shopper’s perspective
We have known for some time that 
consumers want us to help them:
Our recent work has led us to add a fourth 
driver in response to growing eco-ethical 
issues. Consumers also want us to help them:
•	 	 lead a healthier life through the diet 
they eat (healthy life)
•  find enjoyment and pleasure from 
their food (pleasure)
•  create wholesome tasty meals and 
snacks (making life easier)
•	 	 t o 	 b e 	 m o r e 	 e c o -e t h i c al ly 	 r e s p o n s i b l e	
(responsible consumption) What shoppers also told us is that there is a 
disconnect between the pleasure of 
consuming dairy and the chore of shopping 
for it. Dairy lives in the field, the farm and the 
home but not in supermarkets. We have 
made recommendations that we believe will 
change this and help the dairy category 
realise its full potential.
A summary of these are:
Shoppers understand and believe in the 
inherent goodness of dairy products. We 
should accentuate the positive messages and 
defend against negative perspectives in a 
more confident manner.
People love to consume dairy products.  
We need to remind them of this while they  
are shopping by using emotive imagery  
and descriptions. Product tasting and  
trial opportunities are also a good way of 
doing this.
Shoppers are hungry for advice and 
information. We need to provide product 
information in shops and on packs as well  
as quick and easy recipe suggestions and 
usage advice.
Many shoppers want to try something new 
and different but are wary about doing so. 
We need to provide opportunities for 
shoppers to become more adventurous  
while at the same time minimising the risk  
for them when they try something new.
Milk is happily seen as a planned top-up item 
because it is available everywhere.
Cheese is generally recognised as being 
good value despite it being one of the most 
expensive items in most shopping trolleys.
Spreads shoppers generally have a favourite 
brand and most have alternative brands that 
they will buy more reluctantly.
Some mums see flavoured milk as a ‘slightly 
better for you’ treat.
Consumers are at the  
heart of our business
Report of the Directors
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 7
Get the taste buds working  
for shoppers
Celebrate dairy
Encourage experimentation
What do shoppers think about 
shopping for milk and dairy 
products?
Engage and educate shoppers
Overview
72236_Glasshouse_p01-p17.indd   7 04/06/2013   19:59 Our people
We organised workshops for unemployed youngsters at two 
of our sites, outlining the types of careers available in the dairy 
industry, alongside some practice and coaching on how to 
perform best at selection interviews.
 It has, however, also been a challenging year for many  
Dairy Crest staff. Over the course of the last 12 months we have 
restructured our business to ensure we are better placed to 
drive growth and create a more integrated, efficient supply chain. 
Where these changes have resulted in the reduction of roles or 
the closure of factories, we have supported staff with a range of 
tools and services which have helped them find alternative roles 
inside and outside of Dairy Crest.
Diversity
We are committed to providing an inclusive working environment 
where everyone feels valued and respected. We recognise that 
people from different backgrounds, experiences and abilities 
can bring fresh ideas and innovations to improve our working 
practices and business, delivering commercial benefit and 
ultimately, shareholder value.
 We believe that for people to be the most productive they 
need to achieve an appropriate work-life balance and we believe 
any employee, regardless of their position, location, role or length 
of service should feel that they are treated flexibly in their ways  
of working.
 Our aim is to have a fully diverse workforce that reflects the 
communities where we operate. Employees are encouraged to 
reach their full potential regardless of their age, gender, marital 
status (including civil partnerships), disability, nationality, colour, 
ethnic origin, sexual orientation or religious affiliation. Dairy Crest 
does not tolerate discrimination or harassment on any of these 
grounds. As a major food business we believe that having a 
diverse workforce is advantageous as it ensures we are well 
placed to understand the diverse group of people that consume 
our products, and grow a more talented workforce.
 To help us achieve these aims we have in place maternity, 
paternity and adoption leave policies and benefits that are above 
the statutory norm; we actively promote our flexible working 
policy and we give staff the opportunity of taking sabbaticals, 
secondments and to participate in community volunteering. To 
ensure that our employees are kept up to date with our Diversity 
work, we have pages dedicated to this on our employee intranet, 
which includes monthly updates on our employee statistics on 
gender, age and working patterns.
Helping staff reach their potential
Attracting and retaining a talented workforce is vital to our future 
success. To achieve this we offer staff a wide range of training and 
development opportunities that reach out to all levels and teams.
 Highlights in 2012 included the introduction of an engineering 
apprenticeship scheme which complements our food technologist 
apprenticeship programme and the formal processing and 
manufacturing qualification delivered by Reaseheath College. In 
addition, we developed an online assessment tool to enhance the 
development of our depot managers, which allowed us to target 
our development in the right areas.
 With so many staff not office or factory based and often 
working different shift patterns, online development plays a key 
part in our learning offerings. Our online learning facility, ‘my 
e-learning’, gives everyone within Dairy Crest access to over 
100 training courses at any time of the day. Through this portal 
employees can access subjects such as customer care, health  
& safety, Microsoft Office, pre-retirement and finance. To date, the 
courses have been accessed by 2,017 people.
2,017
employees have accessed the new 
e-learning portal
Personal development plans are in place throughout the 
Company, and since 2011 the vast majority of staff benefit from 
being part of a bonus scheme that is linked to their performance, 
our values and the results of the business. 
 We continue to invest in succession planning and through 
our talent management processes we have identified employees 
who have the potential to do bigger or different jobs. We have 
established an internal mentoring programme to support our 
high potential population and maintain an on-going focus on their 
career plans. In addition, we have created career maps for the 
business to help people with their career choices.
 As well as investing in our employees, we also played a central 
role in delivering the IGD’s ‘Feeding Britain’s Future’ programme, 
the objective of which was to provide skills training to young 
people so as to enhance their prospects of gaining employment 
and to promote the benefits of a career in the food industry. 
We value our people  
and are stronger together
8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors Overview
Listening to staff
Through our employee survey we gather the views of our staff 
on a range of areas including: strategy and leadership; values 
and corporate responsibility; customers and quality; learning, 
development and teamwork; wellbeing and recognition; and 
workplace environment. 
 The latest employee survey carried out in January 2012 
resulted in a 2% increase in employee engagement with 88% 
of staff participating in the survey. The results of the survey 
have been used to create action plans that have been rolled out 
across the business. The next staff survey will take place  
in September 2013.
 We are committed to ensuring that staff don’t just know 
what is happening across our business but that they are the first 
to know what is happening across our business.
 To achieve this, we have in place tailored staff briefings called 
Team Talk that regularly take place at each of our places of work. 
We publish a weekly ‘Comms Round Up’, a quarterly business 
briefing which highlights our financial performance and we 
continue to develop and expand our staff website, ‘The Gardens’, 
which is accessible at work either through employees’ computers 
or in the case of our factories, via a free internet cafe. Staff can 
also access ‘The Gardens’ from home through their private 
internet connection. CEO Mark Allen regularly visits manufacturing 
sites and depots, hosting employee Q&A sessions and all staff are 
able to email Mark via a specially set up email address.
Road shows 2012
The key messages that came out of the staff survey we carried 
out in 2012 were that employees wanted to know more about 
what our business strategy is, how Dairy Crest is performing 
in the challenging economic environment and the role that 
staff have in achieving that strategy. To ensure we successfully 
answered these questions, our most senior business managers 
carried out 263 road shows which every member of staff was 
invited to attend. The results of the road shows were very 
positive with the vast majority of staff taking up the invitation 
and almost two thirds of attendees saying that they would work 
differently as a result of them. Overall satisfaction rates were high 
with 73% rating the sessions as either excellent or very good. 
Whistle blowing hotline
We have a confidential whistleblower hotline, which provides a 
mechanism for the reporting of illegal activity or the misuse of 
Dairy Crest assets, while protecting the staff that make such 
reports from retaliation. 
Reward and recognition
We believe an engaged staff is directly linked to being a 
successful and productive company. For this reason, we are 
delighted to report that through our reward and recognition 
scheme, last year 595 members of staff were nominated by their 
colleagues for a recognition award and that 26% of employees 
chose to participate in our latest Sharesave Scheme.
595
staff nominated by colleagues for a 
recognition award
During 2012 we successfully re-launched our voluntary benefits 
program, MyRewards with our partners, the Personal Group. 
Supported by a dedicated and Dairy Crest branded website, 
over a third of our employees regularly use the site and have 
saved themselves over £12,000 on purchases, ranging from their 
weekly shop to a foreign holiday. The re-launch also includes 
access to an innovative and leading edge second opinion 
welfare benefit with ‘Best Doctors’.
 2012/13 has seen some major changes in the provision 
of pension benefits with the introduction of auto-enrolment. 
Dairy Crest has been working collaboratively with its Pensions 
Communication and Consultation Forum (PCCF) to comply 
with the new responsibilities under Workplace Pension Auto-
enrolment legislation and, as a consequence, over half our 
employees have been entered into a new section of our 
Stakeholder scheme to meet the statutory obligations and to 
help them build for their future.
Overview
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 9
Feeding 
Britain’s 
Future
Feeding 
Britain’s 
Future
Dairy Crest 
is proud to 
support skills 
for work week
Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey KT10 9PN
Company No: 3162897
www.dairycrest.co.uk 10 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Executive Directors
4
Dairy Crest is led by an experienced Board of Directors, 
which today comprises three Executive Directors, one 
Non-executive Chairman and four independent Non-
executive Directors. Together the Executive Directors 
have over 30 years experience of the business.
 The Board sets strategy and monitors progress. 
Day-to-day matters are the responsibility of the 
Management Board, which today comprises the three 
Executive Directors, the Company Secretary & General 
Counsel and five other senior managers.
*
 Audit Committee Member
† Remuneration Committee Member
‡ Nomination Committee Member
◊ Corporate Responsibility  
Committee Member
∆ Management Board Member
# Not a Board Member
1. Mark Allen
Chief Executive ◊ ∆
Appointed a Director in 2002 and became Chief 
Executive in January 2007. He joined Dairy Crest in 
August 1991. He was formerly with Shell UK Ltd. He 
is Chairman of The Prince’s Rural Action Programme 
and a Trustee for The Prince’s Countryside Fund. He 
is Vice Chairman of Dairy UK and a Non-executive 
Director of Howdens Joinery Plc.
2. Alastair Murray 
Finance Director (Up to 23/5/13) ◊ ∆
Appointed in September 2003. He was Finance 
Director of The Body Shop International plc from 
January 1999 and was previously Finance Director 
of Dalgety Food Ingredients Limited. He steps down 
from the Board on 23 May 2013.
3. Tom Atherton 
Finance Director (From 23/5/13) ◊ ∆
Appointed from 23 May 2013. A Chartered 
Accountant who has worked for Dairy Crest for over  
7 years, the last 4 as Director of Financial Control. He 
has previously held senior finance positions in Logica 
plc and Thorn plc.
4. Martyn Wilks 
Executive Managing Director ◊ ∆
Appointed in January 2008. He was President of 
the Snackfood Division of Mars USA, and has held 
other senior management positions within Mars 
Incorporated including Managing Director of Mars, 
France, and Global Vice President for Sales and 
Marketing. Martyn is also currently an Appointed Non-
executive Director of England Netball, the governing 
body for the sport.
3
2
1 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 11
Non-Executive Directors and Advisers
Overview
8 9 10
5 6 7
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
Solicitors
Eversheds LLP
Principal Bankers 
The Royal Bank  
of Scotland plc
Rabobank 
International, 
London Branch 
Lloyds TSB plc
Santander UK plc
Corporate Brokers
J. P. Morgan 
Cazenove
Jefferies Hoare 
Govett
Registered Office
Claygate House, 
Littleworth Road, 
Esher, Surrey  
KT10 9PN
Registered in  
England
No. 3162897
Board and main Committee meetings
The following Directors held office during the year. The number of Board and Committee meetings 
attended by Directors in the year is shown in the table below. The numbers in brackets show the 
maximum number of meetings Directors could have attended during 2012/13.
1  Stephen Alexander was appointed chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee on 18 May 2012.
2  Sue Farr was appointed a member of the Remuneration and 
Corporate Responsibility Committees on 18 May 2012.
3  Richard Macdonald was appointed Senior Independent Director 
on 18 May 2012.
4  Howard Mann stood down from the Board and all Committees 
on 18 May 2012.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CR Management Board
Mr A Fry 15(15) – – 2(2) – –
Mr M Allen 15(15) – – – 3(3) 37(39)
Mr A Murray 13(15) – – – 3(3) 36(39)
Mr M Wilks 15(15) – – – 3(3) 36(39)
Mr S Alexander 
1
15(15) 4(4) 6(6) 2(2) – –
Mr A Carr-Locke 14(15) 4(4) 6(6) 2(2) – –
Ms S Farr 
2
11(15) – 4(5) – 2(3) –
Mr R Macdonald 
3
14(15) 3(3) – – 3(3) –
Mr H Mann 
4
 3(4) 1(1) 1(1) – – –
5. Anthony Fry 
Chairman ‡
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in July 2007, 
as Chairman on 1 January 2010 and as chairman of 
the Nomination Committee in May 2011. Until March 
2011 he was Senior Adviser of Evercore Partners in 
the firm’s London office. He has previously held senior 
appointments at Lehman Brothers, Credit Suisse and 
the Rothschild Group in a career in merchant banking 
which has spanned more than 30 years. In November 
2010 he was appointed Chairman of Cala Group 
Limited and in November 2012 he was appointed 
Senior Adviser to the Board of Espirito Santo Investment 
Bank. He will become Chairman of the Premier League 
on 1 June 2013 and is a Non-executive Director of 
Control Risks, Twig Europe and the BBC Trust, from 
which he will shortly be retiring. He is on a number 
of advisory boards and has served on the boards of 
Mowlem, The British Standards Institution and Southern 
Water as well as numerous not-for-profit organisations.
8. Sue Farr
Non-Executive Director † ◊
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 
2011. She is a member of the Executive Management 
Team of Chime Communications PLC, a position she 
has held since 2003. She has extensive marketing 
communications experience, having served as 
Marketing Director of the BBC for 7 years, Director 
of Corporate Affairs, Thames Television for 3 years 
and Director of Corporate Communications, Vauxhall 
Motors. She is a Trustee of the Historic Royal Palaces 
and a Non-executive Director of Motivcom plc.
6. Stephen Alexander
Non-Executive Director 
*
 † ‡
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in January 
2011 and chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
in May 2012. He is Chairman of Immediate Media 
Company Ltd, an Operating Partner at OpCapita 
LLP and Chairman of Look Ahead Housing and 
Care. Previously Chairman of Maltby Capital Ltd 
(parent company of EMI Group), Chairman of Odeon 
Cinemas, Chief Executive of Hillsdown Holdings Ltd 
and held senior positions with Allied Domecq PLC 
and Imperial Foods. He was also Senior Independent 
Director at Devro plc.
9. Richard Macdonald
Non-Executive Director 
*
 ◊
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 
2010, chairman of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee in May 2011 and Senior Independent 
Director in May 2012. He had a 30 year career with 
the National Farmers Union, serving as Director 
General for 13 years. He is a Non-executive Director 
of Moy Park Limited and Chairman of DEFRA’s Better 
Regulation Task Force. He is also a Governor of The 
Royal Agricultural College Cirencester, Vice Chairman 
of the National Institute of Agricultural Botany and will 
become Chairman of Farm Africa on 26 June 2013.
7. Andrew Carr-Locke
Non-Executive Director 
*
 † ‡
Appointed as a Non-executive Director and chairman 
of the Audit Committee in August 2009. A Fellow of 
the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, 
he has previously held senior finance positions at 
Courtaulds Textiles, Diageo, Bowater Scott and 
Kodak and was Group Finance Director at George 
Wimpey plc until 2007. He has previously held 
non-executive directorships at Royal Mail Holdings, 
Venture Production and AWG. In April 2010 he 
was appointed Executive Chairman of Countryside 
Properties PLC.
10. Robin Miller
Company Secretary & General 
Counsel ◊ ∆ #
Appointed in April 2008. He is a solicitor having 
worked in private practice and in-house in both retail 
and international manufacturing, latterly with Gallaher 
Group Plc. 12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Management Board
13
12
11
Day-to-day matters are the 
responsibility of the Management 
Board, which currently comprises 
the three Executive Directors, the 
Company Secretary, the Group 
Procurement Director, the Group 
Supply Chain Director and the 
Group HR Director. Other senior 
managers attend by invitation. 
The Management Board normally 
meets weekly.
◊ Corporate Responsibility  
Committee Member
∆ Management Board Member
11. Mike Sheldon 
Group Procurement Director ∆
Mike joined Dairy Crest from PepsiCo 20 years ago. 
He has held several senior management positions 
within the business including, most recently, Managing 
Director of the Customer Direct division. He took up 
his current role in 2012.
12. Mike Barrington 
Group Supply Chain Director ∆
Before joining Dairy Crest in 2011, Mike held senior 
management positions with Cadbury Schweppes 
and Kraft Foods, latterly Manufacturing Director for 
Cadbury in the UK & Ireland. Mike joined Dairy Crest 
as Supply Chain Director, Dairies and was appointed 
to his current role in April 2013.
13. Robert Willock 
Group HR Director ◊ ∆
Robert joined Dairy Crest 7 years ago as HR Director, 
Dairies from The Maersk Company where he was 
Director of Human Resources. He was appointed to 
his current role in April 2013. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 13
Chairman’s statement
we operate. Balancing these groups’ different 
interests is never easy, especially at times 
when the need to make change is at its 
greatest, but the clarity provided by our Vision 
and Values helps us make the right decisions. 
Corporate responsibility
Dairy Crest is a responsible business and has 
demonstrated its commitment to corporate 
responsibility by improving its Business in 
the Community rating from Gold to Platinum 
Big Tick in the year, the only food business 
to achieve this prestigious ranking. We are 
also delighted to have been shortlisted to 
be Business in the Community’s Company 
of the Year 2013. During the year we 
have focused our corporate responsibility 
commitments on 40 pledges, making it 
easier to align our corporate responsibility 
and commercial strategies. 
Employee, Board and other senior 
management changes
The transformation overseen by the Board 
has resulted in a smaller workforce which 
has reduced by around 20% over the 
year. As a responsible employer, we have 
endeavoured to support people who have 
left the business as best we can. On behalf 
of the Board I would like to thank all of them 
and all of the people who continue to work 
for Dairy Crest directly or indirectly for the 
contribution they have made to the success 
of the Group.
 On 23 May 2013, after nearly ten years 
as Finance Director, Alastair Murray will 
leave to pursue other business interests. In 
his time with Dairy Crest, Alastair has been 
a Finance Director of the highest quality 
with an excellent reputation both within the 
business and outside. He leaves Dairy Crest 
with our very best wishes for the future. 
 Alastair’s successor as Finance Director 
is Tom Atherton who has been Dairy Crest’s 
Director of Financial Control for the past four 
Against the background of a trading 
environment which remained extremely 
challenging, this was a transformational year 
for Dairy Crest. The Board has overseen 
the sale of our French spreads business, 
St Hubert; a rationalisation of our Dairies 
business; a reorganisation of our head office 
and support functions; and the introduction 
of a ground-breaking milk supply contract 
which initiated a new relationship between 
the business and its supplying dairy farmers.
 At the same time, in line with our 
established long-term strategy, we have 
continued to support our key brands and 
drive costs out of the business.
 We finish the year in a much improved 
financial position and with a clear plan 
for growth which will benefit everyone 
associated with the business.
Well-established Vision and Values 
The Group’s well-established Vision and 
Values continue to provide the Board with a 
framework in which to operate. They reflect 
the fact that consumers come first for Dairy 
Crest and that we are well aware of our 
links to rural Britain and the responsibility 
we have to our farmers, our employees, our 
franchisees and the communities in which 
years and has worked for Dairy Crest for 
over seven years in total. 
 In addition, Toby Brinsmead, who was 
Managing Director of the Dairies business 
before we reorganised into a unified 
structure, left the business earlier this month. 
I thank him for all he has done, in particular 
for his important work in creating a more 
focused Dairies business.
Increased dividend recommended
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 15.0 pence per share, making a full year 
dividend of 20.7 pence, up 1.5% from last 
year. This dividend is covered 1.4 times by 
adjusted basic earnings per share. 
 The reorganisation of our balance 
sheet since the year end will lower interest 
charges and result in an improved dividend 
cover in the future. The Board has reviewed 
its dividend policy and, given the Group’s 
improved cash position, is of the view that, 
going forward, the current progressive 
dividend policy should be maintained and the 
target cover range should be 1.5 to 2.5 times.
Summary
We have made significant progress this 
year through disciplined execution of our 
strategy. Dairy Crest is now a simpler, more 
focused business which is well positioned 
to generate growth and good returns for 
shareholders.
Anthony Fry Chairman
22 May 2013
Overview
Ongoing growth for Cathedral City 
ahead of market
Clover and Country Life both gained 
market share
Innovation driving added value sales: 
5% of total revenue and 9% of key 
brand revenue generated from products 
introduced in the last three years
Continued focus on costs: £23 million 
annualised cost savings delivered in 
2012/13, with a further £20 million 
identified for 2013/14 
BITC Platinum Big Tick Award reflects 
ongoing strong Corporate Responsibility 
commitment
Adjusted profit before tax is up 7%  
to £50.6 million
Year end net debt is down 82%  
to £60 million
Post year end restructuring of  
balance sheet reduces future  
interest charges
Post year end additional £40 million  
cash contribution to the pension  
fund reduces exposure
Proposed final dividend is up 2%
Successful sale of St Hubert 
has refocused the business 
on the UK
Process is underway to move 
to one business structure 
focusing on consumer driven 
growth and an integrated 
supply chain
Innovative new milk price 
formula introduced to  
help farmers and sustain 
milk supply
Operating highlights Financial highlights Strategic highlights 14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
extended our major liquid milk contract with 
Sainsbury’s through to 2017 and reduced our 
exposure to less profitable contracts. 
 Last year we set a medium-term target 
of a 3% return on sales for this business. 
Despite the additional support we provided 
to our farmers in the year, we have made 
some progress towards our target. Second 
half margins, which are usually higher than 
those in the first half, rose to 1.7%.
St Hubert
It was not an easy decision to sell St 
Hubert. This was a strong business that 
had performed extremely well under 
Dairy Crest’s ownership and had made a 
significant contribution to the profitability of 
the business. However it did not provide 
the platform for further expansion into 
continental Europe that we anticipated.
 The successful disposal of St Hubert 
has reduced significantly the Group’s 
gearing. Following the sale, our year end net 
debt is at its lowest level since 2000. This 
strong position has allowed us to reduce our 
exposure to the pension fund by making a 
one-off contribution of £40 million subsequent 
to the year end and provides us with exciting 
opportunities to invest for growth.
Market background
The year has seen generally lower food 
consumption reflecting fragile consumer 
confidence. 
 Changes elsewhere in the market place 
have left us as the largest UK-owned dairy 
foods company. We are proud to be in this 
position and recognise the onus it places 
on us to provide leadership to the UK dairy 
sector. We have fulfilled this role by being the 
first major milk buyer to fully implement the 
Government’s voluntary code of practice for 
milk supply contracts and by introducing a 
formula based milk purchasing contract. We 
Chief Executive’s review
Summary
This has been an important 
year in the history of Dairy 
Crest. The transformational sale 
of our French spreads 
business, St Hubert, resulted in 
proceeds of £341 million and 
generated a post-tax profit of 
£47 .7 million. This sale and 
subsequent reorganisation of 
our balance sheet leaves us 
well placed to meet the 
challenges of the tough 
consumer environment and to 
invest in growth in the UK. 
Taken together our four key brands have 
increased their value market share. This 
is a solid performance and reflects our 
consistent strategic focus on brand equity 
and innovation.
 A sustainable supply of milk is of vital 
importance to Dairy Crest. In the face of 
some of the most challenging weather 
ever experienced by our farmers, and 
higher feed costs that have put pressure 
on their businesses, we were first to adopt 
a government-sponsored voluntary code 
of practice. In addition, we increased 
the milk prices we paid to farmers and 
introduced a ground-breaking contract 
which allowed them to opt for a formulaic 
milk price mechanism that provides greater 
transparency and reduces volatility.
 Higher farmgate milk prices have 
put pressure on our Dairies business. 
Nevertheless we have made progress in 
rebuilding profitability. We have completed our 
three-year £75 million investment programme; 
closed two dairies; driven down costs; 
are also taking the lead in calling for clearer 
country of origin labelling for dairy products 
so that British consumers can support 
British farmers.
 Looking forward we are hoping for a 
more benign climate for farming. However 
we expect consumers to remain cautious 
and demand to remain subdued.
Long-term strategy
We remain clear that our long-
term strategy to grow branded 
and added value sales, become 
more efficient, reduce risk and 
improve the quality of our 
earnings and make value-
enhancing acquisitions and 
disposals is the right one for the 
business. We have made good 
progress with the execution of 
this strategy during the last year. 
The rationalisation of our Dairies business, 
which has involved a three year programme 
of investment in three key dairies and the 
closure of the Fenstanton and Aintree 
dairies as well as 28 distribution depots, 
demonstrates our determination to create 
a sustainable business. We retained 
our contract to supply liquid milk to 
Sainsbury’s through to 2017 in the face 
of fierce competition and new processing 
capacity coming on stream elsewhere in 
the dairy sector. This was a good result and 
vindicates the difficult decisions we have 
made in this part of our business.
 The work we have done over recent 
years to focus the business and remove 
complexity has allowed us to initiate a 
reorganisation into one management and 
operating structure. The new structure is 
focused on consumer-driven growth with 
an integrated supply chain and is consistent 
with our long-term strategy to build added 
value sales and drive efficiencies.
 Cutting costs is an embedded part of 
our strategy and cost reductions have been 
important in achieving our targets this year. 
We maintained our record of implementing 
cost saving initiatives of at least £20 million 
per annum, achieving £23 million in the year. 
Our employees, including Board members 
and senior management, have contributed 
by accepting below-inflation pay increases. 
 In addition to the initiatives in our Dairies 
business and our reorganisation into one 
structure, we are also consolidating our two 
British spreads manufacturing facilities onto 
one site as we target a further £20 million 
of savings in the new financial year. These 
efficiency measures help us to support our 
key brands, meet profit expectations and 
pay our farmers more.  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 15
Trading performance and  
financial summary
A solid performance from our 
four key brands, Cathedral City, 
Clover, Country Life and FRijj, 
particularly in the first half of the 
year, coupled with an 
accelerated programme of 
efficiency measures, resulted in 
a strong trading performance 
and we delivered results for the 
year in line with our expectations.
As the table above shows, total revenue 
from our four key brands is flat year on 
year with Cathedral City and FRijj growth 
being offset by lower Clover and Country 
Life sales. Retail sales of these brands as 
measured by Nielsen have grown in total 
by 3% and Cathedral City, Clover and 
Country Life have all grown market share. 
Although FRijj has lost market share in the 
face of strong competition from new brands 
introduced by competitors, its own growth 
reflects the expansion of the overall market.
 We continue to invest behind our key 
brands and are committed to their ongoing 
success. Our market-leading cheddar 
brand, Cathedral City, goes from strength 
to strength and has become one of the 
UK’s major food brands. In 2012 it was 
the only food brand voted into the top ten 
of YouGov’s Brand Index, alongside BBC 
iPlayer, John Lewis and Amazon. 
 New products launched in the last few 
years such as FRijj The Incredible, Chedds 
and Cathedral City Selections contributed to 
this performance and we continue to focus 
on bringing new products to the market. 
This year around 5% of our total revenue 
and 9% of our key brand revenue has come 
from products introduced in the last three 
years. We have an ambitious target of 10% 
for such sales which we achieved last year 
but have missed this year as new products 
introduced three years ago dropped out of 
the calculation.
 Adjusted Group profit before tax 
increased by 7% to £50.6 million (2012: 
£47.5 million). Adjusted basic earnings per 
share increased by 3% to 29.9 pence (2012: 
28.9 pence). 
 Group net debt at 31 March 2013 was 
£60 million (2012: £336 million), principally 
reflecting the proceeds from the sale of  
St Hubert.
Future prospects
We believe that we can generate profit 
growth in all three of our product categories 
over the medium term. We believe we can 
continue to grow sales and profits in our 
cheese business; that the consolidation of 
our spreads manufacturing footprint onto 
one site will improve the profitability of that 
business; and that our Dairies business will 
continue to benefit from the work we are 
doing to move towards our medium-term 
target of 3% return on sales.
 In addition, the post year end debt 
restructure will result in lower interest 
charges in the future. 
 We are focused on generating cash 
from the business as well as growing profits, 
albeit we expect net debt to rise in the year 
ending 31 March 2014 as a result of our 
one-off cash contribution to the pension 
fund and investment in our new Spreads 
manufacturing facility. 
 Once the Spreads project is completed 
we will have well-invested, modern facilities 
across our business and we would expect 
capital expenditure in the existing business 
to fall back towards the level of annual 
depreciation. We will also continue to sell 
properties we no longer require and, in the 
absence of acquisitions or internal investment 
in new growth opportunities, would expect 
net debt to fall after 2013/14.
 Our strong financial position and our 
confidence that we can generate cash from 
our existing product categories means we 
have the capability to invest in attractive 
growth opportunities, either internally or 
through acquisition.
 We are excited about an opportunity 
to increase profits from whey, a by-product 
of the cheese manufacturing process. At 
present we manufacture whey powder which 
is mainly sold to food manufacturers, but we 
believe there now may be an opportunity to 
add greater value to our high quality whey 
stream and enter other, more attractive 
markets. A project is underway to scope  
the opportunity.
Current trading
The current financial year has started in line 
with our expectations. We have announced 
higher milk prices for our farmers but have 
demonstrated in the past that we can do 
this without damaging profitability. Key to 
achieving this is the ongoing implementation 
of our strategy to reduce controllable costs 
and we are again on track to meet our 
targeted £20 million saving during the year.
Mark Allen Chief Executive
22 May 2013
Overview
Brand Market D air y C r e s t   
sales growth*
Market statistics**
Brand growth Market growth
UK cheese +3% +5% +2%
UK butter, 
spreads, margarine
-5% -1% -3%
UK butter, 
spreads, margarine
-3% +1% -3%
Flavoured milk +5% +5% +10%
Total –% +3%
* Dairy Crest sales 12 months to 31 March 2013 v 12 months to 31 March 2012  ** Nielsen data 52 weeks to 30 March 2013 16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
We manage risk to help us achieve our strategic objectives 
and protect our reputation 
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group’s 
risk management processes and the Board is responsible for the 
appropriate identification of risks and the effective implementation of 
mitigating activities. 
 Internal Audit provides independent assurance to management 
and the Audit Committee as to the effectiveness of mechanisms 
put in place to mitigate risks. This process explicitly recognises the 
relationship between Internal Audit and Risk Management. The 
Audit Committee is satisfied that the processes are adequate and 
appropriate. Further details are set out in the Corporate Governance 
Report on pages 34 to 40.
 The Group’s Risk Register is compiled by the Management 
Board. Each member of the Management Board individually sets out 
risks, the likelihood and consequence of crystallisation and mitigating 
controls for his area of responsibility. These are then reviewed by 
the Management Board as a whole and the Group Risk Register is 
created. The Board formally reviews the Group Risk Register when 
the annual budget is set and at each of the two forecast reviews 
throughout the year. The Company Secretary and General Counsel is 
responsible for highlighting to the Board any changes to the Group’s 
Risk Register identified during the intervening periods.
 The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out 
in the table below. This is not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of 
all risks facing the Group.
Threats to objectives identified
Performance monitored
Business objectives set or reviewed
Existing controls assessed
Threats quantified
Improvements implemented
Risk register
Group board
Management board
Commercial risks
Reduced profitability
Risk area and potential impact
We operate in extremely competitive markets. If we fail to compete effectively 
or are subject to higher input prices that cannot be recovered by raising selling 
prices without losing volumes we could lose sales and profits.
Mitigating controls
We set ourselves the target of continually reducing our cost base and are able 
to invest in our supply chain to help achieve this.
No one customer accounts for more than 15% of total revenues and we 
continually strive to widen our customer base. Despite challenging trading 
conditions we have maintained investment in marketing our branded products. 
Our innovation programme continues to generate new products that reinforce 
our appeal to customers. We recognise the importance of strong customer 
relationships and the executive team plays an active part in maintaining and 
developing these. They are also involved in major customer negotiations. 
We conduct customer surveys to benchmark our performance and we 
continuously monitor the service and quality levels provided to our customers 
and consumers, and have procedures in place to react quickly to any issues. 
Our commitment to corporate responsibility remains a key part of our business 
strategy and is an important part of our overall proposition to some customers. 
Reduced demand from consumers 
Risk area and potential impact
Consumers could move away from dairy products for economic, health, 
ethical, or other reasons leading to lower sales and profits.
Mitigating controls
Consumers are at the heart of our business and we regularly monitor 
consumer trends. We continue to promote the health benefits provided 
by dairy products and develop healthier products. We also continue to 
maintain our focus on developing a compelling new product development 
pipeline, enabling us to react to consumer trends, for example with more 
environmentally-friendly packaging, and healthier variants of branded goods. 
We have increased our direct involvement with government to understand and 
influence future legislation that could affect future consumer demand.
Input cost volatility
Risk area and potential impact
Volatile milk and non-milk costs (vegetable oils, diesel, electricity, gas and 
packaging) could reduce margins unless we can manage cost risk, find other 
cost efficiencies elsewhere or increase selling prices.
Mitigating controls
This area is closely reviewed by the Management Board which has established 
a risk committee to monitor and hedge forward non-milk commodity prices as 
appropriate. The risks associated with purchasing large volumes of milk have 
been reduced by establishing milk pools linked to major customers. We seek 
to absorb short term cost movements through supply chain efficiencies. Our 
purchasing and commercial teams have clear lines of communication between 
them to ensure customers are kept aware of changes to our cost base and 
requests for price increases can be fully justified.
Operational risks
Inability to source milk
Risk area and potential impact
Without milk we would not have a business. Restricted milk supply due 
to economic factors, weather, fuel availability or an epidemic which affects 
dairy cows could restrict milk supply. This in turn could lead to lower sales 
and profits. Consumer confidence in dairy products could also be adversely 
affected.
Mitigating controls
We invest significant resources in maintaining strong relationships with our milk 
suppliers by attending forums and discussing current issues and pressures 
that affect both the farms and our business. The majority of our milk comes 
directly from farms on contracts that include a notice period of at least one 
year. Our experienced milk procurement team understand milk production and 
are alert to changes in supply. We aim to pay a fair, market related milk price 
and closely monitor the milk price we pay to suppliers in order to ensure we 
can purchase the right quantity of milk to meet demand forecasts and have 
established procedures for allocating milk between our businesses if a short-
term shortfall in supply does arise. We have contingency plans established for 
major incidents and work closely with DEFRA and industry bodies to ensure 
these are appropriate. These plans are regularly tested and reviewed with the 
Management Board. 
Principal risks and uncertainties
72236_Glasshouse_p01-p17.indd   16 04/06/2013   02:59 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 17
Report of the Directors
Failure of a key supplier
Risk area and potential impact
We are dependent on key suppliers and could lose sales and face financial 
penalties from customers if suppliers’ failure leaves us unable to supply. Failure 
of key information technology suppliers could adversely affect our financial 
systems.
Mitigating controls
Our purchasing team regularly monitors suppliers’ ability to supply and puts 
in place alternative arrangements, including dual purchasing, if appropriate. 
We have taken specific actions to reduce our dependency on information 
technology suppliers.
Other operational risks
Risk area and potential impact
An accident, product contamination, the failure of equipment or systems or 
deliberate act could disrupt production, affect food safety, cause injury, and/
or cause reputational damage with adverse consequences. We are also reliant 
on information technology and exposed to losses in the event that systems 
fail.
Mitigating controls
Dairy Crest takes product quality very seriously and has rigorous quality 
controls in place to minimise potential risks. Plans are maintained to respond 
quickly to any product quality concerns and minimise any impact to the 
Group. Our business is also committed to the health and safety of all our 
employees and maintains systems aimed at ensuring everyone is able to 
complete their work safely. All of our manufacturing sites have a trained 
engineering resource, are supported by our major equipment suppliers and 
hold appropriate stocks of spare parts. They also all have fire protection 
systems and regular fire drills. Our information technology systems are 
regularly backed up and duplicated in the majority of areas. We have 
procedures in place to help us deal with major incidents and insurance cover 
for property damage and business interruption risks.
People risks
Disease epidemic 
Risk area and potential impact
A disease epidemic such as swine flu could adversely affect the health of our 
employees and prevent them working, leaving us unable to service customers.
Mitigating controls
Contingency plans which include working with industry bodies are in place for 
known epidemic risks. 
Recruitment and retention 
Risk area and potential impact
We need to retain high quality employees to provide customers and 
consumers with safe, high quality products and services.
Mitigating controls
We carry out rigorous selection procedures and benchmark pay and benefits 
to ensure we can attract and retain the best people. We have a wide bonus 
scheme and a range of other incentives to reward good performance. We 
have proposed changes to our long-term share option scheme better to align 
the interests of management to shareholders and improve its effectiveness in 
delivering retention. There is a performance review and talent management 
scheme to identify and develop our own people. We undertake regular 
surveys to monitor the relationship with our employees and their engagement.
Financial risks
Pension scheme 
Risk area and potential impact
Despite the action we have taken to reduce the risks associated with our 
pension scheme, including closing the scheme to future accrual in 2010 and 
buying insurance to meet the liabilities associated with many of our retired 
members in 2008 and 2009, the deficit could continue to increase and we 
may then have to increase our contributions. 
Mitigating controls
We continue to work closely with the Trustee of the Pension Fund to improve 
the Fund’s financial position at an acceptable cash cost to the business. Our 
recent one-off cash contribution of £40 million to the Pension Fund reduces 
the risk of the deficit increasing. 
Legal and compliance risks
Risk area and potential impact
Our sector is subject to a number of complex statutory requirements. There is 
a risk of fines or lawsuits and reputational damage if we fail to comply.
Mitigating controls
We have a strong in-house legal function supported by external advisers. 
We have undertaken Group-wide training in respect of competition law and 
actively monitor and adjust to on-going legal and regulatory changes. We 
have a Business Conduct Policy, and a programme designed to ensure that 
all relevant employees understand what is and is not permissible under the UK 
Bribery Act.
Major project risk
Risk area and potential impact
To remain competitive we periodically undertake major transformational 
projects following strategic reviews. Successful execution of these projects 
is often key to delivering strategic objectives. At the same time we have to 
ensure that major projects do not divert from the on-going day-to-day delivery 
of products and services to our customers.
Mitigating controls
We have a good track record of managing projects and use experienced and 
appropriately skilled senior managers to lead these. Supervisory governance 
structures are also put in place to help successful delivery. We are aware that 
too much change concentrated in too short a timescale can be detrimental 
and manage this by ensuring key project resource is full time with appropriate 
backfilling and use of third parties.
Overview
72236_Glasshouse_p01-p17.indd   17 04/06/2013   18:48 Report of the Directors
We constantly look  
for new and better  
ways of doing things
Business review
£ million 2012/13 2011/12
Revenue 194.5 211.3
Profit 25.7 23.2
Margin 13.2% 11.0%
Dairy Crest
Unilever 28%
Arla 32%
Private 
label    
15%    
Other 7%
Source: Nielsen 52 w/e 30 March 2013
Share of UK retail butter and 
spreads market by value
18%
We make and sell butter and 
spreads at two locations in the 
UK, but are currently in the 
process of consolidating 
manufacturing onto one of our 
existing sites at Kirkby, 
Merseyside.
The UK butter and spreads market declined 
during the year with values around 3% 
lower and volumes around 2% lower 
overall. Clover and Country Life, our two 
key brands in this sector, both increased 
value and volume share. Promotions are at a 
historically high level across the category but 
are not driving category growth.
 Looking forward we expect the trading 
environment for butter and spreads to 
remain challenging. The work we are doing 
to rationalise our manufacturing capability 
will make us more efficient and allow us to 
continue to compete strongly.
Spreads Spreads
18 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 Report of the Directors
Business review
 11 % 
segment profit 
increase 
planned for the Clover brand.
Country Life is the leading British butter 
brand. Sales volumes remained broadly flat 
year-on-year, although a reduction in price, 
reflecting lower input costs, primarily cream, 
resulted in sales values falling by 3%. 
Our other spreads brands, Utterly Butterly, 
Vitalite and Willow, experienced small 
reductions in volume and value shares.
 Our Spreads business is also home to 
MH Foods which we purchased in 2011. 
This business manufactures and markets 
‘one cal spray’ cooking oils. Under our 
ownership the business has rationalised its 
product range and improved manufacturing 
efficiencies and is making good progress. 
MH Foods demonstrates the contribution 
that small acquisitions can make over time 
to the profitability and growth of the Group.
 During the year we moved production 
of Clover from our factory in Crudgington, 
Shropshire to Kirkby, Merseyside and 
also commenced a project that will see 
Crudgington close completely in 2014 with 
Reported revenue for the year 
ended 31 March 2013 fell by 
8% to £194.5 million. Segment 
profits increased 11% to £25.7 
million, resulting in a segment 
margin of 13% (2012: profit 
£23.2 million, margin 11%).
Two of Dairy Crest’s four key brands operate 
in the butter and spreads product category.
 Clover, our main spreads brand, 
saw a small increase in volume but a 5% 
reduction in value sales. It remains the UK’s 
leading dairy spread. Previously introduced 
innovation such as Clover Lighter continues 
to boost the brand’s performance. Towards 
the end of the year we introduced a brand 
new product, Clover Seedburst, into the 
market. This is a spread containing a blend 
of seven healthy seeds and whole grains 
and is targeted at more health-focused 
consumers. We have more innovation 
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 19
all production being moved to Kirkby. This 
£38 million project has attracted a £5 million 
grant from the Regional Growth Fund. 
 Looking forward we expect the profits 
of this business to benefit from the cost 
savings that will arise from a more efficient 
supply chain.
72236_Glasshouse_p18-p25.indd   19 04/06/2013   03:05 20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Business review continued
UK after it again won the Danisco Grand Prix 
trophy for consistently topping the judges’ 
lists at cheese shows around the country.
  Consumer-led marketing, including 
innovation in the form of new products 
and range extensions has led to significant 
growth in our branded cheese sales in 
recent years.
Reported revenue for the year 
ended 31 March 2013 grew by 
1% to £231.3 million. Segment 
profits fell 6% to £33.3 million 
(as stock profits recorded last 
year were not repeated), 
resulting in a segment margin 
of 14% (2012: profit £35.5 
million, margin 15%).
UK retail cheese market volumes fell by 2% 
in the year with values increasing by 2% 
to £2.6 billion. Cathedral City sales grew 
Dairy Crest produces and 
markets the UK’s leading 
cheese brand, Cathedral City. 
Named in an independent 
survey as one of the UK’s top 
ten positively viewed brands, 
the only food brand to achieve 
this standing, Cathedral City is 
made at our Davidstow 
creamery in Cornwall from milk 
supplied by around 450 local 
dairy farmers before being 
matured in Nuneaton and cut 
and wrapped at either our 
state of the art facility there or 
our highly flexible site in Frome.
We also make and sell the premium 
Davidstow brand cheddar, which can 
justifiably claim to be the best cheddar in the 
Source: Nielsen 52 w/e 30 March 2013
Other 90%
Share of the total UK retail
cheese market by value
10%
Cathedral
      City
Cheese
£ million 2012/13 2011/12
Revenue 231.3 229.6
Profit 33.3 35.5
Margin 14.4% 15.5% Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 21
Business review
by 3%, with volumes up 1%. It has again 
increased its market share and remains by 
far the largest brand in the total everyday 
cheese sector, although its sales account 
for only 16% of this sector, reflecting the 
dominance of retailer own label.
 Over recent years we have widened the 
appeal of Cathedral City and now have four 
taste variants (mild, mature, extra mature 
and vintage) as well as Lighter (reduced fat) 
Cathedral City, and Chedds, a snack brand 
for children. Chedds was launched in 2011 
and has made a significant impact in the 
children’s cheese market.
 Innovative packaging continues to be 
important to the brand’s growth and the 
launch of Cathedral City Selections, packs 
containing bite-sized pieces of cheese,  
has been extremely successful, bringing 
new consumers to the cheese market, 
boosting sales in its own right and giving 
consumers an opportunity to sample the 
range of taste variants.
The long-established mature variant 
accounted for 57% of total Cathedral City 
sales, down from 65% last year, reflecting 
the progress we have made in broadening 
the range.
 We have continued to advertise and 
promote Cathedral City strongly and have 
worked with key retailers to increase the 
brand’s in-store presence. For example, 
working with Tesco, we set up a trial in  
36 of their stores. A whole bay of the 
cheese fixture was dedicated to Cathedral 
City, ensuring the full range was on offer to 
consumers and allowing increased in-store 
branding. The trial was successful and 
Cathedral City bays will be rolled out to  
more Tesco stores in the year ending 31 
March 2014.
 The strong performance of Cathedral 
City has been acknowledged externally. The 
Grocer has placed it as Britain’s 15th biggest 
grocery brand (up from 21st last year) and 
in a recent YouGov poll Cathedral City was 
ranked as Britain’s tenth most positively 
viewed brand and was the only food brand 
in the top ten.
 In addition to the performance of 
Cathedral City we have made good progress 
with our premium Davidstow brand. We 
continue to widen distribution, replacing 
Davidstow products that have carried 
the name of specific retailers. This has 
encouraged us to increase the investment 
behind this brand and we expect to see 
further progress going forward.
 We also continue to achieve increased 
efficiencies throughout the supply chain and 
have reduced packing costs during the year.
 The growth in our cheese sales has 
encouraged us to expand Davidstow’s 
production capacity in the year and we have 
further plans for expansion in the future.
 Profits in this business have been 
supported by strong returns from whey –  
the by-product of cheese manufacture. The 
whey stream at Davidstow is particularly 
valuable because of its size and quality and 
because it contains no colouring. We are 
excited about an opportunity to increase 
whey profits by extending manufacturing into 
higher value products which are in demand 
world-wide and have initiated a project to 
scope this opportunity.
 The farmers supplying their milk to our 
cheese business have shared in its improved 
performance through higher milk prices. We 
are happy to continue to pay a premium for 
our milk at Davidstow to ensure we get a 
top-quality supply and since the year end 
have announced a further increase in the 
price we pay.
 Looking forward we are well positioned 
to increase market share and profits from 
cheese sales. The opportunity to boost 
returns from whey only adds to the future 
prospects of this product category. Report of the Directors
Business review continued
have developed a new long life product 
which will allow us to push the brand into 
convenience and other outlets where 
refrigerated storage is less available.
 The flavoured milk category is growing 
strongly. Total sales are up 5% in volume 
and 10% in value. Fresh flavoured milk sales 
are up 8% in volume and 16% in value as 
new brands introduced by competitors have 
proved popular.
 FRijj sales grew by 5% in value in the 
year, boosted by the innovative FRijj The 
Incredible premium range of flavours but 
declined 2% in volume. 
 We advertised FRijj on television with 
encouraging results, although we expect 
to continue to use social media and other 
alternative forms of marketing to support this 
brand going forward, reflecting the age of its 
target consumer. 
 We expect to see further material growth 
in this brand in the future and are continuing 
to invest at our Severnside production facility 
to ensure there is sufficient headroom to 
allow unfettered growth.
A clear plan to restore Dairies 
profitability
2012/13 was another tough year for the 
Dairies business. Following the drop in 
profits in 2011/12 we have created and 
started to implement a plan to restore the 
returns from our Dairies business to an 
acceptable level. We believe this business 
can deliver a 3% return on sales and have 
set this as a medium-term target. 
 Returns in the second half of the year 
increased to 1.7% compared to 0.4% in the 
first half reflecting both the usual seasonal 
factors and initial results from the actions we 
have taken.
 Profits will be increased by a 
combination of higher FRijj and other added 
value sales, reduced costs and a greater 
willingness to only supply those customers 
who will pay a fair price.
 We expect that our actions will lead to 
higher margins to offset cost inflation and 
lower residential sales that command an 
above average margin.
 At the same time we will continue to pay 
a fair milk price to the farmers who supply 
their milk to us and provide high quality 
products and cost efficient services to our 
customers.
FRijj – one of the drivers behind the plan 
FRijj operates in the flavoured milk product 
category. This comprises fresh flavoured 
milk and long life flavoured milk. FRijj is 
predominately in the fresh category but we 
The Dairies business 
processes and delivers fresh 
conventional, organic and 
flavoured milk to major 
retailers, ‘middle ground’ 
customers (including, for 
example, smaller retailers, 
coffee shops and hospitals) 
and residential customers.
 We also manufacture and 
sell FRijj, the leading fresh 
flavoured milk brand, cream 
and milk powders.
 Reported revenue fell by 
11% to £951.6 million (2012: 
£1,069 million). Segment profit 
rose slightly to £10.3 million 
(2012: £10.2 million), resulting in 
a margin of 1.1% (2012: 1.0%).
Dairies
22 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
£ million 2012/13 2011/12
Revenue 951.6 1,069.0
Profit 10.3 10.2
Margin 1.1% 1.0% Business review
Efficiency improvements and cost 
reductions are also key 
During the year we have completed the three 
year £75 million investment programme. As 
anticipated, the investment has allowed us to 
pack milk more efficiently and has provided 
an opportunity to focus polybottle production 
at three sites and glass bottling on one 
site. As a result we closed the Aintree and 
Fenstanton dairies during the year with the 
regrettable loss of 450 jobs. We expect the 
resultant full-year cost savings to contribute 
to future profit growth.
 We have made further efficiencies 
including introducing a new design of 
polybottle in partnership with our supplier 
Nampak. This uses up to 15% less 
plastic – good for costs and good for the 
environment.
 Our Dairies business also benefits from 
our on-going company-wide cost saving 
projects. As the largest of our businesses 
it covers the highest proportion of central 
overheads and the decision to move to one 
business, which is anticipated to save over 
£5 million annually, will contribute to the 
restoration of profitability in this area.
Getting the right customer mix
During the year we retained our contract 
to supply liquid milk to Sainsbury’s - one of 
our largest customers - and now have an 
agreement to supply them through to 2017. 
 We also strengthened our offering 
to retailers by buying Proper Welsh Milk, 
a small dairy business that packs Welsh 
milk in Wales. Several key retailers are 
customers of this business which we will 
look to expand.
  We had to negotiate higher milk prices 
with customers so that we could pay our 
farmers more and compensate them for  
the difficulties they faced from the poor 
weather and higher animal feed costs. We 
also need to make an acceptable return 
for ourselves. Many of our customers 
were willing to pay higher but fair prices. 
However, we chose to stop supplying 
some smaller customers who were not 
prepared to do so. Going forward we 
will continue to review our customer mix, 
particularly in the middle ground.
Residential sales still important
Delivering milk to customers’ doorsteps 
remains a key part of our business. We 
have 850,000 residential customers and 
have a network of 1,800 milkmen delivering 
to them. However, sales in this area 
continue to fall as financial pressures lead 
to customers choosing to buy their milk from 
shops rather than have it delivered. The rate 
of decline was lower amongst customers 
who use our internet doorstep delivery 
proposition, milk&more, where we have 
maintained over 200,000 customers who 
use the service every week. However, overall 
residential volume sales of milk fell 12% 
compared to last year. As a result we closed 
28 local depots, finishing the year with 
92. We also closed our residential delivery 
product distribution centre in Sunbury 
during the year, moving this operation to our 
National Distribution Centre in Nuneaton. 
 Profits from the sale of depots closed in 
earlier years as well as 2012/13 were £7.7 
million. We anticipate that property profits 
from the sales of depots will continue into 
the future and contribute to our medium-
term target of 3% margin.
Ingredients
Our ingredients operation continues to 
provide us with a valuable balancing solution 
for seasonal raw milk supplies and cream.
 We aim to minimise throughput in 
this business to reduce our exposure 
as far as possible to dairy commodity 
markets. However, our Dairies business 
generates more cream than that required 
by our Spreads business. Prices for dairy 
ingredients were low during the early months 
of the year then rose towards the middle of 
the range seen in recent years. Since the 
year end they have increased further.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 23 24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Business review continued
incentive scheme was also introduced for 
cheese contracts, similar to the initiative for 
liquid contracts, to support farmers who 
were able to increase milk production.
 Secondly, following the establishment 
of the Defra voluntary code, Dairy Crest 
became the first milk processor to sign  
up to the key principles in advance of the 
code being signed. In early summer we  
gave a commitment to our farmers that  
30 days’ notice would be provided for any 
price reduction and that farmers could  
give three months’ notice to cease supplying 
their milk to us if they did not agree with a 
change to their milk price. Since then we 
have continued fully to support the code 
and have committed to incorporate its terms 
within our farmer contracts.
 Thirdly, together with Dairy Crest  
Direct (‘DCD’), the independent organisation 
representing our farmers, we commissioned 
a renowned, independent consultant to 
develop a more transparent formula method 
of milk pricing. The result was that Dairy 
Crest became the first processor to develop 
a milk price formula for farmers on standard 
liquid contracts. Launched with effect from  
April 2013, this has been a great success 
with 175 of our farmers applying to place 
all or part of their milk supply on the new 
formula contract.
 Looking forward we are determined to 
maintain our leading position and develop 
innovative ways of delivering a sustainable 
supply of milk.
Future supplies
National milk supply is below the level seen 
last year and supply is expected to take time 
to recover. Weather, with the consequent 
impact on grass growth, will play a key 
part in production levels. So too will the 
long-term decline in dairy farmer numbers. 
It is recognised that the average farm size 
is likely to increase. We all therefore have 
a part to play in ensuring consumers are 
well informed about how the milk they buy 
is produced on modern dairy farms, and 
the important factors that affect the level of 
quality and animal welfare.
 The market for milk supply is increasingly 
competitive as milk processors seek to 
attract new farmer suppliers. Milk contracts 
need to reflect the external environment 
and challenges. We believe the Dairy Crest 
package is very competitive, offering a range 
of contract options to enable farmers to 
choose how they work with us. We continue 
to invest in our farmer base by offering 
additional benefits, including the unique 
White Gold advisory service. This helps our 
farmers achieve the highest standards and 
comply with current dairy legislation in an 
efficient way. Our long standing reputation 
for this higher level of farmer support 
together with secure payment for milk is 
seen as a key benefit.
 A particular area of focus is for our 
farmers to be able to access up to date 
information and news about Dairy Crest. 
This is important for the decision-making 
process on farm. Investment in a new farmer 
website, Farm Connect, delivers this and has 
been welcomed by our farmers. The website 
and the upgrade of our systems to support 
this innovative, interactive management tool 
is part of our continued drive to improve 
efficiency.
Summary
Our supplying farmers play a key role within 
our business – as they do within their  
local communities. We are committed to 
doing the right thing and supporting them to 
produce high quality milk in a way that will 
support our respective businesses, as well 
as enhancing the rural economy and British 
countryside.
Working with our farmers  
to deliver a sustainable supply 
of milk. 
79% of the milk that Dairy Crest sources, 
comes direct from farms located 
throughout England and South Wales. 
Milk from direct supply is a key part of our 
added value strategy and we are actively 
working to increase this proportion. We 
value the relationship we have with our 
1,250 dairy farmers who supply their milk 
to us. It provides the opportunity to work 
together to generate greater efficiencies,  
by sharing information and knowledge,  
and delivers security for both our farmers 
and Dairy Crest.
 
Challenging year
2012 was a particularly challenging year for 
agriculture and dairy farming in particular. 
Adverse weather conditions persisted 
throughout the year and will have a longer 
term impact on milk production than is 
normally seen. 
 The combined effect of the weather 
together with high input costs and milk 
price reductions in the spring put the dairy 
sector under the spotlight. Dairy farmers 
were clearly frustrated at the situation they 
found themselves in with their margins being 
squeezed. At the same time processors  
had to respond to falling market values, 
whilst acknowledging that consumers 
continued to look for value as household 
budgets tightened.
 Relationships have been tested and as 
a result the industry questioned if the sector 
was operating effectively and what steps 
could be taken to improve the milk pricing 
process in order to build trust. One of the 
outcomes was the development of the Defra 
voluntary code for milk supply contracts.
Dairy Crest response
Dairy Crest’s response to the challenges of 
the past year can be summarised with three 
distinct actions:
 Firstly, following the spring milk price 
reduction for liquid contracts, the plans 
for further milk price reductions were set 
aside. A series of milk price increases then 
followed, starting in the autumn. A volume 
1,250 
   dairy farmers supply 
their milk directly to us
Milk Procurement
72236_Glasshouse_p18-p25.indd   24 05/06/2013   06:27 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 25
Report of the Directors
Business review
We act responsibly  
with a passion  
to do the right thing 26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Environment
We know we have an 
important role to play when 
it comes to tackling climate 
change, reducing waste and 
looking after Britain’s natural 
resources. 
Reducing emissions
At Dairy Crest we are 
committed to reducing our 
carbon footprint by constantly 
looking at how we can make 
best use of the energy we use 
in our manufacturing, storage 
and transport processes  
and by taking advantage of 
more environmentally-friendly 
technology.
Given this commitment we are pleased 
to report that we have continued to make 
good progress against our pledge of 
reducing our carbon emissions by 30% 
by 2020 against 2007 levels and by March 
2013 we had achieved a carbon equivalent 
reduction of 22.4% with much of this 
coming from two biomass boilers at our 
Davidstow creamery. In 2012/13 Davidstow 
reduced its carbon emissions by 13,900 
tonnes in comparison to its emissions in 
2007/8.
 As well as investing in new, greener 
vehicles and making use of telematics 
systems in our trucks we continue to 
operate a fleet of over 900 electric vehicles 
and we also train our drivers to be more 
energy efficient.
 Other factors that have helped reduce 
our on-site carbon footprint include 
changing the lighting used in many of our 
sites and warehouses to LED alternatives 
and ensuring we use chilling systems 
based on ammonia and glycol (which are 
more environmentally friendly) rather than 
HCFCs - we have plans in place to replace 
the few smaller remaining systems that run 
on HCFCs by 2015. 
 Our award winning carbon toolkit 
created in partnership with our independent 
farmer representative body and fully 
accredited by the Carbon Trust continues 
to help dairy farmers measure accurately 
and compare their greenhouse gas 
emissions against others, it shows them 
where they can reduce their energy 
consumption and it enables them to identify 
and prioritise the improvements they need 
to make to reduce their on farm emissions. 
Following its successful trial the toolkit has 
been adopted by three leading retailers.
Aligning corporate responsibility 
and commercial strategies.
 Our future success depends 
on our ability to meet a range  
of pressing environmental and 
social needs – that is why 
thinking and acting sustainably 
is so important and why we 
treat corporate responsibility as 
mainstream to our business.  
At Dairy Crest we want our 
corporate responsibility 
commitments to benefit our 
business. This drives better 
behaviour and means we don’t 
just make promises which 
sound good or are in fashion.  
In short, corporate responsibility 
matters because it is good for 
Dairy Crest.
Business review continued
Corporate Responsibility
Over the last three years we have doubled 
our efforts to make sure that sustainability is 
fully integrated into the way we do business 
and in 2012 we were confident enough to 
launch 40 public corporate responsibility 
pledges which we could be measured and 
judged against. An update on progress 
against our 40 pledges can be found in our 
online Corporate Responsibility report.
 We were especially proud that this 
year Dairy Crest was one of only five 
companies shortlisted for the Business in 
the Community (BITC) Responsible Business 
of the Year Award 2013. The nomination 
has come on the back of attaining 98% and 
a Platinum Big Tick – the highest ranking 
possible – in their annual CR Index and 
demonstrates our commitment to put our 
words into action.
 Of course, we know that our journey 
towards being a sustainable business will 
not be easy. We know we will face difficult 
choices along the way. But we also know 
we are heading in the right direction and 
that our approach to corporate responsibility 
will ultimately benefit our business, the 
environment and society.
More information can be found in our 
online Corporate Responsibility report.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Bonus
Pension
Benefits
Base salary
M Wilks A Murray M Allen
2008 2011 2012 2013
98
94
87
57
Since 2007
our carbon
equivalent
emissions are
down
22.4%
8%
Waste sent to landfill
2010 2013
0
20
40
60
80
100
52%
Since 2007 our
carbon equivalent
emissions are down
  22.4%    
We are on target 
to achieve 30% 
by 2020    
Since 2007
we have
reduced our
water usage by
15.7%
We are on
target to 
achieve 20% 
by 2015
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Bonus
Pension
Benefits
Base salary
M Wilks A Murray M Allen
2008 2011 2012 2013
98
94
87
57
Since 2007
our carbon
equivalent
emissions are
down
22.4%
8%
Waste sent to landfill
2010 2013
0
20
40
60
80
100
52%
Since 2007 our
carbon equivalent
emissions are down
  22.4%    
We are on target 
to achieve 30% 
by 2020    
Since 2007
we have
reduced our
water usage by
15.7%
We are on
target to 
achieve 20% 
by 2015 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 27
Report of the Directors
Reducing waste
Our aim is to adopt a 
comprehensive approach to 
waste to ensure the 
environmental impact we make 
through our manufacturing and 
distribution processes is kept to 
a minimum. We also know that 
we have a role to play in the 
homes of our consumers where 
there is a growing desire to 
reduce packing and food waste.
Our overall aim is zero waste to landfill by 
2015 (except where it is not environmentally 
beneficial to do so). Last year our 
manufacturing sites avoided sending 92% 
of waste to landfill, up from 88% in 2011/12. 
This was achieved through working with 
our waste broker, 707, and staff who 
identified alternative ways in which we can 
recycle waste.
 In 2012/13 we completed the 
introduction of new spreads tubs across 
all of our brands. The new tubs make 
more efficient use of materials and allow 
for more efficient transportation. This year 
we also put on-pack recycling information 
on our branded products. We have also 
continued to roll out an innovative new 
plastic milk bottle, designed in partnership 
with Nampak. It uses about 15 per cent 
less plastic than its standard equivalent and 
is made with up to 15% recycled plastic. 
 Our goal remains to increase the 
amount of recycled plastic used in our 
polybottles from the current 15% to 30% 
by 2015, and despite the current lack 
of recycled material available within the 
UK, we are working with WRAP to find a 
solution. Through our doorstep delivery 
Business review
Although dairy products are an excellent 
source of protein, vitamins and minerals, 
especially calcium which is essential for 
healthy bones and teeth, we also recognise 
that many consumers want to reduce 
the amount of saturated fat in their diet. 
To help them achieve this, and without 
compromising on taste, we have created 
lower fat variants of our main brands, 
namely Cathedral City, Clover, Country Life 
Spreadable and in 2013 we launched Utterly 
Butterly Lightly to join the Utterly Butterly 
family. We also supply 1% fat milk to many  
of our customers.
 The investments in our lighter range, 
through both advertising and promotions, 
have resulted in impressive growth rates. 
Today annual retail sales of these products 
total £68 million and have grown over the 
past year by over 10%. The two biggest 
drivers behind this are Cathedral City Lighter 
which now has a retail sales value of nearly 
£40 million and has grown by 21% since last 
year and Clover Lighter which is now worth 
over £18 million, up 9% compared to 2011/12.
 Coupled with the investment in our 
lower fat variants we have introduced 
Clover Seedburst, the UK’s first spread with 
added seeds and whole grains. Blended 
with Clover Lighter, the product provides 
consumers with a natural source of vitamin 
E and beneficial oils.
 Aware that portion control is a key way 
of helping consumers maintain or reduce 
their weight we launched Cathedral City 
Selections which are individually wrapped, 
calorie controlled portions of cheddar that 
make it easier for consumers to have a little 
of what they want, when they want it. In 
service we continue to sell milk in glass 
bottles which are, on average, reused  
20 times.
 Milk is valuable and precious – dairy 
farmers work extremely hard to produce it 
and although some milk loss is inevitable 
during processing we have continued to 
make good progress with a 7% reduction  
in losses in comparison to 2007.
 In early 2013 we publicly committed 
ourselves to the third phase of WRAP’s 
Courtauld Commitment which includes a 
commitment to helping consumers reduce 
the amount of food they waste at home 
by extending where possible the shelf life 
of the products we make, offering them a 
greater range of portion sizes and giving 
them advice on what they can do with their 
left overs.
Reducing water usage
Over the course of 2012/13 we 
have continued to focus on our 
levels of water efficiency at our 
manufacturing sites and are 
confident we will achieve our 
target of reducing water usage 
by 20% by 2015 against 2007 
levels. At present we have 
reduced it by 15.7%. 
With an increasing focus on water as a 
limited resource, in the autumn of 2011,  
we launched ‘WaterWell’, an innovative 
water auditing programme for farmers 
which enables them to share best practice 
and to benchmark their results against 
sector wide data.
 Our farmer suppliers also play a vital 
role in conserving the countryside and 
many of their activities have a positive 
impact on biodiversity. Getting the balance 
right between milk production and helping 
wildlife is a challenge. We have in place 
several initiatives with some of the UK’s 
leading retailers. Working with Waitrose and 
AB Sustain, Dairy Crest helped set up and 
fund an extensive biodiversity programme 
whereby dairy farmers are paid to leave at 
least 10% of their land free for wildlife to 
flourish. As of 2012 the average amount of 
land given over to wildlife is about 25% - 
the equivalent of 18 times London’s Hyde 
Park. Farmers involved in the scheme 
leave hedgerows to grow, blossom and 
fruit and maintain wide field margins where 
wild flowers provide food and egg-laying 
areas for butterflies. Other initiatives include 
the introduction of ponds, ditches, beetle 
banks, skylark scrapes, barn own boxes, 
wetland and overwintered stubble. As a 
result of the programme it was found that 
wildlife has increased by 19% and sightings 
of birdlife considered to be in decline were 
up 47%. 
Marketplace
We are committed to 
creating healthy, tasty 
enjoyable products, making 
it easier for consumers to 
choose healthier foods and 
to play our part in helping to 
tackle obesity.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Bonus
Pension
Benefits
Base salary
M Wilks A Murray M Allen
2008 2011 2012 2013
98
94
87
57
Since 2007
our carbon
equivalent
emissions are
down
22.4%
8%
Waste sent to landfill
2010 2013
0
20
40
60
80
100
52%
Since 2007 our
carbon equivalent
emissions are down
  22.4%    
We are on target 
to achieve 30% 
by 2020    
Since 2007
we have
reduced our
water usage by
15.7%
We are on
target to 
achieve 20% 
by 2015
72236_Glasshouse_p26-p33.indd   27 05/06/2013   06:24 28 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Business review  | Corporate Responsibility continued
Safety at work
The safety and well-being  
of people connected with 
Dairy Crest could not be 
more important. We aim  
to have no accidents in  
the workplace and consider 
one accident to be one  
too many.
Our safety at work objective is simple; we 
want everyone who works for us, and with 
us, to go home to his or her family at the end 
of their working day without any injury or 
occupational ill health.
 To achieve this objective we have 
in place a number of training, employee 
engagement and behavioural safety 
programmes all of which have helped further 
reduce the number of accidents across our 
sites and, although our target is always to 
have no accidents in the workplace, the 
number fell from 76 last year to 56 this year.
 One of the highlights of the year was a 
children’s poster competition themed around 
the subject ‘My mummy/daddy works 
safely’. Although the poster competition was 
Workplace
early 2013 when we became the first dairy 
company to sign up to the Department of 
Health’s Responsibility Deal which includes a 
commitment on calorie reduction.
 We recognise that food safety is non-
negotiable and the quality of our products 
underpins our success. We have to ensure 
the food we produce is safe to eat and 
drink and we have well-proven quality 
management procedures in place to 
manage and control the safety and quality 
of our products throughout the supply chain 
– including the traceability of the ingredients 
we purchase. Over the course of the last 
year we are pleased to report that we have 
not had to make any product recalls. 
 As the largest UK-owned dairy company, 
Dairy Crest is committed to supporting 
and working closely with our 1,250 dairy 
farmers. That means paying a fair, market-
related price for milk, which recognises 
the tough conditions our farmers continue 
to face and committing ourselves to only 
buying fresh milk from British farms. During 
the year we were the first milk processor to 
adopt the Government’s voluntary code of 
practice on milk contracts and have recently 
offered a ground-breaking contract which 
allows some supplying farmers to opt for 
a formulaic milk price mechanism that 
provides greater transparency and reduces 
volatility. More information can be found in 
the milk procurement section page 24.
 Dairy Crest also works collaboratively 
with non-farmer suppliers to ensure 
compliance with our supplier corporate 
responsibility policy. Introduced in 2011, 
the policy sets out the minimum standards 
expected from our suppliers and this year 
we enhanced it to cover a global zero 
tolerance on bribery and corruption.
just 30 weeks since launch, Cathedral City 
Selections have achieved over  
£2 million of sales. This range of adult 
snacking complements our children’s 
cheese brand Chedds, which is made from 
100% pure mild cheddar cheese and is 
packed in child size portions. 
 Since purchasing the Frylight brand in 
2011, the one calorie cooking oil spray has 
gone from strength-to-strength and in 2013 
we initiated the brand’s first ever advertising 
campaign on primetime television.
 Our overall commitment to leading the 
lower fat dairy agenda was highlighted in 
2,000 
  employees, about 40% 
of staff, have received a 
health check through our 
‘healthier lives’ drive
good fun and resulted in many entries from 
all areas of the business it had the important 
effect of increasing awareness of a very 
important issue, safety.
 Understanding why accidents happen is 
vital to reducing them. To ensure we are well 
placed to do this we actively encourage staff 
to report near misses without fear of reprisal. 
This open and honest approach has resulted 
in 9,349 near misses being reported last 
year an increase of 271 on the previous year. 
 As part of our drive to help staff live 
healthier lives we introduced free health 
checks which are carried out by our team 
of occupational health advisers. These 
checkups allow staff to get tailored advice 
on how they can improve their lifestyles and 
they include a cholesterol check, a BMI test 
and a blood pressure check. In addition 
to offering staff free health checks we also 
ran health awareness campaigns during 
the year that focused on key health issues. 
These have included diabetes, hypertension 
and alcohol misuse. Together this approach 
resulted in over 2,000 employees – about 
40% of our staff – having a health check. 
As well as health hubs at each of our 
manufacturing sites the occupational health 
team also run a bespoke health website that 
staff can access both at home and at work. 
These actions have helped us keep absence 
rates below 3%.
 The work we have done to increase staff 
health and awareness and the work we have 
done to reduce accidents in the workplace 
has helped result in fewer days lost from 
accident or ill health from 1,998 days in 
2011/12 to 1,531 days in 2012/13. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 29
Business review
We know that the actions 
we take can have a 
significant influence on the 
communities where we are 
based, and as the main 
employer in many areas we 
believe we have a unique 
opportunity to play a positive 
role in supporting projects at 
a local and national level.
To ensure the work we do in our local 
communities adds real value to society we 
focus on supporting issues and projects that 
make best use of our expertise and 
knowledge, provide a legacy and fit with our 
vision and business strategy. For this reason 
our community programme is based around 
supporting the countryside, the environment, 
education and health.
Countryside and environment
The rural economy is hugely important to the 
UK, turning over £300 billion and employing 
5.5 million people. We want it to remain 
that way, so as well as supporting our dairy 
suppliers we also want to support struggling 
smaller farmers – some of whom may not be 
in the dairy sector.
 To help us achieve this Mark Allen, our 
Chief Executive, is Chairman of the Prince’s 
Rural Action Programme and is a Trustee 
of the Countryside Fund and Lyndsay 
Chapman our Director of Agriculture and 
Farming Communications is Chairman of the 
Prince’s Dairy Initiative. We are also a major 
supporter of Pub is the Hub, a charity that 
helps isolated, rural pubs diversify to the 
benefit of the entire local community.
Helping Britain’s most vulnerable dairy 
farms (Case study)
In 2011, working alongside Business in the 
Community and other dairy businesses, we 
helped set up the Prince’s Dairy Initiative, 
a programme designed to help small 
dairy farms that don’t have contracts with 
processors. Initially involving 74 economically 
vulnerable dairy farms in five regions across 
the UK, we found that by offering them a 
range of financial tools and by helping them 
create a networking forum, we were able 
to boost their confidence and increase the 
efficiency of their farms. On the back of this 
successful pilot programme our aim is to roll 
out the initiative to another 300 dairy farmers 
over the next three years. The programme 
will continue to be led by Lyndsay Chapman, 
Dairy Crest’s Director of Agriculture and 
Farming Communications.
Healthy living
In tandem with our strategy of increasing 
sales of healthier variants of our products, 
our aim is to use our community programme 
to encourage staff and consumers to live 
healthier lifestyles. To help achieve this we 
have been working in partnership with the 
British Heart Foundation, the UK’s leading 
heart charity, to promote awareness of the 
charity’s activities to our doorstep customers 
and staff. We have also made use of the 
British Heart Foundation’s resources and 
experience to support our staff wellbeing 
campaign. Over the course of the two year 
partnership, staff have raised over £390,000 
for the charity.
 In 2012 Dairy Crest also became a key 
supporter of BBC2’s Hairy Bikers ‘Meals 
on Wheels’ campaign, with staff taking 
advantage of our volunteering policy to 
deliver healthy, homemade meals to people 
who need them. Our aim for the coming 
years is to not just support more Meals on 
Wheels programmes but to also play our 
part in getting more people and companies 
to support the programme.
Education
In the UK food industry and dairy sector as 
a whole there is a severe shortage of food 
scientists, engineers and young people 
starting a career in agriculture. For these 
reasons education is an important part of 
our community programme. 
Community
Over the course of the last year we 
played a leading role in the IGD’s ‘Feeding 
Britain’s Future’ programme which saw 
Dairy Crest, alongside other retailers and 
food manufacturers, open their doors to 
unemployed youngsters to help them get 
a job and to showcase the huge variety of 
roles in the food sector. Dairy Crest’s focus 
was very much centred on helping rural 
communities and included a visit to the 
Duchy College Farm in Cornwall and days 
at our Davidstow creamery and Nuneaton 
distribution centre. We will again be playing a 
leading role in the initiative in 2013.
 We also encourage young people to 
consider a career in food manufacturing 
and engineering through our sponsorship 
of the University Food Science Summer 
School courses at Nottingham and Reading 
Universities and events such as the Festival 
of Manufacturing and Engineering held in 
Stonehouse, Gloucestershire.
Engaging with local communities
Our local community committees make 
up the fourth strand of our community 
programme and, in keeping with the overall 
strategy, they support:
•	 L ocal 	good 	ca uses 	t ha t 	mak e 	a 	posit iv e	
and direct contribution to the communities 
where our workplaces are based. 
•	 Good 	ca uses 	t ha t 	i mpr o v e 	healt h ,	
education, the environment or countryside.
Over the course of the year staff have 
supported over a hundred good causes 
though volunteering, donations of products 
and donations of money. 30 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Business review continued
09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13
 1,555.4 
 1,530.6 
 1,502.2 
 1,514.7 
 1,381.6 
Cash generated 
from operations
(£m)
Revenue
(£m)
20.1
18.9
19.7
20.4
Adjusted earnings
per share  
(pence)
30.0
27.4
29.9
28.9
29.9
Segment proﬁt 
(£m)
71.7
71.3
 73.7 
 68.9 
 69.3 
129.1
145.9
128.1
84.5
19.1
116
115
85
123
19
20.7
Total dividends 
per share 
(pence)
Gearing
(%)
Mar 08 Sep 08 Mar 09 Sep 09 Mar 10 Sep 10 Mar 11 Sep 11 Mar 12
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0 
Net debt
Net debt (£m – left scale)
Net debt / EBITDA 
(multiples – right scale)
475 491 416 380 337 335 312 365 336
Sep 12 Mar 13
76 60
Before exceptional items 
and amortisation of 
acquired intangibles; 
excludes associates
Before exceptional items, 
amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and pension 
interest charges / income
Overview
The successful sale of St Hubert in August 2012 
has significantly strengthened the Company’s 
financial position. The Group received cash 
consideration of £341.1 million and net debt  
at 31 March 2013 of £59.7 million is the lowest  
since 2000. Since 31 March 2013, the Group  
has restructured its debt facilities, repaying  
£100 million of loan notes early and has also 
made a one-off cash contribution to the  
pension fund of £40 million.
These actions leave the Group well placed to  
fund growth in its core UK market. Key projects 
for 2013/14 include the on-going major £38 million 
investment in consolidating UK spreads 
production onto one site in Kirkby, Merseyside.
Financial review
72236_Glasshouse_p26-p33.indd   30 04/06/2013   03:45 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 31
Report of the Directors
Segment revenue
2013 2012 Change Change
£m £m £m %
Cheese 231.3 229.6 1.7 0.7
Spreads 194.5 211.3 (16.8) (8.0)
Dairies 951.6 1,069.0 (117.4) (11.0)
Other 4.2 4.8 (0.6) (12.5)
Total segment revenue 1,381.6 1,514.7 (133.1) (8.8)
Group revenue excluding St Hubert decreased by 8.8% to £1,381.6 
million, predominantly as a result of lower revenues in the Dairies 
business. These lower revenues reflect the decision to reduce sales 
in the middle ground following the closure of the Fenstanton and 
Liverpool dairies, and also the on-going reduction in residential 
sales. Spreads revenue also decreased by £16.8 million due to lower 
average realisations on Clover and butter (following a reduction in 
vegetable oil and cream costs) and reduced sales of Utterly Butterly. 
Cheese revenues increased slightly.
Segment operating profit
2013 2012 Change Change
£m £m £m %
Cheese 33.3 35.5 (2.2) (6.2)
Spreads 25.7 23.2 2.5 10.8
Dairies 10.3 10.2 0.1 1.0
Share of associates – (0.3) 0.3 n/a
Total segment profit 69.3 68.6 0.7 1.0
Remove share of 
associates – 0.3 (0.3) n/a
Acquired intangible 
amortisation (0.4) (0.8) 0.4 50.0
Group profit on 
operations (pre-
exceptionals) 68.9 68.1 0.8 1.2
Segment profit excluding St Hubert increased by £0.7 million to £69.3 
million. Cheese profits recorded a small decrease to £33.3 million, 
reflecting increased costs of milk in 2011/12 translating into higher 
cost of sales in 2012/13. Spreads profits increased by £2.5 million to 
£25.7 million due to the benefit of cost savings initiatives and lower 
vegetable oil costs. Dairies profits of £10.3 million were effectively flat 
year-on-year, with the benefit of on-going cost savings being offset 
by the impact of residential decline and the higher cost of raw milk. 
Within Dairies, property profits were £7.7 million (2012: £4.6 million).
Sale of St Hubert
In August 2012 the St Hubert business was sold for cash 
consideration of £341.1 million, resulting in a profit on disposal of 
£47.7 million after fees and estimated tax costs. This profit has 
been classified within discontinued operations as exceptional. The 
results of St Hubert until the date of sale have also been disclosed 
as discontinued operations and prior year comparatives have been 
restated accordingly. 
The sale of St Hubert has resulted in a UK focused business which 
has subsequently been reinforced by a reorganisation resulting in the 
removal of divisional operating and management structures. The cash 
proceeds have allowed the Group to restructure its debt after the 
year end and make a one-off contribution to the pension fund as well 
as retain capacity for future investment in the UK business.
Exceptional Items
Pre-tax exceptional charges of £56.5 million have been recorded in 
the year (2012: £93.9 million).
In September 2012 we announced the potential closure of the 
Crudgington site with production moving to Kirkby. This project, now 
confirmed, will give significant savings in future years. Exceptional 
costs of £13.8 million have been recorded in the year, the majority of 
which are non-cash asset write-downs. Cash expenditure in the year 
was £2.6 million.
In April 2012 we also announced a major restructuring of Dairies 
manufacturing, which ultimately led to closure of the Fenstanton 
and Aintree dairies. An exceptional cost of £21.3 million has been 
recorded against this project, of which £9.0 million represents 
redundancy costs. Cash expenditure in the year was £17.8 million 
and the project is now complete.
During the year we completed the restructuring of depot 
administration activities in the Dairies division. This project has 
delivered more streamlined and centralised back-office support 
functions and generated significant cost savings. Exceptional costs  
in the period were £9.2 million (predominantly redundancy) with a 
cash expenditure in the year of £8.5 million.
In February 2013 the Company announced a management 
restructure, leading to a unified business. Exceptional costs of £3.5 
million have been charged in the year being accruals for redundancy 
costs. Some further exceptional costs will be incurred in 2013/14 as 
the reorganisation is completed.
On 18 April 2013 the Company repaid £100 million of loan notes 
ahead of their normal maturity date and reduced its revolving credit 
facility (“RCF”) by €60 million. The associated costs (primarily make-
whole premium payable to noteholders) resulted in an exceptional 
charge of £8.7 million in the year to 31 March 2013 and the cash 
impact will be reflected in 2013/14. These costs are considered 
exceptional due to their size and nature, and were charged in 2012/13 
because having given notice of repayment to noteholders in March 
2013, the Group was irrevocably committed to repaying the loan 
notes at the year end.
Finance costs
Finance costs have reduced by £2.4 million to £18.7 million. This 
primarily reflects the reduction in net debt following the sale of  
St Hubert in August 2012 at which point all borrowings under the 
revolving credit facility were repaid. The balance of the St Hubert 
proceeds were largely held on short-term cash deposit prior to the 
loan note repayments noted in the “Borrowing Facilities” section 
below. The quantum of the interest reduction during the year was 
limited due to the very low interest rates available on sterling and euro 
deposits.
Other finance income of £5.9 million (2012: £5.5 million) comprises 
the net expected return on pension scheme assets after deducting 
the interest cost on the defined benefit obligation. This is based on 
assumptions made at the start of the financial year. This amount can 
be highly volatile year-on-year as it comprises the net of expected 
returns and interest costs, both of which are dependent upon 
financial market conditions at 31 March each year. We therefore 
exclude this item from headline adjusted profit before tax.
Business review
72236_Glasshouse_p26-p33.indd   31 04/06/2013   03:45 32 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Following the sale of St Hubert, the Group entered into discussions 
with the Pension Fund Trustee about the impact of this transaction 
on the employer covenant. Consequently, on 18 April 2013 the Group 
made an additional one-off contribution to the Fund of £40 million. 
At the same time the Group granted the Trustee a floating charge 
over maturing cheese inventories, with a maximum realisable value of 
£60 million. This charge was put in place to protect the Fund in the 
unlikely event of an insolvency of Dairy Crest Limited.
The reported IAS19 pension liability at 31 March 2013 was  
£67.2 million comprising an IAS 19 deficit of £56.3 million and a  
£10.9 million additional liability reflecting an unrecoverable notional 
surplus. The reported deficit at 31 March 2012 was £79.8 million. 
Asset returns were strong during the year; however bond yields 
declined again increasing the discounted level of pension liabilities.
Cash flow
Cash generated from operations was £19.1 million in the year  
(2012: £84.5 million). This includes a working capital outflow of  
£40.0 million (2012: £20.6 million outflow) due mainly to the higher 
value of cheese stocks compared to March 2012 - £155.5 million in 
March 2013 versus £129.8 million last year. Stock value increases  
are a result of increased manufacturing to support future volume 
growth and milk cost increases during 2012. As was the case last 
year, we received some early settlement of invoices from customers 
at March 2013.
Capital expenditure of £50.9 million was £2.4 million below last year 
(2012: £53.3 million). Significant investment continued across our 
core milk processing sites, Severnside, Chadwell Heath and Foston. 
The investment has allowed these sites to absorb volume from 
the Liverpool and Fenstanton dairies, which have now closed. We 
now operate as a smaller, well invested Dairies manufacturing base 
with improved efficiencies and higher levels of capacity utilisation. 
In February 2013, we received a grant of £5.3 million from The 
Department for Communities and Local Government to be applied 
towards capacity expansion at our spreads site at Kirkby. Proceeds 
from the sale of closed depots amounted to £10.1 million.
Cash interest and tax payments amounted to £18.0 million and  
£4.7 million respectively. (2012: £23.6 million and £14.1 million). 
Interest payments are £5.6 million lower as net debt reduced 
following the sale of St Hubert in August 2012, at which point, 
all borrowings under the revolving credit facility were repaid. 
Furthermore, upfront fees in relation to the renewal of the revolving 
credit facility were paid in the prior year. 
Net debt
Following the sale of St Hubert, net debt decreased by £276.7 million 
to £59.7 million at the end of the year. Net debt as defined includes 
the fixed Sterling equivalent of foreign currency loan notes subject 
to swaps and excludes unamortised facility fees. At 31 March 2013, 
gearing (being the ratio of net debt to shareholders’ funds) was 19% 
(2012: 123%).
Borrowing facilities
At the start of the financial year, the Group’s borrowing facilities 
comprised: £337 million of loan notes (at the effective swapped 
exchange rate) maturing between April 2013 and November 2021, 
and a £170 million plus €150 million revolving credit facility expiring  
in October 2016.
Interest cover excluding pension interest, calculated on total segment 
profit, remains comfortable, at 3.7 times (2012: 3.3 times).
Profit before tax
2013 2012 Change Change
£m £m £m %
Total segment profit 69.3 68.6 0.7 1.0
Finance costs (18.7) (21.1) 2.4 11.4
Adjusted profit before tax 50.6 47.5 3.1 6.5
Amortisation of acquired 
intangibles (0.4) (0.8) 0.4 50.0
Exceptional items (56.5) (93.9) 37.4 39.8
Other finance income – 
pensions 5.9 5.5 0.4 7.3
Reported loss 
before tax (0.4) (41.7) 41.3 n/a
Adjusted profit before tax (before exceptional items and amortisation 
of acquired goodwill) increased by 6.5% to £50.6 million. This 
is management’s key Group profit measure. The reported profit 
before tax was a loss of £0.4 million as a result of exceptional items. 
However, this measure excludes the exceptional pre-tax profit of 
£51.4 million recorded on the sale of St Hubert, and the pre-tax 
profits from St Hubert up to the date of its disposal (£11.3 million).
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax rate on profits from continuing operations 
(excluding exceptional items) was 20.7% (2012: 19.5%). The effective 
tax rate continues to be kept below the corporation tax rate by profits 
from property disposals, on which the tax charges are sheltered 
by brought forward capital losses or roll over relief. We expect the 
effective tax rate to decrease next year in line with the reduction in the 
rate of UK corporation tax. 
Group result for the year
The reported Group profit for the year amounted to £54.5 million 
(2012: £17.1 million loss) reflecting the profit on sale of St Hubert.
Earnings per share
The Group’s adjusted basic earnings per share increased by 3% to 
29.9 pence per share (2012: 28.9 pence per share). 
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations, which includes 
the impact of exceptional items, pension interest income and the 
amortisation of acquired intangibles, amounted to nil pence per share 
(2012: 29.1 pence loss per share).
Dividends 
The proposed final dividend of 15.0 pence per share represents a  
0.3 pence per share increase compared to last year. Together with 
the interim dividend of 5.7 pence per share this brings the total 
dividend to 20.7 pence per share for the full year, 1.5% higher than 
last year (2012: 20.4 pence per share). The final dividend will be paid 
on 1 August 2013 to shareholders on the register on 28 June 2013.
Comments on dividend policy going forward are provided in the 
Chairman’s statement on page 13.
Pensions
During the year, the Group paid £20 million into the (closed) defined 
benefit scheme in line with the schedule of contributions agreed 
in June 2011. Contributions at this rate will continue until a new 
agreement is reached following the actuarial valuation due as of  
31 March 2013.
Business review  | Financial review continued
72236_Glasshouse_p26-p33.indd   32 04/06/2013   03:45 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 33
Report of the Directors
In November 2012, £7.5 million of notes were voluntarily redeemed 
at par by investors. Facilities at 31 March 2013 therefore comprised 
£330 million of loan notes and a £170 million plus €150 million 
revolving credit facility.
On 4 April 2013, £60 million of notes from the 2006 series which had 
reached their maturity were repaid.
On 18 April 2013, a further £100 million of loan notes were repaid 
from the 2007 series. Of these notes, the majority (£69 million) were 
due for repayment in April 2014 with the balance due in April 2017. 
This will reduce the Group’s interest payments going forward. The 
repayment was effected by exercising the Group’s right to early 
redemption on payment of a make whole premium. 
Following these repayments, the Group has £170 million of notes 
outstanding which mature between 2014 and 2021.
On 18 April 2013 the Group also reduced its revolving credit facility 
by €60 million to £170 million plus €90 million (approximately £246 
million).
Borrowing facilities are subject to covenants which specify a 
maximum ratio of net debt to EBITDA of 3.5 times and a minimum 
interest cover ratio of 3.0 times. The Group remains very comfortably 
within its covenants with a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 0.6 times as of 
31 March 2013 (March 2012: 2.2 times).
Treasury policies
The Group operates a centralised treasury function, which controls 
cash management and borrowings and the Group’s financial risks. 
The main treasury risks faced by the Group are liquidity, interest rates 
and foreign currency. The Group only uses derivatives to manage 
its foreign currency and interest rate risks arising from underlying 
business and financing activities. Transactions of a speculative 
nature are prohibited. The Group’s treasury activities are governed 
by policies approved and monitored by the Board. These policies are 
summarised in Note 30 to the financial statements.
Going concern
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern 
basis as the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate 
financial resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable 
future. In making this statement, the Group’s Directors have: reviewed 
the Group budget, strategic plans and available facilities; have made 
such other enquiries as they considered appropriate; and have 
taken into account ‘Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance 
for Directors of UK Companies 2009’ published by the Financial 
Reporting Council in October 2009. Further information is presented 
on page 53.
Alastair Murray Finance Director
22 May 2013
Business review
72236_Glasshouse_p26-p33.indd   33 04/06/2013   03:45 34 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the governance 
of the Company and the Company’s strong governance framework 
is supported by a combination of clear values, appropriate policy 
and an environment of transparency and accountability.
Ensuring the effective performance of the Board is one of my main 
responsibilities as Chairman and my aim is to ensure that it 
comprises individuals with a varied mix of backgrounds, skills and 
experience who are able to challenge each other appropriately, work 
in a collegiate manner and do the right thing for Dairy Crest. In 
managing the changes to the Board since 2010 I have sought to 
ensure that we have in place a strong Board with not only the 
appropriate technical, financial and other business skills required to 
provide the best leadership for the Company, but also that we have 
a group of people who demonstrate the values necessary to be 
effective stewards of the Company. My focus will remain on ensuring 
that the composition of the Board continues to evolve and that we 
maintain an appropriate mix of experience and skills through careful 
succession planning.
Dairy Crest has a clearly defined set of values which are 
communicated throughout the Group. Those values are supported 
by a range of procedures and guidelines which help to give 
employees an appropriate roadmap for behaviours. Together with 
external governance codes, they set the framework for the 
Company’s standards and governance. The Company strives to 
ensure the highest standards of corporate governance in all areas of 
its business. Throughout the 2012/13 financial year, the Company 
was in full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2010 (‘2010 Code’) against which this Report is prepared, apart from 
in relation to Board evaluation, details of which are set out at page 
36. Although the 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (‘2012 Code’) does not apply to the Company’s 2012/13 
financial year, where appropriate, and as encouraged in the 2012 
Code, this Report complies with it. We aim to achieve full 
compliance with the 2012 Code when we report our 2013/14 
financial year and will continue closely to monitor developments in 
corporate governance practice. The 2010 Code is publicly available 
from the website of the Financial Reporting Council (‘FRC’) at  
www.frc.org.uk.
Anthony Fry Chairman
22 May 2013
Chairman’s Introduction
A great deal of change has occurred at Dairy Crest and in the 
wider corporate world since January 2010 when I was 
appointed Chairman. Corporate governance is continually 
evolving and the pace of that evolution has increased since my 
appointment. It is right that boards give appropriate 
consideration to the broad range of issues affecting the 
businesses they lead. Focusing on just delivering good 
financial results is not enough; diversity, social and 
environmental impact, long-term legacy and sustainability, to 
name but a few, are all matters which boards must consider. 
The right approach to corporate governance helps to ensure 
that businesses are able to deliver long-term value for all of 
their stakeholders in the right way and an appropriate 
governance framework fulfils an essential role, providing a 
system for the direction and control of businesses.
Corporate governance
Governance framework
The Group’s business has become more focused and less complex 
over recent years with the sale of its stake in Yoplait Dairy Crest in 
2009, the creation of a unified Dairies business and the subsequent 
sale of its French subsidiary St Hubert in August 2012. Moreover, 
since its last Report, the Company has undertaken a significant 
reorganisation. As a result, from the start of the current financial year, 
the Company consolidated its organisation into a single structure 
focused on customer driven growth with an integrated supply chain. 
The simplified structure in place as at the date of this Report (see 
diagram above) also enables simplified governance.
The Board
The Board leads and controls the Company in the delivery of 
long-term success and the discharge of the Company’s obligations 
to its shareholders and other stakeholders. It is collectively 
responsible for the Group’s strategy, values and governance and 
ensuring that the resources required to meet the Group’s objectives 
are available within a framework of prudent controls. Certain matters 
have been reserved to the Board. The Board’s principal 
responsibilities include:
•	 Approval of the Group’s long-term objectives and business 
strategy.
•	 Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
•	 Approval of the Company’s Interim and Preliminary Results 
Announcements and Annual Report and Accounts.
•	 Declaration of interim dividends and the recommendation of a final 
dividend.
•	 Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control 
and risk management.
•	 Approval of the Company’s governance framework, including key 
Group policies, for example Health and Safety and Business 
Conduct.
•	 Approval of resolutions to be put to shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’).
Each Director is aware of his/her responsibilities, individually and 
collectively, to promote the long-term success of the Company. 
Details of the frequency of Board meetings during the year together 
with Directors’ attendance are set out in the table at page 11. 
Changes to the membership of the Board and its Committees 
during 2012/13 are set out in the notes to the table on page 11.
Committees
There are five Committees of the Board: Audit; Remuneration; 
Nomination; Corporate Responsibility and the Management Board, 
to which the Board has delegated specific responsibilities. Each of 
the Board’s Committees’ terms of reference are published on the 
Remuneration
Committee
Audit
Committee
Group
Board
Nomination
Committee
CR
Committee
Cheese
Demand   HR   Finance   Legal
Spreads Dairies
Management
Board
Procurement         Supply
72236_Glasshouse_p34-p40.indd   34 04/06/2013   18:52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 35
Governance
Report of the Directors
Group’s website and to the extent required, they comply with the 
2010 Code. Separate reports from each of the chairmen of the Audit 
(pages 37 to 38), Nomination (pages 38 to 39), Corporate 
Responsibility (pages 26 to 29 and 39) and Remuneration (pages 41 
to 52) Committees are included in this Report.
Board balance and independence
At the date of this Report, the Board has eight Directors (three 
Executive, a Non-executive Chairman (who was independent on 
appointment) and four independent Non-executive Directors). Their 
biographies, responsibilities and Committee memberships are set 
out on pages 10 to 11. No Non-executive Director or the Chairman 
has any business or other relationship with the Group which may 
influence their independence or judgement and the Board believes 
them to be independent of management.
The Board believes that it has an appropriate balance of Executive 
and Non-executive Directors with a suitable breadth of experience 
and backgrounds to provide effective leadership for the Group.  
A highly proactive approach to the management of the Board is 
maintained to ensure that all Board appointments continue to  
reflect diversity. Further detail on the Board’s approach to diversity 
and the work undertaken to ensure balance and appropriate 
refreshment of the Board is given in the Nomination Committee’s 
report at pages 38 to 39.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief 
Executive is set out in writing and has been approved by the Board. 
Anthony Fry leads the Board and is accountable for ensuring the 
Board’s effectiveness in discharging its responsibilities, including 
safeguarding shareholder and other stakeholder interests and 
ensuring effective communication with shareholders. In conjunction 
with the Chief Executive he sets the agenda for Board meetings 
ensuring that adequate time is available for all agenda items, in 
particular, strategic issues, and facilitates the effective contribution of 
all Directors. He promotes a culture of openness among the Board 
and ensures constructive relations between Executive and Non-
executive Directors. He is supported by the Company Secretary in 
the discharge of his duties. Mark Allen has overall responsibility for 
the effective implementation of the strategy approved by the Board, 
for the Group’s business performance and day-to-day management 
of the Group’s operations, and for the effective management of the 
Group’s people and assets.
Appointment and re-election
The articles of association of the Company ('Articles') provide that 
the Directors or the members, by ordinary resolution, may appoint a 
Director either to fill a vacancy or as an additional director. A Director 
appointed by the Directors shall retire at the next AGM following 
appointment and shall be eligible for election by the members. The 
Articles require all Directors to be elected annually. All Directors will 
stand for re-election at the Company’s 2013 AGM, except for Tom 
Atherton, who consistent with the Articles, will stand for election 
having been appointed since the last AGM. Having regard to the 
roles performed by each of the Directors, the individual input and 
contribution they make and their individual expertise and experience, 
the Board is satisfied that each candidate’s performance justifies 
nomination for election or re-election by shareholders. The contracts 
of employment of Executive Directors and the letters of appointment 
of Non-executive Directors are available for inspection by any person 
at the Company’s registered office during normal office hours and 
will also be available at the 2013 AGM for 15 minutes before and 
throughout the meeting.
Non-executive Directors
All Non-executive Directors (including the Chairman) confirmed on 
appointment that they had sufficient time available to fulfil their 
obligations as Directors and that they would inform the Board should 
the position change. Details of the Chairman’s other significant 
professional commitments are included in his biography (page 11). 
The Chairman will take up his appointment as chairman of the 
Premier League on 1 June 2013. He will shortly step down from his 
role as a member of the BBC Trust and has altered a number of his 
other commitments. The Board is satisfied that he continues to have 
sufficient time available to fulfil his obligations as a Director and 
Chairman. All significant commitments of Non-executive Directors 
were disclosed to the Board prior to their appointment and the 
Board was informed of subsequent changes.
As members of a unitary board, the Non-executive Directors 
scrutinise management’s performance in meeting agreed goals and 
objectives. The Board as a whole monitors the reporting of 
performance. The Chief Executive’s objectives, achievement of 
which influences his remuneration, are agreed with the 
Remuneration Committee following initial discussion with the 
Chairman. Performance against those objectives is scrutinised by 
the Remuneration Committee. The Audit Committee monitors and 
scrutinises the integrity of financial information as well as the 
robustness and defensibility of financial controls and systems of risk 
management. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for 
determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive 
Directors. The Nomination Committee has a prime role in selecting 
and appointing Directors and in succession planning. The 
appointment of Directors to or the removal of Directors from the 
Board is a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
The Chairman periodically meets individually or collectively with the 
Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors. 
The process for appraising the Chairman’s performance is set out 
on page 36. Were Directors to have unresolved concerns about the 
running of the Company or a proposed action, they would be 
recorded in the Board minutes. The Non-executive Directors 
recognise the principle that if on resignation from the Board a 
Director has unresolved concerns, that Director should provide a 
written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.  
The concept that Non-executive Directors are free to question any 
executive decision of the Company is enshrined in the engagement 
letter of each Non-executive Director.
Induction and development
The Company Secretary ensures that Directors undergo a 
comprehensive induction programme on appointment. Directors 
variously receive independent training on technical accounting and 
other governance related matters from professional service 
providers and institutions and bulletins from the Group on 
developments in the dairy sector generally. The Directors keep 
abreast with the Group’s business through meetings and 
presentations by management below Board level and visits to 
operational sites.
Information and support
Under the Chairman’s stewardship, the Company Secretary advises 
the Board on all governance matters and ensures Board procedures 
are followed and applicable rules and regulations complied with.  
He ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with 
information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable the 
Board to discharge its duties.
72236_Glasshouse_p34-p40.indd   35 04/06/2013   16:01 36 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance continued
Risk management and internal control
The Board confirms that in accordance with principle C.2 of the 
2010 Code, it has established and has maintained sound systems of 
risk management and internal control throughout the year and up to 
the date of this Report. It has periodically reviewed those systems 
during the year and has satisfied itself that they accord with the 
FRC’s Guidance on Internal Control (revised October 2005). It is not 
possible entirely to eliminate risk, accordingly, although the systems 
are designed to manage risks they cannot provide absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. They provide 
reasonable assurance that potential issues can be identified 
promptly and remedied appropriately.
The key components of the risk management and internal control 
systems include:
•	 The reservation to the Board of control of, amongst other matters, 
all significant strategic, financial and organisational risks.
•	 A management structure which includes clear lines of 
responsibility and documented delegations of authority with 
appropriate policies, levels and rules for, amongst other matters, 
incurring capital expenditure or divesting of the Group’s assets.
•	 The operation of comprehensive financial and strategic planning, 
forecasting and review processes.
•	 Exercise of oversight by the Audit Committee, with input from the 
Group’s Head of Internal Audit, over the Group’s control processes 
designed to ensure the integrity of internal and external financial 
reporting.
•	 The preparation of monthly management accounts packs for the 
business, including KPI dashboards for each constituent part of 
the Group’s business, trading results, balance sheet and cash flow 
information with comparison against prior year and budget, all of 
which are reviewed by the Management Board and the Board.
•	 Monthly scrutiny of performance against budget (including 
analysis of key trends, variances and key risks and plans for 
mitigation as well as the continued appropriateness of those risks) 
in meetings known internally as Accounts Reviews where each 
key constituent part of the Group and key departments report 
performance year-to-date and forecast against budget to a panel 
comprising the Management Board and other senior executives.
•	 Formal documented financial controls and procedures including 
specific procedures for treasury transactions and the approval of 
significant contracts.
•	 Quarterly completion by each key constituent part of the Group of 
a self-assessment controls questionnaire that requires the 
approval of business unit management.
•	 Preparation and refreshment of risk registers which are reviewed 
by senior management, the Management Board and the Board 
with the assignment of individual responsibility for the ownership 
and mitigation of significant risks to members of the Management 
Board and independent assurance over the appropriate 
implementation and operation of mitigating activities provided by 
the Group’s Internal Audit function.
•	 Review by the Audit Committee of the Group’s risk register 
processes.
•	 Review and approval of the audit plan for the Group’s Internal 
Audit function together with progress against and revision of the 
plan as appropriate, throughout the year.
•	 Receipt by the Audit Committee and the Management Board of all 
Group Internal Audit reports detailing audit issues noted, 
corrective action plans and progress against those plans.
All Directors individually, the Board and each of the Board 
Committees, have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary. He provides the Board with regular reports on 
corporate governance issues. Procedures exist enabling Directors to 
seek independent professional advice at the Company’s expense to 
assist them in the discharge of their duties.
Evaluation
An external evaluation of the Board and its effectiveness was 
conducted in the prior financial year. As Anthony Fry had been 
Chairman for only a year at the time, his performance was a key part 
of the evaluation, the aim being to identify from the outset of his 
Chairmanship areas of focus which the Board felt would add most 
value to its own performance. Whilst the Chairman and the Board 
received a very favourable evaluation, nonetheless the Directors 
have been striving individually and collectively to enhance their 
overall contribution to the Group. This year’s evaluation has 
commenced initially using questionnaires which have been followed 
up with individual interviews of all members of the Board by an 
external facilitator. The evaluation exercise has not yet been 
concluded; in due course a report on it will be published in the 
Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website. In 
recognition of the need identified in the previous year’s evaluation for 
the Board to be more visible within the wider business, Board 
meetings have been held at the Group’s Kirkby and Severnside sites 
and a far wider range of the Group’s management has been invited 
to attend and present at relevant parts of Board meetings.
The performance of the Executive Directors in the context of their 
management and operational responsibilities was appraised in the 
normal way, in accordance with the Group’s performance and 
development review process which applies to all management grade 
employees in the Group, irrespective of seniority. Under that 
process, the Chairman appraises the performance of the Chief 
Executive and the Chief Executive appraises the performance of the 
other Executive Directors. The outcome of the reviews of 
performance of all of the Executive Directors was scrutinised by the 
Remuneration Committee.
The Board’s Committees have considered their performance and 
such actions as are considered appropriate for further enhancement 
of their effective operation.
72236_Glasshouse_p34-p40.indd   36 04/06/2013   18:50 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 37
Governance
Report of the Directors
Audit Committee Report
I am pleased to present to you my report on the work of the 
Audit Committee during the 2012/13 financial year. The 
Committee plays an important part in the governance of the 
Company. Its principal objectives are to provide effective 
oversight and review of the Group’s financial reporting 
processes, the system of internal control and management of 
risk, the internal and external audit processes and their 
effectiveness and the Group’s processes for monitoring 
compliance with laws and external regulations.
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial 
experience for the purposes of the 2010 Code. The other members 
of the Committee are Stephen Alexander and Richard Macdonald 
both of whom are independent Non-executive Directors. A standing 
invitation has been made by the Committee to all Non-executive 
Directors to attend the Committee’s meetings. The number of 
Committee meetings and attendance at them is shown in the table 
on page 11. The Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive, Group 
Finance Director, Director of Financial Control, Head of Internal Audit 
and representatives of the External Auditor attend meetings at the 
invitation of the Committee. During 2012/13 the External and Internal 
Auditors attended all meetings and met privately with the 
Committee. I provide the Board with a report on the work of the 
Committee after each of its meetings.
Andrew Carr-Locke Chairman of the Audit Committee
22 May 2013
Terms of reference
The Committee reviews its terms of reference at least annually, 
having regard, amongst other matters, to their continued compliance 
with the requirements of the Code, the FRC’s Guidance on Internal 
Control (revised October 2005) and the Guidance on Audit 
Committees (December 2010). Under its terms of reference, the 
Committee is responsible for providing advice to the Board on the 
Group’s Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements and Annual 
Report and Accounts; on accounting policies and on the control of 
its financial and business risks as well as reviewing the work of the 
Internal and External Auditors.
Audit Committee activity
In carrying out its work, the Committee embraced the requirements of 
provision C.3.2 of the 2010 Code and followed an annual work plan 
covering its principal responsibilities under its terms of reference. 
During 2012/13 and up to the date of this Report, amongst other 
matters, the Committee undertook the following work:
•	 Monitored the integrity of the Group’s financial statements which it 
reviewed prior to their submission to the Board.
•	 Monitored the Group’s financial management and reporting 
systems together with the Group’s risk management processes 
and controls; and satisfied itself of the integrity and their 
effectiveness. It reviewed any areas of control weakness identified 
by the Internal or External Auditors and monitored their mitigation 
and remediation.
•	 Reviewed significant accounting policies and tested the 
appropriateness of any proposed changes to those policies.
•	 Approved the external audit plan (including, scope, level of 
materiality, resources dedicated to the audit and the seniority, 
expertise and experience of the engagement team), the fee for 
delivering the audit and satisfied itself that the External Auditor 
would be able to conduct an effective audit for such fee which it 
recommended to the Board for approval.
•	 Satisfied itself as to the effectiveness of the audit, reviewed the 
findings of the audit, evaluated the performance, independence 
and objectivity of the External Auditor and the quantum and ratio 
of audit and non-audit fees.
•	 Approved the annual internal audit plan and progress against it 
throughout the year. It reviewed all reports on the Group from 
Internal Audit and review the interaction between the Internal Audit 
function and the External Auditor to ensure that the two worked 
well together and their activities complemented each other. Where 
the Internal Audit function identified action is required by 
management, the Committee reviewed and monitored 
management’s responsiveness and progress in implementing 
appropriate recommendations from the Internal Audit function. It 
reviewed Group Internal Audit’s charter. The Committee was 
satisfied as to the quality of the work of the Internal Audit function 
and that it was appropriately assisted in its work by management.
In addition to the Committee’s primary accountabilities related to the 
Group’s annual financial reporting cycle and associated audit, the 
Committee has other responsibilities including overseeing and 
reviewing the Company’s process for monitoring compliance with 
laws and regulations. During the year it reviewed the effectiveness of 
the Group’s compliance and whistleblowing procedures and was 
satisfied that they allow for appropriate investigation and suitable 
follow-up actions. The Committee undertakes an annual 
effectiveness review.
All outstanding matters related to the Committee’s 2012/13 work 
plan were completed at the Committee’s meeting on 13 May 2013.
External Auditor objectivity and independence
The objectivity and independence of the External Auditor is critical to 
the integrity of the audit. During the year the Committee reviewed the 
External Auditor’s own policies and procedures for safeguarding its 
objectivity and independence. The audit engagement partner gave 
representations as to the External Auditor’s independence and 
confirmed that the External Auditor’s reward and remuneration 
structure includes no incentives for audit engagement partners to 
cross sell non-audit services to audit clients.
The Committee’s assessment is underpinned by the Group’s policy 
on the engagement of the External Auditor for the provision of 
non-audit services, which was revised and significantly strengthened 
in the prior year. The Committee conducted a review of the policy 
during the 2012/13 year and was satisfied that it continued to be 
appropriate. The policy contains a presumption against the use of 
the External Auditor for non-audit services. The External Auditor may 
only be engaged for the provision of non-audit services in 
contravention of that presumption where those services are 
expressly permitted under the policy; and where there is a 
demonstrable efficiency, audit enhancement or cost benefit resulting 
from the engagement of the External Auditor. Furthermore, before it 
may be engaged for the provision of such non-audit services, 
alternative providers must have been considered and discounted. 
Services which the External Auditor is prohibited from providing to 
the Group include, amongst others:
•	 Bookkeeping services and preparation of financial information.
•	 The design, supply or implementation of financial information 
systems.
•	 Appraisal or valuation services.
•	 Internal audit services.
•	 Actuarial services.
•	 Executive management services including the secondment of staff 
to perform management functions, recruitment services or other 
human resources functions, legal, broker, investment or banking 
services.
72236_Glasshouse_p34-p40.indd   37 04/06/2013   04:13 38 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance continued
External Auditor’s fees
Details of fees paid to the External Auditor for audit services, audit 
related services and other non-audit services may be found at Note 
2 to the Accounts on page 74.
Re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP (‘Ernst & Young’)
Ernst & Young was first appointed as External Auditor to the 
Company in 1996. There are no contractual restrictions on the 
Company with regard to its appointment. The Audit Committee has 
not considered it necessary since its initial appointment to require 
the firm to tender competitively for the audit work. In the light of the 
assessments and review undertaken and having considered a 
recommendation of the Committee to re-appoint Ernst & Young as 
the Company’s and Group’s External Auditor, the Board endorsed 
the Committee’s recommendation which was approved by 
shareholders in July 2012.
At its meeting in May 2013, the Audit Committee considered the 
appropriateness of the re-appointment of Ernst & Young as the 
Group’s External Auditor for the 2013/14 year. In doing so it took 
account of the Committee’s review of the External Auditor’s 
independence and objectivity, the ratio of audit to non-audit fees and 
the effectiveness of the audit process together with other relevant 
review processes conducted throughout the year.
The Committee is conscious of provisions of the 2012 Code, against 
which the Company shall formally report in its next reporting cycle, 
in particular, provision C.3.7 which recommends FTSE 350 
companies should put their audit contract out to tender at least 
every ten years. The Committee does not currently have a formal 
policy dealing with the frequency with which the contract for the 
external audit should be tendered, or the tenure of the External 
Auditor. The 2012/13 audit was led by a new Audit Engagement 
Partner who assumed responsibility for the audit under the External 
Auditor’s normal rotation policy and the Committee remained 
satisfied as to the External Auditor’s independence. Nevertheless, 
the Committee shall continue to monitor best practice developments 
in the UK and EU and take an appropriate time in which to formulate 
a suitable policy.
Following its review, the Committee was satisfied that it should 
recommend to the Board the re-appointment of Ernst & Young as the 
Company’s and Group’s External Auditor at the AGM on 16 July 2013.
During the last two financial years, the Committee was focused on 
Board succession planning and successfully dealt with a number of 
changes to the composition of the Board, resulting in the 
appointment of Richard Macdonald, Stephen Alexander and Sue 
Farr. All of those appointments were achieved following preparation 
of outlines of the roles and capabilities required for the appointments 
and with the use of an external search consultancy. I am very 
pleased with the way the Board is working following all of the change 
which has occurred over the last two years. We have an excellent 
mix of styles and personalities amongst the Directors with an 
impressive range of backgrounds and business and other 
experience. Directors interact in a way which is thoughtful, 
challenging, supportive and intended to do the very best for Dairy 
Crest, its shareholders, employees and other stakeholders.
The Committee’s work on succession planning continued during 
2012/13. The Nomination Committee was closely involved in the 
consideration and planning of the changes which the Group has 
made during the year to its structure and the impact of those 
changes not only on the Board, but also at the senior executive level 
below the Board. Succession planning remains a focus into the 
future and the Committee continues to maintain a watching brief for 
additional candidates who might improve further the balance of 
skills, backgrounds, experience, knowledge and diversity amongst 
the Board. The Committee is satisfied that the complementary 
balance of skills and experience which we have amongst the 
Directors means that there is resilience around the Board table. The 
Committee would nonetheless expect that when the Board next 
decides it would be appropriate to recruit a further Non-executive 
Director, experience which would enable candidates to chair the 
Audit Committee is likely to be a prerequisite.
The Committee’s work programme during the year included a review 
of its terms of reference, which it updated formally to include the 
Group’s policy to diversity. Consistent with the recommendations of 
the Davies Report ‘Women on Boards’, I published a statement on 
diversity for the Group (which can be found on the Company’s 
website www.dairycrest.co.uk) in October 2010. The Group has not 
adopted targets for female representation amongst the Directors. 
The Company interprets diversity in its widest sense and aims to 
achieve the best possible leadership for the Group by ensuring an 
appropriate balance of skills, backgrounds, experience and 
knowledge amongst its Directors, senior managers and other 
employees. The Committee and the Board recognise that there is a 
 Nomination Committee report
I am pleased to present to shareholders my report on the work 
of the Nomination Committee during the 2012/13 financial year. 
Details of the membership of the Committee and the 
attendance of members at Committee meetings during the 
year are set out on page 11. My role as Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee complements one of my key 
responsibilities as Chairman of the Board – to ensure the 
effective performance of the Board by ensuring it comprises 
individuals with a varied mix of backgrounds, skills and 
experience. Succession for the Board is a key focus for the 
Committee which also pays close attention to succession 
planning at senior executive level and more widely within the 
Group. The Committee is responsible for overseeing the 
selection and appointment of Directors and making its 
recommendations to the Board. In conjunction with the 
Chairman, it also evaluates the commitments of individual 
Directors and ensures that the membership of the Board and 
its principal committees are refreshed periodically.
72236_Glasshouse_p34-p40.indd   38 04/06/2013   04:13 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 39
Governance
Report of the Directors
paucity of females amongst the senior management population of 
the Group, reflecting the food manufacturing industry generally but 
that improving female representation amongst that constituency 
would be advantageous. However, the Committee considers that, 
first and foremost, appointments must be made based on an 
objective assessment of who is the best person to fill a role, and that 
assessment must take into account the broadest possible 
assessment of candidates’ skills and backgrounds. The Group will 
continue to operate policies giving equal opportunities to all, 
irrespective of age, gender, marital status, disability, nationality, 
colour, ethnic origin, sexual orientation or religious affiliation.
The Committee reviewed the commitments of the Non-executive 
Directors and any changes which occurred to their commitments 
during the year. When the Committee considered my appointment 
to the Chairmanship of the Premier League, I took no part in its 
deliberations. The Committee was satisfied that all Non-executives 
continued to be in a position to devote sufficient time to the fulfilment 
of their duties as Directors.
The Committee was satisfied that given the performance of each of 
the Directors, their input, contribution, expertise and experience, it 
should recommend to the Board that they be nominated for election 
or re-election (as applicable) at this year’s AGM.
During the year, the Committee reviewed its own performance, one 
of the outputs of which was the formal review of its terms of 
reference. The Committee was satisfied with its performance and 
the contribution of its members.
Anthony Fry Chairman of the Nomination Committee
22 May 2013 
The Committee believes that the Group’s employees should be 
proud of their commitment to corporate responsibility, in particular 
the achievement, through their commitment to the corporate 
responsibility principles which the Group has adopted, of a platinum 
rating in the BITC corporate responsibility audit this year. They 
should be particularly proud of that achievement given that this is 
only the second year in which the Group has undertaken the BITC 
audit. The progress which the Group has made with corporate 
responsibility during the year is further exemplified by it being 
shortlisted for BITC’s company of the year award.
The Group’s achievements do not begin and end with awards. It is a 
basic tenet of the Committee’s approach that the Group’s corporate 
responsibility programme delivers not only, amongst other things, 
ethical, behavioural and community benefits, but must also deliver 
tangible benefits to the Group’s businesses. Once again, the Group 
has succeeded in that aim by, amongst other things, delivering 
financial as well as environmental benefits by reducing its carbon 
footprint and by delivering financial and human benefits by reducing 
the Group’s accident and incident rate through its continued focus 
on improving health and safety.
As you will see from the Corporate Responsibility report at pages  
26 to 29, Dairy Crest is a business committed to corporate 
responsibility.
Richard Macdonald Chairman of the  
Corporate Responsibility Committee 
22 May 2013
Management Board
The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which comprises 
the other Executive Directors and senior members of the Group’s 
executive team. Details of the members of the Management Board 
can be found at pages 10 to 12. The Management Board is 
responsible, amongst other matters, for implementing the Group’s 
strategic direction and monitoring the performance of the business 
and its control procedures on a day-to-day basis, as well as the 
day-to-day operations of the Group’s business, its performance 
against forecasts and budgets and profitability. The Management 
Board normally meets weekly.
Dialogue with shareholders
The Board believes in the importance of an on-going relationship 
with its shareholders. It fully supports the principles encouraging 
dialogue between companies and their shareholders in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and the UK Stewardship Code. The 
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have primary 
responsibility for investor relations. They are supported by the 
Group’s Corporate Affairs Director who, amongst other matters, 
Corporate Responsibility Committee report
I am pleased as Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee to present the Group’s Corporate Responsibility 
Report to shareholders for the financial year 2012/13 at pages 
26 to 29. The Committee oversees the Group’s corporate 
responsibility programme and ensures that key social, ethical 
and environmental risks are identified, assessed and prioritised. 
Sue Farr, each of the Executive Directors, the Company 
Secretary, the Group HR Director and the Corporate Affairs 
Director are the other members of the Committee. The 
frequency of the Committee’s meetings and attendance of Board 
members at those meetings is set out in the table at page 11.
72236_Glasshouse_p34-p40.indd   39 04/06/2013   13:23 40 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Corporate governance continued
organises presentations for analysts and institutional investors and 
holds meetings with key institutional shareholders to discuss 
strategy, financial performance and investment activities immediately 
after the Interim and Preliminary Results Announcements. Slide 
presentations made to institutional shareholders are made available 
on the Company’s website along with annual and interim reports, 
interim management statements, trading updates and company 
announcements. Announcements are made as appropriate and 
required through a Regulatory Information Service.
All the Non-executive Directors, and, in particular, the Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with 
shareholders. Feedback from meetings with shareholders is 
provided to the Board to ensure that all Directors have a balanced 
understanding of the issues and concerns of shareholders. The 
Board receives feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group 
Finance Director on their meetings with shareholders, periodic 
reports on investor relations and independent feedback from the 
Company’s brokers on the views of major shareholders. The 
Chairman of the Board together with the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee has met with a number of shareholders 
during the year to consult on proposals for a new long-term incentive 
plan for the Group.
The notice of each AGM together with other related papers is 
dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the 
meeting. All Directors attend the AGM and are available to answer 
shareholder questions before, during and after the meeting. The 
Chairman of the Board provides the meeting with an update on the 
progress and performance of the Group before the formal business 
of each AGM is addressed and a resolution is proposed relating to 
the Annual Report and Accounts. Details of the proxy voting on each 
resolution are announced at the AGM including the level of votes for 
and against resolutions and abstentions, and are posted on the 
Company’s website following the conclusion of the meeting. At the 
2013 AGM, consistent with corporate governance best practice, 
voting at the AGM will be conducted on a poll and the result 
published on the Company's website after the meeting.
Financial and business reporting
The Directors recognise their responsibility to present a balanced 
and understandable assessment of the Company’s position and 
prospects. Their responsibility statement can be found at page 56.
An explanation of the Company’s business model can be found 
under ‘Long-term strategy’ in the Chief Executive’s review at page 14 
and at pages 18 to 33. The Directors make appropriate going 
concern statements in the Interim and Preliminary Results 
Announcements and the Annual Report and Accounts. The 
statement in this Report and Accounts can be found at page 53.
72236_Glasshouse_p34-p40.indd   40 04/06/2013   15:59 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 41
Governance
Key developments
2012/13 
2012/13 has been a year of progress for Dairy Crest in which we 
have continued to deliver against our strategy despite challenging 
trading conditions. The detail of this is covered in the Chairman’s 
statement and the Chief Executive’s review.
Payment of annual bonus is subject to achieving demanding 
short-term financial targets and personal objectives. The stretching 
financial targets were partly met in the year. Combined with their 
achievements against their personal objectives this has resulted in 
bonus payouts for the 2012/13 performance year of 52.5% of salary 
for Mark Allen and 49.4% of salary for Alastair Murray and Martyn 
Wilks. 
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Share Plan (‘LTISP’) 2010 
had a three-year vesting period to March 2013. 40% of the total 
award was based on the Group’s adjusted basic earnings per share 
(‘Adjusted EPS’) and 60% was measured against the Total 
Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) performance of the FTSE 250 (excluding 
financial services companies, real estate companies and investment 
trusts). The Company did not achieve the minimum Adjusted EPS 
target threshold or the TSR target threshold and therefore none of 
the awards will be released and all June 2010 share options have 
lapsed at 31 March 2013. 
Further details on bonus and LTISP outcomes are given later in the 
Report.
Based on 31 March 2013 data and forecasts, awards under the 
2011 and 2012 LTISPs look unlikely to vest in future years with 
regard to Adjusted EPS targets, however, currently their TSR 
performance is tracking above the vesting threshold.
Directors’ remuneration report
Dear Shareholder
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to 
present my report on the work of the Committee during the 
2012/13 financial year. Our remuneration policy continues to aim 
to encourage a performance based culture, to attract and retain 
high calibre personnel and align executives’ and shareholders’ 
interests. During the year the Committee has reviewed the 
components of executive remuneration in order to ensure that it 
remains appropriate in the context of the Group’s new structure 
following the reorganisation and that it meets these aims.
The Remuneration Committee’s review process identified that in 
general Executive Directors’ salaries are broadly in line with 
median market rates for FTSE 250 companies (excluding financial 
services) and that annual bonus rates were at the lower quartile 
level. Long-term incentives fell well below Dairy Crest’s peer  
group despite relatively good Company performance over recent 
years. The review also highlighted other challenges with the 
current long-term incentives which therefore led to a desire to 
change the structure to support better the strategy and objectives 
of the Company. 
The proposed plan has been developed from first principles to 
focus the management team on the evolution and development of 
Dairy Crest over the longer term whilst ensuring strong alignment 
with shareholders. In developing an appropriate plan the 
Remuneration Committee identified a balanced scorecard of 
measures which together would generate increased value in the 
business, support the delivery of long-term success and promote 
the desired corporate culture. The Remuneration Committee has 
also sought to identify metrics against which performance may be 
judged which are, in so far as is possible, objective and 
measurable. 
In arriving at the new Long Term Alignment Plan (‘LTAP’) (full 
details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report at pages 
43 to 45) which shareholders will be asked to approve at the 
forthcoming AGM on 16 July 2013, the Chairman of the Board 
and I met with a number of larger shareholders and shareholder 
representative bodies to consult on the detailed design of a plan 
which would achieve the Remuneration Committee’s aims and 
which shareholders would be confident would align executives’ 
interests with theirs.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the plan on which it 
has settled and which the Board has approved for proposal to 
shareholders at this year’s AGM, will help to attract and retain high 
calibre personnel, incentivise executives and will ensure alignment 
of executives’ and shareholders’ interests. For those reasons, the 
Remuneration Committee and the Board commend it to 
shareholders for approval at the AGM.
The Remuneration Report at pages 41 to 52 has been approved 
by the Board and also contains details of the other work 
undertaken by the Remuneration Committee during the year.
2013/14
2013/14 is expected to be another challenging year in light of the 
current economic environment. Our focus will continue to be on 
investment in brands and innovation, reductions in our cost base 
and improving the quality of earnings. 
The Remuneration Committee has focused on the development of 
new long-term incentive arrangements, the LTAP (pages 43 to 45) 
and will be seeking shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM. It 
is the belief of the Committee and the Board that this plan will attract 
and retain senior management talent for the benefit of the Company 
and its shareholders.
Mark Allen and Martyn Wilks have elected to forgo any inflationary 
salary increases this year reflecting the current economic 
environment. Consequently, there will be no base salary increases 
for these Executive Directors in 2013/14. 
The Group has entered into an internal restructure that will be finalised 
during 2013/14. Alongside cost savings, better shared learning and 
greater customer and consumer focus, these changes see some new 
appointments at senior levels within the business, promoting talent 
from within and building human capital for the Group’s future. As part 
of these changes Tom Atherton succeeds Alastair Murray as Group 
Finance Director from 23 May 2013. Tom has been with the Group for 
seven years, having previously been in the role of Director of Financial 
Control. The promotion of Tom to the main Board recognises his 
success in previous roles and the efforts of the Company in planning 
succession for senior management positions. Tom Atherton’s initial 
salary as Group Finance Director of £200,000 p.a. is significantly 
below that of his predecessor and market rates. We would expect to 
see Tom’s salary increase over time towards market norms as he 
gains experience in the role.
72236_Glasshouse_p41-p55.indd   41 04/06/2013   04:51 42 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Key elements of pay
The remuneration structure and underlying principles on which the package is based, reflecting recent changes, are shown below. This policy 
also applies to 2012/13 unless otherwise stated.
Strategic objectives Operation and performance measures Quantum
Base salary Reflect assessment of market 
practice based on role and 
experience.
Benchmarked against executives with similar 
responsibilities in companies of comparable size  
and complexity.
There were no salary increases for Executive 
Directors in 2012/13.
At 1 April 2013:
Mark Allen: £517,625
Alastair Murray*: £344,597
Martyn Wilks: £346,270
Tom Atherton*: £200,000
Non-executive 
Directors’ fees
Remunerate Non-executive 
Directors.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Chairman is 
determined by the Board following a recommendation 
by the Chief Executive and the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman in consultation with PwC. The 
remuneration of Non-executive Directors is determined 
by the Board, also in consultation with PwC. 
The total fees for Non-executive Directors remain 
within the limit of £600,000 set out in the Articles. 
There are no pre-determined special provisions for 
Non-executive Directors with regard to compensation 
in the event of loss of office.
At 1 April 2013: 
Role Fee p.a.
Non-executive Chairman £155,000
Non-executive Director (base) £38,000
Audit Committee Chair +£5,000
Corporate Responsibility Chair +£5,000
Remuneration Committee Chair +£5,000
Senior Independent Director +£5,000
There were no increases in fees in 2012/13
Pension Provide a market competitive 
level of provision with 
appropriate flexibility whilst 
minimising risk to the Group.
No further service accrual under final salary pension 
scheme from 1 April 2010 – replacement is the defined 
contribution scheme and/or salary supplement.
Mark Allen, Alastair Murray and Tom Atherton 
– employer contributions up to Annual 
Allowance plus cash supplements. Total 
benefit will not exceed 23% of salary.
Martyn Wilks – cash supplement of 23% of 
salary.
Benefits Provide market competitive 
benefits including company 
car benefit, life assurance 
cover and medical insurance.
Operated in line with normal benefits. All Executives receive a company car/car 
allowance and private medical insurance. 
Mark Allen, Alastair Murray and Tom Atherton 
receive life insurance cover up to 7 x annual 
salary. Martyn Wilks receives life insurance 
cover to 4 x annual salary.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
The 2012/13 report
The UK Government Department for Business, Innovation and Skills  
(‘BIS’) is currently proposing changes to the layout and information 
required in Directors’ remuneration reports. In order to align with the 
emerging requirements of shareholders and move towards a more 
transparent approach to remuneration, Dairy Crest has chosen to 
adopt some of these principles early, where appropriate. As such, 
this report is split into two sections. The first section focuses on the 
policy set for 2013/14, including the objectives and operation of each 
element of pay, the context in which decisions for this policy were 
made and service contract details. The second gives a summary of 
the 2012/13 remuneration outcomes, including the total 
remuneration of the Directors and variable pay awarded in the year. 
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
Stephen Alexander Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
This report covers the reporting period from 1 April 2012 to 31 
March 2013 and provides details of the Remuneration Committee 
and remuneration policy for the Company.
BIS is currently proposing changes to the layout and information  
required in Directors’ Remuneration Reports. In order to align with 
their current requirements, the Remuneration Committee has 
chosen to adopt early some of these principles, where appropriate. 
These regulations will apply to all UK companies listed on a major 
stock exchange with financial years ending on or after 30 
September 2013, and so the early adoption of certain aspects of 
these regulations in this Report is on a voluntary basis. 
This Report complies with the requirements of the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008. The elements of the Report that are auditable 
under these regulations are highlighted throughout. Throughout the 
year ended 31 March 2013, the Company applied the provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to remuneration. This 
Report and the recommendations of the Remuneration Committee 
were approved by the Board on 22 May 2013 as recommended by 
the Remuneration Committee on 13 May 2013 and will be 
submitted to shareholders for approval at the 2013 AGM  
on 16 July 2013.
Summary of remuneration policy for 2013/14
We seek to ensure that remuneration packages contribute to the 
delivery of long-term shareholder value. This is reflected in the 
Company’s annual bonus scheme and other incentive awards 
which are explained in more detail below.
72236_Glasshouse_p41-p55.indd   42 04/06/2013   13:21 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 43
Governance
Report of the Directors
Strategic objectives Operation and performance measures Quantum
Bonus Ensure that annual reward is 
consistent with successfully 
achieving the short-term 
financial targets and strategic 
objectives of the Group.
Annual performance period.
75% relevant financial targets (including profit and 
cash targets) and 25% personal objectives linked to 
operational and strategic goals. 
To deliver an appropriate balance between long-term 
and short-term reward, any bonus earned over 50% of 
annual salary is paid in the Company’s shares and 
deferred as below.
On target performance – 50% of salary.
Maximum opportunity – 100% of salary. 
Deferred bonus Deliver appropriate balance 
between long-term and 
short-term reward and to build 
up Directors’ shareholdings in 
line with policy.
Deferred for three years, conditional on continued 
employment until vesting date.
Delivered in shares. 
Any bonus over 50% of annual salary is 
deferred. 
Long Term 
Incentive Share 
Plan
(to 2012/13 – 
proposed to be 
replaced by the 
LTAP for future 
years)
Encourage and reward 
continuing improvement in 
Group’s performance over the 
longer term.
Alignment of interest between 
participants and shareholders. 
 
Three-year performance period.
Payable in shares.
60% subject to relative TSR performance against a 
comparator group comprising FTSE 250 constituents (as 
at the grant date) excluding financial service companies, 
real estate companies and investment trusts.
40% subject to Adjusted EPS growth targets.
Where possible, awards under the LTISP are granted 
under an HMRC-approved Executive Share Option 
Scheme arrangement. At 31 March 2013, there were 
417,708 outstanding options under this scheme which 
were awarded as part of the 2011 and 2012 LTISP (2012: 
141,826 awarded as part of the 2010 and 2011 LTISP).
Annual limit – 150% of salary.
Performance targets for all outstanding 
awards (i.e. the 2011 and 2012 grants).
TSR:
18% vesting for median performance.
60% vesting for upper quartile.
Adjusted EPS:
12% vesting for growth at RPI + 3% over the 
three year performance period.
40% vesting for growth at RPI + 15% over the 
three year performance period.
Long Term 
Alignment Plan
(proposed from 
2013/14)
Encourage and reward 
continuing improvement in 
Group’s performance over the 
longer term.
Alignment of interest between 
participants and shareholders. 
Additional details of the 
rationale and structure of the 
new arrangement is provided 
under Note 2 below.
An award is granted based on the achievements over 
the prior year against the pre-grant performance 
scorecard, comprising of measures aligned to Dairy 
Crest’s strategic priorities.
Awards will be subject to a dividend underpin over the 
first three years of the vesting period.
Awards will be subject to a phased vesting requirement, 
with 50% of the award vesting in year 4 and 50% in year 
5 following grant.
Award levels – 50-90% of salary for Executive 
Directors dependent on the assessment of 
performance against the scorecard.
If performance falls below a minimum level 
against the scorecard no award will be made.
Shareholding 
requirement
Alignment of interest between 
participants and shareholders.
The shareholding requirement for Executive Directors is  
100% of salary. 
This will be increased to 200% of salary subject to  
approval of the LTAP.
* Alastair Murray will be succeeded by Tom Atherton, Dairy Crest’s Director of Financial Control, on 23 May 2013. Further details are contained in the section ‘Executive 
changes in the year’ on page 49.
Notes on policy table and components of remuneration
1) Remuneration below board level
The majority of employees participate in a bonus plan. The size of award and the weighting of performance conditions vary by level, with 
specific measures incorporated where relevant.
All members of the senior management team have historically participated in the LTISP arrangement and from 2013 a smaller group of senior 
management will participate in the LTAP, in line with the Executive Directors.
2) The new Long Term Alignment Plan
As set out in the Chairman’s introductory letter, a new long term incentive plan, the Long Term Alignment Plan, is planned to be introduced for 
Executive Directors to replace the current LTISP.
In the context of recent organisational changes, the Company’s strategic objectives and the current challenging external environment, the 
Committee carried out a review of Dairy Crest’s incentive arrangements and concluded that the LTISP should be replaced with a plan which 
aligns to the Company’s forward-looking strategy.
72236_Glasshouse_p41-p55.indd   43 04/06/2013   16:05 44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
The proposed arrangement is intended to provide improved alignment with our stated strategic objectives. These are to build market leading 
positions in branded and added value markets, to focus on cost reduction and efficiency improvements, to reduce commodity risk in order to 
improve the quality of earnings and to generate growth in the business through acquisitions and disposals. The proposed design is also 
intended to recognise our position as a dividend stock which seeks to maintain delivery of value to shareholders by pursuing a progressive 
dividend policy.
The Board incorporated some changes to the LTAP following consultation with major shareholders. The LTAP has now been proposed for 
adoption for the 2013/14 financial year, and will be subject to a shareholder vote at the 2013 AGM.
Details of the proposed Long Term Alignment Plan
The proposed LTAP will operate as follows:
1. Pre-grant performance scorecard
Pre-grant performance conditions will be used to determine the level of the award based on a scorecard of measures aligned to Dairy Crest’s 
strategic priorities. The scorecard will be reviewed annually and amended as the Committee deems appropriate, with the scorecard to apply 
for the next grant usually determined in May of each year. The scorecard will always be weighted to ensure that at least 60% of the assessment 
reflects financial measures, and the make-up of the scorecard will reflect the strategic priorities deemed critical to the future of the Company.
Detailed disclosure will be given in the Remuneration Report each year in relation to the scorecard used to determine the next year’s grant, 
along with the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) which will support each element and their respective weightings.
Detailed retrospective disclosure will also be provided, detailing how the grant level was decided based both on outcomes against the targets 
set and the context in which the grant decision was made.
The proposed scorecard for the initial grants under the award is provided below.
2. Award level
Award levels under the plan will be between 50% to 90% of salary for Executive Directors dependent on the assessment of performance 
against the scorecard. If performance falls below a minimum level against the scorecard no award will be made. 
3. Vesting period
Awards will be subject to a phased vesting requirement, with 50% of the award vesting in year 4 and 50% in year 5 following grant. 
Awards will be subject to an additional dividend underpin over the first three years of the vesting period. 
Under this element dividend progression will be measured on a spot to spot basis. Clawback will apply in the event that the dividend declines 
over the three year period. An amount of the award proportional to the percentage decrease in dividend will be clawed back in this case up to 
a decline of 50%. For any dividend decline over this amount the Remuneration Committee will retain the discretion to determine the amount of 
appropriate clawback. The clawback applied in this case will be not less than 50% and up to 100% of the initial award, taking into account the 
circumstances at the time. 
Furthermore, dividend cover must be maintained in the 1.5 to 2.5 times range over the three-year measurement period. In the event dividend 
cover is outside this range the Remuneration Committee will retain the discretion to apply additional clawback to awards as appropriate. 
4. Shareholding requirement
The shareholding requirement for Executive Directors will be increased to 200% of salary from 100%.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Dividend
underpin
Years +3 +4 +5
Award
based on
pre-grant
criteria
50–90%
of salary
50%
vesting
50%
vesting
72236_Glasshouse_p41-p55.indd   44 04/06/2013   16:12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 45
Governance
Report of the Directors
Pre-grant performance scorecard for initial grants 
Measure KPI Alignment with strategy Weighting
Profit Adjusted EBITDA target each year. Delivery of profit is core to the business and supports 
the progressive dividend policy.
30%
Balance sheet 
efficiency
ROCE target each year whilst maintaining net debt / 
EBITDA in the 1.0-2.0 x range.
Ensuring acceptable return on investment within a 
sustainable level of gearing.
20%
Corporate activity 
and efficiencies
Delivery of annual cost savings targets. 
Delivery of synergies and return on investment following 
acquisitions or successful divestments (when relevant).
Ensuring cost savings are delivered on an on-going 
basis.
Ensuring that major acquisitions/ divestments deliver 
against relevant synergy and return targets.
15%
Brand growth Key brand value growth over one and three years versus 
markets in which they operate.
Brand growth is key to longer term business growth. 15%
Innovation Achieve each year the targeted proportion of revenue from 
innovation in previous three years.
Innovation is a key driver of productivity and growth. 10%
Corporate 
responsibility
A range of metrics including improvements in accident 
incident rates, reduced CO
2
 emissions & improved 
employee engagement.
Delivering results in a sustainable way which 
enhances reputation and stakeholder engagement. 
10%
Dividend underpin To increase the dividend over the three years post-grant in 
line with progressive dividend policy whilst maintaining 
dividend cover within 1.5-2.5 x range for the three years 
post-grant.
Delivery of progressive dividend policy.
Service contracts & termination payments policy
The service contracts and letters of appointment include the following terms
Executive Director Date of contract Notice period
M Allen 18 July 2002 12 months
A Murray* 20 June 2003 12 months
M Wilks 7 January 2008 12 months
T Atherton* 23 May 2013 12 months
Non-executive Director Letters of appointment Notice period
A Fry 15 July 2009 3 months
A Carr-Locke 15 July 2009 3 months
R Macdonald 4 October 2010 3 months
S Alexander 4 October 2010 3 months
S Farr 6 October 2011 3 months
* Alastair Murray will be succeeded by Tom Atherton, Dairy Crest’s Director of Financial Control, on 23 May 2013. Further details are contained in the section ‘Executive 
changes in the year’ on page 49.
Letters of appointment for all Non-executive Directors include a three month notice period. It is the Company’s policy that Non-executive 
Directors should not normally serve for more than nine years. A summary of the terms of appointment of Non-executive Directors is available 
on the Company’s website. 
Details of the Directors offering themselves for election and re-election at the forthcoming AGM are set out on page 35 (with biographical 
details at pages 10 to 11).
In accordance with best practice as set out in the Code, all Executive Directors have a notice period not exceeding one year. All such 
Directors’ service contracts provide explicitly for termination payments in the event of termination by the Company other than on grounds of 
incapacity or in circumstances justifying summary termination. 
For Mark Allen, payments on termination are calculated as 90% of the value of annual salary, benefits, pension and bonus for the notice period.
For Martyn Wilks and Tom Atherton and for future appointments, payments on termination are calculated as the value of annual salary, 
benefits and pension for the notice period. There is a mitigation clause in the service contract with respect to termination payments such that 
certain compensation payments are deferred. 
A summary of the service agreements of the Executive Directors is available on the Company’s website, www.dairycrest.co.uk
72236_Glasshouse_p41-p55.indd   45 04/06/2013   05:25 46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Remuneration scenarios
A significant proportion of a Director’s total remuneration package is variable, being subject to the achievement of specified short-term and 
long-term business objectives. The charts below show the composition of total remuneration at minimum, target and maximum performance 
scenarios for the Executive Directors, based on the proposed LTAP.
Director Value of package (£000s) Composition of package (%)
M Allen
A Murray*
M Wilks
T Atherton*
* Alastair Murray will be succeeded by Tom Atherton, Dairy Crest’s Director of Financial Control, on 23 May 2013. Further details are contained in the section ‘Executive 
changes in the year’ on page 49.
Notes to the scenarios
Fixed Remuneration: This element comprises salary as at 1 April 2013, pension benefits (including salary supplement) and other fixed 
benefits (company car, etc). As these are based on previous emoluments, this figure for the new Board member, Tom Atherton, comprises 
salary only.
Annual Variable Remuneration: This element shows annual bonus (including any amount deferred), at 100% of salary in the maximum 
scenario and 50% of salary in the target scenario.
Long-term Variable Remuneration: This element shows remuneration in respect of the LTAP, at 90% of salary in the maximum scenario 
and 70% of salary in the target scenario. No allowance is made for share price growth.
Statement of consideration of remuneration elsewhere in the Company
The Remuneration Committee has oversight on remuneration matters of the broader senior management group beyond Executive Directors.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
As set out in the details surrounding the operation of the new LTAP, the Board consulted with several larger shareholders on the proposal to 
replace the current LTISP.
In keeping with continuing dialogue with shareholders, the Remuneration Committee Chairman, along with the Company Chairman, met with 
a number of our large shareholders as part of a detailed consultation process. The principles and rationale for change and a high level 
framework for the new plan were discussed.
After this initial stage, the Remuneration Committee and the Board considered the feedback received and consulted those shareholders with 
the final proposed plan. The plan has now been proposed for adoption for the 2013/14 financial year, and will be subject to a shareholder vote 
at the 2013 AGM. 
0 500 1000 1500 1750 1250 750 250 0 40 80 100 60 20
Maximum
Target
Minimum (Fixed)
Key:          Fixed Remuneration             Annual Variable Remuneration             Long-term Variable Remuneration 
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200
Maximum
Target
Minimum (Fixed)
0 40 80 100 60 20
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200
Maximum
Target
Minimum (Fixed)
0 40 80 100 60 20
0 100 200 300 400 500 600
Maximum
Target
Minimum (Fixed)
0 40 80 100 60 20
72236_Glasshouse_p41-p55.indd   46 04/06/2013   16:03 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 47
Governance
Report of the Directors
Summary of 2012/13 remuneration outcomes 
Total remuneration for each Director – audited
The table below sets out the analysis of total remuneration for each Director. An explanation of how the figures are calculated follows the table. 
The total remuneration for each Director reflects the performance of the Company and the contribution each individual has made to the 
on-going success of the Company.
Base Long term Employer’s Total
Director salary/ Cash allowances Taxable Total emoluments incentive pension remuneration
(£’000s) fees Pension Other benefits Bonus 2012/13 2011/12 vesting contributions 2012/13
Non-executive 
Chairman
A Fry 155 – – – – 155 155 – – 155
Executive Directors
M Allen 518 110 – 28 272 928 904 – 9 937
A Murray 345 58 1 21 170 595 603 – 22 617
M Wilks 346 80 – 21 171 618 606 – – 618
Subtotal 1,209 248 1 70 613 2,141 2,113 – 31 2,172
Non-executive 
Directors
H Mann  
(resigned 18 May 2012) 6 – – – – 6 48 – – 6
A Carr-Locke 43 – – – – 43 43 – – 43
R Macdonald 47 – – – – 47 43 – – 47
S Alexander 42 – – – – 42 38 – – 42
S Farr 38 – – – – 38 16 – – 38
Subtotal 176 – – – – 176 188 – – 176
Total 1,540 248 1 70 613 2,472 2,456 – 31 2,503
Notes 
Basic salary, benefits, bonus and long term incentives are defined on pages 42 to 43. Bonuses detailed above include the full value of bonus 
entitlement including bonus to be deferred in shares being £12,941 for Mark Allen and nil for Martyn Wilks and Alastair Murray. (There were no 
deferred bonuses in 2011/12).
Cash allowances principally comprise pension related salary supplements. Mark Allen and Alastair Murray were members of the defined 
contribution scheme throughout 2012/13. The Company made contributions up to the £50,000 limit for employee and employer contributions. 
Further cash supplements were paid such that the total of cash supplements and employer contributions amounted to 23% of basic salary. 
Martyn Wilks was not a member of any Company pension scheme in the year ended 31 March 2013 and received a salary supplement of 
23% of basic salary. 
Bonus
Payment of the bonus is subject to the achievement of demanding short-term financial targets and personal objectives. To ensure that an 
appropriate balance is maintained between long-term and short-term reward, any bonus earned over 50% of annual salary is paid in the 
Company’s shares and deferred for a three-year period subject to continued employment.
Stretching financial targets (encompassing adjusted operating profit and net cash generation) were partly met in the year (26% and 100% of 
maximum payout for these elements respectively). Combined with their personal objectives this has resulted in bonus payouts for the 2012/13 
performance year of 52.5% for Mark Allen and 49.4% for Alastair Murray and Martyn Wilks.
Long Term Incentive Share Plan 2010
Awards under the LTISP 2010 had a three-year vesting period to 31 March 2013. 40% of the total award was based on the Group’s Adjusted 
EPS and 60% was measured against the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 (excluding financial services companies, real estate companies 
and investment trusts). The Group did not achieve the minimum Adjusted EPS target threshold or the TSR target threshold and therefore none 
of the awards will be released.
72236_Glasshouse_p41-p55.indd   47 04/06/2013   16:03 48 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Measure Threshold Maximum Outcome
Vesting  
(as % award granted in 2010)
TSR performance against 
FTSE 250 constituents  
(60% of total LTISP award)
Median  
(30% of TSR award vests)
Upper quartile or above  
(100% of TSR award vests)
Below median 0%
Adjusted EPS target  
(40% of total LTISP award)
RPI + 9% over the three year 
performance period  
(30% of Adjusted EPS award 
vests)
RPI + 24% over the three year 
performance period  
(100% of Adjusted EPS award 
vests)
Less than RPI + 9% 0%
Overall outcome 0%
Total pension entitlements – audited
The pension entitlements of the Directors from the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund, a defined benefits scheme, were as follows:
Age
Length of
pensionable 
service
Years
Accumulated
total accrued
pension at
31 March 2013
£000
Accumulated
total accrued
pension at
31 March 2012
£000
Increase in
accrued
pension during
the year*
£000
Transfer value
of increase
 in accrued
pension
£000
M Allen 53 19.3 37 36 – –
A Murray 52 7.2 32 31 – –
* Excluding inflation
The transfer value of each Director’s accrued benefits at the end of the financial year is set out below. The transfer values shown in the table 
have been calculated in accordance with actuarial guidance note GN11. Transfer values are determined based on financial conditions at the 
date of calculation including stock market values and bond yields. Following the closure of the pension scheme to future accruals, there is no 
increase in accrued pension during the year other than inflationary increases.
Total increase 
in accrued
pension during 
the year
£000
As at
31 March 2013
£000
As at
31 March 2012
£000
Director’s
contributions
in the year
£000
Movement less
Director’s
contributions
£000
M Allen 1 1,202 1,278 – (76)
A Murray 1 541 557 – (16)
Notes
The scheme closed to future accrual at 31 March 2010 and length of pensionable service is unchanged from then.
Mark Allen decided to draw benefits from 31 March 2010 and receives an annual pension and received a cash lump sum of £221,510 in 
2010/11. Mark Allen’s accrued pension immediately before electing to draw it early was £63,931 per annum (including seven months’ 
additional pension service). The future pension payable at March 2011 was less than £63,931 per annum due to the application of an early 
retirement reduction and because some pension was exchanged for a lump sum cash payment. Benefit accrual ceased on 31 March 2010 
and Mark Allen and Alastair Murray are no longer paying contributions into the scheme.
The decrease in transfer value in the year is a result of an increase in the post-retirement discount rate assumption at March 2013 compared 
to March 2012.
Variable pay awarded during the financial year
Long Term Incentive Share Plan 2012
The award made under the LTISP 2012 was made on the same basis as the awards made in 2010 and 2011, i.e. with 40% of the total award 
based on Adjusted EPS growth and 60% of the total award based on TSR performance against the FTSE 250 (excluding financial service 
companies, real estate companies and investment trusts). Performance against both Adjusted EPS and TSR is measured over a three-year 
period.
Directors’ remuneration report continued
72236_Glasshouse_p41-p55.indd   48 04/06/2013   05:25 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 49
Governance
Report of the Directors
Details of the LTISP 2012 award are set out in the table below:
LTISP 2012 operation
Type of award Shares
Face value awarded (% of salary) 100%
Performance period 1 April 2012 – 31 March 2015
Performance conditions Adjusted EPS performance targets TSR performance compared to the FTSE 250 
(excluding financial services companies, real estate 
companies and investment trusts)
Weighting 40% 60%
Threshold Adjusted EPS growth at RPI + 3% over the three year 
performance period
30% of Adjusted EPS award vests
Dairy Crest ranked at median
30% of TSR award vests
Maximum Adjusted EPS growth at or above RPI + 15% over the 
three year performance period
100% of Adjusted EPS award vests 
Dairy Crest ranked at or above upper quartile
100% of TSR award vests
External appointments
Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-executive Directors of other companies and it is recognised that exposure to such duties 
can broaden their experience and skills which will benefit the Company. External appointments are subject to agreement by the Chairman and 
reported to the Board. Any external appointment must not conflict with a Director’s duties and commitments to Dairy Crest.
During the year, Mark Allen held the position of Non-executive Director including Audit Committee member and Remuneration Committee 
member at Howdens Joinery Group plc, with fees in association with this work totalling £40,000 (2012: £23,000).
Remuneration of employees
For 2012/13 there was a 1% increase in salaries for administrative and operative level employees that was deferred by nine months from the 
normal review date. The Directors and management group did not receive an increase.
Executive changes in the year
Alastair Murray will leave the Board on 23 May 2013, following the announcement of the Group’s preliminary results. He will be succeeded by 
Tom Atherton, who currently holds the position of Director of Financial Control. 
The termination payment to Alastair Murray on leaving employment will be £553,220. Other emoluments made in connection with Alastair 
Murray’s departure will include the release of deferred bonus shares and pro-rated release of outstanding LTISP awards that meet the 
required performance conditions at the end of the relevant performance periods.
The termination payment level calculated in accordance with the provisions of Alastair Murray’s service contract, which entitles him to an 
amount based on his salary, non-cash benefits, pension benefits and 50% of the maximum annual bonus potentially payable in the financial 
year of his departure. This amount is pro-rated by a factor of 0.9 for accelerated payment under a contractual formula. 
On appointment to the role of Finance Director, Tom Atherton’s remuneration will comprise an annual base salary of £200,000. This is below 
the current incumbent’s salary and the market practice for comparable roles in relevant comparator companies, and is reflective of his 
experience at the present time. In line with our remuneration policy, his salary will be moved towards the median for comparable roles over 
time and is therefore expected to progress significantly ahead of market inflationary increases, subject to satisfactory performance and 
reflecting his development and increasing experience in the role.
Tom Atherton’s bonus opportunity for 2013/14 will be 100% of salary at maximum and 50% of salary for on target performance, with any 
bonus over 50% of annual salary deferred in Company shares in line with current Executive Director arrangements. The long-term incentive 
award to be made in 2013/14 will be consistent with the policy for Executive Directors in respect of both quantum and performance 
conditions. Tom Atherton will also be expected to build up a shareholding of 100% of salary (increasing to 200% of salary on approval of the 
LTAP), over a reasonable period of time in line with Dairy Crest’s remuneration policy, and will also be eligible for pension and other benefits 
consistent with his role. 
Composition of the Remuneration Committee
The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee of Non-executive Directors of the Company. During the year the Committee consisted of:
•	 Howard Mann (Chairman until 18 May 2012); 
•	 Stephen Alexander (Chairman from 18 May 2012); 
•	 Andrew Carr-Locke; and
•	 Sue Farr (from 18 May 2012).
72236_Glasshouse_p41-p55.indd   49 04/06/2013   17:31 50 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
In March 2012, Howard Mann announced his intention not to seek re-appointment as a Non-executive Director having completed nine years’ 
service with the Company. He stepped down as a Director of the Company and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 18 May 
2012. Stephen Alexander became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from that date.
Anthony Fry attends the Remuneration Committee by invitation. Members of the Remuneration Committee have no potential conflicts of 
interest arising from cross-directorships and they are not involved in the day-to-day running of the Company. The Committee also received 
materials, assistance and advice on remuneration policy from Rob Tansey (HR Director until his resignation in July 2012), Gareth Hopkins 
(Interim HR Director) and Robert Willock (appointed HR Director on 1 April 2013). The Remuneration Committee has appointed 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) to provide advice on executive remuneration. During the year, PwC also provided other consultancy 
services to the Group.
The Chief Executive attends all meetings by invitation, but is not present at any discussions relating specifically to his own remuneration.
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the broad policy with respect to senior executives’ salary and other remuneration. It 
specifically determines, within remuneration principles agreed with the Board, the total remuneration package of each Executive Director and 
reviews with the Chief Executive, the remuneration packages for other senior executives. A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee 
can be found on the Company’s website.
In 2012/13, the Committee met six times. Details of attendance are shown on page 11 and the Committee discussed, amongst others, the 
following matters:
Meeting Agenda items discussed
April • Implications of BIS reporting requirements
• Review of operations of incentive structures
May • Approval of 2011/12 Bonus and LTISP outcomes
• Approval of 2012/13 Bonus Rules and Targets and grant for 2012/13 LTISP
• Approval of Directors’ Remuneration Report
November • BIS reporting requirements
December • Review of long-term incentive structures
January • Further review of long-term incentive structures
March • Review of projected 2012/13 Annual Bonus and LTISP outcomes
• Succession planning
• Proposed LTAP arrangement
Statement of shareholder voting
The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2011/12 remuneration report at the 2012 AGM.
Number of votes cast For Against Abstentions
64,984,337 63,230,986 
(97.3%)
203,795
(0.3%)
1,549,556
(2.4%)
The Committee believes the 97.3% votes in favour of the remuneration report shows very strong shareholder support for the Group’s 
approach to remuneration.
Additional information – audited
Total shareholdings of Directors 
Directors are encouraged to build a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 100% of salary (increasing to 200% of salary on approval of 
the LTAP) and to this end would normally retain 50% of net proceeds from share plans and deferred bonus share awards until that 
shareholding is achieved. 
Directors’ remuneration report continued
72236_Glasshouse_p41-p55.indd   50 04/06/2013   17:29 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 51
Governance
Report of the Directors
The interests of the Directors at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows:
As at 31 March 2013
Resignation/ beneﬁcial
As at 31 March 2012
Beneﬁcial
As at 31 March 2013
Deferred shares*
As at 31 March 2012
Deferred shares*
A Fry 3,000 3,000 – – 
M Allen 143,798 139,801 52,704 52,704
A Murray 154,018 150,021 36,571 36,571
M Wilks 22,497 18,500 36,748 36,748
A Carr-Locke 2,000 2,000 – – 
R Macdonald 1,000 1,000 – – 
S Alexander 1,000 1,000 – – 
S Farr 4,465 4,465 – – 
H Mann** 20,000 20,000 – –
*   This analysis excludes shares resulting from reinvested dividends on deferred shares, as Directors have no legal or beneﬁcial interest in such shares until, and if, the 
Remuneration Committee exercises its discretion to award such shares at the end of the vesting period.
** Holding at date of resignation.
Shareholdings above exclude options under the LTISP scheme and deferred shares for Executive Directors as part payment of bonuses which 
are shown in a separate column. These deferred shares are released three years after the year in which the bonus was earned.
Further details on shares held under option by Directors are set out in the table below. There was no movement in deferred bonus shares or 
deferred bonus share options during the year:
(Audited table) Bonus year
Year of
award
Balance at
1 April 2012 Awarded
Dividend 
reinvestment Issued
Balance at
31 March 2013
Mark Allen 2009/10 2010 52,704 – – – 52,704
2010/11 2011 5,070 – – – 5,070
Alastair Murray 2009/10 2010 36,571 – – – 36,571
2010/11 2011 3,409 – – – 3,409
Martyn Wilks 2009/10 2010 36,748 – – – 36,748
2010/11 2011 3,426 – – – 3,426
The share prices at the date of award for 2010 and 2011 were 395 pence and 368 pence respectively. (Note that 2011 deferred bonuses were 
granted as options rather than as deferred shares. These will be exercisable for up to ten years from the award date). No Director holds a 
non-beneﬁcial interest in the Company’s share capital. There have been no changes in Directors’ shareholdings between 31 March 2013 and 
22 May 2013. 
Shares under LTISP Awards
Actual and potential awards held by Executive Directors under LTISP at the beginning and end of the year, details of actual awards, awards 
vested during the year and their value, are as follows:
(Audited table)
Year of
award
Balance at
1 April 2012 Awarded
Exercised 
– retained
Exercised 
– sold Lapsed
Balance at
31 March 
2013
Market price 
at original 
award
M Allen 2010
2011
2012
129,721
140,149
–
9,956
10,755
160,097
–
–
–
–
–
–
(139,677)
–
–
–
150,904
160,097
398.9p
368.0p
329.0p
A Murray 2010
2011
2012
90,012
93,302
–
6,908
7,160
106,581
–
–
–
–
–
–
(96,920)
–
–
–
100,462
106,581
398.9p
368.0p
329.0p
M Wilks 2010
2011
2012
90,449
93,754
–
6,941
7,195
107,098
–
–
–
–
–
–
(97,390)
–
–
–
100,949
107,098
398.9p
368.0p
329.0p
Notes to the LTISP table:
 – Awarded shares include reinvestment of dividends.
 – The above table includes options granted under the ESOS.
 – For the 2010, 2011 and 2012 awards, 60% of the award is subject to relative TSR performance against a comparator group comprising 
FTSE 250 constituents (excluding ﬁnancial service companies, real estate companies and investment trusts) and 40% is subject to  
Adjusted EPS growth targets.
 – The 2010 awards vested at 0%
 – LTISP 2011 and LTISP 2012 performance measurement and vesting periods end on 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015 respectively. 
Options will be exercisable from 1 July 2014 and 3 July 2015 respectively.
72236_Glasshouse_p41-p55.indd   51 04/06/2013   11:40 52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
 – The closing share price on 31 March 2013 was 429 pence (31 March 2012: 333 pence).
 – There were no LTISP awards or exercises between 31 March 2013 and 22 May 2013. 
Performance graph
The graph below sets out for the five years ended 31 March 2013 the total shareholder return of Dairy Crest Group plc and of the FTSE 250 
index (excluding investment companies) of which the Company is a constituent member. 
Executive Share Option Scheme
The Dairy Crest Executive Share Option Scheme (‘ESOS’) was established on 30 July 1996 for Directors and certain senior management and 
expired in July 2006. A new ESOS was adopted at the AGM 2006 (‘ESOS 2006’). Part A is approved by the Inland Revenue and Part B is an 
unapproved scheme. Options are granted to participants at prices determined by the Remuneration Committee which may not be less than 
the market price of the shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List at the time of grant. At 31 March 2013, there 
were 417,708 outstanding options under this scheme which were awarded as part of the 2011 and 2012 LTISP (2012: 141,826 awarded as part 
of the 2010 and 2011 LTISP).
Sharesave Scheme
The Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme was first established on 30 July 1996 and there have been nine grant phases since that date. The life of the 
Sharesave Scheme was extended in August 2006 to allow options to be granted until the twentieth anniversary of flotation, being August 2016.
The Sharesave Scheme is open to all eligible employees and full time Directors. Employees enter into an approved savings contract over a 
three year term to make monthly contributions up to an overall maximum of £250 per month. At the end of the term, members have the right 
to buy ordinary shares in the Company at a price fixed at the time of the option grant. The price at which the options may be offered may not 
be less than 80% of the market price at the time of option grant.
A Sharesave grant was made in December 2012 at 281 pence per share in which 1,312 employees participated. We intend to make a further 
grant in 2014/15.
Directors’ Sharesave options 
At 31 March 2013 the Directors held the following share options under the Sharesave Scheme. 
 
At 31 March
2012
Granted
in year
Exercised
in year
At 31 March
2013
Exercise 
price Exercise period
M Allen 3,997 3,202 (3,997) 3,202 281p 3/2016 – 9/2016
A Murray 3,997 3,202 (3,997) 3,202 281p 3/2016 – 9/2016
M Wilks 3,997 3,202 (3,997) 3,202 281p 3/2016 – 9/2016
The share options in the above table at 31 March 2013 represent the total awards made in 2012/13 under the 2012 Sharesave Scheme at  
281 pence per share assuming participants continue to save throughout the three year life of the Scheme.
On 1 October 2012 Mark Allen, Alastair Murray and Martyn Wilks each exercised Sharesave Scheme options over 3,997 shares and retained 
the shares. The unrealised gain on their exercise of the Sharesave Scheme options was £4,645 for each. 
The mid-market price of the above shares as at the close of business on 31 March 2013 was 429 pence per share. During the year between  
1 April 2012 and 31 March 2013 the mid-market closing price ranged from 290 pence per share to 444 pence per share. 
Stephen Alexander Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
22 May 2013
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Dairy Crest – Relative Total Shareholder Return over ﬁve years
FTSE 250 (excluding 
investment companies)
Dairy Crest Group plc
March 08 March 09 March 10 March 11 March 12 March 13
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
72236_Glasshouse_p41-p55.indd   52 04/06/2013   05:32 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 53
Governance
Report of the Directors
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are the manufacture, processing 
and distribution of milk and dairy products. Further information can 
be found within the Business review section at pages 18 to 33.
Going concern
The Group and Company’s business activities, together with factors 
likely to affect future development, performance and position are set 
out in the Chief Executive’s review on pages 14 to 15, the Business 
review on pages 18 to 33 and the review of principal risks and 
uncertainties on pages 16 to 17. The financial position, cash flows, 
liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the 
Financial review on pages 30 to 33. In addition, Notes 30 and 31 to 
the Accounts include the Group and Company’s objectives, policies 
and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk 
management objectives; details of its financial instruments and 
hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As highlighted in Note 30, the Company and Group meet day-to-day 
working capital requirements through syndicated revolving credit 
facilities and cash to ensure that forecast net borrowings plus a 
reasonable operating headroom are covered by committed facilities 
which mature at least 12 months after the year end. At 31 March 
2013, effective headroom was £573.1 million. Since 31 March 2013 
the Group has repaid certain private placement notes details of which 
are set out in Note 34 ‘Post balance sheet events’ on page 112.
There were no breaches of bank covenants in the year ended  
31 March 2013 and projections do not indicate any breaches in the 
foreseeable future. Since the sale of St Hubert in August 2012, 
exchange rate fluctuations no longer materially impact our bank 
covenant tests.
Forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible 
changes in trading performance, show that the Company and Group 
will be able to operate within the level of current facilities.
Having reviewed and taken into account Going Concern and 
Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the 
Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
Business review
The information satisfying the Business review requirements of s417 
of the Companies Act 2006 is set out in the Corporate governance 
section of the Annual Report; the Chairman’s Statement on page 13; 
the Chief Executive’s review on pages 14 to 15; the Business review 
on pages 18 to 33; the review of the principal risks and uncertainties 
on pages 16 to 17; and the Group Key Performance Indicators on 
page 5.
Group results
The Group’s consolidated income statement set out on page 58 
shows a profit for the financial year of £54.5 million compared with 
£17.1 million loss in 2011/12.
Post balance sheet events
On 18 April 2013 the Group repaid €106.9 million (£92.7 million) and 
£7.2 million of 2007 notes as a premium of £8.7 million. £69.2 million 
of these notes were due for repayment in April 2014 and £30.7 
million were due for repayment in April 2017. On the same date, the 
Group also paid £40 million to the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund 
and it granted the Fund a floating charge over maturing cheese 
inventories with a maximum realisable value of £60 million.
Dividends
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 15.0 pence 
(2011/12: 14.7 pence) per ordinary share, which if approved, will be 
paid to members on the register at the close of business on 28 June 
2013. Together, the final dividend and interim dividend (5.7 pence 
per ordinary share paid on 24 January 2013) make total dividends for 
the year of 20.7 pence per ordinary share (2011/12: 20.4 pence).
Share capital
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company together 
with details of movements in the Company’s issued share capital 
during 2012/13 are shown in Note 24 to the financial statements.  
As at the date of this report, 136,608,131 million ordinary 25p shares 
were in issue and fully paid with an aggregate nominal value of  
£34.2 million.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Company’s 
Reports and Accounts; to attend and speak at General Meetings of 
the Company; to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights. To be 
effective, electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting 
instructions must be received at the Company’s registered office, or 
such other place in the United Kingdom specified in the relevant 
notice of meeting, not later than 48 hours before a General Meeting. 
None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of 
the Company. There are no known arrangements under which 
financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the 
shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers 
or on voting rights. Shares acquired through Company share 
schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and 
have no special rights.
Transfer of shares
Subject to applicable statutes and regulations, there are no 
restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any class of 
shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
Shareholder waiver of dividends
The Company established an employee benefit trust in 1996 which 
in certain circumstances holds shares in connection with the 
Group’s employee share incentive plans. As the registered holder, 
the voting rights in the shares are exercisable by the trustee. 
However, the trustee does not ordinarily exercise those rights and 
waives its entitlement to dividends.
Articles of association
Changes to the Articles must be approved by the shareholders in 
accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
No compensation for loss of office
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or 
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or 
employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the 
Company’s share schemes and plans may cause options and 
awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to 
vest on a takeover.
Additional statutory information
72236_Glasshouse_p41-p55.indd   53 04/06/2013   17:30 54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
Issue of shares
At the AGM on 17 July 2012, shareholders renewed the authority for 
the Board under the Articles to exercise all powers of the Company 
to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£22,226,726.
Purchase of own shares
At the AGM on 17 July 2012, shareholders granted the Company 
authority to make market purchases of up to 13,336,036 of its 
issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided that: the 
minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is  
25 pence (exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes); the 
maximum price (exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes) which 
may be paid for any such ordinary share shall be not more than 5% 
above the average of the middle market prices for an ordinary share 
in the Company, as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily 
Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the 
date of purchase. The Company did not exercise this authority 
during the year and made no market purchases. Except in relation  
to a purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was 
concluded before this authority expires and which will or may be 
executed wholly or partly after such expiry, the authority granted 
shall expire at the conclusion of this year’s AGM.
The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of both of the 
above-mentioned authorities or replacement of them with suitable 
alternatives, annually at the AGM. Approval will be sought from the 
shareholders at this year’s AGM to renew the authorities for a  
further year.
Pensions
On 31 March 2010 the Group’s defined benefit pension fund was 
closed to future accrual. Accordingly, the fund is now in run-off. It 
remains under the control of a corporate trustee, Dairy Crest Pension 
Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises four directors 
nominated by Dairy Crest Limited and three directors elected by all 
members. The pension fund’s assets are held separately from those 
of the Group and can only be used in accordance with the rules of the 
pension fund. Pension provision for employees is now made through 
a defined contribution pension scheme.
Significant agreements – change of control
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may 
cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its 
subsidiaries are party, to take effect, alter or terminate. The 
agreements that are considered significant are as follows:
Borrowing facilities
Non-compliance with the change of control clauses in the Group’s 
funding arrangements, or failure to reach agreement with the parties 
on revised terms, would require any acquirer to put in place 
replacement facilities.
Supply agreements
Certain supply agreements contain provisions whereby on a change 
of control of the Group, they may be terminable. Accordingly, a 
change of control of the Group could result in the need for the Group 
to source alternative supply for certain materials.
Essential contracts
It is vital that the Group is able to source high quality raw milk at the 
most competitive prices. To that end, the Group has numerous 
contracts for its supply. While these contracts are collectively 
essential to the business, no single contract nor any single supplier 
of raw milk is critical to the Company’s business.
The Company also has strong relationships with certain major 
retailers to supply them with liquid milk and other branded products. 
Individually these contracts are important to the business but not 
essential.
Substantial shareholdings
During the period and up to 22 May 2013, the Company has been 
notified in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
issued by the Financial Services Authority of the following interests of 
3% or more in the Company’s existing issued ordinary share capital.
Notified
No. of shares
Notified
percentage
of issued
share capital
Legal & General Group plc (L&G) – < 3%
No notifications have been received in the period from 1 April 2013 
to 22 May 2013.
Directors’ interests
Details of the interests in the shares of the Company of the Directors 
holding office as at the date of this Report, along with those of the 
Directors who held office during the year but retired or resigned from 
office, and their immediate families appear in the Remuneration 
Report on page 51.
Details of the Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment 
appear in the Remuneration Report on page 45.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract with the 
Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year. Procedures for 
dealing with Directors’ conflicts of interest are in place and are 
operating effectively.
Directors’ and Officers’ indemnities and insurance
The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and 
Officers and those of its subsidiaries. The Directors, Company 
Secretary and other Officers of the Company and those of its 
subsidiaries are indemnified by the Company to the extent permitted 
by company law. That indemnity provision has been in place during 
the year and remains in force.
Employees
At the end of March 2013, the Group employed approximately 4,900 
people. It depends on the skills and commitment of its employees in 
order to achieve its objectives. Personnel at every level are 
encouraged to make their fullest possible contribution to Dairy 
Crest’s success.
Employees are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them 
and on issues affecting the Group’s performance through a variety 
of communication tools, including the Group intranet.
The Group has well-established consultation and negotiating 
arrangements with established trade unions.
Employees are encouraged to acquire shares in the Group through 
participation in the savings-related share option scheme (‘Sharesave 
Scheme’). Details of the Scheme are set out in Note 26 to the financial 
statements and at page 52 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Additional statutory information continued
72236_Glasshouse_p41-p55.indd   54 04/06/2013   13:55 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 55
Governance
Report of the Directors
In recognition of the key part played by employee engagement in the 
Group’s long-term success, the Group has established a wide 
ranging programme aimed at promoting and enhancing employee 
engagement. The programme includes regular surveys in which all 
employees are invited to participate, to gauge the level of employee 
engagement within the Group. Once the outcome of the survey has 
been fed back to the Divisions, business units and departments, 
plans designed to maintain and improve employee engagement are 
prepared and implemented.
The Board is committed to ensuring that a culture, free from both 
discrimination and harassment, remains embedded within the Group. 
Discrimination of any sort is not tolerated. Proper consideration is 
given to applications for employment from disabled people who are 
employed whenever suitable vacancies arise. Wherever practicable, 
staff who become disabled during employment are retained. The 
Group practices equality of opportunity for all employees,  
irrespective of ethnic origin, religion, political opinion, gender, marital 
status, disability, age or sexual orientation.
Research and development
The Group has adopted a target of delivering 10% of its annual 
turnover through new product development. Focus continues to be 
on offering consumers a wide product mix, and especially the 
development of lower fat variants of existing products. Dairy Crest 
remains at the forefront of dairy industry developments to reduce 
packaging waste through innovation.
Land and buildings
Having obtained an informal valuation of certain of the Group’s land 
and buildings, the Directors are of the opinion that the current 
market value in existing use of the Group’s land and buildings slightly 
exceeds their book value.
Supplier payment policy
The Company is a holding company and had no amounts owing to 
trade creditors at 31 March 2013 (2011/12: nil). The Group’s creditor 
days outstanding at 31 March 2013 were 24.3 (2011/12: 23.6 days) of 
purchases. With the exception of milk suppliers, the Group has 
standard payment terms of 60 days from invoice date. Payment 
terms for purchases under major contracts are agreed as part of the 
contract negotiations.
Financial instruments
Details of the use by the Company and its subsidiaries of financial 
instruments and any related risk management objectives and 
policies (including hedging policy) and exposure, including to price 
risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk (of the Company in 
connection with such financial instruments) can be found at Note 30 
to the financial statements.
Charitable and political donations
No political donations or expenditures were made or incurred during 
the year. Charitable donations amounted to £0.1 million (2011/12: 
£0.1 million). The Corporate Responsibility section of the Business 
review at pages 26 to 29 provides additional detail on the charitable 
activities of the Group and its employees.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor
So far as each Director in office at the date of approval of this Report 
is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s External Auditor, Ernst & Young is unaware. Each of the 
Directors has taken all steps that they might reasonably be expected 
to have taken in order to (i) make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and (ii) establish that the External Auditor is aware 
of such information.
For the purposes of this statement on disclosure of information to 
the External Auditor, ‘relevant audit information’ is the information 
needed by the Company’s External Auditor in connection with the 
preparation of its report at page 57.
Directors’ responsibility statements
The responsibility statements required under Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 4.1 are set out on page 56.
Annual general meeting
The AGM will be held at Eversheds LLP, One Wood Street, London, 
EC2V 7WS on Tuesday, 16 July 2013 at 12.00 pm. The Notice 
convening the meeting will be issued separately, together with 
details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes 
relating to each of the resolutions being proposed.
Auditor
Ernst & Young has expressed its willingness to continue as Auditor 
of the Company. A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young as the 
Company’s Auditor will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board
Robin Miller Company Secretary
22 May 2013
72236_Glasshouse_p41-p55.indd   55 04/06/2013   13:55 56 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Report of the Directors
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group and Company’s financial statements in accordance with 
applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Group and 
Company’s financial statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for 
that period. In preparing the financial statements the Directors are 
required to:
•	 present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash 
flows of the Group and Company;
•	 select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8, 
‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and 
Errors’ and then apply them consistently;
•	 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
•	 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is 
insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions on the financial position 
of the Group and Company and performance of the Group; 
•	 state that the Group and Company has complied with IFRSs, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements; and
•	 make judgements and estimates that are responsible and prudent.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the Group and of the Company and 
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and of the 
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud or other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance 
Statement in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and 
applicable regulations, including the requirements of the Listing 
Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the Group’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
DTR 4.1 Statement
Each of the Directors, the names and functions of whom are set out 
on pages 10 to 11 confirms that to the best of his knowledge, they 
have complied with the above requirements in preparing the Group 
and Company’s financial statements in accordance with applicable 
accounting standards and that the financial statements give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the 
Group and Company and of the Group’s income statement and the 
Company’s profit for that period. In addition, each of the Directors 
confirms that the management report represented by the Directors’ 
Report includes a fair review of the development and performance  
of the business and the position of the Group and Company, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces.
On behalf of the Board
Mark Allen Chief Executive
Alastair Murray Finance Director
The Report of the Directors from pages 2 to 56 inclusive was 
approved by the Board on 22 May 2013 and is signed on its  
behalf by:
Robin Miller Company Secretary
Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey KT10 9PN
Registered in England and Wales No. 3162897
22 May 2013
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in relation  
to the Group and Company financial statements
72236_Glasshouse_p56.indd   56 07/06/2013   12:55 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 57
The numbers
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Dairy Crest Group plc
We have audited the financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc 
for the year ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the Consolidated 
income statement, Consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income, Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets, 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity, Parent Company 
statement of changes in equity and the Consolidated and Parent 
Company statement of cash flows and the related notes 1 to 35.  
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as 
regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,  
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state  
to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members  
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 56, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the 
financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to 
identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for 
our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•	 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2013 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
•	 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
•	 the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
•	 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
•	 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year 
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us; or
•	 the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
•	 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•	 the Directors’ statement, set out on page 53, in relation to going 
concern;
•	 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
•	 certain elements of the report to the shareholders by the Board on 
Directors’ remuneration.
Alison Duncan (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
London
22 May 2013
Notes:
1.  The maintenance and integrity of the Dairy Crest Group plc website is the 
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not 
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no 
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial 
statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
72236_Glasshouse_p57.indd   57 05/06/2013   06:32 58 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Consolidated income statement
Year ended 31 March 2013
         
  2013 2012  
Earnings per share
 
Basic earnings/(loss) per share from 
continuing operations (pence) 8 – (29.1)  
 
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share from 
continuing operations (pence) 8 – (29.1)  
 
Adjusted basic earnings per share from 
continuing operations (pence)* 8 29.9 28.9  
 
Adjusted diluted earnings per share from 
continuing operations (pence)* 8 29.5 28.4  
 
Basic earnings per share from discontinued 
operations (pence) 8 40.5 16.3  
 
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued 
operations (pence) 8 39.9 16.0  
 
Basic earnings/(loss) per share on profit/(loss) 
for the year 8 40.5 (12.8) 
 
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share on 
profit/(loss) for the year 8 39.9 (12.8) 
                 
  2013 2012  
Dividends
  Proposed final dividend (£m) 7 20.5 19.6  
  Interim dividend paid (£m) 7 7.8 7.6  
  Proposed final dividend (pence) 7 15.0 14.7  
  Interim dividend paid (pence) 7  5.7           5.7  
2013 2012
  Note
Before
exceptional
items
£m  
Exceptional
items
£m  
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m  
Exceptional
items
£m  
Total
£m
Group revenue 1 1,381.6 – 1,381.6 1,514.7 – 1,514.7 
Operating costs 2,3,4 (1,320.4) (47.8) (1,368.2) (1,451.2) (93.9) (1,545.1)
Other income – property 3 7.7   –   7.7 4.6   –   4.6 
Profit/(loss) on operations 68.9 (47.8) 21.1 68.1 (93.9) (25.8)
Finance costs 5 (18.7) (8.7) (27.4) (21.1) – (21.1)
Other finance income – pensions 5 5.9 – 5.9 5.5 – 5.5 
Share of associate's net loss 14 –   –   – (0.3)  –   (0.3)
Profit/(loss) before tax 56.1 (56.5) (0.4) 52.2 (93.9) (41.7)
Tax (expense)/credit 6 (11.6)  12.0   0.4 (10.2)  13.1   2.9 
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 44.5 (44.5) – 42.0 (80.8) (38.8)
Profit from discontinued operations 29 6.8 47.7 54.5 21.7 – 21.7 
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to 
equity shareholders   51.3   3.2   54.5 63.7   (80.8)  (17.1)
As a result of its disposal in August 2012, the results of the St Hubert business have been classified as discontinued operations and prior 
period comparatives have been restated accordingly. The post–tax profit relating to discontinued activities is further analysed in Note 29.
* Adjusted earnings per share calculations are presented to give an indication of the underlying operational performance of the Group. The calculations exclude 
exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest in relation to the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme, the latter being highly 
dependent upon market assumptions at 31 March each year. The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 59
Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit/(loss) for the year   54.5 (17.1)
Net investment hedges:
Exchange differences on foreign currency net investments (15.3) (19.3)
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings designated as net investment hedges   6.0 7.7 
  (9.3) (11.6)
Exchange differences reclassified to income statement on sale of subsidiary 11.4 – 
Actuarial losses and recognition of liabilities for unrecoverable notional surpluses 20 (13.5) (46.2)
Cash flow hedges – reclassification adjustment for gains in income statement (9.5) 4.3 
Cash flow hedges – gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 10.0 (8.3)
Exchange difference on investment in associate – (0.2)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 6 7.6 11.9 
Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax   (3.3) (50.1)
Total comprehensive gain/(loss) for the year, net of tax   51.2 (67.2)
All amounts are attributable to owners of the parent
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Year ended 31 March 2013 60 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Consolidated Parent Company
Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 270.3 282.9 – – 
Goodwill 11 74.3 260.0 – – 
Intangible assets 12 30.5 170.5 – – 
Investments 13 0.3 – 480.9 479.5 
Investment in associate using equity method 14 0.5 0.5 – – 
Deferred consideration 1.4 1.3 – – 
Deferred tax asset 6 – – 0.4 0.7 
Financial assets – Derivative financial instruments 17 14.5 16.6 12.9 15.0 
  391.8 731.8 494.2 495.2 
Current assets
Inventories 15 208.2 187.8 – – 
Trade and other receivables 16 98.8 131.5 170.7 219.8 
Financial assets – Derivative financial instruments 17 9.6 0.3 9.6 – 
Cash and short–term deposits 18 276.1 79.4 14.8 – 
  592.7 399.0 195.1 219.8 
Total assets 1 984.5 1,130.8 689.3 715.0 
 
Equity and Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities – Long-term borrowings 19 (184.3) (419.7) (182.4) (407.2)
– Derivative financial instruments 19 (3.9) (8.7) (3.9) (8.7)
Retirement benefit obligations 20 (67.2) (79.8) – – 
Deferred tax liability 6 (14.6) (69.4) – – 
Deferred income 22 (9.6) (6.9) – – 
  (279.6) (584.5) (186.3) (415.9)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (221.8) (266.4) (16.9) (8.0)
Financial liabilities – Short-term borrowings 19 (167.5) (2.0) (165.7) – 
– Derivative financial instruments 19 (2.3) – (2.2) – 
Current tax liability (2.6) (0.7) – – 
Deferred income 22 (1.6) (0.6) – – 
Provisions 23 (1.7) (2.3) – – 
  (397.5) (272.0) (184.8) (8.0)
Total liabilities (677.1) (856.5) (371.1) (423.9)
 
Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares 24 (34.1) (33.3) (34.1) (33.3)
Share premium (77.5) (70.9) (77.5) (70.9)
Interest in ESOP 0.6 0.6 – – 
Other reserves 25 (51.4) (49.0) (154.4) (152.2)
Retained earnings (145.0) (121.7) (52.2) (34.7)
Total shareholders’ equity (307.4) (274.3) (318.2) (291.1)
Total equity and liabilities (984.5) (1,130.8) (689.3) (715.0)
Mark Allen Chief Executive 
Alastair Murray Finance Director
The financial statements were approved by the directors on 22 May 2013
Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets
At 31 March 2013
72236_Glasshouse_p58_p63.indd   60 04/06/2013   05:48 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 61
        Attributable to owners of the parent
2013
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Interest
in ESOP
£m
Other
reserves*
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
Equity
£m
At 31 March 2012 33.3 70.9 (0.6) 49.0 121.7 274.3 
Profit for the year – – – – 54.5 54.5 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):                        
Net investment hedges – – – (9.3) – (9.3)
Exchange differences reclassified to income 
statement on sale of subsidiary
– – – 11.4 – 11.4 
Cash flow hedges – – – 0.5 – 0.5 
Actuarial losses – – – – (13.5) (13.5)
Tax on components of other 
comprehensive income   –   –   –   (0.2)  7.8   7.6 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – 2.4 (5.7) (3.3)
Total comprehensive gain – – – 2.4 48.8 51.2 
Issue of share capital 0.8 6.6 – – – 7.4 
Share based payments – – – – 1.9 1.9 
Equity dividends – – – – (27.4) (27.4)
At 31 March 2013 34.1 77.5 (0.6) 51.4 145.0 307.4 
 
2012            
At 31 March 2011 33.3 70.8 (0.6) 64.1 197.9 365.5 
Loss for the year – – – – (17.1) (17.1)
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):                        
Net investment hedges – – – (11.6) – (11.6)
Cash flow hedges – – – (4.0) – (4.0)
Actuarial losses – – – – (46.2) (46.2)
Exchange difference on investment
in associate – – – (0.2) – (0.2)
Tax on components of other 
comprehensive income   –   –   –   0.7   11.2   11.9 
Other comprehensive loss – – – (15.1) (35.0) (50.1)
Total comprehensive loss – – – (15.1) (52.1) (67.2)
Issue of share capital – 0.1 – – – 0.1 
Share based payments – – – – 2.4 2.4 
Equity dividends – – – – (26.5) (26.5)
At 31 March 2012 33.3 70.9 (0.6) 49.0 121.7 274.3 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Year ended 31 March 2013
* Further details are provided in Note 25
72236_Glasshouse_p58_p63.indd   61 04/06/2013   05:48 62 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
2013
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Capital
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Other
reserve*
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
At 31 March 2012 33.3 70.9 142.7 (1.9) 11.4 34.7 291.1 
Profit for the year – – – – – 44.4 44.4 
Other comprehensive loss:                      
Cash flow hedges –   –   –   1.2   –   –   1.2 
Related tax – – – (0.4) – – (0.4)
Other comprehensive gain – – – 0.8 – – 0.8 
Total comprehensive gain – – – 0.8 – 44.4 45.2 
Issue of share capital 0.8 6.6 – – – – 7.4 
Share based payments – – – – 1.4 0.5 1.9 
Equity dividends – – – – – (27.4) (27.4)
At 31 March 2013 34.1 77.5 142.7 (1.1) 12.8 52.2 318.2 
 
2012              
At 31 March 2011 33.3 70.8 142.7 1.0 9.7 20.1 277.6 
Profit for the year – – – – – 40.4 40.4 
Other comprehensive loss:                            
Cash flow hedges – – – (3.8) – – (3.8)
Related tax   –   –   –   0.9   –   –   0.9 
Other comprehensive loss – – – (2.9) – – (2.9)
Total comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – (2.9) – 40.4 37.5 
Issue of share capital – 0.1 – – – – 0.1 
Share based payments – – – – 1.7 0.7 2.4 
Equity dividends – – – – – (26.5) (26.5)
At 31 March 2012 33.3 70.9 142.7 (1.9) 11.4 34.7 291.1 
Parent Company statement of changes in equity
Year ended 31 March 2013
* Other reserve represents the share based payment credit in respect of amounts capitalised as investments (see Note 13).
72236_Glasshouse_p58_p63.indd   62 04/06/2013   11:36 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 63
Consolidated Parent Company
  Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cash generated from operations 32 19.1 84.5 – – 
Interest paid (18.0) (23.6) – – 
Taxation paid   (4.7) (14.1) – – 
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities   (3.6) 46.8 – – 
Cash flow from investing activities
Capital expenditure (50.9) (53.3) – – 
Grants received 22 5.3 0.2 – – 
Grants repaid (0.4) – – – 
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 10.1 12.6 – – 
Purchase of businesses and investments 29 (0.6) (12.3) – – 
Sale of discontinued operation (net of cash disposed of and fees) 29 330.8 – – – 
Amounts (paid to)/received from subsidiaries – – 97.1 (28.0)
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities   294.3 (52.8) 97.1 (28.0)
Cash flow from financing activities
Repayment and cancellation of bank facilities and loan notes (7.5) (155.2) (7.5) (65.2)
New bank facilities advanced – 165.2 – 65.2 
Proceeds from issuance of loan notes – 54.5 – 54.5 
Net repayment of borrowings under revolving credit facilities (68.7) (0.1) (55.9) – 
Dividends paid 7 (27.4) (26.5) (27.4) (26.5)
Proceeds from issue of shares 24 7.4 0.1 7.4 – 
Finance lease repayments 33 (1.7) (2.4) – – 
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities   (97.9) 35.6 (83.4) 28.0 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 192.8 29.6 13.7 – 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 33 79.4 49.9 – – 
Exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents 33 3.9 (0.1) 1.1 – 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 33 276.1 79.4 14.8 – 
Memo: Net debt at end of year 33 (59.7) (336.4) (315.5) (398.6)
Consolidated and Parent Company statement of cash flows
Year ended 31 March 2013 64 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Basis of preparation
The consolidated and Company financial statements are presented 
in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million  
(£ million) except where otherwise indicated.
The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union. The separate Company financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and 
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption 
provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to 
publish its individual income statement and related notes.
Having reviewed and taken into account Going Concern and 
Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the 
Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements. See the Going Concern 
Statement on page 53.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk 
of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next financial year are (i) the measurement of 
the impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment (ii) the measurement of defined benefit pension scheme 
assets and obligations (iii) the estimation of tax costs in France in 
relation to the sale of St Hubert.
(i) The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual 
basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated. The 
assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of 
goodwill. This requires estimation of future cash flows and the 
selection of a suitable discount rate. Goodwill in Dairies was fully 
impaired in the year ended 31 March 2012. 
The Group tests whether intangible assets, property, plant and 
equipment are impaired where there are indications that there is a 
risk of impairment. This requires an estimation of the value in use of 
the cash-generating units in which these assets reside. The 
assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of 
assets. This requires estimation of future cash flows and the 
selection of a suitable discount rate.
(ii) Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires 
estimation of future changes in inflation, mortality rates, the expected 
return on plan assets and the choice of a suitable discount rate.
(iii) The sale of the St Hubert business will result in tax payable in 
France both on the chargeable gain on disposal and on dividend 
payments made to the UK parent between 31 March 2012 and the 
date of disposal in August 2012. An estimate has been made of the 
likely tax costs resulting from these transactions. However, the final 
assessment has yet to be agreed with the French tax authorities 
which may result in a change to the level of tax provisioning.
Further analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty and 
sensitivities are included in the relevant notes to the accounts.
The key judgements made by management in the process of 
applying the Group accounting policies are those used to determine 
whether certain individual operating segments meet all of the 
aggregation criteria set out in IFRS 8 when aggregated for external 
reporting purposes. Those segments that have been aggregated 
and a description of the key judgements made in reaching that 
conclusion are set out in Note 1 of the accounts.  
Changes in accounting policies
The following accounting standards and interpretations became 
effective for the current reporting period:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRSs)
IFRS 7 – Amendments to IFRS 7: Disclosures – Transfers of 
Financial Assets.
IAS 12 – Amendments to IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ – deferred tax: 
recovery of underlying assets.
The application of these standards has had no impact on the net 
assets, results and disclosures of the Group in the year ended  
31 March 2013.
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards (with an 
effective date after the date of these accounts) and interpretations:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRSs)
IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 
(effective from 1 January 2015) 
IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements (effective from  
1 January 2013) 
IFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements (effective from 1 January 2013) 
IFRS 12 – Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities (effective from  
1 January 2013) 
IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement (effective from 1 January 2013) 
IAS 1 – Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements 
(effective from 1 July 2012) 
IAS 19 – Amendments to IAS 19: Employee Benefits (effective from 
1 January 2013) 
IAS 27 – Separate Financial Statements (effective from 1 January 
2013) 
IAS 28 – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (effective 
from 1 January 2013) 
IAS 32 – Amendments to IAS 32: Financial Instruments – 
Presentation (effective from 1 January 2014) 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 
(IFRIC)
IFRIC 20 – Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface 
Mine (effective from 1 January 2013) 
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards 
and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s 
financial statements in the period of initial application with the 
exception of the amendments to IAS 19 – Employee Benefits. The 
principal impact on the Group of the application of this standard will 
be the requirement to use the discount rate when calculating 
expected returns on the asset component of pension cost. We 
currently calculate expected returns based on return assumptions 
on the actual classes of asset held. This change is likely to result in 
higher charges to the Consolidated Income Statement for the 
pension interest cost. There is no material impact on the reported 
pension liabilities each year end as the impact in the Consolidated 
Income Statement is mitigated by an offsetting change in the 
calculation of actuarial gains and losses in the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income – namely the difference between actual and 
expected asset returns will increase. 
Further details are included in Note 20 to the accounts.
Accounting policies
Year ended 31 March 2013
72236_Glasshouse_p64_p69.indd   64 04/06/2013   05:55 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 65
Consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy 
Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 March each 
year using consistent accounting policies. All intercompany balances 
and transactions, including unrealised profits and losses arising from 
intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full. 
Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the date 
on which control is transferred to the Group. Subsidiaries continue 
to be consolidated until the date that control ceases. 
Where the Group ceases to control a subsidiary, it (i) derecognises 
the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary; (ii) 
derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest; (iii) 
derecognises the cumulative translation differences on net assets 
and borrowings designated as net investment hedges, previously 
recorded in other comprehensive income; (iv) recognises the fair 
value of any investment or associate retained; and (v) recognises any 
surplus or deficit in the consolidated income statement, and (vi) 
reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously recognised 
in other comprehensive income or retained earnings as appropriate.
Interest in associates 
The Group’s investments in associates are accounted for under the 
equity method of accounting. Associates are entities over which the 
Group exerts significant influence. The Company and its associates 
use consistent accounting policies. The investment in associates are 
carried in the balance sheet at initial fair value plus post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of net assets, less any impairment in 
value and any distributions received. The consolidated income 
statement reflects the share of the post-tax results of associates. 
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the 
associates’ other comprehensive income, the Group recognises its 
share of such changes and discloses this, where applicable in other 
comprehensive income. 
Foreign currency translation 
The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group plc 
and its United Kingdom (‘UK’) subsidiaries is Sterling (£). 
Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the functional 
currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
Sterling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences on 
monetary items are taken to the income statement, except where 
recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow 
hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. 
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are 
translated into sterling at year end exchange rates. The results of 
foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of 
exchange for the year (being an approximation of actual exchange 
rates). Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the net 
investment in foreign subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, less 
exchange differences on borrowings, which finance or provide a 
hedge against those undertakings are taken to a separate 
component of equity as long as IFRS hedge accounting conditions 
are met. Exchange differences relating to foreign currency 
borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a 
foreign entity remain in equity until the disposal of the net investment, 
at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost comprises the 
purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the 
asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of 
operating in the manner intended by management. Depreciation is 
calculated to write off the cost (less residual value) of property, plant 
and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line basis over 
the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:
Freehold buildings: 25 years
Leasehold land and buildings: 25 years or, if shorter, the period 
of the lease
Office equipment: 4 to 6 years
Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years
Vehicles: 4 to 10 years
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for 
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. If the carrying value 
exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down 
to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of plant and 
equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value in 
use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate 
largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated income 
statement.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon 
disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise 
from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on 
derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated income 
statement in the year that it is derecognised. 
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period 
of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the 
cost of the respective assets. All other borrowing costs are 
recognised as an expense in the period they occur.
Investments
The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost 
being the fair value of consideration paid, less provisions for 
impairment where appropriate.
Business combinations and Goodwill
Business combinations from 1 April 2010 are accounted for using 
the acquisition method (previously used the purchase method). The 
cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the 
consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, 
and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The 
choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value 
or at the proportionate share of acquiree’s identifiable net assets will 
be determined on a transaction by transaction basis. Acquisition 
costs incurred are expensed to profit and loss.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the cost of 
the acquisition (see above) less net identifiable amounts of the assets 
acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business 
combination. 
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment 
annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
72236_Glasshouse_p64_p69.indd   65 04/06/2013   05:55 66 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. All goodwill was 
tested for impairment at the time of transition to IFRS and no 
impairment was identified.
Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition 
to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date and is not 
subsequently amortised.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the 
cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units expected to 
benefit from the combination’s synergies. Impairment is determined 
by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to 
which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the 
cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment 
loss is recognised. Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating 
unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the 
goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the 
carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss 
on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this 
circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of the 
operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit 
retained.
The Group’s cash-generating units, for the purpose of considering 
goodwill, are ‘Dairies’, ‘Spreads’, ‘MH Foods’ and ‘Cheese’. These 
represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for 
management purposes and are no larger than the Group’s operating 
segments.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been 
charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off against 
reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the 
business sold.
The Group has not restated business combinations prior to the 
transition date of 1 April 2004. Acquisitions prior to this date are 
recorded under previous accounting rules. 
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are 
capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value can 
be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future expected 
economic benefits flow to the Group. Following initial recognition, the 
carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any 
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. 
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite 
or indefinite. Currently, all the Group’s intangible assets have finite 
useful lives and are amortised over 3 to 15 years. Acquired intangible 
assets principally comprise acquired brands and, following the sale 
of St Hubert, principally the FryLight brand which was considered to 
have a useful life of 15 years at the date of acquisition.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, 
where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Intangible assets generated internally comprise software 
development expenditure. Software development is carried at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and is amortised over four to seven 
years. Internally generated intangible assets that are not yet available 
for use are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the 
cash-generating unit level or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Research and development
Expenditure on research is written off as incurred. Development 
expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future 
recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as 
required by IAS 38: Intangible Assets.
Recoverable amount of non-current assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any 
indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of 
impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of recoverable 
amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired and is written 
down to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the 
higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to 
sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, 
unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials (on a first in first 
out basis), direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing 
overheads based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing 
each product to its present location and condition. Net realisable 
value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business 
less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original 
invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.  
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full 
amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off when 
identified.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and 
short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
For the purposes of the Consolidated cash flow statement, cash and 
cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined 
above, net of bank overdrafts.
Interest bearing loans
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of 
the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the 
borrowing. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and 
borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into 
account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on 
settlement. Gains and losses are recognised in the Consolidated 
Income Statement when the liabilities are derecognised.
Net debt
The Group and Company define net debt as cash and cash 
equivalents, interest bearing loans and finance leases. The 
calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments with the exception of cross currency swaps to fix foreign 
currency debt in Sterling where they are designated as cash flow 
hedges. In this case the fixed Sterling debt, not the underlying 
foreign currency debt retranslated, is included in net debt. It includes 
any cash or borrowings included within disposal groups classified as 
held for sale and excludes unamortised upfront facility fees.
Retirement benefit obligations
The asset or liability in respect of defined benefit schemes is the 
present value of the relevant defined benefit obligation at the balance 
sheet date less the fair value of plan assets and an adjustment for 
Accounting policies continued The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 67
past service costs not yet vested. The independent actuary 
completes a full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest Group pension 
fund triennially. The obligation is updated annually for financial 
reporting purposes by the actuary using the projected unit credit 
method. The present value of the obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of 
high quality corporate bonds, which have terms to maturity 
approximating the terms of the related liability. 
The current service costs, settlement gains or losses and any 
curtailment gains are recognised in operating costs in the 
Consolidated Income Statement, classified as cost of sales, 
distribution costs or administrative expenses depending upon which 
area of the business active members are employed in. Past service 
costs are included in operating costs where the benefits have 
vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the 
vesting period. The expected return on assets of funded defined 
benefit schemes and the interest on pension scheme liabilities 
comprise the finance element of the pension cost and the difference 
between these amounts are included in other finance income or 
costs. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience 
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in 
full and are charged or credited to other comprehensive income in 
the period in which they arise.
The recognition of any future retirement benefit surplus as calculated 
by the actuary as part of the annual update for reporting purposes, 
is limited to the present value, using an appropriate discount rate, of 
any real cash benefit the Company will obtain in the future through 
cash (net of taxes or costs) on a winding up of the scheme. In order 
to calculate the potential future benefits, or to establish whether a 
liability needs to be established under IFRIC 14, consideration is 
given to any minimum funding requirements agreed between the 
Company and the Pension Trustee.
Contributions to the Dairy Crest defined contribution pension 
scheme are charged as an expense as they fall due. Any 
contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an 
accrual at that date. The Group has no further payment obligations 
once contributions have been settled.
Share based payments
Equity based performance payments
The Group and Company has issued equity-settled share based 
payment schemes for which they receive services from employees 
in consideration for the equity instrument. Equity-settled share 
based payment schemes are measured at fair value at the grant 
date by an external valuer using an appropriate pricing model. In 
valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any 
service and performance (vesting conditions), other than 
performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the 
Company (market conditions). Any other conditions which are 
required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled 
to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions. Like 
market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken 
into account in determining the grant date fair value.
The cost of equity settled transactions with employees is measured 
by reference to the fair value and is recognised as an expense over 
the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant 
employees became fully entitled to the award. At each balance sheet 
date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, 
representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and 
management’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest. The movement in cumulative expense since 
the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income 
statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or 
non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of 
whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, 
provided that all other performance or service conditions are 
satisfied.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled (including when a 
non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee is 
not met), it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, 
and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the 
award is expensed immediately.
Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over equity 
instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in the 
Company’s balance sheet.
Employees’ Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’)
The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees’ 
Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy Long Term Incentive Share 
Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in arriving at 
shareholders’ equity. Consideration received from the sale of such 
shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or loss recognised  
in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to  
apply IFRS 2 Share-based payments only to awards made after  
7 November 2002. 
Leased assets
Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the Group 
substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the 
leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value 
of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum 
lease payments. The net present value of future lease rentals is 
included as a liability on the balance sheet. The interest element of 
lease rentals is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in 
the year. Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks 
and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating 
leases. Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated 
Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Revenue
Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on 
delivery. Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods 
net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating 
sales within the Group. 
Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s right to receive 
payment is established.
Other income
Other income comprises the profit on disposal of closed depots. 
Exceptional items
Certain items are recorded separately in the Consolidated Income 
Statement as exceptional. Only items of a material, one-off nature, 
which result from a restructuring of the business or some other event 
or circumstance are disclosed in this manner in order to give a better 
understanding of the underlying operational performance of the 
Group. The profits arising on disposal of closed sites, other than as a 
result of depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional items. 
72236_Glasshouse_p64_p69.indd   67 04/06/2013   05:58 68 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Government and other grants
Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value where 
there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all 
attaching conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to 
an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods 
necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that 
it is intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to an asset, 
the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is 
released to the Consolidated Income Statement over the expected 
useful life of the relevant asset in equal annual instalments.
Income tax
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount 
expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, 
based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the 
balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, except 
as indicated below.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences except:
 • where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial 
recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at 
the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit 
nor taxable profit or loss; and
 • in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint 
ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and 
unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit 
will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, 
the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can 
be utilised except:
 • where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset 
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, 
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit 
nor taxable profit or loss; and 
 • in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint 
ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the 
foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow 
all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Deferred 
income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that 
are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the 
liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legal 
enforcement right exists to set off current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxation 
authority and that authority permits the group to make a single  
net payment.
Income tax is charged or credited to Other Comprehensive Income 
if it relates to items that are charged or credited to Other 
Comprehensive Income. Similarly, income tax is charged or credited 
directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged 
directly to equity. Otherwise income tax is recognised in the 
Consolidated Income Statement.
Financial assets
The Group and Company classifies financial assets that are within 
the scope of IAS 39 as: 
 • financial assets at fair value through profit and loss;
 • loans and receivables; 
 • held-to-maturity investments; or 
 • available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. 
The Group and Company determines the classification of financial 
assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each 
financial year-end. When financial assets are recognised initially, they 
are measured at fair value. The Group and Company currently hold 
only loans and receivables.
Derivative instruments
The Group and Company use derivative financial instruments such 
as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and interest 
rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and 
foreign currency fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments 
are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured to 
fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by 
reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with 
similar maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap and 
cross-currency swap contracts is determined by reference to market 
values for similar instruments and specific valuations performed by 
counterparties at the balance sheet date.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as 
either: 
 • fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes in 
the fair value of a recognised asset or liability;
 • cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash 
flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with 
a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast 
transaction, or a firm commitment in relation to foreign exchange 
exposure; or
 • net investment hedges where they hedge the exposure to 
variability in the translated net assets of an overseas operation.
Neither the Group nor the Company has entered into any fair value 
hedges during the year.
Cash flow hedges
In relation to cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge 
accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument 
that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in 
Other Comprehensive Income and the ineffective portion is 
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
When the hedged firm commitment (in relation to foreign exchange 
exposure) or the highly probable forecast transactions results in the 
recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, then, at the time 
the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses 
that had previously been recognised in Other Comprehensive 
Income are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition 
cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability. For all other 
cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in Other 
Accounting policies continued The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 69
Comprehensive Income are transferred to the Consolidated Income 
Statement in the same year in which the hedged item affects the net 
profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs, 
interest payments are made or when debt matures. For derivatives 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising 
from changes in fair value are taken directly to the Consolidated 
Income Statement for the year. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations
Where the Group hedges net investments in overseas entities 
through currency borrowings, the gains and losses on retranslation 
of those borrowings are recognised in Other Comprehensive 
Income. If the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument,  
the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in Other 
Comprehensive Income, with any ineffective portion being 
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement whenever 
applicable. Gains and losses accumulated in Other Comprehensive 
Income are reclassified to the Consolidated Income Statement on 
disposal of the foreign entity.
In order to satisfy hedge accounting, the Group (or Company) 
documents in advance the relationship between the item being 
hedged and the hedging instrument. The Group (or Company) also 
documents and demonstrates an assessment of the relationship 
between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows 
that the hedge has been and will be highly effective on an ongoing 
basis. The effectiveness testing is re-performed on a regular basis 
(being at least half-yearly) to ensure that the hedge remains highly 
effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for 
hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument recognised in Other Comprehensive Income is 
retained in Other Comprehensive Income until the highly probable 
forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in 
Other Comprehensive Income is transferred to the Consolidated 
Income Statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host 
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and 
the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains 
or losses reported in the Consolidated Income Statement. When the 
contracts are closely related and hedge accounting is adopted, they 
are designated at inception and treated as described above. 70 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
1 Segmental analysis
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be determined based on the Group’s internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(‘CODM’). The CODM has been determined to be the Company’s Board members as they are primarily responsible for the allocation of 
resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments.
The CODM uses trading profit, as reviewed at monthly business review meetings, as the key measure of the segment’s results as it reflects the 
segment’s underlying trading performance for the period under evaluation. Trading profit is a consistent measure within the Group and the 
reporting of this measure at the monthly business review meetings, which are organised according to the product types, has been used to 
identify and determine the Group’s operating segments. Trading profit is defined as profit on operations before exceptional items and 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets, but includes the Group share of post-tax results of associates.
The Group’s operating segments at 31 March 2013 were ‘Cheese’, ‘Spreads’, ‘MH Foods’, ‘Dairies’, ‘Share of Associates’ and ‘Other’. Certain 
of these operating segments have been aggregated and the Group reports on five continuing segments within the business: ‘Cheese’, 
‘Spreads’, ‘Dairies’, ‘Share of Associates’ and ‘Other’. At 31 March 2012 ‘St Hubert’ was an operating segment which was aggregated into the 
Spreads segment. St Hubert was sold in August 2012 and therefore St Hubert has now been disclosed as a Discontinued Operation for 2012 
and 2013.
In years up to 2011, the Liquid Products and Customer Direct segments were aggregated into one reportable segment being Dairies. During 
the year ended 31 March 2012, these two businesses were merged with one senior management team responsible for the whole of the 
Dairies segment. Since the restructuring, discrete financial information for the former Liquid Products and Customer Direct divisions is no 
longer available or reviewed by either the Dairies senior management team or the CODM (in the past, segment information was based on 
allocations of the combined cost base which is not now necessary). The Dairies segment principally comprises the sale of non-branded fresh 
milk in the UK to a number of customers including major retail, foodservice and residential customers. The segment is managed on a 
combined basis including milk sourcing, production volumes, demand planning, technical, quality and distribution. The factories process and 
pack milk for a mix of customers which varies depending on customer and demand mix. Having considered these factors, management has 
judged that this business now comprises one operating segment under IFRS 8. 
The Spreads segment incorporates the MH Foods business acquired in June 2011. This business is branded, has similar end-customers as 
Spreads and shares the same input cost risks. Therefore management judges that this meets the IFRS 8 aggregation criteria. Furthermore, its 
revenue, result and assets do not represent more than 10% of the Group so the quantitative criteria for a reportable segment are not met.
The Cheese segment has not been aggregated with any other segment. This business manufactures predominantly branded cheese in the 
UK and sells mainly to retail customers.
Share of Associates forms a separate segment whose results are reviewed on a post-tax basis.
The Other segment comprises revenue earned from distributing product for third parties and certain central costs net of recharges to the 
operating segments. Generally, all central costs less external other revenue are recharged to the operating segments such that their result 
reflects the total cost base of the Group. Other segment profit therefore is nil.
Notes to the financial statements The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 71
1 Segmental analysis continued
The segment results for the year ended 31 March 2013 and for the year ended 31 March 2012 and the reconciliation of segment measures to 
the respective statutory items included in the financial statements are as follows:
Year ended 31 March
 Note
 2013
£m
 2012
£m
Segment external revenue
Cheese 231.3 229.6 
Spreads 194.5 211.3 
Dairies 951.6 1,069.0 
Other 4.2 4.8 
Total segment external revenue 1,381.6 1,514.7 
     
Segment profit 
Cheese 33.3 35.5 
Spreads 25.7 23.2 
Dairies 10.3 10.2 
Share of associate’s net loss 14 – (0.3)
Total segment profit 69.3 68.6 
Finance costs 5 (18.7) (21.1)
Adjusted profit before tax 50.6 47.5 
Acquired intangible amortisation 3 (0.4) (0.8)
Exceptional items 4 (56.5) (93.9)
Other finance income – pensions 5 5.9 5.5 
Group loss before tax (0.4) (41.7)
     
Segment total assets
Cheese 237.7 216.2 
Spreads 138.0 136.5 
Dairies 268.1 279.0 
Investment and share of associate 2.2 1.8 
Other 38.3 39.5 
 684.3 673.0 
Discontinued operations – 361.5 
Unsegmented assets 300.2 96.3 
Total assets 984.5 1,130.8 
     
Inter-segment revenue
Cheese 11.3 9.9 
Spreads 2.8 4.7 
Elimination (14.1) (14.6)
Total – – Notes to the financial statements continued
72 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
1 Segmental analysis continued
Year ended 31 March
Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Segment depreciation and amortisation (excluding amortisation of acquired intangible assets)
Cheese 6.7 6.0 
Spreads 3.2 4.2 
Dairies 17.2 19.4 
Other 4.5 2.5 
Continuing operations 31.6 32.1 
Discontinued operations 0.8 2.0 
Total 32.4 34.1 
      
Segment additions to non-current assets 
Cheese 6.9 5.5 
Spreads 12.5 25.5 
Dairies 23.7 30.5 
Other   4.8 3.1 
 47.9 64.6 
Discontinued operations   1.1 3.3 
Total   49.0 67.9 
      
Segment exceptional items
Cheese – –
Spreads (13.8) (2.6)
Dairies (30.5) (91.3)
Unsegmented (3.5) –
Total exceptional operating costs 4 (47.8) (93.9)
Interest income and expense are not included in the measure of segment profit reviewed by the CODM. Group treasury is centrally managed 
and external interest income and expense is all incurred in the UK following the sale of St Hubert and is not allocated to segments. Where 
interest is reviewed by the CODM it is done so on a net basis. Further analysis of the Group interest expense is provided in Note 5. 
Tax costs are not included in the measure of segment profit reviewed by the CODM. Tax is centrally managed and the group effective tax rate, 
not individual segment tax rates, is reported.
Segment assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, inventories, receivables, assets in disposal group held 
for sale and investments in associates and joint ventures using the equity method and deferred consideration but exclude cash and cash 
equivalents, derivative financial assets and deferred tax assets as these items are managed on a Group basis. Other segment assets 
comprise certain property, plant and equipment that is not reported in the segments. Total segment liabilities have not been presented as this 
measure is not regularly reviewed by or provided to the CODM.
Inter-segment revenue comprises the sale of finished Cheese and Spreads products to the Dairies segment on a cost plus basis and is 
included in the segment result. Other Inter-segment transactions principally comprise sales of cream from the Dairies segment to the Spreads 
segment for the manufacture of butters. Cream sold into Spreads is priced by reference to external commodity markets and is adjusted 
regularly so as to reflect the costs that the Spreads segment would incur if it were a stand alone entity. Revenue from Inter-segment cream 
sales is not reported as revenue to the CODM but as a reduction to the Dairies segment’s input costs.
Segment depreciation and amortisation excludes amortisation of acquired intangible assets of £0.4 million (2012: £0.8 million) as these costs 
are not charged in the segment result.
Segment additions to non-current assets comprise additions to goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through capital 
expenditure and acquisition of businesses.
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   72 04/06/2013   06:03 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 73
1 Segmental analysis continued
Geographical information – continuing operations Year ended 31 March
External revenue attributed on basis of customer location
2013
£m
2012
£m
UK 1,336.3 1,450.1 
Rest of world 45.3 64.6 
Total segment revenue (excluding joint ventures) 1,381.6 1,514.7 
 
Non-current assets* based on location    
UK 375.1 370.5 
France – 338.0 
Rest of world 0.8 5.4 
Total 375.9 713.9 
* Comprises property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, investments and investment in associate.
The Group has two customers which individually represent more than 10% of revenue from continuing operations in the year ended 31 March 
2013 (2012: one). These customers account for £327.1 million (2012: £175.7 million) of revenue from continuing operations being 23.7% (2012: 
11.6%).
The business segmentation above is based upon similar product groupings, namely Cheese, Spreads and Dairies, and therefore the analysis 
of Group revenue by product and services is consistent with the revenue analysis presented above with the exception of non-milk product 
sales in the Dairies segment, which amounted to £81.3 million (2012: £100.1 million).
2 Operating costs – continuing operations
Year ended 31 March 2013 Year ended 31 March 2012
 
Before
exceptional
items
£m
 
Exceptional
items
£m
 
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
 
Exceptional
items
£m
 
Total
£m
Cost of sales 1,008.2 44.3 1,052.5 1,106.5 13.6 1,120.1 
Distribution costs 229.1  – 229.1 259.0  – 259.0 
Administrative expenses 83.1   3.5   86.6 85.7   80.3   166.0 
  1,320.4   47.8   1,368.2 1,451.2   93.9   1,545.1 
Profit on operations from continuing operations before exceptional items  
is stated after (charging)/crediting
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2012
£m
Release of grants 0.9 0.6 
Depreciation (28.2) (29.2)
Amortisation of intangibles – acquired (0.4) (0.8)
Amortisation of intangibles – internally generated (3.4) (2.9)
Operating lease rentals (29.2) (31.0)
Research and development expenditure (3.3) (2.8)
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense (1,008.2) (1,106.5)
Including: Write-down of inventories recognised as an expense (1.2) (1.0)
The comparative amounts for 2012 have been amended to exclude amounts relating to St Hubert which has been disclosed as a 
Discontinued Operation. Notes to the financial statements continued
74 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
2 Operating costs – continuing operations continued
Remuneration paid to auditors
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2012
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors – audit of Company’s annual accounts* 0.1 0.1 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services:
audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 
taxation services 0.1 0.2 
corporate finance services 0.2 – 
governance assurance services – 0.1 
 0.7 0.7 
* £10,000 (2012: £10,000) of this relates to the Company.
Other services in the year ended 31 March 2013 comprised reporting accountant work in relation to the disposal of St Hubert (2012: 
governance assurance services for an IT systems project).
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual accounts of 
the Company because Group financial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Ernst & Young LLP are auditors of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Scheme. Fees paid by the pension scheme for audit services are not 
included in the above table.
3 Other income – property
Year ended 31 March 2013 Year ended 31 March 2012
 
Before
exceptional
items
£m
 
Exceptional
items
£m
 
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
 
Exceptional
items
£m
 
Total
£m
Profit on disposal of depots 7.7  – 7.7 4.6  – 4.6 
The Group continues to rationalise its Dairies operations as a result of the ongoing decline in doorstep volumes. This rationalisation includes 
the closure of certain depots (the profit on which is shown above) and rationalisation of the ongoing Dairies operations. These activities 
represent a fundamental part of the ongoing ordinary activities of the Dairies operations.
4 Exceptional items
Exceptional items comprise those items that are material and one-off in nature that the Group believes should be separately disclosed to 
assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
 
 
Operating costs
 
 
 
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£m
 
 
 
Year ended
31 March 
2012
£m
Depot administration restructuring costs (Dairies) (9.2) (5.3)
Costs associated with closure of Dairy processing sites (Dairies) (21.3)  – 
Spreads restructuring costs (Spreads) (13.8) (2.6)
Business reorganisation (3.5)  – 
Impairment of goodwill, property, plant and equipment (Dairies)  –  (81.7)
Provision for bad debts (Dairies)  –  (4.3)
  (47.8) (93.9)
Finance costs    
Repayment of loan notes and associated costs (Note 5) (8.7)  – 
  (56.5) (93.9)
Tax relief on exceptional items 12.0  13.1 
  (44.5) (80.8)
Post-tax gain on disposal of St Hubert (Discontinued operations – Note 29) 47.7   – 
  3.2  (80.8)
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   74 04/06/2013   06:06 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 75
Exceptional items in the year ended 31 March 2013 comprise:
 – £9.2 million of costs associated with the rationalisation of administrative activities and other structural changes in the Dairies depot 
network. This restructuring results in centralisation of back office activities supporting the depot network. These costs relate to 
redundancies (£7.4 million), incremental operating costs associated with delivery of the project (£1.1 million) and write downs of property, 
plant and equipment (£0.7 million). The project has now completed. 
 – During the year the Group has closed two processing sites at Aintree in Liverpool and Fenstanton in Cambridgeshire. The closure of the 
sites and resultant changes in the supply chain, volume requirements and customer channels has resulted in exceptional costs of £21.3 
million. These costs relate to redundancies (£9.0 million), duplicate running costs (£6.2 million), asset write downs (£0.7 million) and other 
costs (£5.4 million) including stock write offs and duplicate running costs.
 – In September 2012 the Group announced that it was to consult with employees on plans to consolidate spreads production into a single 
UK location at its site in Kirkby, Liverpool. As a result of this consolidation the site at Crudgington, Shropshire will close in 2014. Following 
the transfer of Clover manufacture to Kirkby in the first half of 2012, the Crudgington cash generating unit (‘CGU’) does not generate 
material cash flows from the remaining site production. Subsequent to this decision, value in use calculations have been prepared to 2014 
rather than in perpetuity using a discount rate of 8.7%. As a result we have impaired the carrying value of property, plant and equipment 
by £12.3 million. This impairment has resulted in a carrying value of nil for plant and equipment and £1.0 million for land and buildings. The 
relevant CGU for goodwill testing purposes is Spreads which encompases both the Crudgington and Kirkby sites. This restructure will 
result in a more efficient Spreads supply chain and Spreads goodwill has not been impaired.
In addition to the impairment of property, plant and equipment, £1.5 million of costs were incurred during the year both to complete  
the transfer of Clover manufacture from Crudgington to Kirkby and to commence the project that will result in the closure of the 
Crudgington site.
 – In February 2013 the Group announced plans to reorganise the business into a single management and operational structure from  
1 April 2013. This is replacing the divisional structures that previously existed and will lead to a more efficient and simplified organisation. 
This reorganisation has resulted in exceptional costs in the year ended 31 March 2013 of £3.5 million comprising predominantly 
redundancy costs. Further costs will be incurred in 2013/14 as the project is conmpleted.
 – In March 2013 the Group gave notice to the holders of its 2007 private placement loan notes that it would repay £100 million of principal in 
April 2013. The costs of early repayment have been accrued at 31 March 2013 as the Group was irrevocably committed to the repayment 
at that date. Costs of £8.7 million predominantly comprise make whole penalties which are calculated based on the discounted future 
coupons between repayment date and original note maturity. 
Exceptional items in the year ended 31 March 2012 comprised:
 – £5.3 million of costs associated with the rationalisation of administrative activities and other structural changes in the Dairies depot 
network. This restructuring resulted in centralisation of back office activities supporting the depot network. The majority of costs related to 
redundancies (£2.2 million) and other incremental operating costs associated with delivery of the project (£3.1 million). 
 – Trading in the Dairies segment was was adversely impacted in 2011/12 by increased costs of milk, the ongoing level of competition in the 
sector and in the second half by significant falls in the value of cream. Furthermore, volume declines in doorstep deliveries continued 
despite the growth of our milk&more business. A range of actions was taken in order to restore margins within Dairies to an acceptable 
level in the medium term and create a cost-efficient, sustainable dairies business. These included the expected closure of sites referred to 
below (subject to consultation). However, the outlook for Dairies was weaker and more uncertain than it was in 2011. This, combined with 
the volatility of assumptions in forecasting future cash flows due to the commoditised nature of the business and the competitive 
environment, led management to conclude that the total carrying amount of Dairies goodwill of £70.7 million should be impaired as it 
could not be supported on a value in use basis. This impairment reduced the carrying value of goodwill in this segment to nil. Further 
details are provided in Note 11.
Furthermore, the Group has announced a major restructuring of its Dairies operations with the expected closure of two processing sites 
at Aintree in Liverpool and Fenstanton in Cambridgeshire subject to consultation. These closures were expected to be completed in 
2012/13. As a result of the anticipated closures, the carrying value of property, plant and equipment at these sites could no longer be 
supported by a value in use calculation based upon future cash flows generated by these assets. Consequently, the carrying value of 
property, plant and equipment was impaired by £9.8 million at 31 March 2012. Further details are provided in Note 10. In addition, an 
impairment of £0.4 million was recorded against intangible assets (see Note 12) and £0.8 million of inventories of engineering spares and 
packaging were written off (see Note 15). 
At 31 March 2012, following the impairments of goodwill, property, plant and equipment and intangibles, there remained property, plant 
and equipment and intangibles with a carrying value of £161.6 million in the Dairies segment.
 – On 13 February 2012, the Group announced that a customer, Quadra Foods Limited (‘Quadra’) had gone into administration. As a result a 
bad debt provision of £4.3 million was charged representing the entire amount owing from this customer. Bad debt write-offs of this size 
are extremely rare and management considered this a one-off incident which, due to its material size, has been classified as exceptional. 
The Group previously purchased fresh milk from Farmright Limited (‘Farmright’), a member of the same group as Quadra, which also 
went into administration. In the opinion of management, set-off arrangements were agreed and in place between Dairy Crest Limited and 
Quadra/Farmright at the date of them going into administration, however this is being challenged in the administration process. Under 
IFRS, the recognition criterion threshold for a contingent asset is higher than that required for a contingent liability and therefore, although 
a provision has been recorded against amounts due from Quadra, no exceptional gain was recognised in the year ended 31 March 2012 
in relation to amounts owed to Farmright as the outcome was not yet virtually certain.
 
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   75 04/06/2013   06:06 Notes to the financial statements continued
76 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
4 Exceptional items continued
 – On 17 May 2011, the Group announced that, subject to a consultation process, production of its leading dairy spread brand, Clover, 
would be consolidated into its site in Kirkby, Liverpool. The Clover manufacturing process was split between Kirkby, Liverpool and 
Crudgington, Shropshire. This consolidation would result in approximately 90 redundancies at Crudgington and the creation of 
approximately 45 jobs at Kirkby. The consolidation would be completed in 2012/13, however exceptional costs of £2.6 million were 
incurred in the year ending 31 March 2012. These predominantly comprised redundancy costs (£1.2 million) and the impairment of 
property, plant and equipment impacted by the restructured operations (£1.0 million). This impairment reduced the carrying value of 
equipment made redundant by this processing change to management’s best estimate of its fair value less costs to sell (see Note 10).  
In addition, inventories of engineering spares of £0.2 million were written off (see Note 15) and other project costs of £0.2 million  
were incurred.
5 Finance costs and other finance income
Finance costs
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2012
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts (at amortised cost) (19.6) (20.5)
Unwind of discount on provisions (Note 23) (0.2) (0.2)
Finance charges on finance leases (0.3) (0.5)
Pre-exceptional finance costs – continuing operations (20.1) (21.2)
Finance income on cash balances (financial assets not at fair value through profit and loss) 1.4 0.1 
Pre-exceptional net finance costs – continuing operations (18.7) (21.1)
Exceptional cost of repayment of loan notes (Note 4) (8.7) – 
Total net finance costs – continuing operations (27.4) (21.1)
Other finance income – pensions
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2012
£m
Expected return on defined benefit plan assets (Note 20) 47.4 49.0 
Interest cost on defined benefit obligation (Note 20) (41.5) (43.5)
 5.9 5.5 
6 Tax expense
The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 March 2013 and 2012 are:
Consolidated income statement
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current income tax
Current income tax charge at 24% (2012: 26%) – – 
Adjustments in respect of previous years – current tax – (1.1)
  – transfer from deferred tax (2.8) (1.1)
  (2.8) (2.2)
Deferred income tax
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (1.8) (1.4)
Adjustment in respect of previous years – deferred tax 1.4 (0.4)
  – transfer to current tax 2.8 1.1 
 (0.4) (2.9)
Analysed:  Before exceptional items 11.6 10.2 
Exceptional items (12.0) (13.1)
 (0.4) (2.9) The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 77
6 Tax expense continued
Reconciliation between tax credit and the loss before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK:
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Loss before tax (0.4) (41.7)
Tax at UK statutory corporation tax rate of 24% (2012: 26%) (0.1) (10.8)
Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.4 (1.5)
Adjustment in respect of associate’s losses – 0.1 
Deferred tax adjustment for change in UK corporation tax rate (24% to 23%; 2012: 26% to 24%) (0.9) (2.6)
Non-deductible expenses 1.5 14.3 
Profits offset by available tax relief (2.3) (2.4)
 (0.4) (2.9)
The effective pre-exceptional rate of tax on Group profit before tax is 20.7% (2012: 19.5%).
The UK corporation tax rate reduced to 23% from April 2013. A further 2% reduction was proposed in the December 2012 Autumn Statement, 
taking the rate to 21% by April 2014. An additional 1% reduction was then proposed in the March 2013 Budget, taking the rate to 20% by April 
2015. 
At the balance sheet date, only the 23% rate had been substantively enacted and therefore it is only the impact of this reduction that has been 
reflected in the Group’s financial statements as at 31 March 2013. We estimate the effect of the reduction in the tax rate to 20% to be a 
reduction in the deferred tax liability of £2.2 million.
The effect on the Group of the further proposed reductions in the UK corporation tax rate will be reflected in the Group’s financial statements 
in future years, as appropriate, once the proposals have been substantively enacted. 
Consolidated other comprehensive income
2013
£m
2012
£m
Deferred income tax related to items charged to other comprehensive income
Tax relief on actuarial losses (7.8) (11.2)
Valuation of financial instruments 0.2 (0.7)
Tax credit (7.6) (11.9)
There were no income tax or deferred tax amounts charged to changes in equity in the year ended 31 March 2013 (2012: nil).
Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax at 31 March 2013 and 2012 relates to the following:
Deferred tax liability
2013
£m
2012
£m
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes (31.7) (37.4)
Goodwill and intangible assets (9.2) (55.4)
 (40.9) (92.8)
 
Deferred tax asset    
Government grants 3.0 1.8 
Share based payments 0.1 0.4 
Pensions 17.1 15.8 
Financial instruments valuation 0.2 0.3 
Other 5.9 5.1 
 26.3 23.4 
 
Net deferred tax liability (14.6) (69.4)
The Company has a deferred tax asset of £0.4 million at 31 March 2013 (2012: £0.7 million asset). This relates to temporary differences in 
respect of financial instruments valuations.
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   77 04/06/2013   17:40 Notes to the financial statements continued
78 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
6 Tax expense continued 
The movement on the net deferred tax balance is shown below:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Opening net deferred tax liability (69.4) (86.3)
(Charge)/credit to income statement (2.4) 3.3 
Credit to other comprehensive income 7.6 11.9 
Disposal/(acquisition) of businesses 47.3 (1.6)
Exchange impact 2.3 3.3 
Closing net deferred tax liability (14.6) (69.4)
The movement on the deferred tax liability is shown below:
Deferred tax asset/(liability)
 
Goodwill and
intangible
assets
£m
Pensions
£m
Accelerated
tax
depreciation
£m
Other
timing
differences
£m
Total
£m
Balances at 31 March 2012 (55.4) 15.8 (37.4) 7.6 (69.4)
(Charge)/credit to income statement: continuing operations (0.9) (6.5) 3.2 1.8 (2.4)
Credit/(charge) to other comprehensive income – 7.8  – (0.2) 7.6 
Disposal of businesses 44.8  – 2.5  – 47.3 
Exchange impact 2.3  –  –  – 2.3 
Balances at 31 March 2013 (9.2) 17.1 (31.7) 9.2 (14.6)
Balances at 31 March 2011 (63.4) 15.6 (41.3) 2.8 (86.3)
Credit/(charge) to income statement: continuing operations 6.3 (11.0) 3.9 4.1 3.3 
Credit to other comprehensive income – 11.2  – 0.7 11.9 
Acquisition of businesses (1.5) – (0.1) – (1.6)
Exchange impact 3.2  – 0.1  – 3.3 
Balances at 31 March 2012 (55.4) 15.8 (37.4) 7.6 (69.4)
The Group has capital losses which arose in the UK of £56.3 million (2012: £63.8 million) that are available indefinitely for offset against future 
taxable gains. Deferred tax has not been recognised in respect of these losses as there is no foreseeable prospect of their being utilised. The 
Group has realised capital gains amounting to £36.9 million (2012: £39.7 million) for which rollover relief claims have been or are intended to  
be made.
7 Dividends paid and proposed
Declared and paid during the year
2013
£m
2012
£m
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2012: 14.7 pence (2011: 14.2 pence) 19.6 18.9 
Interim dividend for 2013: 5.7 pence (2012: 5.7 pence) 7.8 7.6 
 27.4 26.5 
 
Proposed for approval at AGM (not recognised as a liability at 31 March)    
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2013: 15.0 pence (2012: 14.7 pence) 20.5 19.6  The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 79
8 Earnings per share
Basic earnings/losses per share (‘EPS’) on profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations is calculated by dividing profit/(loss) from 
continuing operations by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. 
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the profit/(loss) from continuing operations by the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive 
potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. Note that in the circumstances where there is a basic loss per share, share options are 
anti-dilutive and therefore are not included in the calculation of diluted losses per share.
The shares held by the Dairy Crest Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (‘ESOP’) are excluded from the weighted average number of 
shares in issue used in the calculation of earnings and diluted earnings per share.
To show earnings per share on a consistent basis, which in the Directors’ opinion reflects the ongoing performance of the business more 
appropriately, adjusted earnings per share has been calculated. The computation for basic and diluted earnings per share (including adjusted 
earnings per share) is as follows:
Year ended 31 March 2013 Year ended 31 March 2012
 
Earnings
£m
Weighted
average
no of 
shares
million
Per share
amount
pence
Earnings
£m
Weighted
average
no of
shares
million
Per share
amount
pence
Basic EPS from continuing operations  –   134.7   –  (38.8)  133.2   (29.1)
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 1.9  –  –  –  – 
Diluted EPS from continuing operations –   136.6   – (38.8)  133.2   (29.1)
Adjusted EPS from continuing operations
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations – 134.7  – (38.8) 133.2 (29.1)
Exceptional items (net of tax) 44.5  – 33.0 80.8  – 60.7 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (net of tax) 0.3  – 0.2 0.6  – 0.4 
Pension interest income (net of tax) (4.5) – (3.3) (4.1) – (3.1)
Adjusted basic EPS from continuing operations 40.3   134.7   29.9 38.5   133.2   28.9 
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 1.9 (0.4) – 2.5 (0.5)
Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations 40.3   136.6   29.5 38.5   135.7   28.4 
 
Basic EPS from discontinued operations 54.5   134.7   40.5 21.7   133.2   16.3
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 1.9 (0.6) – 2.5 (0.3)
Diluted EPS from discontinued operations 54.5   136.6   39.9 21.7   135.7   16.0
 
Basic EPS on profit/(loss) for the year 54.5   134.7   40.5 (17.1)  133.2   (12.8)
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 1.9 (0.6) –  – – 
Diluted EPS on profit/(loss) for the year 54.5   136.6   39.9 (17.1)  133.2   (12.8)
There have been no transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of signing of 
these financial statements.
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   79 04/06/2013   11:19 Notes to the financial statements continued
80 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
9 Remuneration of employees and key management personnel
Number of employees (continuing operations) – Group
Year ended
31 March 
2013
number
Year ended
31 March 
2012
number
Average number of employees:
Production 2,036 2,221 
Sales, distribution and administration 3,247 3,757 
Total employees 5,283 5,978 
 
Remuneration of employees, including key management personnel (continuing operations)
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2012
£m
Wages and salaries 176.5 189.5 
Social security costs 17.2 19.0 
Equity settled share based payments expense (Note 26) 1.9 2.4 
Pension costs (Note 20) 7.1 7.9 
  202.7 218.8 
The above costs are from continuing operations and include amounts paid to the Company’s Executive and Non-executive Directors. 
Further analysis is as follows:
Directors
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£000
Year ended
31 March 
2012
£000
Salaries and benefits 1,528 1,515 
Bonuses 613 598 
Fees to non-executive directors 331 343 
Emoluments 2,472 2,456 
Employer payments to defined contribution pension scheme 31 18 
Gain on exercise of sharesave options 15  – 
Highest paid director
Salary and benefits 656 648 
Bonus 272 259 
Emoluments 928 907 
Employer payments to defined contribution pension scheme 9 9 
Gain on exercise of sharesave options 5  – 
Further information relating to directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2013 is provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 41 to 52.
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   80 04/06/2013   06:47 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 81
10 Property, plant and equipment
Consolidated 2013
Land and
buildings
£m
Vehicles,
plant and
equipment
£m
Assets in
the course of 
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2012 192.6 303.0 29.0 524.6 
Additions 3.5 18.0 21.3 42.8 
Acquisition of businesses – 0.5  – 0.5 
Disposals (4.2) (22.8) (0.5) (27.5)
Disposal of St Hubert (8.7) (15.7) (1.2) (25.6)
Transfers and reclassifications 0.6 24.3 (24.9) – 
Exchange (0.4) (0.8) (0.1) (1.3)
At 31 March 2013 183.4 306.5 23.6 513.5 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2012 64.8 176.9  – 241.7 
Charge for the year 5.9 23.1  – 29.0 
Asset impairments 1.4 12.3  – 13.7 
Disposals (2.3) (22.8) – (25.1)
Disposal of St Hubert (5.2) (10.1) (15.3)
Exchange (0.2) (0.6) – (0.8)
At 31 March 2013 64.4 178.8  – 243.2 
Net book amount at 31 March 2013 119.0 127.7 23.6 270.3 
 
Consolidated 2012    
Cost
At 1 April 2011 187.9 285.3 22.2 495.4 
Additions 4.6 16.0 27.5 48.1 
Acquisition of businesses 0.1 0.4  – 0.5 
Disposals (2.5) (10.5) (5.0) (18.0)
Transfers and reclassifications 3.1 12.6 (15.7) – 
Exchange (0.6) (0.8) – (1.4)
At 31 March 2012 192.6 303.0 29.0 524.6 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2011 57.8 153.3  – 211.1 
Charge for the year 6.9 24.0  – 30.9 
Asset impairments 2.1 8.7  – 10.8 
Disposals (1.7) (8.5) – (10.2)
Exchange (0.3) (0.6) – (0.9)
At 31 March 2012 64.8 176.9  – 241.7 
Net book amount at 31 March 2012 127.8 126.1 29.0 282.9 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment relating to the discontinued St Hubert business, included in the table above amounted to £0.8 
million in the year ended 31 March 2013 (2012: £1.7 million).
2012/13
Following the decision in 2011 to transfer all Clover manufacture from Crudgington, Shropshire to Kirkby, Liverpool, in September 2012 the 
Group announced plans to consolidate all spreads production into a single UK location at its site in Kirkby. Subject to consultation, this 
decision will result in the closure of the site at Crudgington in 2014. As a result of this decision £11.4 million of plant and equipment at the sites 
have been impaired to nil net book value (representing management’s best estimate of resale value net of costs of sale). In addition, the land 
and buildings at Crudgington were impaired by £0.9 million. See Note 4.
The culmination of the centralisation of administrative activity in the Dairies depot network along with the closures of milk processing sites at 
Fenstanton, Cambridgeshire and Aintree, Liverpool resulted in impairments of £0.5 million to land and buildings and £0.9 million to plant and 
equipment. See Note 4.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment within each cash generating unit (‘CGU’) is reviewed for impairment when events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. With regard to the Dairies CGU, goodwill was fully impaired  Notes to the financial statements continued
82 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
10 Property, plant and equipment continued
in 2011/12 however given the low margins in this business and large movements in milk input costs during 2012/13, the carrying value of 
property, plant and equipment within this CGU has been reviewed along with its value in use. The impairment methodology and key inputs are 
as set out in Note 11. The discount rate applied to the value in use calculation was 8.7% and cash flows are forecast to year five with no 
growth assumed thereafter. The impairment review has not indicated any required write down of the carrying value of property, plant and 
equipment in the year ended 31 March 2013, however management believes that there are changes in key assumptions that could result in 
impairments. The key assumptions are discount rates and margins. A 1.0% increase in the discount rate applied, with all other assumptions 
unchanged, would result in a carrying amount equal to value in use. A margin of 2% versus the assumption of 2.5% in perpetuity from year five 
with all other assumptions unchanged, would result in a carrying value equal to value in use.
2011/12
Following the decision to close, subject to consultation, two Dairies processing sites at Fenstanton, Cambridgeshire and Aintree, Liverpool in 
2012/13, the assets within these cash generating units and other assets in the Dairies supply chain were reviewed for evidence of impairment. 
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment at these sites and certain plant and equipment at our site in Foston, Derbyshire could no 
longer be supported by value in use and an impairment was recorded to reduce the carrying value to management’s best estimate of fair 
value less costs to sell. Land and buildings at Aintree and Fenstanton were impaired by £2.1 million resulting in a carrying value of £4.5 million 
reflecting the best estimate of resale value of these sites, both of which were owned. Plant and equipment at Aintree, Fenstanton and Foston 
were impaired by £7.7 million resulting in a carrying value of £0.2 million reflecting the best estimate of resale value less costs of sale or 
disposal at that time. All of these impairments were recorded as exceptional items in the Dairies segment (see Note 4). At 31 March 2012, there 
remained property, plant and equipment with a carrying value of £142.1 million in the Dairies segment after these impairments.
Following the decision in 2011 to transfer all Clover manufacture from Crudgington, Shropshire to Kirkby, Liverpool certain assets at Kirkby 
became obsolete as future plans for the utilisation of these assets had changed. Obsolete assets with a carrying value of £1.0 million were 
identified and these assets were impaired to nil value reflecting management’s best view as to their fair value less costs of removal and sale. 
This impairment was recorded as an exceptional item in the Spreads segment (see Note 4).
Capitalised leases included in vehicles, plant and equipment comprise:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cost 32.1 32.2 
Accumulated depreciation (22.9) (21.5)
Net book amount 9.2 10.7 
11 Goodwill
 £m
Cost
At 31 March 2011 337.8 
Additions (Note 29) 6.7 
Exchange (11.5)
At 31 March 2012 333.0 
Disposal (Note 29) (176.4)
Exchange (9.3)
At 31 March 2013 147.3 
Accumulated impairment
At 31 March 2011 (2.3)
Impairments in year ended 31 March 2012 (Dairies) (70.7)
At 31 March 2012 (73.0)
At 31 March 2013 (73.0)
Net book amount at 31 March 2013 74.3 
Net book amount at 31 March 2012 260.0 
Impairment testing of goodwill
Acquired goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to four groups of cash generating units (‘CGUs’): Dairies, Spreads, MH 
Foods and Cheese. At March 2012 goodwill in relation to the Dairies CGU was fully impaired and the carrying value of goodwill for this CGU at 
31 March 2013 is nil.
All groups of CGUs with goodwill are tested for impairment annually by comparing the carrying amount of that CGU with its recoverable 
amount. Recoverable amount is determined based on a value-in-use calculation using cash flow projections based on financial budgets and 
strategic plans approved by senior management covering a three-year period and appropriate growth rates beyond that other than for Dairies 
where a five-year period was forecast with appropriate growth rates beyond that. The discount rate applied to the projections is 8.7% for 
Spreads, MH Foods and Cheese (2012: 8.4% and Dairies 9.4%).
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   82 04/06/2013   17:46 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 83
11 Goodwill continued
Discount rates are pre-tax and calculated by reference to average industry gearing levels, the cost of debt and the cost of equity based on the 
capital asset pricing model and CGU-specific risk factors. Discount rates have not changed significantly since March 2012.
The growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period for Spreads, MH Foods and Cheese is 2.0% per annum (being 
the estimated UK long-term growth rate adjusted for industry growth rates and extrapolation risks) (2012: 2.0% per annum beyond year three). 
The growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond a five-year period for the Dairies CGU was 0% at March 2012 with cash flows in the 
first five years being based on extended strategic plans for that business.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to groups of CGUs at 31 March 2013 is:
Dairies Nil (2012: nil)
MH Foods £6.7 million (2012: £6.7 million)
Spreads £65.5 million (2012: £65.5 million)
St Hubert n/a (2012: £185.7 million)
Cheese £2.1 million (2012: £2.1 million)
Gross margin – budgeted gross margins are based initially on actual margins achieved in the preceding year further adjusted for projected 
input and output price changes, volume changes, initiatives implemented and associated efficiency improvements. The budgeted margins 
form the basis for strategic plans, which incorporate longer-term market trends. 
Discount rates – reflect management’s estimate of the risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital for each CGU.
Raw materials prices – budgets are prepared using the most up to date price and forecast price data available. This is based on forward 
prices in the market place adjusted for any contracted prices at the time of forecast. The key resources are milk, vegetable oils, fuel oil, diesel, 
gas and electricity and packaging costs.
Growth rate estimates – for periods beyond the length of the strategic plans, growth estimates are based upon published industry research 
adjusted downwards to reflect the risk of extrapolating growth beyond a three year time frame. For the residential business, long-term rates of 
market decline as seen over recent years have been extrapolated forward offset by growth assumptions for milk&more, FRijj and the liquid 
milk business.
The Directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each CGU where appropriate and to be 
realistically achievable in the light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
2012/13
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
With regard to the assessment of value in use of the UK Spreads, MH Foods and Cheese CGUs, management believes that no reasonably 
possible change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of those units to exceed their recoverable amount. 
2011/12
Dairies CGU – impairment of goodwill
Dairies margins were impacted in 2011/12 by a number of factors including higher input costs, falling realisations for cream (a by-product of 
milk production), the ongoing decline of residential sales and high levels of competition in the sector. Furthermore, weak UK consumer 
demand and a very competitive landscape had adversely impacted the Group’s expectations regarding the speed of recovery in future Dairies 
margins. In 2011 we highlighted that changes in key assumptions could cause the carrying value of the then Liquid Products and Customer 
Direct CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount. As described in Note 4, management has taken action to close certain sites in order to 
underpin factory utilisation and improve operating efficiencies. This combined with other activities will, in the opinion of management, restore 
margins to an acceptable level in the medium term. However, the outlook is significantly weaker than it was in 2011 and margin recovery will 
take longer than previously anticipated. Given the inherent uncertainties of cash flow forecasts in what is a predominantly commodity business 
in a competitive sector especially given the sensitivity of low absolute margins, management has concluded that it is appropriate to fully impair 
the carrying amount of Dairies goodwill as there is no assurance that it can be supported on a value in use basis, excluding the impact of 
restructuring activities. 
Therefore, management has concluded that it is appropriate to fully impair the carrying value of Dairies goodwill resulting in an exceptional 
charge of £70.7 million recorded in the year ended 31 March 2012. After fully impairing goodwill and impairing certain other property, plant, 
equipment and intangible assets, the remaining carrying value of these items at 31 March 2012 was £161.6 million. As goodwill has been fully 
impaired, there is no headroom and any future adverse change in key assumptions would lead to further impairment against these assets. 
There are changes in key assumptions in the calculation of Dairies CGU value in use that could result in further impairments. The key 
assumptions are discount rates and annual cash flows. A 1% increase in the discount rate applied, with all other assumptions unchanged, 
would result in a further impairment of approximately £20 million. A reduction in cash flows of £2 million per annum in perpetuity, representing 
approximately 2% margin, with all other assumptions unchanged, would result in a further impairment of £22 million.
Other CGUs – Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
With regard to the assessment of value in use of the UK Spreads, St Hubert, MH Foods and Cheese CGUs, management believes that no 
reasonably possible change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount. Notes to the financial statements continued
84 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
12 Intangible assets
 
Assets in
the course of 
construction
£m
Internally
generated
£m
Acquired
intangibles
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 31 March 2011 5.4 24.5 197.0 226.9 
Additions 6.4 0.2  – 6.6 
Acquisitions –  – 6.0 6.0 
Transfers and reclassifications (2.0) 2.0  –  – 
Exchange –  – (11.8) (11.8)
At 31 March 2012 9.8 26.7 191.2 227.7 
Additions 5.7  –  – 5.7 
Disposal – (7.2) (173.5) (180.7)
Transfers and reclassifications (7.2) 7.2  –  – 
Exchange – (0.4) (9.0) (9.4)
At 31 March 2013 8.3 26.3 8.7 43.3 
Accumulated amortisation
At 31 March 2011 – 9.8 37.3 47.1 
Impairments – 0.4  – 0.4 
Amortisation for the year – 3.2 9.1 12.3 
Exchange –  – (2.6) (2.6)
At 31 March 2012 – 13.4 43.8 57.2 
Disposal  – (6.8) (42.4) (49.2)
Amortisation for the year – 3.4 3.4 6.8 
Impairments –  – 0.2 0.2 
Exchange – (0.3) (1.9) (2.2)
At 31 March 2013 – 9.7 3.1 12.8 
Net book amount at 31 March 2013 8.3 16.6 5.6 30.5 
Net book amount at 31 March 2012 9.8 13.3 147.4 170.5 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets relating to the discontinued St Hubert business, included in the table above amounted to  
£3.0 million in the year ended 31 March 2013 (2012: £8.3 million).
Internally generated intangible assets comprise software development and implementation costs across manufacturing sites, the milk&more 
business and Head Office. Acquired intangibles comprise predominantly brands acquired with the acquisition of businesses. The largest 
component within acquired intangibles is the ‘Frylight’ brand acquired with the acquisition of Morehands Limited (MH Foods) in June 2011.  
A useful life of 15 years has been assumed for this brand. 
The remaining useful lives at 31 March 2013 for significant intangible assets are as follows:
Acquired Frylight brand:     13 years
The carrying value of the Frylight brand at 31 March 2013 is £5.3 million (2012: £5.7 million).
2013
Disposal in the year relates to the sale of St Hubert – see Note 29.
2012
Additions in the year relate to the acquisition of Morehands Limited (see above and Note 29) and computer software development for the UK 
Group.
Following the decision to close, subject to consultation, two Dairies sites, certain capitalised software development costs have been impaired 
by £0.4 million (see also Note 4 and Note 10).
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   84 04/06/2013   06:57 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 85
13 Investments
Group
During the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group acquired 7% of the share capital of HIECO Limited for a consideration of £0.3 million.
Company
Share grants 
awarded
in subsidiaries
£m
Shares in
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2011 9.7 468.1 477.8 
Share based payment charge in subsidiary companies 1.7  – 1.7 
At 31 March 2012 11.4 468.1 479.5 
Share based payment charge in subsidiary companies 1.4  – 1.4 
At 31 March 2013 12.8 468.1 480.9 
Shares in subsidiary undertakings comprise an investment in Dairy Crest Limited of £239.2 million and an investment of £228.9 million in Dairy 
Crest UK Limited.
Share grants awarded in subsidiaries represents the cumulative cost of the Company’s grant of equity instruments, under share based 
payment awards, to employees of subsidiary undertakings. 
At 31 March 2013 the principal subsidiary undertakings and other associates were:
 Business 
Percentage of
ordinary share
capital held
Subsidiary undertakings and associates: 
Dairy Crest Limited Manufacture of dairy products 100%
Philpot Dairy Products Limited* Trading in dairy products 100%
Fayrefield Foodtec Limited* Manufacture and trading in dairy products and ingredients 100%
Morehands Limited* Manufacture of cooking oils 100%
Wexford Creamery Limited Manufacture of dairy products 30%
* Investments are held by Dairy Crest Limited
The principal place of operation and country of incorporation of all subsidiary undertakings and associates is England and Wales except for 
Wexford Creamery Limited which is in Ireland.
14 Investment in associates and joint ventures using equity method
The investment in associates using the equity method at 31 March 2013 is represented predominantly by a 20% interest in Wexford Creamery 
Limited (‘WCL ’) which is involved in the manufacture of cheese in the Republic of Ireland. Following the sale of 50% of the ordinary shares of 
WCL in June 2010, the Group equity accounts for a 20% shareholding in that company. The Group holds a further 10% of the issued share 
capital of WCL however, due to the existence of fixed-price put and call options in relation to this additional holding, it is considered deferred 
consideration and is not equity accounted.
The share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of associates at 31 March and for the years then ended, which are equity accounted 
for in the consolidated financial statements, are as follows:
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current assets 1.7 2.3 
Current liabilities (1.2) (1.5)
Non-current liabilities – (0.3)
  (1.2) (1.8)
Share of net assets 0.5 0.5 
 
Revenue 10.3 14.4 
Operating costs (10.3) (14.6)
Finance costs – (0.1)
Loss before tax – (0.3)
Tax expense –  – 
Share of net loss – (0.3) Notes to the financial statements continued
86 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
15 Inventories
  Consolidated
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Raw materials and consumables 33.2 35.8 
Finished goods 175.0 152.0 
  208.2 187.8 
Cheese inventories at 31 March 2013 totalled £155.5 million (2012: £129.8 million).
During the year ended 31 March 2013, £1.2 million of engineering and packaging inventories were written off comprising £1.0 million of 
inventories in Dairies and £0.2 million of inventories in Spreads. These write offs were necessitated by the closure of two Dairies sites and the 
consolidation of Clover manufacture into one site. See also Note 4.
In April 2013 the Group granted the Trustee of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund a floating charge over maturing cheese inventories with a 
maximum realisable value of £60 million.
16 Trade and other receivables
 Consolidated Parent Company
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Trade receivables 83.3 115.2  –  – 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings –  – 169.3 218.8 
Other receivables 10.6 10.7 1.4 1.0 
Prepayments and accrued income 4.9 5.6  –  – 
  98.8 131.5 170.7 219.8 
All amounts above, with the exception of prepayments and accrued income, are financial assets.
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
 
Consolidated
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Sterling 79.9 98.5 
Euro 0.6 15.0 
Dollars 2.8 1.7 
  83.3 115.2 
There are no material concentrations of credit risk.
Trade receivables are non interest bearing and are generally on 30–90 days’ terms and are shown net of a provision for impairment. 
As at 31 March 2013, trade receivables at nominal value of £7.0 million (2012: £8.3 million) were impaired and provided for. Movements in the 
provision for impairment of receivables were as follows:
Consolidated
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
At 1 April 8.3 5.3 
Charge for the year – operating 0.9 1.1 
Charge for the year – operating (exceptional – see Note 4) – 4.3 
Amounts written off (2.2) (2.4)
At 31 March 7.0 8.3 
Bad debt provisions are principally in the Dairies residential and mid sized commercial channels on debt over 90 days. These businesses sell 
product on the doorstep and to middle ground and foodservice customers. The Group has no history of bad debt with regard to sales to large 
multiple retailers. There were no impairment provisions on any other class of receivables at 31 March 2013 or 2012.
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   86 04/06/2013   17:57 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 87
16 Trade and other receivables continued
At 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Past due, not impaired
 
Total
£m
Neither past
due nor 
impaired
£m
30 – 60 days
£m
60 – 90 days
£m
> 90 days
£m
31 March 2013 83.3 72.1 6.7 3.0 1.5 
31 March 2012 115.2 103.3 9.4 2.5  – 
The credit quality of trade receivables is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where available, otherwise historical information 
relating to counterparty default rates is used.
17 Financial assets
Derivative financial instruments
Consolidated
 
Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 9.6  – 
Forward currency contracts (cash flow hedges) 31 – 0.3 
    9.6 0.3 
Non-current
Option to sell 20% holding in Wexford Creamery Limited 31 1.6 1.6 
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 31 12.9 15.0 
    14.5 16.6 
 
Company
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 31 9.6  – 
Non-current
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 31 12.9 15.0 
All derivative financial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all, with the exception of the option to sell a 20% holding in 
Wexford Creamery Limited (‘WCL ’), comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based 
on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
The WCL options comprise call and put options over 20% of the company for a price of €3.6 million adjusted for 20% of WCL ’s post-tax 
profits/losses from June 2010 until the date of exercise. This comprises a Level 3 valuation, namely that it is not based on inputs observable 
directly or indirectly. Management has valued this option by comparing the current equity accounted carrying value of the 20% holding with 
the estimated present value of consideration received from the exercise of the option. The difference between these amounts comprises the 
option value of £1.6 million at 31 March 2013. The principal input assumptions in valuing these options are (i) estimated future profits of WCL 
which have been based upon best available budgets and forecasts (ii) an appropriate post-tax discount rate of 6% and (iii) an option exercise 
date of 2018. Over the period until exercise of these options, any movement in the fair value of these instruments is charged/credited to the 
income statement. 
There has been no material movement in the fair value of the WCL options between recognition in June 2010 and 31 March 2013.
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   87 04/06/2013   17:52 Notes to the financial statements continued
88 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
18 Cash and short-term deposits
Consolidated Parent Company
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cash and short-term deposits 276.1 79.4 14.8  – 
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. 
Following the sale of St Hubert, significant amounts of cash were placed on deposit resulting in concentrations of credit until the repayment of 
loan notes and the one-off contribution to the pension scheme in April 2013. Counterparty risk and the Group’s policy for managing deposits 
are described in Note 30.
19 Financial Liabilities
Group Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current
Obligations under finance leases 31 2.4 2.7 
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 165.7  – 
Debt issuance costs   (0.6) (0.7)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 167.5 2.0 
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 2.2  – 
Forward currency contracts (at fair value: cash flow hedge) 31 0.1  – 
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments   2.3  – 
Current financial liabilities   169.8 2.0 
Non-current
Obligations under finance leases 31 3.1 4.5 
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 31 182.4 345.5 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) 31  – 71.7 
Debt issuance costs   (1.2) (2.0)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 184.3 419.7 
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 3.9 8.7 
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments   3.9 8.7 
Non-current financial liabilities   188.2 428.4 
All derivative financial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 7: 
Financial Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   88 04/06/2013   07:00 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 89
19 Financial Liabilities continued
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows:
 
 Maturity
2013
£m
Effective
Interest rate
at March 2013
2012
£m
Effective
Interest rate
at March 2012
Current  
Loan notes
US$ swapped into £ April 2013 68.7 5.32% –  – 
Euro April 2014 (repaid April 2013) 21.0 4.74% –  – 
Euro April 2017 (repaid April 2013) 23.2 4.85% –  – 
Euro swapped into £ April 2014 (repaid April 2013) 45.6 5.04% –  – 
Sterling April 2017 (repaid April 2013) 7.2 5.84% –  – 
Finance leases 2.4 5.18% 2.7 5.18%
Debt issuance costs   (0.6) (0.7)
   167.5 2.0 
Non-current  
Multi-currency revolving credit facilities:
Euro floating October 2016 – – 61.7 EURIBOR + 135bps
Sterling floating October 2016 – – 10.0 LIBOR + 135bps
Loan notes:
US$ swapped into £ April 2013 – – 68.1 5.32%
US$ swapped into £ April 2016 81.0 5.31% 78.8 5.31%
Sterling April 2016 10.0 5.27% 10.0 5.27%
Euro April 2014 8.2 4.74% 29.8 4.74%
Euro April 2017 9.0 4.85% 32.7 4.85%
Euro swapped into £ April 2014 17.8 5.04% 62.5 5.04%
Sterling April 2017 2.8 5.84% 10.0 5.84%
US$ swapped into £ November 2018 16.5 3.87% 15.8 3.87%
US$ swapped into £ November 2021 37.1 4.52% 37.8 4.52%
Finance Leases 3.1 5.18% 4.5 5.18%
Debt issuance costs   (1.2) (2.0)
    184.3 419.7 
On 2 November 2012, following the disposal of St Hubert, the Group repaid £7.5 million of loan notes at par comprising: $5.6 million (£3.2 
million) of 2006 notes, €2.4 million (£2.0 million) of 2007 notes and $3.7 million (£2.3 million) of 2011 notes. 
In March 2013, the Group gave irrevocable notice to holders of the loan notes maturing in 2014 and 2017, that 72% of the principal plus any 
make whole penalties would be repaid in April 2013. Those notes repaid in April have therefore been classified as current liabilities at 31 March 
2013, along with any cross currency swaps that were designated as cash flow hedges against those notes. Furthermore, in March 2013, £0.3 
million of unamortised debt issuance costs were written off representing approximately one sixth of the unamortised amount. This write down 
resulted from a proportionate reduction in the revolving credit facility that was completed in April 2013. See Note 34.
On 12 October 2011, the Group entered into a new five year revolving credit facility of £170 million plus €150 million with a syndicate of five 
banks. The existing £100 million and £85 million plus €175 million revolving credit facilities (maturing in November 2011 and July 2013 
respectively) were cancelled and repaid on 19 October 2011 using funds drawn under the new facility. Upfront debt issuance costs amounted 
to £3.0 million and these are charged to the consolidated income statement over four years being the expected life of the new facility before it 
is replaced. Unamortised debt issuance costs at 31 March 2013 amounted to £1.8 million (2012: £2.7 million) of which £0.6 million (2012: £0.7 
million) will amortise within 12 months.
The Group raised $85 million (£54.5 million) by way of a debt private placement with US investors on 30 November 2011. These notes were a 
mix of seven-year ($25 million) and ten-year ($60 million) maturities. All principal and interest cash flows have been swapped into Sterling at an 
exchange rate of 1.56 and interest rates of 3.87% and 4.52% on the seven and ten year notes respectively. 
The Group is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities which, if contravened, would result in its loans becoming 
immediately repayable. These covenants specify a maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio of 3.5 times, and minimum interest cover ratio of 3.0 
times. No covenants were contravened in the year ended 31 March 2013 (2012: None). Key covenants under the 2011 revolving credit facility 
and debt private placement were unchanged from existing covenants.
Details of the Group’s interest rate management strategy and interest rate swaps are included in notes 30 and 31. Notes to the financial statements continued
90 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
19 Financial Liabilities continued
Company
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 165.7  – 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 165.7  – 
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 2.2  – 
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments 2.2  – 
Current financial liabilities 167.9  – 
Non-current
Loan notes (at amortised cost) 182.4 345.5 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) – 61.7 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 182.4 407.2 
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 3.9 8.7 
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments 3.9 8.7 
Non-current financial liabilities 186.3 415.9 
All derivative financial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise Level 2 valuations under IFRS 7: 
Financial Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows:
 
 Maturity
2013
£m
Effective
Interest rate
at March 2013
2012
£m
Effective
Interest rate
at March 2012
Current  
Loan notes
US$ swapped into £ April 2013 68.7 5.32% –  – 
Euro April 2014 (repaid April 2013) 21.0 4.74% –  – 
Euro April 2017 (repaid April 2013) 23.2 4.85% –  – 
Euro swapped into £ April 2014 (repaid April 2013) 45.6 5.04% –  – 
Sterling April 2017 (repaid April 2013) 7.2 5.84% –  – 
  165.7  – 
Non–current  
Multi-currency revolving credit facilities:
Euro floating October 2016 – – 61.7 EURIBOR + 135bps
Loan notes:
US$ swapped into £ April 2013 – – 68.1 5.32%
US$ swapped into £ April 2016 81.0 5.31% 78.8 5.31%
Sterling April 2016 10.0 5.27% 10.0 5.27%
Euro April 2014 8.2 4.74% 29.8 4.74%
Euro April 2017 9.0 4.85% 32.7 4.85%
Euro swapped into £ April 2014 17.8 5.04% 62.5 5.04%
Sterling April 2017 2.8 5.84% 10.0 5.84%
US$ swapped into £ November 2018 16.5 3.87% 15.8 3.87%
US$ swapped into £ November 2021 37.1 4.52% 37.8 4.52%
   182.4 407.2 
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   90 04/06/2013   17:54 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 91
20  Retirement benefit obligations
The Group has one defined benefit pension scheme in the UK which was closed to future service accrual from 1 April 2010. This pension 
scheme is a final salary scheme that had previously been closed to new employees joining after 30 June 2006. Employees joining after this 
date and those members of the defined benefit pension scheme on its closure to future service accrual were invited to join the Dairy Crest 
Group defined contribution plan. 
The most recent full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund was carried out as at 31 March 2010 by the fund’s independent 
actuary using the projected unit credit method. Full actuarial valuations are carried out triennially. This valuation resulted in a deficit of £137 
million compared to the IAS19 deficit of £142.4 million reported at that date. The next full actuarial valuation will be carried out in 2013/14 on 
the 31 March 2013 position. 
The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the consolidated income statement and the funded 
status and amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet for the defined benefit pension scheme.
Dairy Crest Group
Pension Fund
Net benefit income recognised in the consolidated income statement
2013
£m
2012
£m
Gain on settlement (see below) – (0.3)
Interest cost on benefit obligation 41.5 43.5 
Expected return on scheme assets (47.4) (49.0)
Net benefit income (5.9) (5.8)
 
Net actuarial loss recognised in other comprehensive income    
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 69.4 21.9 
Experience gains/(losses) arising on scheme liabilities 0.8 (6.5)
Loss arising from changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities (72.8) (61.6)
Net actuarial loss (2.6) (46.2)
Recognition of liability for unrecoverable notional surplus (10.9) – 
Recognised in other comprehensive income (13.5) (46.2)
Related tax 7.8 11.2 
Net actuarial loss recognised in other comprehensive income (5.7) (35.0)
Actual returns on plan assets were £116.8 million (2012: £70.9 million).
Defined benefit obligation
Fair value of scheme assets: – Equities 84.3 72.7 
– Bonds and cash 393.4 293.2 
– Equity return swaps valuation 42.9 61.8 
– Property and other 62.5 58.8 
– Insured retirement obligations 286.3 279.6 
869.4 766.1 
Defined benefit obligation: – Uninsured retirement obligations (639.4) (566.3)
– Insured retirement obligations (286.3) (279.6)
Total defined benefit obligation (925.7) (845.9)
Recognition of liability for unrecoverable notional surplus (10.9) – 
(936.6) (845.9)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (67.2) (79.8)
Related deferred tax asset 17.1 15.8 
Net pension liability (50.1) (64.0)
From October 2009, the Group has been making additional funding contributions to the scheme of £20 million per annum. The level of cash 
contributions will continue at this level until March 2018 based on the latest schedule of contributions which was signed in June 2011. However 
a new schedule of contributions will be agreed with the Trustee following the next full actuarial review at 31 March 2013. The £20 million per 
annum amount includes £2.8 million per annum of rental payments for land and buildings that are subject to a sale and leaseback agreement 
between the Group and the scheme as part of the final schedule of contributions. The land and buildings included in these arrangements are 
subject to long term leases and the Group will continue to benefit from substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership. On this basis, 
under IFRS, these land and buildings continue to be recognised in property, plant and equipment and rental payments of £2.8 million per 
annum are treated as cash contributions, reflecting the substance of the arrangements.
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   91 04/06/2013   17:55 Notes to the financial statements continued
92 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
20  Retirement benefit obligations continued
The Group is entitled to any surplus on winding up of the pension scheme albeit refunds are subject to tax deductions of 35% at source. 
Based on the present value of committed cash contributions at 31 March 2013 and the IAS 19 valuation at that date of £56.3 million,  
£10.9 million would be deducted from any notional surplus returned to the Group and this has been recognised as an additional liability in 
accordance with IFRIC 14. However, it should be noted that cash contributions are determined by reference to the triennial actuarial valuation, 
not the IAS 19 valuation. The actuarial deficit is greater than that recognised under IAS 19 since liabilities are discounted at gilt yields rather 
than high quality corporate bond yields.
In December 2008, certain obligations relating to retired members were hedged by the purchase of an insurance contract. A further insurance 
contract for retired members was purchased in June 2009 resulting in coverage for all members who retired up to August 2008. These 
contracts are included within scheme assets and their value will always be equal to the obligation as calculated under IAS 19 for those 
members covered.
The purchase of the second insurance contract in June 2009 was funded by the sale of equities. Subsequently, in order to re-establish an 
appropriate equity weighting of scheme assets, the Fund purchased equity total return swaps (synthetic equity). These instruments comprise 
an asset leg and a liability leg. The asset leg generates a return based on UK and overseas equity indices and the liability leg incurs a cost 
based on LIBOR plus margin. Credit risk is minimised since collateral is provided by the counterparties to the benefit of the Fund when the 
instruments are in the money. At 31 March 2013, the valuation of the above comprises a positive equity exposure of £276.8 million and a 
negative LIBOR exposure of £233.9 million (2012: equity exposure of £226.4 million and LIBOR exposure of £164.6 million).
An Enhanced Transfer Value (‘ETV’) exercise took place during the year ended 31 March 2012 which resulted in approximately 220 members 
transferring a total of £14.3 million in ETVs out of the Fund. The net gain as a result of this settlement of £0.3 million represents the difference 
between the £14.3 million transferred out and the corresponding liabilities, measured on an IAS 19 basis, at the date that the settlement 
became binding.
Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates with the exception of the insured retirement obligations 
which equal the IAS 19 valuation of obligations which they cover. The Group will adopt amendments to IAS 19R in the year ending March 
2014. These amendments will result in the return on assets being calculated by reference to the discount rate assumption and not return 
assumptions for individual asset classes. Had IAS 19R been adopted in the year ended 31 March 2013, the expected return on scheme 
assets in the table above would have amounted to £38.0 million, resulting in an overall net cost of £3.5 million being charged to the 
consolidated income statement. Under the revised IAS 19, the net pension liability of £56.3 million would be unchanged. Furthermore under 
changes to IAS 19, future scheme administrative expenses will be charged as operating costs in the consolidated income statement. Had this 
been effective for the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group would have charged £0.7 million to operating costs.
The average duration of scheme liabilities is approximately 18 years (2012: 19 years). Discount rate assumptions for each reporting period are 
based upon quoted AA-rated corporate bond indices, excluding collateralised bonds, with maturities matching the Scheme’s expected benefit 
payments. 
The RPI inflation assumptions are determined by adopting a yield curve approach, based on the break-even rate of inflation implied by fixed 
interest gilt yields and index-linked yields. Applying this approach to the Scheme’s projected benefit payments gives an average break-even 
inflation assumption of 3.5% (2012: 3.4%). The CPI inflation assumption is determined by reference to adjusted RPI rather than by reference to 
CPI-linked investments where the market is small and illiquid. The principal differences between RPI and CPI are (i) the formula effect due to 
RPI using arithmetic means and CPI geometric means, and (ii) the bundles of goods considered – CPI excludes mortgage payments and other 
housing costs. The assumption used at 31 March 2013 is that CPI inflation will track 1.0% points below RPI inflation in the long term (2012: 1%) 
and is therefore set at 2.5% (2012: 2.4%). Pension increase assumptions are based on RPI with an adjustment to reflect caps within the 
Scheme rules.
Mortality assumptions were updated in the year ended 31 March 2011 based on analysis of the membership data performed as part of the 
March 2010 full actuarial valuation. The result was an increase in life expectancy assumptions of approximately 1.7 years. Broadly the same 
mortality input assumptions have been used for March 2012 and 2013 with no material resultant change in life expectancies.
The Scheme deficit is highly dependent upon these input assumptions which are set at the reporting period end dates. A 0.1% decrease in the 
discount rate assumption would increase the Scheme obligation by approximately £19 million (2012: £17 million). A 0.1% increase in the 
inflation assumption would increase the Scheme obligation by approximately £14 million (2012: £16 million). An increase in life expectancy 
across all members of one year would increase the scheme obligation by approximately £37 million (2012: £43 million).
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   92 04/06/2013   07:42 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 93
20  Retirement benefit obligations continued 
Dairy Crest Group
Pension Fund
Movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Opening defined benefit obligation (845.9) (778.7)
Settlement gains – 0.3 
Interest cost (41.5) (43.5)
Actuarial losses (72.0) (68.1)
Benefits paid 33.7 44.1 
Closing defined benefit obligation (925.7) (845.9)
Movement in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:    
Opening fair value of scheme assets 766.1 718.6 
Expected return 47.4 49.0 
Actual less expected return 69.4 21.9 
Contributions by employer 20.2 20.7 
Benefits paid (33.7) (44.1)
Closing fair value of plan assets 869.4 766.1 
The principal assumptions used in determining retirement benefit obligations for the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund are shown below:
 
2013
%
2012
%
Key assumptions:
Price inflation (RPI) 3.5 3.4 
Price inflation (CPI) 2.5 2.4 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old non-retired male (years) 22.6 22.5 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old retired male (years) 21.7 21.6 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old non-retired female (years) 25.3 25.2 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old retired female (years) 24.1 24.0 
Discount rate 4.6 5.0 
Expected return: – Equities 8.0 8.0 
– Gilts and bonds 4.3 4.3 
– Synthetic equity exposure on equity swap contracts 8.0 8.0 
– LIBOR exposure on equity swap contracts 3.2 3.3 
– Property and other 7.0 7.0 
  – Insured retirement obligations 4.6 5.0 
History of experience gains and losses:
2009 
£m
2010 
£m
2011 
£m
2012 
£m
2013
£m
Fair value of scheme assets 513.0 680.1 718.6 766.1 869.4 
Present value of defined benefit obligation (576.3) (822.5) (778.7) (845.9) (936.6)
Net deficit (63.3) (142.4) (60.1) (79.8) (67.2)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities 6.8 7.9 16.4 (6.5) 0.8 
Adjustments arising from changes in underlying assumptions 106.2 (259.8) 21.7 (61.6) (72.8)
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets (231.1) 134.2 22.5 21.9 69.4 
Recognition of liability for unrecoverable notional surplus. – – – – (10.9)
Net actuarial gain/(loss) (118.1) (117.7) 60.6 (46.2) (13.5)
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income since 1 April 2004 is £145.6 million 
(2012: £143.0 million) and in the Company statement of other recognised income and expense is nil (2012: nil).
The directors are unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on transition to IFRS, and taken directly to equity 
of £93.2 million, is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those pension schemes. Consequently, the directors are unable 
to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Group statement of other recognised income 
and expense before 1 April 2004. Notes to the financial statements continued
94 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
20  Retirement benefit obligations continued
The Company recognises no liabilities on its balance sheet, or charges or credits in its income statement or statement of recognised income 
and expense in relation to the Group pension plans. The legal sponsor of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund is Dairy Crest Limited.
The  Group has charged £7.1 million in respect of the Dairy Crest Group defined contribution scheme in the year ended 31 March 2013 (2012: 
£7.9 million). The Company has made no charge in repect of the Dairy Crest Group defined contribution scheme in the year ended 31 March 
2013 (2012: nil).
21 Trade and other payables
Consolidated Parent Company
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Trade payables* 109.9 146.0  –  – 
Other tax and social security 4.7 7.8  –  – 
Other creditors* 13.6 15.7  –  – 
Accruals* 93.6 96.9 16.9 8.0 
 221.8 266.4 16.9 8.0 
* Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
22 Deferred income
Current
2013
£m
2012
£m
Grants 1.6 0.5 
Other – 0.1 
 1.6 0.6 
 
Non-current    
Grants 9.6 6.9 
In 2010/11 two new biomass boilers were installed at the Davidstow cheese manufacturing site. Capital expenditure amounted to £3.9 million 
and we received cash grants of £0.8 million during the year ended 31 March 2011 and £0.2 million during the year ended 31 March 2012 from 
the South West of England Regional Development Agency. This grant is conditional upon certain conditions – principally regarding continued 
use and ownership of the boilers until 29 November 2014. In the year ended 31 March 2013, £0.4 million of this grant was voluntarily repaid in 
order to receive annual renewable heat incentives. The conditions concerning the remaining outstanding grant are unchanged.
In 2012/13 the Group announced that it was consolidating its spreads manufacturing in a single site at Kirkby, Liverpool. During the year the 
Group received a grant of £5.3 million under the Regional Growth Fund from the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills in relation to 
this project. This grant is conditional upon certain conditions over a five year term, principally the project being completed and creating or 
safeguarding the agreed number of jobs.
A grant of £0.3 million in relation to the Crudgington site was written off to exceptional items in the year ended 31 March 2013 following the 
write down of property, plant and equipment at that site following the announced closure plans. All conditions on this grant had been met and 
no repayment was required.
With the exception of the grants relating to the biomass boiler at Davidstow and the Kirkby job creation, the Group has met all applicable 
conditions attaching to grants at 31 March 2013 and all previously received grants were unconditional at that date. 
23 Provisions
 
OFT 
provision
(including
legal fees)
£m
Onerous
contracts
£m
Total
£m
At 31 March 2011 – Current 7.3 3.0 10.3 
Utilised (7.3) (0.9) (8.2)
Discount unwind – 0.2 0.2 
At 31 March 2012 – Current – 2.3 2.3 
Utilised – (0.8) (0.8)
Discount unwind – 0.2 0.2 
At 31 March 2013 – current – 1.7 1.7  The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 95
23 Provisions continued
Office of Fair Trading (‘OFT’)
An exceptional provision was charged in 2007/08 in relation to the settlement of the OFT investigation into milk price initiatives (including legal 
costs). The amount of the fine provided was £9.4 million plus legal fees and reflected the early resolution agreement that was reached with the 
OFT in December 2007. In April 2010, the OFT announced that parties to the 2007 Statement of Objections will get a penalty reduction 
provided each company continues to co-operate with the OFT. Accordingly, the provision was reduced to reflect our best estimate of the 
penalty ultimately payable (£7.1 million) plus legal fees expected to be incurred (£0.2 million). The penalty was settled on 11 October 2011.
Onerous contract
In June 2010, the Group disposed of 50% of the share capital of Wexford Creamery Limited (‘WCL ’). As part of the disposal, the Group 
entered into an agreement to purchase guaranteed minimum volumes of cheese from WCL for a period of five years from the date of disposal. 
The price paid by the Group for that cheese is determined by reference to cost plus margin. Realisations for commodity cheese fluctuate and 
at the date of disposal a provision of £3.6 million was charged in order to provide for the cost of the cheese purchase arrangements. At 31 
March 2013 the provision amounted to £1.7 million (2012: £2.3 million).
24 Share capital
Authorised
2013
Thousands
2012
Thousands
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 240,000 240,000 
Issued and fully paid Thousands £m
At 31 March 2011 133,306 33.3 
Issued for cash on exercise of share options 45  – 
At 31 March 2012 133,351 33.3 
Issued for cash on exercise of share options 3,245 0.8 
At 31 March 2013 136,596 34.1 
During the year ended 31 March 2013 3,244,954 shares were issued at a premium of £6.6 million for an aggregate consideration of £7 .4 million 
(2012: 45,195 shares at a premium of £0.1 million for an aggregate consideration of £0.1 million). Exercises of LTISP options and vesting of 
deferred bonus shares are fulfilled by the issue of existing shares from the Dairy Crest Employees’ Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’) – see Note 25. 
25 Notes to statement of changes in equity
Consolidated
The shares held by the ESOP are available to satisfy awards under LTISP (see Note 26)
At 31 March 2013 the ESOP held 127,939 shares (2012: 127,939 shares) in the Company at a cost of £0.6 million (2012: £0.6 million). The 
ESOP was established in August 1996 to purchase shares in the Company in order to hedge certain future obligations of the Group including 
shares awarded under the LTISP, ESOS and the deferred bonus plan. During the year the Trustee of the ESOP issued no shares (2012: 6,891) 
following exercises of LTISP options and deferred bonuses.
The market value of the shares held by the ESOP, which are listed on the London Stock Exchange was £0.5 million at 31 March 2013  
(2012: £0.4 million).
Other reserves – Consolidated
Merger
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
At 31 March 2012 55.9 (3.3) (3.6) 49.0 
Total recognised in other comprehensive income – 0.3 2.1 2.4
At 31 March 2013 55.9 (3.0) (1.5) 51.4 
At 31 March 2011 55.9  – 8.2 64.1 
Total recognised in other comprehensive income – (3.3) (11.8) (15.1)
At 31 March 2012 55.9 (3.3) (3.6) 49.0 
The merger reserve includes the premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Dairy Crest Limited in 1996. The cumulative amount of 
goodwill charged against the merger reserve is £86.8 million (2012: £86.8 million). The reserve is not distributable.
The hedging reserve records the gains and losses on hedging instruments, to the extent that they are effective cash flow hedges. Any gains and 
losses previously recorded in the hedging reserve are reclassified in profit and loss when the underlying hedged item affects profit and loss.
The translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries 
offset by the movements on loans and derivatives designated to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   95 04/06/2013   20:08 Notes to the financial statements continued
96 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
25 Notes to statement of changes in equity continued
Parent Company
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account is presented for the Company. The profit for the 
year dealt with in the accounts of the Company is £44.4 million (2012: £40.4 million) including dividends received from subsidiary companies of 
£51.5 million (2012: £46.8 million). Dividends paid amounted to £27.4 million (2012: £26.5 million) which, along with a credit for share based 
payments of £0.5 million (2012: £0.7 million) resulted in a £17.5 million increase in retained earnings (2012: £14.6 million increase).
In 1996 the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of Dairy Crest Limited. Consideration was in the form of cash and the issue of 
109.8 million ordinary shares of 25 pence each. The fair value of the shares issued was estimated as £170.2 million. The capital reserve of 
£142.7 million, shown in the statement of changes in equity, represents the difference between the fair value of shares issued and their 
nominal value of £27.5 million.
26 Share based payment plans
Group
The Group has three share option schemes in operation.
The Dairy Crest Long Term Incentive Share Plan (‘LTISP’)
This is a long-term incentive scheme under which awards are made to directors and senior managers consisting of the right to acquire shares 
for a nominal price subject to the achievement of financial targets based on (i) total shareholder return (‘TSR’) over a three year period versus 
comparator companies and (ii) growth in adjusted basic earnings per share. From 2009, the TSR element was increased from 50% to 60% of 
the awards granted. The vesting period for grants made under this scheme is 3 years with an exercise period of 7 years. In June and July 
2012, a total of 1,094,734 options was granted under the LTISP scheme (July 2011: 995,183). There are no cash settlement alternatives.
Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme
All employees are eligible to join the Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme, which allows employees to use regular monthly savings to purchase 
shares. Options are granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the shares. No financial performance criteria are attached to 
these options and they vest three years from the date of grant with an exercise period of six months. On 14 December 2012 2,390,456 options 
were granted under the Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme at a grant price of 281 pence (December 2011: 1,145,978 options at a grant price of 
265 pence). There are no cash settlement alternatives.
Deferred bonus scheme
From 2005/06, bonuses earned that are in excess of 50% of basic salary are deferred in shares (and from 2011 in share options) with a  
vesting period of three years. The only vesting condition is continuing employment. The cost of these shares is charged over four years (being 
the year the bonus was earned and the three-year vesting period) and is based on the number of shares issued (or from 2011 over which nil 
cost options are granted) and the share price at the date of issue. No deferred shares were awarded or issued in relation to the year ended  
31 March 2013 (2012: £nil).
The number of share options and weighted average exercise price for each of the principal schemes is set out as follows:
LTISP* Sharesave Scheme
 number number
weighted 
average
exercise 
price
(pence)
Options outstanding at 1 April 2012 1,860,408 4,768,410 238.4 
Options granted during the year 1,094,734 2,390,456 281.0 
Reinvested dividends 154,244  –  – 
Options exercised during the year – (3,244,954) 227.2 
Options forfeited during the year (1,108,586) (387,864) 259.3 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2013 2,000,800 3,526,048 275.4 
Exercisable at 31 March 2013 24,978 34,459 227.0 
 
Options outstanding at 1 April 2011 1,957,774 3,855,782 237.8 
Options granted during the year 995,183 1,445,978 265.0 
Reinvested dividends 158,226  –  – 
Options exercised during the year (3,252) (45,195) 227.0 
Options forfeited during the year (1,247,523) (488,155) 313.4 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2012 1,860,408 4,768,410 238.4 
Exercisable at 31 March 2012 25,563  –  – 
* The weighted average exercise price for LTISP options is nil. The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 97
26 Share based payment plans continued
Sharesave scheme options are exercisable up to September 2016 at prices ranging from 227p to 281p (March 2012: exercisable up to 
September 2015 at prices ranging from 227p to 265p). LTISP options are exercisable at varying dates up to July 2022 (March 2012: July 2021). 
The remaining weighted average contractual life of options outstanding at 31 March 2013 is 8.7 years for the LTISP and 3.1 years for the 
Sharesave Scheme (2012: 8.71 years and 1.67 years respectively). The weighted average share price on exercise of Sharesave options was 
£3.53 (2012: £3.47). 
The fair value factor of the Sharesave Scheme options issued in December 2012 is 20.7% (December 2011: 22%) giving a fair value of £0.81 
(December 2011: £0.58) per option granted. This has been computed using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The key assumptions used 
in the valuation model for the December 2012 grant were: Expected share price volatility 22% (December 2011: 38%), risk free rate of interest 
0.5% (December 2011: 0.5%) and dividend yield 5.22% (December 2011: 6.2%). The volatility assumption is based on the historical volatility of 
the Dairy Crest Group plc share price over a period commensurate with the expected option life, ending on the grant date of the option.
The LTISP has market and non-market based performance conditions. The fair value of the market performance element of the LTISP awards 
is calculated using a Monte Carlo option pricing model. The fair value factor for the award made in July 2012 is 65% for the TSR element and 
100% for the EPS element (July 2011: 65% TSR and 100% EPS) giving a fair value of £2.75 per option granted (2011: £2.91). The share price 
on granting 2012 awards was £3.34 (2011: £3.68). The non-market performance element of the LTISP is based on EPS and the charge for this 
is the value of shares expected to vest calculated by reference to the share price at the date of grant. Volatility assumptions are made for Dairy 
Crest Group plc and comparator companies based on historical volatility of share prices over a period commensurate with the option life. 
The input assumptions for the LTISP grant in the year ended 31 March 2013 were as follows:
Term 3 years (2012: 3 years)
Volatility 23% (2012: 40%)
Risk free rate 0.4% (2012: 1.3%)
Average volatility of comparator TSR 36% (2012: 44%)
TSR correlation (Dairy Crest vs comparators) 22% (2012: 22%)
The expected life of the LTISP options is assumed to be equal to the vesting period, being three years.
The Group expense arising from share option plans for the year ended 31 March 2013 is £1.9 million (2012: £2.4 million) (See Note 9).
Company
The number of share options and weighted average exercise price for each of the schemes for employees of the Company is set out as 
follows:
LTISP Sharesave Scheme
 number number
weighted 
average
exercise 
price
(pence)
Options outstanding at 1 April 2012 683,272 15,988 227.0 
Options granted during the year 393,540 12,808 281.0 
Reinvested dividends 59,351  –  – 
Options exercised during the year – (15,988) 227.0 
Options forfeited during the year (358,247) –  – 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2013 777,916 12,808 281.0 
Exercisable at 31 March 2013 –  –  – 
 
Options outstanding at 1 April 2011 728,972 15,988 227.0 
Options granted during the year 343,252  –  – 
Reinvested dividends 58,852  –  – 
Options exercised during the year –  –  – 
Options forfeited during the year (447,804) –  – 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2012 683,272 15,988 227.0 
Exercisable at 31 March 2012 –  –  – 
Sharesave Scheme options are exercisable up to September 2016 at a price of 281p (March 2012: up to March 2013 at a price of 227p). LTISP 
options are exercisable at varying dates up to July 2022 (2012: July 2021). The remaining average weighted average contractual life of options 
outstanding at 31 March 2013 is 8.8 years for the LTISP and 3.4 years for the Sharesave Scheme (2012: 8.76 years and 0.92 years 
respectively). There were no exercises of LTISP options in the year ended 31 March 2013 (2012: nil). 
The Company expense arising from share option plans for the year ended 31 March 2013 was £0.5 million (2012: £0.7 million).
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   97 04/06/2013   18:05 Notes to the financial statements continued
98 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
27 Commitments and contingencies
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain land and buildings, vehicles and equipment. There are no material renewal options, 
escalation clauses or purchase options included in the lease contracts. There are no contingent rentals or operating leases or material 
sub-leases. There are no significant restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases. Excluding land and buildings, these 
leases have an average life of between three and seven years.
During the year ended 31 March 2012, certain assets at our Severnside facility were sold for cash consideration of £6.8 million. This 
equipment has been leased back under an operating lease with a six year term. The assets subject to the operating lease have an average 
useful economic life of approximately ten years. There are no purchase option clauses or any contingent lease rentals.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 March are as follows:
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Within one year 23.6 26.0 
After one year but not more than five years 43.8 49.6 
More than five years 14.5 17.2 
Finance leases
The Group finance leases principally comprise certain items of plant and equipment at the Davidstow site. The initial lease term is for 10 years 
with a further renewal term of 7 years. There are no purchase options and escalation clauses and there is no sub-leasing of the assets or 
contingent rentals. Future minimum payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are  
as follows:
 2013 2012
 
 
Minimum
payments
£m
Present 
value
of 
payments
£m
Minimum
payments
£m
Present 
value
of payments
£m
Within one year 2.5 2.4 2.9 2.7 
After one year but not more than two years 3.2 3.1 3.3 3.2 
After two years but not more than five years –  – 1.3 1.3 
After more than five years –  –  –  – 
Total minimum lease payments 5.7 5.5 7.5 7.2 
Less: amounts representing finance charges (0.2) – (0.3) – 
Present value of minimum lease payments 5.5 5.5 7.2 7.2 
Trading guarantees
The Group has provided guarantees and counter-indemnities which totalled £4.1 million at 31 March 2013 (2012: £3.4 million). These 
guarantees are made principally by Philpot Dairy Products Limited, a subsidiary company, to customers as performance bonds and to the 
Rural Payment Agency in relation to EU subsidies claimed.
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   98 04/06/2013   18:09 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 99
28 Related party transactions
In June 2010, the Group disposed of its controlling interest in Wexford Creamery Limited (‘WCL ’). WCL has been treated as an equity 
accounted associate from June 2010 to 31 March 2013. On disposal, the Group contracted to purchase guaranteed minimum volumes of 
cheese from WCL for a period of five years from the date of disposal. In the year ended 31 March 2013 the cost of cheese purchased was 
£7.5 million (2012: £8.9 million).
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group and Company
2013
£m
2012
£m
Short-term employee benefits 2.8 2.8 
Share-based payments 0.5 0.7 
Total compensation paid to key management personnel* 3.3 3.5 
* Further details relating to compensation of key management personnel are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. This includes a description of pension 
arrangements and any cash supplements paid.
Key management personnel comprise Executive and Non-executive Board members of Dairy Crest Group plc. The senior management team 
is small and all key decisions are made by either the three Executive directors in the Executive Management Committee or by the Group 
Board which meets regularly. 
Dairy Crest Limited, a subsidiary company, incurred costs of £2.8 million (2012: £2.4 million) from the Company for the provision of 
management and administrative services carried out on its behalf. Dairy Crest Limited received £2.1 million (2012: £2.1 million) for the 
remuneration of the Company’s employees which had been paid by Dairy Crest Limited. 
Interest charges of £0.2 million (2012: £0.2 million) were incurred by the Company from Dairy Crest Limited on a loan reflecting an interest rate 
of LIBOR+100 basis points. Interest income of £12.1 million (2012: £11.4 million) was received by the Company from Dairy Crest Limited on a 
loan reflecting an interest rate of 5.3% (2012: 5.3%) and a further £0.3 million was received by the Company from Dairy Crest Limited on 
floating rate loans paying LIBOR plus margin (2012: £0.3 million). The Company paid no interest (2012: £0.4 million) to Dairy Crest Limited on 
cross-currency swaps paying LIBOR and receiving EURIBOR.
29 Business combinations and disposals
Year ended 31 March 2013
Disposal of Discontinued Operation
Following a strategic review of the Group’s overseas operations in the light of the inability to undertake synergistic acquisitions, on 28 August 
2012 the Group completed the disposal of St Hubert SAS (‘St Hubert’) for a cash consideration of £341.1 million (€430.5 million). St Hubert 
formed part of the Spreads reportable segment. Cash held in the disposed business at that date amounted to £4.1 million, resulting in a net 
cash inflow to the Group of £337.0 million. This amount has been reduced by fees of £6.2 million. The disposal resulted in a post-tax profit of 
£47.7 million which can be analysed as follows:
 £m £m
Sales proceeds – cash consideration 341.1 
Book value of assets disposed of:
Property, plant and equipment 10.3 
Goodwill 176.4 
Intangible assets 131.5 
Inventories 3.3 
Trade and other receivables 14.9 
Cash and short-term deposits 4.1 
Trade and other payables (18.4)
Current tax (5.5)
Deferred tax (44.5) (272.1)
Gain on disposal before fees and recycling of exchange differences 69.0 
Fees (6.2)
Amounts reclassified to profit and loss (11.4)
Pre-tax gain on disposal 51.4 
Expected tax charge (3.7)
Post-tax gain on disposal of Discontinued Operation 47.7
The expected tax charge principally comprises capital gains taxes resulting from the disposal as well as expected taxation on €74million of 
dividends paid in the period up to the date of disposal. These taxes were crystallised as a result of the divestment and as a consequence the 
breaking of the St Hubert tax group. An estimate has been made of the likely tax costs resulting from these transactions however the final 
assessment has yet to be agreed with the French tax authorities which may result in a change to the level of tax provisioning.
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   99 04/06/2013   18:31 Notes to the financial statements continued
100 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
29 Business combinations and disposals continued
As a result of the disposal the St Hubert business has been classified as discontinued operations and prior period comparatives have been 
adjusted accordingly. The post-tax profit of discontinued activities can be analysed as follows:
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2012
£m
Revenue 41.7 117.4
Operating costs before amortisation of acquired intangibles (27.5) (77.6)
Trading profit 14.2 39.8 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (3.0) (8.3)
Profit on operations 11.2 31.5 
Finance income 0.1 0.1 
Profit before tax 11.3 31.6 
Tax expense (4.5) (9.9)
Profit for the year from Discontinued Operation 6.8 21.7 
The cash flows of the St Hubert business in the period to the date of disposal and in the prior year can be analysed as follows:
Cash flow from operating activities 0.3 32.2 
Cash used in investing activities (0.6) (2.3)
Cash generated from financing activities 0.1 0.1 
Net movement in cash and cash equivalents (0.2) 30.0 
Aquisitions
On 1 March 2013, the Group acquired the business and certain assets of Proper Welsh Milk Company Limited from the administrators BDO 
LLP for £0.3 million. The fair value of the net assets acquired was £0.3 million, comprising property, plant and equipment of £0.5 million less 
statutory and other liabilities taken over of £0.2 million, resulting in goodwill on acquisition of nil.
During the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group acquired 7% of the share capital of HIECO Limited for a consideration of £0.3 million.
Year ended 31 March 2012
Acquisition
On 30 June 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Morehands Limited (trading as MH Foods Limited), a manufacturer 
of branded low calorie spray oils and salad dressings. Initial cash consideration was £11.9 million, with further consideration of £1.6 million paid 
in October 2011. The final fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the business at the date of acquisition was:
 
Fair value
to Group
£m
Book
value
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.5 
Intangible asset – Frylight brand 6.0  – 
Inventories 0.6 0.6 
Receivables 1.5 1.5 
Cash 1.2 1.2 
Payables (0.9) (0.9)
Current tax (0.5) (0.5)
Deferred tax (1.6) (0.1)
Net assets 6.8 2.3 
Goodwill 6.7 
  13.5 
Comprising: 
Cash consideration 13.5  The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 101
29 Business combinations and disposals continued
The Frylight brand is estimated to have a useful economic life of 15 years and the amount capitalised as an intangible asset and related 
deferred tax will be amortised over this period. This life is consistent with the 15–25 year useful economic lives assumed on the acquisition of 
St Hubert. Goodwill, representing the cost of acquisition less net identifiable assets and liabilities assumed on acquisition, arises on 
consolidation only and there is no amortisation or related tax deduction in the accounts of Dairy Crest Limited, the acquiring entity. Group 
reported revenue and result would not be materially different had the acquisition occurred on 1 April 2011. Revenue and profit from the date of 
acquisition to 31 March 2012 were £5.8 million and £1.3 million respectively. The Group incurred fees of £0.3 million in relation to this 
acquisition which have been charged to administrative expenses in the income statement in the year ended 31 March 2012.
Goodwill of £6.7 million comprises certain intangible benefits of the acquisition that could not be individually separated and reliably measured 
due to their nature. These include the synergistic benefits resulting from access to the wider group’s sales channels, marketing expertise and 
product development pipeline.
30 Financial risk management objectives and policies
The objective of the treasury function, which is accountable to the Board, is to manage the Group’s and Company’s financial risk, secure 
cost-effective funding for the Group’s operations and to minimise the effects of fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates on the value of 
the Group’s and Company’s financial assets and liabilities, on reported profitability and on cash flows.
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans and overdrafts, loan notes, finance leases and cash and short-term deposits. 
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various other financial assets 
and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions; principally cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts. The purpose is to 
manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of finance. It is, and has been throughout 2012 
and 2013, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, price risk and credit risk. 
Information on how these risks arise is set out below, as are the objectives, policies and processes agreed by the Board for their management 
and the methods used to measure each risk. Derivative instruments are used to change the economic characteristics of financial instruments 
in accordance with the Group’s treasury policies. The Group’s accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in the Accounting 
Policies note.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s objectives are:
•	 to ensure that forecast peak net borrowings, plus a prudent operating headroom are covered by committed facilities which mature after 
at least 12 months; 
•	 to ensure that prudent headroom versus bank and loan note covenant ratios are forecast for the next three years;
•	 to maintain flexibility of funding by employing diverse sources of funds (eg use of non-bank markets such as private placements); and
•	 to avoid a concentration of facility maturities in any particular year. 
The maturity analysis of Group borrowings is set out in Note 19. At 31 March 2013 the Group’s total credit facilities amounted to £627.3 million 
(2012: £640.5 million) excluding finance leases of £5.5 million (2012: £7.2 million) and the impact of cross-currency swaps on US Dollar and 
Euro loan notes of £17.8 million (2012: £8.6 million). The facilities at 31 March 2013 and 2012 consisted of:
March 2013
•	 £170 million plus €150 million multi-currency revolving credit facility repayable at maturity in October 2016; and
•	 loan notes totalling £330.4 million repayable between April 2013 and November 2021.
March 2012
•	 £170 million plus €150 million multi-currency revolving credit facility repayable at maturity in October 2016; and
•	 loan notes totalling £345.5 million repayable between April 2013 and November 2021.
Undrawn revolving credit facilities at 31 March 2013 amounted to £297 million (2012: £223.8 million). Effective headroom including cash and 
short term deposits amounted to £573.1 million (2012: £303.2 million).
On 4 April 2013 £60 million of loan notes matured and on 18 April 2013 £100 million of loan notes were repaid early. This reduced the loan 
notes outstanding to £170 million. At the same time, the revolving credit facility was reduced by €60 million (£51 million). Therefore total facilities 
at 18 April 2013 amounted to £416 million. 
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by closely managing cash generation by its operating businesses and by monitoring performance to 
budgets and forecasts. Capital investment is carefully controlled, with detailed authorisation limits in place up to Executive level and cash 
payback criteria considered as part of the investment appraisal process. Short-term and long-term cash and debt forecasts are constantly 
reviewed and there are regular treasury updates to the Executive highlighting facility headroom and net debt performance. 
Day-to-day cash management utilises undrawn revolving credit facilities, overdraft facilities and occasionally short-term money market 
deposits if there is excess cash. Notes to the financial statements continued
102 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Interest rate risk 
The Group’s exposure to the risk for changes in market interest rates relate primarily to the Group’s long-term debt obligations with a floating 
interest rate.
The Group’s policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The Group’s long-term strategy is to keep 
between one third and three quarters of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest in the medium term. To manage this mix in a cost-efficient 
manner, the Group has issued fixed coupon loan notes and also enters into interest rate swaps from time to time on a portion of its floating 
bank borrowings, in which the Group agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable rate interest 
amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. These swaps are designated to hedge underlying debt interest 
cash flow obligations. In the short-term the proportion of fixed and floating rate borrowings can go outside the long-term range.
At 31 March 2013, 100% of the Group’s borrowings were at a fixed rate of interest (2012: 83%). The proportion of fixed interest borrowings is 
higher than our long-term target, however following the maturity and repayment of loan notes referred to above, amounts drawn under 
revolving credit facilities will increase in 2013/14 and the fixed rate percentage of borrowings will fall. In the medium term we expect the fixed 
proportion of borrowings to return to the target range.
The Group’s borrowing facilities require minimum interest cover of 3.0 times. 
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk is shown (by way of a sensitivity analysis) in Note 31.
Foreign currency risk
Following the sale of St Hubert SAS, the Group has no significant operations outside the UK. However it buys and sells a small amount of 
goods in currencies other than Sterling. As a result the value of the Group’s non-Sterling revenues, purchases, assets, liabilities and cash flows 
can be affected by movements in exchange rates – predominantly Euro/Sterling.
When the Group owned St Hubert, a Euro-denominated subsidiary, it mitigated the effect of its structural currency exposures by borrowing to 
some extent in the same functional currency as the foreign operation into which it invested. Our policy was to hedge 100% of the inventories 
and tangible fixed assets and 33% of goodwill and intangible assets exposure through borrowings and/or cross-currency swaps in Euros. At 
31 March 2012, all borrowings designated as a net investment hedge were done so on a pre-tax basis and no cross currency swaps were 
utilised as part of the hedging relationship. 
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the relevant entity’s functional currency and therefore transaction exposures are 
limited. It can be seen in Note 16 that the only significant non-Sterling debtors are in Dollars. The Group trades skimmed milk products and 
bulk butter mainly to customers in Europe and Central and South America. The Group also exports its own skimmed milk products, bulk 
butter and other branded products. The Group’s policy requires foreign currency sales and purchases through Philpot Dairy Products Limited, 
a subsidiary company, to be hedged by foreign exchange contracts once the transaction is committed so that the margin on the transaction 
can be fixed. 
Currency exposures on other transactions, such as certain capital expenditure denominated in a foreign currency, are hedged following 
approval of the project using forward foreign exchange contracts.
In 2006 and November 2011, the Group issued loan notes denominated in $US. At the same time, cross-currency swaps were implemented 
to hedge the interest and principal repayment cash flows. These have the effect of fixing the liability and coupon in Sterling. The principal 
amount and interest and principal payment dates on these swaps match those on the loan notes exactly and all swaps are with counterparties 
with strong credit ratings. There is no profit and loss exposure in relation to $US debts as any retranslation impact on the profit and loss 
account is offset by reclassification of amounts from other comprehensive income into profit and loss. 
In 2009, the Group entered into cross-currency swaps on €75 million of its loan notes denominated in Euros in order to hedge the future 
interest and principal repayment cash flows. This has the effect of fixing the liability and coupon on those notes in Sterling. The principal 
amount and interest and principal payment dates on these swaps match those on the loan notes exactly and all swaps are with counterparties 
with strong credit ratings. There is no profit and loss exposure in relation to this €75 million of debt as any retranslation impact on the profit and 
loss account is offset by reclassification of amounts from other comprehensive income into profit and loss.
Price risk
The Group is exposed to price risk related to certain commodities and their by-products used by the Group’s businesses. The principal 
non-milk commodities that affect input prices for the Group are vegetable oils, gas, electricity, diesel, heavy fuel oil and crude oil by-products 
(used in packaging). 
The Group monitors prices on an ongoing basis in order to assess the impact that movements have on profitability and to assess whether the 
amount of forward cover is appropriate. This includes vegetable oil contracts and energy, which is generally contracted one season in 
advance for both Summer and Winter energy but with some requirement contracted at more regular intervals. 
The Group regularly reviews relevant commodity markets and levels of future cover. Fixed price contracts are only entered into with the 
approval of the Commodity Risk Committee comprising senior operational and finance management and external advisers. The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 103
30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Credit risk 
It is the Group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. The Group only offers 
these terms to recognised, creditworthy third parties. In addition, receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that 
the Group’s history of bad debt losses is not significant. In the year ended 31 March 2012 one customer, Quadra Foods Limited, went into 
administration and the outstanding balance of £4.3 million was fully provided. 
The Dairies doorstep business trades with individuals and receives cash payments on a weekly basis. Cash and debt management is a crucial 
part of this business and cash collection and balances due are closely monitored to ensure write-downs are minimised.
Debtor days outstanding are closely monitored throughout the year and action is taken promptly when payment terms are breached.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, trade and other 
debtors (excludes prepayments) and certain derivative instruments, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty. 
The maximum exposure for the Group is equal to the carrying amount of these financial assets of £395.5 million (2012: £223.5 million). 
Following the sale of St Hubert the Group had significant cash deposits and until those funds were utilised to repay loan notes and provide 
one-off funding to the pension scheme in April 2013, no one financial institution had deposits in excess of £60 million and all institutions 
holding deposits were required to be rated A or above.
All borrowings are through banks with long-term credit ratings of A or above. Funds temporarily surplus to business requirements are invested 
overnight through deposit accounts with mainstream UK commercial banks with a credit rating of A or better. The Group currently has no 
requirement to place deposits for a longer period, accordingly counterparty risk is considered to be acceptable. Derivative financial 
instruments are contracted with a range of banks with long-term credit ratings of A or above to avoid excessive concentration of financial 
instruments with one counterparty.
Capital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains an appropriate level of gearing in order to support its 
business and maximise shareholder value. In addition, the Group monitors its forecast net debt to EBITDA ratios in order that they are 
comfortably within its banking covenant requirements. The maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio for the purposes of bank covenants is 3.5 
times. At 31 March 2013 the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 0.6 times (March 2012: 2.2 times).
The Group monitors its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions or changes in Group 
structure. Possible mechanisms for changing capital structure include adjusting the level of dividends, issuance of new shares or returning 
capital to shareholders. No significant changes in capital structure have been implemented in the year ended 31 March 2013 or 2012. 
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by shareholders’ funds. The analysis of net debt is included in Note 
33. The gearing ratio at March 2013 and 2012 can be analysed as follows:
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Net debt 59.7 336.4
Shareholders’ funds 307.4 274.3
Gearing ratio 19% 123%
Dividends
Details of dividends paid and proposed during the year are given in Note 7. The dividend policy following the sale of St Hubert is to maintain a 
progressive dividend whilst seeking to maintain a level of dividend cover between 1.5 and 2.5 times. The final proposed dividend for 2012/13 is 
15.0 pence up 0.3 pence from last year (2012: 14.7 pence). Total dividends paid and proposed in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013 
amount to 20.7 pence (2012: 20.4 pence). 
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   103 04/06/2013   18:26 Notes to the financial statements continued
104 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
31 Financial instruments
An explanation of the Group’s financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies are set out in the discussion of Treasury 
policies in Note 30.
Consolidated
Interest rate maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities 
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate risk. 
No other financial assets and liabilities, other than those shown below, are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
At 31 March 2013
< 1 year
£m 
  >1 <2 years
£m 
  >2 <3 years
£m 
  >3 <4 years
£m 
  >4 <5 years
£m 
  > 5 years
£m 
 Total
£m 
Fixed rate
Loan notes* (165.7) (26.0) – (91.0) (11.8) (53.6) (348.1)
Finance leases (2.4) (3.1) –  –  –  – (5.5)
Forward currency contracts (0.1) –  –  –  –  – (0.1)
Deferred consideration –  – 1.4  –  –  – 1.4 
Cross currency swaps 7.4   –   –   12.9   –   (3.9) 16.4 
Floating rate
Option to sell 20% holding in WCL –  –  –  –  – 1.6 1.6 
Cash at bank and in hand 276.1   –   –   –   –   –  276.1 
 
At 31 March 2012                        
Fixed rate
Loan notes* – (68.1) (92.3) – (88.8) (96.3) (345.5)
Finance leases (2.7) (3.2) (1.3) –  –  – (7.2)
Forward currency contracts 0.3  –  –  –  –  – 0.3 
Deferred consideration –  –  – 1.3  –  – 1.3 
Cross currency swaps –   5.9   (4.8)  –   9.1   (3.9) 6.3 
Floating rate
Bank loans –  –  –  – (71.7) – (71.7)
Option to sell 20% holding in WCL –  –  –  –  – 1.6 1.6 
Cash at bank and in hand 79.4   –   –   –   –   –  79.4 
* Classified as fixed rate after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial instruments 
classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings. There is no impact on the Group’s equity resulting from movements 
in interest rates other than in relation to the $US/GBP and EUR/GBP cross-currency swaps used as a cash flow hedge on $US and EUR loan 
notes. The impact on equity is nil over the life of the instruments as these swaps comprise an effective hedge. At 31 March 2013 100% of 
Group borrowings were at fixed rates of interest (2012: 83%) (see Note 30).
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes non-derivative floating 
rate financial instruments except those where interest rate swaps have been used as cash flow hedges. This is due to the fact that gains and 
losses on the hedging instrument offset losses and gains on the non-derivative floating rate financial instrument which are subject to the 
hedge and are matched in both profit and loss and cash terms. No non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments have profit and loss exposure 
due to floating rates as a result of interest rate swaps.
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   104 04/06/2013   18:15 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 105
31 Financial instruments continued
The 2013 analysis below reflects lower reasonably possible changes in interest rates to 2012 – upside LIBOR expectations assumed last year 
were not realised and the assumption is that base rates will increase less than anticipated at March 2012.
 
 
Increase/
decrease in
basis points 
Effect on
profit before
tax
£m
Effect on
equity
£m
2013
Sterling + 50 –  – 
Dollar + 50 –  – 
Sterling – 50 –  – 
Dollar  – 50 –  – 
2012
Sterling + 200 1.0 1.3 
Euro + 200 (0.8) 6.8 
Dollar + 200 – 14.9 
Sterling – 50 (0.2) (0.3)
Euro – 50 0.2 (1.7)
Dollar  – 50 – (4.1)
Equity price risk
The Group holds no listed equity investments and is not subject to equity price risk other than through the pension scheme (Note 20).
Credit risk
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group unless otherwise disclosed. The maximum credit risk exposure relating 
to financial assets is represented by carrying value as at the balance sheet date (see Note 30).
Foreign currency risk
Following the sale of St Hubert, the Group has no significant foreign currency risk. In 2012 it had a foreign currency risk with Euros. The table 
below demonstrates the sensitivity in 2012 to a reasonably possible change in Sterling/Euro exchange rate with all other variables held 
constant, of the Group’s profit before tax and the Group’s equity.
   
Increase/
decrease in
Sterling/Euro rate 
Effect on
profit before
tax
£m
Effect on
equity*
£m
2012  
Euro Sterling depreciation – 10% (0.5) (13.8)
 Sterling appreciation + 10% 0.4 11.3 
* Equity exposure resulted from the Group’s net investment hedging arrangements (see Note 30). Notes to the financial statements continued
106 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
31 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The Group’s policy on managing its liquidity risk is set out in Note 30.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2013 and 2012 based on contractual 
undiscounted payments of interest and principal.
At 31 March 2013
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Loan Notes (174.7) (33.8) (7.9) (93.6) (13.8) (59.4) (383.2)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):  
payment leg (106.6) (33.3) (6.0) (72.6) (2.3) (60.5) (281.3)
receipt leg 114.2 32.7 6.7 83.0 2.0 59.4 298.0 
Finance leases (2.5)  (3.2)  –   –   –   –   (5.7)
At 31 March 2012                          
Loan Notes (17.6) (81.8) (101.6) (9.4) (93.1) (104.2) (407.7)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes): 
payment leg (12.8) (71.2) (6.1) (6.1) (73.7) (63.6) (233.5)
receipt leg 13.5 77.7 6.7 6.7 80.9 61.5 247.0 
Bank loans (71.7) –  –  –  –  – (71.7)
Finance leases (2.9)  (3.3)  (1.3)  –   –   –   (7.5)
Forward currency contracts, and short-term payables all mature within one year. 
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the 
financial statements.
Carrying amount Fair value
 
2013
£m
  2012
£m
2013
£m
  2012
£m
Financial assets
Current
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 18) 276.1 79.4 276.1 79.4 
Forward currency contracts (Note 17) – 0.3  – 0.3 
Cross currency swaps (Note 17) 9.6 – 9.6 –
Non-current
Deferred consideration 1.4 1.3 1.4 1.3 
Wexford Creamery Limited option (Note 17) 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 
Cross currency swaps (Note 17) 12.9   15.0 12.9   15.0 
Financial liabilities
Current
Current obligations under finance leases (Note 19) (2.4) (2.7) (2.4) (2.7)
Forward currency contracts (Note 19) (0.1) – (0.1) – 
Cross currency swaps (Note 19) (2.2) – (2.2) – 
Non-current
Non-current obligations under finance leases (Note 19) (3.1) (4.5) (3.1) (4.5)
Non-current instalments due on bank loans (Note 19) – (71.7) – (71.7)
Loan notes (Note 19) (348.1) (345.5) (355.2) (355.8)
Cross currency swaps (Note 19) (3.9)  (8.7) (3.9)  (8.7)
The above table excludes trade and other receivables and payables as their fair value approximates carrying value. The fair value of interest 
rate swaps and forward currency contracts has been determined by the third party financial institution with whom the Group holds the 
instrument, in line with the market value of similar instruments. The fair value of borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected 
future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   106 04/06/2013   18:21 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 107
31 Financial instruments continued
Cross currency swaps
The notional principal amount of the outstanding USD/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2013 was $308.7 million (£181.9 
million) (2012: $318.0 million, £187.5 million). These cross currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash flow 
hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2013 the fixed interest rates varied from 3.863% to 5.315% (2012: 3.863% to 
5.315%). The gain deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (finance costs) during the next one to nine years (being the life of the 
swaps).
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2013 was €75.0 million (£67.0 million) 
(2012: €75.0 million, £67.0 million). These cross currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash flow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2013 and 2012 the fixed interest rates varied from 4.955% to 5.180%. The loss deferred in 
equity will reverse in the income statement (finance costs) during the next year (being the life of the swaps).
Hedge of net investment in foreign entities
Until 28 August 2012, the Group had Euro denominated borrowings which it designated as a hedge of the net asset investment in St Hubert SAS, 
its subsidiary in France. The fair value of the Euro borrowings at 31 March 2012 was £124.2 million. A foreign exchange gain of £6.0 million (2012: 
£7 .7 million) on translation of the borrowings into Sterling to 28 August 2012 has been recognised in other comprehensive income.
Forward currency contracts
The Group has entered into certain forward currency contracts in order to hedge the Sterling cost of currency-denominated future purchases 
and receipts. These forward currency purchases have been designated cash flow hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. They all 
have a duration of less than one year and any gains or losses deferred will then be reclassified to the income statement (operating costs).
Borrowing facilities
The Group has undrawn committed long-term borrowing facilities available at 31 March 2013 of £297 million (2012: £223.8 million) in respect 
of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date. In April 2013, £51 million of the facilities were cancelled (see Note 34). Undrawn 
facilities expire in October 2016. 
Company
Interest rate maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate 
risk. No other financial assets and liabilities, other than those shown below, are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
At 31 March 2013
< 1 year
£m 
  >1 <2 years
£m 
  >2 <3 years
£m 
  >3 <4 years
£m 
  >4 <5 years
£m 
  > 5 years
£m 
 Total
£m 
Fixed rate
Loan notes (165.7) (26.0) – (91.0) (11.8) (53.6) (348.1)
Intercompany receivables 218.7  –  –  –  –  – 218.7 
Cross currency swaps 7.4   –   –   12.9   –   (3.9) 16.4 
Floating rate
Cash at bank and in hand 14.8  –  –  –  –  – 14.8 
Intercompany payables (49.4)  –   –   –   –   –  (49.4)
 
At 31 March 2012                          
Fixed rate
Loan notes – (68.1) (92.3) – (88.8) (96.3) (345.5)
Intercompany receivables 268.0  –  –  –  –  – 268.0 
Cross currency swaps –   5.9   (4.8)  –   9.1   (3.9)  6.3 
Floating rate
Bank loans –  –  –  – (61.7) – (61.7)
Intercompany payables (49.2)  –   –   –   –   –   (49.2)
Interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Company’s profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings. There is no impact on the Company’s equity resulting from 
movements in interest rates other than in relation to the $US/GBP and EUR/GBP cross-currency swaps used as a cash flow hedge on $US 
and EUR loan notes. The impact on equity is nil over the life of the instruments as these swaps comprise an effective hedge. 
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   107 04/06/2013   18:25 Notes to the financial statements continued
108 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
31 Financial instruments continued
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes non-derivative floating 
rate financial instruments except those where interest rate swaps have been used as cash flow hedges. This is due to the fact that gains and 
losses on the hedging instrument offset losses and gains on the non-derivative floating rate financial instrument which are subject to the 
hedge are matched in both profit and loss and cash terms. No non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments have profit and loss exposure 
due to floating rates as a result of interest rate swaps.
The 2013 analysis below reflects lower reasonably possible changes in interest rates to 2012 – upside LIBOR expectations assumed last year 
were not realised and the assumption is that base rates will increase less than anticipated at March 2012.
 
 Increase/
decrease in
basis points 
Effect on
equity
£m
2013
Sterling + 50 – 
Dollar + 50 – 
Sterling – 50 – 
Dollar  – 50 – 
2012
Sterling + 200 1.3 
Euro + 200 6.8 
Dollar + 200 14.9 
Sterling – 50 (0.3)
Euro – 50 (1.7)
Dollar  – 50 (4.1)
Equity price risk
The Company holds no listed equity investments and is not subject to equity price risk.
Credit risk
The maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount of financial assets.
Foreign currency risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in Sterling/Euro exchange rate with all other variables held 
constant, of the Company’s profit before tax and the Company’s equity.
  
Increase/
decrease in
Euro rate
Effect on
profit before
tax 
Effect on
equity
£m
2013 
Euro Sterling depreciation – 10% –  – 
  Sterling appreciation + 10% –  – 
2012  
Euro Sterling depreciation – 10% –  – 
 Sterling appreciation + 10% –  – 
The Company has no significant foreign currency liabilities other than Euros. Euro borrowings are matched by inter-company cross currency 
swaps with no resultant profit before tax or equity exposure for the Company.  The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 109
31 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The Company’s policy on managing its liquidity risk is set out in Note 30. 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2013 and 2012 based on contractual 
undiscounted payments of interest and principal.
At 31 March 2013
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Loan Notes (174.7) (33.8) (7.9) (93.6) (13.8) (59.4) (383.2)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):  
payment leg (106.6) (33.3) (6.0) (72.6) (2.3) (60.5) (281.3)
receipt leg 114.2   32.7   6.7   83.0   2.0   59.4   298.0 
At 31 March 2012                          
Loan Notes (17.6) (81.8) (101.6) (9.4) (93.1) (104.2) (407.7)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes): 
payment leg (12.8) (71.2) (6.1) (6.1) (73.7) (63.6) (233.5)
receipt leg 13.5 77.7 6.7 6.7 80.9 61.5 247.0 
Intra-group cross currency swaps:
payment leg (126.3) –  –  –  –  – (126.3)
receipt leg 126.3  –  –  –  –  – 126.3 
Bank loans (61.7)  –   –   –   –   –   (61.7)
Forward currency contracts, and short-term payables and accruals all mature within one year.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Company’s financial instruments that are carried in 
the financial statements.
Carrying amount Fair value
 
2013
£m
  2012
£m
2013
£m 
  2012
£m 
Financial assets
Current
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 18) 14.8  – 14.8  – 
Other receivables (Note 16) 169.3 218.8 169.3 218.8 
External cross currency swaps (Note 17) 9.6 – 9.6 –
Non-current
External cross currency swaps (Note 17) 12.9 15.0 12.9 15.0 
Financial liabilities 
Current
External cross currency swaps (Note 19) (2.2) – (2.2) –
Non-current
Non-current instalments due on bank loans (Note 19) – (61.7) – (61.7)
Loan notes (Note 19) (348.1) (345.5) (355.2) (355.8)
External cross currency swaps (Note 19) (3.9) (8.7) (3.9) (8.7)
No other financial assets and liabilities are exposed directly to interest rate risk 
Other receivables comprise the net of all intercompany balances with Dairy Crest Limited. All intercompany balances are repayable on 
demand and are subject to interest based on LIBOR plus a margin with the exception of one intercompany receivable from Dairy Crest Limited 
of £277.1 million (2012: £263.6 million) on which interest is receivable at 5.0% (2012: 5.0%).
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   109 04/06/2013   18:16 Notes to the financial statements continued
110 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
31 Financial instruments continued
Cross currency swaps
External
The notional principal amount of the outstanding USD/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2013 was $308.7 million (£181.9 million) 
(2012: $318.0 million, £187 .5 million). These cross currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash flow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2013 the fixed interest rates varied from 3.863% to 5.315% (2012: 3.863% to 5.315%). The 
gain deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (finance costs) during the next one to nine years (being the life of the swaps).
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2013 was €75.0 million (£67.0 million) 
(2012: €75.0 million, £67.0 million). These cross currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash flow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2013 and 2012 the fixed interest rates varied from 4.955% to 5.180%. The loss deferred in 
equity will reverse in the income statement (finance costs) during the next year (being the life of the swaps).
Intercompany
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP floating rate cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2013 with Group 
companies was €nil (£nil) (2012: €150.0 million (£125.0 million)). The Company received EURIBOR and pays LIBOR. Intercompany cross 
currency swaps were not designated as cash flow hedges and any gain or loss arising on revaluation was credited or charged to the income 
statement. These swaps were used in order to minimise currency exchange risk in the Company and match the external Euro-denominated 
borrowings at 31 March 2012 of €149 million.
Borrowing facilities
The Company has undrawn committed long-term borrowing facilities available at 31 March 2013 of £297 million (2012: £224 million) in respect 
of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date. These undrawn facilities expire in October 2016
32 Cash flow from operating activities
 
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2012
£m
Loss before taxation – continuing operations (0.4) (41.7)
Profit before taxation – discontinued operations 62.7 31.6 
Remove pre-tax profit on disposal of business (51.4) – 
Finance costs and other finance income – continuing operations 21.5 15.6 
Finance costs and other finance income – discontinued operations (0.1) (0.1)
Share of associate’s net loss  – 0.3 
Profit on operations 32.3 5.7 
Depreciation 29.0 30.9 
Amortisation of internally generated intangible assets 3.4 3.2 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 3.4 9.1 
Exceptional items 17.9 80.2 
Release of grants (0.9) (0.6)
Share based payments 1.9 2.4 
Profit on disposal of depots (7.7) (4.6)
Profit on disposal of plant and equipment – (0.2)
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement (20.2) (21.0)
Increase in inventories (25.0) (23.9)
Decrease in receivables 18.7 9.4 
Decrease in payables (33.7) (6.1)
Cash generated from operations 19.1 84.5 
No cash was generated from operations for the Company in the year ended 31 March 2013 (2012: nil).
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   110 04/06/2013   18:26 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 111
33 Analysis of net debt
Group
 
At 1 April
2012
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Non-cash
movement
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2013
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 79.4 192.8  – 3.9 276.1 
Borrowings (current) –  – (165.7) – (165.7)
Borrowings (non-current) (417.2) 76.2 165.7 (7.1) (182.4)
Finance leases (7.2) 1.7  –  – (5.5)
Debt issuance costs 2.7  – (0.9) – 1.8 
  (342.3) 270.7 (0.9) (3.2) (75.7)
Debt issuance costs excluded (2.7) – 0.9  – (1.8)
Impact of cross-currency swaps * 8.6  –  – 9.2 17.8 
Net debt (336.4) 270.7  – 6.0 (59.7)
 
At 1 April
2011
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Non-cash
movement
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2012
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 49.9 29.6  – (0.1) 79.4 
Borrowings (current) (65.5) 63.7  – 1.8  – 
Borrowings (non-current) (298.2) (128.1) – 9.1 (417.2)
Finance leases (9.6) 2.4  –  – (7.2)
Debt issuance costs – 3.0 (0.3) – 2.7 
  (323.4) (29.4) (0.3) 10.8 (342.3)
Debt issuance costs excluded – (3.0) 0.3  – (2.7)
Impact of cross-currency swaps * 11.8 –  – (3.2) 8.6 
Net debt (311.6) (32.4) – 7.6 (336.4)
* The Group and Company have $308.2 million and €75 million of loan notes against which cross-currency swaps have been put in place to fix interest and principal 
repayments in Sterling (2012: $318 million and €75 million). Under IFRS, currency borrowings are retranslated into Sterling at year end exchange rates. The cross-
currency swaps are recorded at fair value (Note 31) and incorporate movements in both market exchange rates and interest rates. The Group defines net debt so as 
to include the effective Sterling liability where cross-currency swaps have been used to convert foreign currency borrowings into Sterling. The £17.8 million adjustment 
included above (2012: £8.6 million) converts the Sterling equivalent of Dollar and Euro loan notes from year end exchange rates (£266.7 million (2012: £263.1 million)) to 
the fixed Sterling liability (£248.9 million (2012: £254.5 million)).
Company
At 1 April
2012
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2013
£m
Cash and cash equivalents – 13.7 1.1 14.8 
Borrowings (current) – (165.7) – (165.7)
Borrowings (non-current) (407.2) 229.1 (4.3) (182.4)
  (407.2) 77.1 (3.2) (333.3)
Borrowings (non-current) – impact of cross-currency swaps 8.6  – 9.2 17.8 
  (398.6) 77.1 6.0 (315.5)
 
At 1 April
2011
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2012
£m
Borrowings (current) (65.5) 63.7 1.8  – 
Borrowings (non-current) (298.2) (118.1) 9.1 (407.2)
  (363.7) (54.4) 10.9 (407.2)
Borrowings (non-current) – impact of cross-currency swaps 11.8  – (3.2) 8.6 
 (351.9) (54.4) 7.7 (398.6)
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   111 04/06/2013   18:36 Notes to the financial statements continued
112 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
34 Post balance sheet events
On 18 April 2013 the Group repaid €106.9 million (£92.7 million) and £7.2 million of 2007 notes at a premium of £8.7 million. £69.2 million of 
these notes were due for repayment in April 2014 and £30.7 million were due for repayment in April 2017. On this date the Group paid £40.0 
million to the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund and it granted the Trustee of the Fund a floating charge over maturing cheese inventories with a 
maximum realisable value of £60 million. Furthermore the five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility dated October 2011 was reduced by 
€60 million (£51 million).
35 Corporate information
The consolidated accounts of Dairy Crest Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 were authorised for issue in accordance with a 
resolution of the Directors on 22 May 2013 and the consolidated and Company balance sheets were signed on the Board’s behalf by  
Mr M Allen and Mr A Murray. Dairy Crest Group plc is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the  
United Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
72236_Glasshouse_p70_p113.indd   112 04/06/2013   18:14 The numbers
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 113
Consolidated income statement summary – continuing operations
2009
£m 
2010
£m 
2011
£m 
2012
£m 
2013
£m
Segment revenue
Cheese 244.2 260.0 223.1 229.6 231.3 
Spreads 192.0 178.6 183.2 211.3 194.5 
Dairies 1,108.2 1,081.2 1,089.8 1,069.0 951.6 
Other 11.0 10.8 6.1 4.8 4.2 
Group 1,555.4 1,530.6 1,502.2 1,514.7 1,381.6 
Segment profit
Cheese 34.3 16.9 28.0 35.5 33.3 
Spreads 29.5 19.5 18.6 23.2 25.7 
Dairies 7.9 34.9 27.1 10.2 10.3 
Associates & joint ventures 7.3 0.1 (0.2) (0.3) – 
Group including share of joint ventures 79.0 71.4 73.5 68.6 69.3 
Less: share of associates & joint ventures (7.3) (0.1) 0.2 0.3  – 
Group 71.7 71.3 73.7 68.9 69.3 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (1.6) (0.8) (0.3) (0.8) (0.4)
Exceptional items (24.0) 2.0 (1.1) (93.9) (56.5)
Profit on disposal of joint venture 50.4 2.0  –  –  – 
Finance costs (29.5) (22.4) (20.6) (21.1) (18.7)
Other finance income/(charges) – pensions 6.9 (0.5) – 5.5 5.9 
Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ net profit/(loss) 7.3 0.1 (0.2) (0.3) – 
Profit/(loss) before tax 81.2 51.7 51.5 (41.7) (0.4)
Adjusted profit before tax 49.5 49.0 52.9 47.5 50.6 
Balance sheet summary
Property, plant & equipment, goodwill and intangibles, investments 837.1 794.4 800.6 713.9 375.9 
Inventories, receivables, payables, deferred income and provisions 86.8 43.7 21.9 45.8 74.1 
Total operating assets 923.9 838.1 822.5 759.7 450.0 
Financial instruments excluding amounts included in net debt 4.2 0.9 5.0 0.9 1.5
Tax (92.0) (70.3) (90.3) (70.1) (17.2)
Retirement obligations (63.3) (142.4) (60.1) (79.8) (67.2)
Disposal group held for sale (excluding cash) – 3.7  –  –  – 
Net debt (415.8) (337.2) (311.6) (336.4) (59.7)
Net assets 357.0 292.8 365.5 274.3 307.4 
Non-controlling interests (4.7) (3.0) –  –  – 
Shareholders’ equity 352.3 289.8 365.5 274.3 307.4 
Cash flow summary
Generated from operating activities 129.1 145.9 128.1 84.5 19.1 
Dividends from joint ventures 2.9 0.1  –  –  – 
Fixed asset investments (net of grants) (49.3) (26.9) (48.5) (53.1) (46.0)
  82.7 119.1 79.6 31.4 (26.9)
Interest paid (30.3) (22.1) (19.8) (23.6) (18.0)
Taxation paid (9.2) (10.5) (16.1) (14.1) (4.7)
Dividends paid (32.3) (24.3) (25.4) (26.5) (27.4)
Purchase of businesses (1.3) (1.9) (0.1) (12.3) (0.6)
Other items (principally asset disposals) 49.4 18.3 7.4 20.3 354.3 
Movement in net debt 59.0 78.6 25.6 (24.8) 276.7 
Basic earnings/(loss) per share from continuing operations (pence) 45.9 27.7 30.1 (29.1) – 
Adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing operations (pence)* 30.0 27.4 29.9 28.9 29.9 
* Adjusted basic earnings per share excludes exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest
Group financial history 114 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013
Shareholders’ information
Company Registrar and shareholder enquiries
If you have administrative enquiries concerning your shareholdings  
in the Company, such as the loss of share certificates, change of 
address, dividend payment arrangements, amalgamation of 
accounts, please contact the Company’s registrar by writing to, 
Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, 
Kent BR3 4TU or by telephone on (UK) 0871 664 9266.  
(Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras). Lines are open 
9.00am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday. From overseas please call  
+44 800 181 4706.
Capita also provides online facilities for shareholders to check their 
holdings and update their details. Registering is easy, and there is no 
fee involved, simply access www.dairycrestshares.com
Payment of dividends
Shareholders may arrange to have their dividends paid directly into a 
bank or building society account using the Bankers Automated 
Clearing System (BACS). Bank mandate forms are available from 
Capita whose details appear above or you can register your 
mandate details online at www.dairycrestshares.com
Low cost share dealing service
If you do not have share dealing arrangements in place, Dairy Crest 
has a low cost share dealing service arranged by Capita Share 
Dealing Services. Shareholders wishing to use the service should 
either visit the Capita Share Dealing website at www.capitadeal.com 
or call 0871 664 0445. (Calls cost 10p per minute plus network 
extras). From overseas please call +44 203 367 2686. Lines are 
open 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday. 
Gifting shares to charity
Shareholders who have a small holding of shares on the register 
whereby their value makes them uneconomic to sell, may donate 
these shares to charity under the Sharegift Scheme – administered 
by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation – a registered charity. Information 
can be found at www.sharegift.org Telephone: 020 7930 3737.
General information
General information about Dairy Crest can be found on our 
corporate website, www.dairycrest.co.uk
Investors who have questions relating to the Group’s business 
activities should contact: 
Investor Relations, Dairy Crest Group plc, Claygate House, 
Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN. 
Telephone: 01372 472200
e-mail: investorrelations@dairycrest.co.uk
Financial calendar
Dividends Final
Ex-dividend Wednesday 26 June 2013
Record date Friday 28 June 2013 
Payment date Thursday 1 August 2013
Group results (Anticipated)
Half Year (Interims) November 2013
Preliminary Announcement 
of 2013/14 results May 2014
2013/14 Report and Accounts 
circulation June 2014
Analysis of ordinary shareholders at 21 May 2013
Holders
Number % Shares %
Category
Individuals and other holders 18,117  87.50  30,415,305  22.26 
Insurance companies, pension funds, banks,
   nominees and limited companies 2,589  12.50  106,192,826  77.74 
 20,706 100.00  136,608,131 100.00
Size of holdings
Up to 5,000 shares 19,105  92.27  25,964,287  19.01 
5,001 – 20,000 shares 1,351  6.52  10,175,572  7.45 
20,001 – 100,000 shares 133  0.64  5,881,588  4.30 
Over 100,000 shares 117  0.57  94,586,684  69.24 
 20,706 100.00  136,608,131 100.00 
72236_Glasshouse_p114.indd   114 04/06/2013   18:33 This report is printed on Hello Silk paper. 
This paper has been independently certified as meeting  
the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC)  
and was manufactured at a mill that is certified to the 
ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards. 
The inks used are all vegetable based.
Printed at Pureprint.
Designed and produced by Tor Pettersen & Partners.
Photographic direction by Hudson Wright Associates.
Board photography by Ed Hill.  Dairy Crest Group plc   Annual Report 2013
Dairy Crest Group plc 
Annual Report 2013
Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey KT10 9PN
Company No: 3162897
Visit our website at 
www.dairycrest.co.uk
http://www.dairycrest.co.uk/investors/
72236_Glasshouse_Cover.indd   1 02/06/2013   02:19
