 Dairy Crest Group plc   Annual Report 2014
Dairy Crest Group plc 
Annual Report 2014
Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey KT10 9PN
Company No: 3162897
Visit our website at 
www.dairycrest.co.uk
http://www.dairycrest.co.uk/investors/
THINKING
DIFFERENTLY This report is printed on Hello Silk paper. 
This paper has been independently certified as meeting  
the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC)  
and was manufactured at a mill that is certified to the 
ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards. 
The inks used are all vegetable based.
Printed at Pureprint.
Designed and produced by Tor Pettersen & Partners.
Photographic direction by Hudson Wright Associates.
Board photography by Ed Hill. 
THINKING
DIFFERENTLY
THINKING
DIFFERENTLY
Cows pictured with kind 
permission of their owners: 
John S. Pile (Farms) Ltd, 
Middle Farm, Lewes, East 
Sussex and D.Goodwin 
& Sons, Hill House Farm, 
Lindfield, West Sussex; 
both of whom supply their 
milk to Dairy Crest. Strategic report The numbers Governance
 2 At a glance
  Strategic report
 4 Our business model 
 6 Our strategy
 8 Our people
 11 Acting Chairman’s statement
 12 Chief Executive’s review
 14 Principal risks and uncertainties
 17 Performance
 17 – Spreads & butters
 18 – Cheese & whey
 20 – Dairies
 22 – Milk Procurement
 23 – Corporate Responsibility
 28 – Financial review
  Governance
 32 Board of Directors and Advisers
 34 Management team
 35 Corporate governance
 45 Directors’ remuneration report
 63 Directors’ report
 66 Statement of Directors’
  responsibilities
  The numbers
 67 Independent auditor’s report
 69 Consolidated income statement
 70 Consolidated statement
  of comprehensive income
 71 Consolidated and Parent
  Company balance sheets
 72 Consolidated statement
  of changes in equity
 73 Parent Company statement
  of changes in equity
 74 Consolidated and Parent
  Company statement of cash flows
 75 Accounting policies
 81 Notes to the financial statements
 127 Group financial history
 128 Shar eholders’ information
Dairy Crest is the largest UK-owned dairy food 
company. We process and market nutritious fresh 
milk and branded dairy products. The Company 
has a well-established strategy, a clear vision, 
robust values and good people.
 The year ended 31 March 2014 was one 
of consolidation for Dairy Crest. Following the 
transformational sale of our French spreads 
business, St Hubert, last year we have continued 
to execute our long term strategy of growing our 
key brands and other added value sales and 
reducing our costs.
 We constantly innovate, bringing new products 
to market and new ways of working across 
the business.
 We are a responsible business and have 
recently been awarded 4.5 stars by Business in 
the Community, their highest ranking in the whole 
of the UK.
 Dairy Crest is well positioned to generate 
growth which will benefit everyone associated 
with the business.
ConTenTS
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 1
notice: Limitations on Director liability – 
The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide 
information to members of the Company and it 
has been prepared for, and only for, the members 
of the Company, as a body. The Company its 
Directors, employees, agents and advisors do 
not accept or assume responsibility to any other 
person to whom this document is shown or 
into whose hands it may come and any such 
responsibility is expressly disclaimed. Under the 
Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the 
liability of Directors in respect of statements in 
and omissions from the Report of the Directors 
contained on pages 4 to 33 and 35 to 44. Under 
English law the Directors would be liable to 
the Company (but not to any third party) if the 
Report of the Directors contained errors as a 
result of recklessness or knowing misstatement 
or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but 
would not otherwise be liable. The Report of the 
Directors has been drawn up and presented in 
accordance with and in reliance upon English 
company law. Liabilities of the Directors in 
connection with that report shall be subject to the 
limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Cautionary statement regarding forward 
looking statements – The Group’s reports 
including this Annual Report and Accounts and 
written information released or oral statements 
made to the public in future, by or on behalf 
of the Company and the Group, may contain 
forward-looking statements. By their nature, 
these statements involve uncertainty since future 
events and circumstances can cause results 
to differ materially from those anticipated. The 
forward-looking statements reflect knowledge 
and information available at the time of their 
preparation and, except to the extent required by 
applicable regulations or by law, the Company 
and the Group undertake no obligation to update 
these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this 
Annual Report and Accounts should be construed 
as a profit forecast.
Non-GAAP measures of financial performance 
used throughout this Annual Report and 
Accounts are defined in the Financial review 
on pages 28 to 31 and in Note 1 to the 
financial statements. 2 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
AT A GLAnCe
Product groups
Spreads revenue
13% 23%
Spreads proﬁt
52% 19%
Cheese revenue Cheese proﬁt
68% 25%
Dairies revenue Dairies proﬁt
Dairy Crest produces some of 
the UK’s leading spreads and butter 
brands. We focus on two key brands 
Clover and Country Life.
 We also manufacture and sell 
Frylight one calorie cooking spray.
% of total Group 
Revenue excludes other revenue. Profit is product 
group profit excluding associates
Dairy Crest has the leading 
cheese brand in the UK, Cathedral 
City, and a world-class cheese supply 
chain. Cathedral City is made at our 
Davidstow creamery in Cornwall from 
milk supplied by local dairy farmers. 
The cheese is matured, cut and 
wrapped at our purpose-built facility in 
n uneaton from where it is despatched 
to retailers. We also have a smaller 
cheese packing facility at Frome, 
Somerset which provides the business 
with additional flexibility. Whey, a 
by-product of cheese-making, is also 
produced at Davidstow and is currently 
dried and sold as whey powder.
We process and deliver fresh 
conventional, organic and flavoured 
milk to major retailers, ‘middle ground’ 
customers including smaller retailers, 
coffee shops and hospitals, and 
residential customers.
 We also manufacture and sell FRijj, 
the leading fresh flavoured milk brand, 
cream and milk powders.
Vision
Dairy Crest is the largest UK-owned dairy food company, processing 
and selling fresh milk and branded dairy products in the UK
•	
To build market-leading 
positions in branded and 
added value markets
•	
To focus on cost 
reduction and efficiency 
improvements
•	
To improve quality of 
earnings and reduce risk
•	
To generate organic 
growth and to make 
acquisitions and 
disposals where they 
will generate value
Strategy
•	
Cathedral City continues to grow market 
share and is now Britain’s 18th largest 
grocery brand (Source: The Grocer)
•	
Cathedral City brand extended outside of 
cheese for the first time with Baked Bites 
– Cathedral City biscuits
•	
On track to commence demineralised 
whey powder (a base ingredient for infant 
formula) production in 2015
•	
Increased profits from Dairies arising 
from strong property sales
•	
Cost savings delivered ahead of target
•	
FRijj capacity extended and new flavours 
and pack sizes successfully introduced
•	
In a difficult butter and spreads market 
Clover grew volume but lost a little market 
share, Country Life spreadable grew and 
outperformed the market but sales of 
Country Life block butter declined 
•	
The rationalisation of our spreads and butter 
manufacturing onto one well-invested site is 
nearing completion
•	
Frylight sales have grown strongly in the year
Highlights
Contribution to Group
Who we are
•	
We are proud of our links to 
the countryside, our dairy 
heritage and the part they 
play in everyday life
•	
We want to earn the right 
to consumers’ loyalty by 
providing healthy, enjoyable, 
convenient products
•	
We aim to meet 
consumers’ needs and 
go where this takes us
•	
As we grow, we will look 
after our people and 
the communities where 
we work
Spreads & butters Cheese & whey Dairies Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 3
Chard
Severnside
Crudgington
Chadwell Heath
Hanworth
Foston
Nuneaton
Frome
Davidstow
Kirkby
Erith
10 11 12 13 14
Adjusted proﬁt
before tax* (£m)
Revenue 
(£m)
337.2
311.6
336.4
59.7
142.2
Net debt
(£m)
10 11 12 13 14
1,530.6
1,502.2
1,514.7
1,381.6
1,391.0
10 11 12 13 14
49.0
52.9
47.5
49.7
65.3
Dairy is now worth 
£10.6 bn
*
Before exceptionals, 
amortisation of 
acquired intangibles 
and pension interest 
Dairy
£10.6 bn
Source: 
IRI 52 weeks ended 
29 March 2014
Financial highlights Markets
No1 UK 
dairy spread
No1 UK 
branded cheese
Production sites
Country Life milk
Frylight 1Cal
Fresh milk 
to retailers
No1 ready 
to drink 
flavoured milk
Residential 
delivery – 
‘milk&more’
Spreads & butters
Cheese & whey Dairies
Dairy is 
now worth
£ 10.6bn
Source:
IRI 52 weeks ended
29 March 2014 4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Cream for 
manufacturing
Potted cream
Bulk butter
Buttermilk
Dairy spreads
Skimmed milk 
powder
Middle ground
Residential
Retail
Packaged milk Dairies and Spreads Whey
Cheese Cheese
Spreads & butter
Dairies
Cheese & whey
Butter
Cream
Packet butter
Raw milk
oUR bUSineSS moDeL
Dairy Crest is the largest UK-owned dairy food 
company. Our business depends on milk and we 
make sure we use every drop we buy. This diagram 
shows how milk flows through our business and the 
products we make from it. 
 We have three product groups: Cheese & whey, 
Spreads & butters and Dairies. 
Milk Procurement
A sustainable supply of high 
quality milk is important to 
Dairy Crest. We buy 1.9 
billion litres each year – 
around 1 litre in every 6 
produced in Great Britain.
Cheese & whey
We process over 400 million 
litres of milk into cheese each 
year; which is all sourced direct 
from dairy farmers in Devon 
and Cornwall and turned into 
cheddar cheese at our 
creamery in Davidstow.
 Currently we dry the whey 
that is produced as a 
by-product of making cheese 
and sell it to food 
manufacturers. In future we 
plan to make demineralised 
whey powder – a key 
ingredient in infant formula.
Spreads & butters
Our Spreads & butters 
operation makes butter and 
dairy spreads from cream 
separated from the milk 
processed by our Dairies 
operations and vegetable oil.
Making the most from milk Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 5
Strategic report
Cream for 
manufacturing
Potted cream
Bulk butter
Buttermilk
Dairy spreads
Skimmed milk 
powder
Middle ground
Residential
Retail
Packaged milk Dairies and Spreads Whey
Cheese Cheese
Spreads & butter
Dairies
Cheese & whey
Butter
Cream
Packet butter
Raw milk
Dairies
Our Dairies operations process 
around 1.4 billion litres of milk 
each year. Most is sourced 
direct from dairy farmers 
across the southern half of 
England and Wales. Milk 
production is seasonal with 
more being produced in the 
spring, but because our 
consumers want to drink the 
same amount every day, we 
turn any surplus milk we have 
into skimmed milk powder and 
butter. Over 90% of the milk 
purchased for our Dairies 
operations is sold in liquid form, 
through UK retailers, ‘middle 
ground’ customers ranging 
from coffee shops to hospitals, 
and direct to consumers’ 
doorsteps by our milkmen.
 Today’s consumers prefer to 
drink lower fat varieties of milk 
so we separate the cream and 
sell it or churn it into butter.
 Our Dairies operations also 
produces a range of potted 
cream for consumers to enjoy. 6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
oUR STRATeGy
Our vision
Dairy Crest has a clear 
strategy. We have also 
created a strong vision 
and robust values for the 
business which underpin 
all we do.
We constantly innovate, bringing 
new products to market and 
new ways of working across the 
business.
We aim to generate cash and 
reward shareholders with a 
progressive dividend.
During the year we have refined 
our key performance indicators 
which are summarised opposite. 
These KPIs are also used as 
measures for our Long Term 
Alignment Plan (LTAP) for 
Directors and senior employees. 
(See pages 59 to 60 for more 
detail).
We are proud of our links to 
the countryside, our dairy 
heritage and the part they 
play in everyday life
We want to earn consumers’ 
loyalty by providing healthy, 
enjoyable, convenient products
Our values
WE LISTEN
Consumers are at the heart of our 
business
WE CREATE
We constantly look for new and 
better ways of doing things
1 To build market-leading 
positions in branded and 
added value markets
2 To focus on cost 
reduction and efficiency 
improvements
3 To improve quality of 
earnings and reduce risk
4 To generate organic 
growth and make acquisitions 
and disposals where they will 
generate value
Cathedral City continued its strong performance and 
again significantly outperformed the market. It is now 
Britain’s 18th largest grocery brand (Source: The 
Grocer, March 2014).
We also made progress with Country Life 
Spreadable, although Clover, FRijj and Country Life 
block butter all lost market share.
Frylight one calorie cooking spray, a brand we 
acquired in 2011/12, is making good progress.
We have identified and  committed to invest £45 
million to start manufacturing demineralised whey 
powder, adding value to the whey we produce as a 
by-product of cheese manufacture.
Projects initiated in the year have delivered annual 
benefits of £25 million – ahead of our £20 million 
target.
Greatest cost savings have arisen from the 
reorganisation of the business into ‘One Dairy Crest’.  
This reorganisation was completed early in the year 
and combined our Foods and Dairies businesses into 
one management and operating structure. It allows 
us to have an integrated supply chain and will lead 
to further efficiencies and greater focus on the 
consumer.
We have also made savings by on-going closure of 
depots, increased use of lighter polybottles for milk 
and reduced distribution costs.
Since last year’s disposal of St Hubert we have not 
identified any suitable acquisition opportunities and 
are investing in our existing business which has lower 
execution risk. 
The demineralised whey project will also give us 
access to new markets.
We have also introduced innovative milk purchasing 
contracts where prices are calculated based on a 
formula. This adds predictability for both us and the 
dairy farmers who supply us.
We continue to simplify the business and have sold 
our depot based business in the North West of 
England. We have also shut Proper Welsh Milk and 
are carrying out a strategic review of FoodTec.
Operational performance – pages 17 to 22
Financial performance – page 28
Corporate responsibility performance – 
page 23
See how we make ‘The most from milk’ 
through our integrated business model – 
pages 4 and 5
Further details of our LTAP – pages 52 
and 53
Our strategy Progress 2013/14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 7
Strategic report Strategic report
Our vision
We aim to meet 
consumers’ needs and 
go where this takes us
As we grow, we look after our 
people and the communities 
where we work
Our values
WE LEAD 
We value success and 
strive to be the best
WE RESPECT
We value our people and are stronger 
together
WE CARE
We act responsibly with a passion 
to do the right thing
We continue to seek to grow our four key brands 
and will support them with television advertising. 
We will also keep bringing out new innovations.
This will be focused around making our brands 
healthier, without compromising on taste 
and improving the packaging so that we give 
consumers a choice of sizes and make our brands 
more convenient for them.
We expect further progress from Frylight which 
plays to the healthy and convenient drivers.
We expect to complete the demineralised whey 
investment in 2014/15 and that this project will 
generate an additional £5 million annual profit from 
2015/16.
We expect to benefit from lower spreads 
manufacturing costs as we consolidate production 
at Kirkby and close Crudgington.
Our focus remains on reducing the cost of moving 
milk through the supply chain and we have several 
initiatives underway to do this.
Following the One Dairy Crest reorganisation we 
will continue to integrate our planning to reduce 
wastage and deliver improved customer service.
As residential sales decline we will continue to 
manage the associated costs and use property 
sales to mitigate any associated impact on profits.
We will continue to develop milk contracts that 
reduce risk.
We have agreed with the Pension Scheme Trustee 
to reduce the scheme’s exposure to higher risk 
assets.
We will continue to assess investment 
opportunities and make disposals where 
appropriate.
Since the year end we have further simplified the 
business by selling our remaining 30% stake in 
Wexford Creamery Limited. 
We are confident that we can generate profit 
growth in all three of our product groups over the 
medium term.
We also expect to increase free cashflow.
There is a more detailed review of our performance against KPIs on pages 59 and 60
DeLiVeR progressive dividends with cover between 1.5 and 2.5 times (31 March 2013: 
increase 1.5%; cover 1.4 times).
In the year ended 31 March 2014 the Board is recommending a total dividend up 3%. This 
is covered 1.9 times.
GRoW earnings before, interest, tax and depreciation (adjusted EBITDA) and adjusted 
profit before tax (adjusted PBT). In the year ended 31 March 2014 adjusted EBITDA is up 
7% and adjusted PBT up 31% (31 March 2013: adjusted EBITDA unchanged; adjusted 
PBT +7%).
DeLiVeR an acceptable return on capital employed (ROCE).
ROCE for the year ended 31 March 2014 was 13.8%, ahead of the long term target of 12% 
(31 March 2013: 13.3%).
mAin TAin net debt / EBITDA within a range 1 – 2 times.
At 31 March 2014 net debt / EBITDA was 1.3 times (31 March 2013: 0.6 times).
GRoW our four key brands ahead of the market.
In the year ended 31 March 2014 only one of our four key brands grew ahead of the market 
(31 March 2013: three key brands in growth). (Further details, page 13). 
DeLiVeR cost savings initiatives.
Cost reduction projects initiated in the year ended 31 March 2014 have delivered annual 
benefits of £25 million, ahead of our annual target of £20 million (31 March 2013: £23 
million).
ACHie Ve revenue targets for products developed in the last 3 years.
In the year ended 31 March 2014 around 4% of our total revenue and 7% of our key brand 
revenue has come from such sales against a target of 10% (31 March 2013: 5% of total 
revenue; 9% of key brand revenue).
imPRo Ve corporate responsibility measures.
Under a new marking system, we have been awarded 4.5 stars by Business in the 
Community and are its highest ranked UK business (31 March 2013 BITC Platinum Big 
Tick Award).
Our strategy Future priorities Key performance indicators and  
performance in the year ended 31 March 2014 8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
oUR PeoPLe
Learning & development
One of the main focus areas for our learning and development 
team this year has been the roll out of our integrated business 
planning process which followed the reorganisation of our 
business into a single One Dairy Crest structure. The extensive 
training that has taken place, which will continue this year, 
focuses on the working processes and behaviours to achieve 
optimum performance from our new business model. Once 
fully implemented, integrated business planning will enhance 
forecasting and give employees more empowerment to deliver 
our overall strategy. 
Our Eden engineering and technology apprenticeship 
programmes, run by MGTS and Reaseheath College 
respectively, continue to go from strength-to-strength. 
Launched in 2012 the engineering programme is a four year, 
full time academic and work based advanced apprenticeship. 
This provides participants with a comprehensive 
understanding of the dairy industry, a NVQ Level 3 in 
engineering systems and a BTEC Level 3 in operations and 
maintenance engineering. The technology programme, now in 
its fifth year, is helping us find and develop the technical and 
operational leaders of tomorrow, which is vital for the future 
of dairy processing in the UK. As part of the programme, 
students learn key science principles associated with dairy 
and process improvement techniques required to run an 
efficient modern dairy operation. 
To be the best we have to attract 
and retain people of the highest 
calibre. To achieve this we offer 
employees a wide range of training 
and development opportunities, 
ensure the vast majority of 
employees have access to a 
bonus or incentive scheme and 
have introduced policies that help 
encourage people to achieve a 
healthier work life balance.
thinking 
differently investing in our front line management
Manufacturing sites have been running development 
programmes focusing on core management skills, and 
encouraging managers to learn together in teams. These 
programmes benefit from the active support and involvement 
of the site senior managers, providing the context and 
background to the programme and ensuring effective transfer 
of learning to achieve maximum business benefit.
As well as providing our staff with face-to-face training we 
also continue to invest in our online development offering so 
that staff can enhance their skills and knowledge. Since 2010 
1,570 of our people have registered on our online e-learning 
portal and made use of the extensive suite of courses on 
offer. 
 Looking to the future and developing the skills of young 
people, Dairy Crest provides expertise and support in a 
number of areas.
 In response to a recognised shortage of people studying 
food science in the UK, we continue to sponsor A-Level and 
GCSE course places at Nottingham and Reading universities’ 
Food Science summer schools. In 2013 we continued our 
support for the IGD’s ‘Feeding Britain’s Future’ programme 
which saw employees from across Dairy Crest support 
over 400 unemployed young people in their quest to get a 
job. Building on last year’s events held at Davidstow and 
Nuneaton, this year we also held over 30 joint events with 
Sainsbury’s, Asda and Marks & Spencer at their stores or in 
the local job centres.
Strategic report
Since 2010
1,570
of our people have registered on our
online e-learning portal 
employee engagement
We strive to improve employee engagement as this 
delivers improved customer service and productivity. After 
a year of considerable change in the business there was, 
understandably, a slight decrease in our overall employee 
engagement score. Encouragingly, this does remain 
above the UK average and staff told us we had many of 
the attributes in place to be a high performing company, 
including, ‘commitment to great customer service’, ‘high 
product quality’ and ‘continually looking for ways to improve’. 
As a result of the survey, local action plans have been put 
in place and progress will be regularly monitored by the 
Management Board.
 One of the most important ways of enhancing engagement 
is by ensuring that staff know what is happening across the 
business in a timely fashion. To help accomplish this we 
have in place several staff communication channels including 
an intranet which can be accessed at work and at home, 
and weekly and bi-monthly staff briefings. In addition to this 
Dairy Crest also runs an annual strategy roadshow that all 
employees are invited to attend. Last year 177 sessions took 
place across our workplaces with 76% attendance (an increase 
on the previous year of over 10%). Finally, our CEO, Mark Allen, 
hosts employee lunches once a month at different workplaces 
where staff have the opportunity to hear business updates and 
ask the questions important to them.
Diversity
Our mission for diversity and inclusion at Dairy Crest is for all 
of our people to feel valued, listened to and able to reach their 
potential. We will attract, develop and retain from the widest pool 
of talent because we truly believe that it is key to our business 
success.
 We recognise that diversity brings fresh ideas and 
innovations to improve our products, services and working 
practices, delivering commercial benefit and shareholder value.
 Employees are encouraged to reach their full potential 
regardless of their age, gender, marital status, disability, 
nationality, colour, ethnic origin, sexual orientation or religious 
affiliation. The Company will not tolerate discrimination 
or harassment on any of these grounds. In 2014 we will 
re-launch our Diversity Committee to reflect the One Dairy 
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 9 Crest structure, having recently agreed membership and 
objectives to further drive our progress in this area.
 People who are able to balance their working life with 
their private life are not only happier but they are also more 
productive. To help make sure we achieve this at Dairy 
Crest we allow staff from all areas of the business to apply 
for flexible working hours. In addition, we offer employees 
the opportunity to take sabbaticals and to undertake 
voluntary work. Our maternity and paternity leave policies 
are significantly above the statutory minimum. All employees, 
regardless of their status, location or role should feel that 
they are treated flexibly in their ways of working according to 
business needs.
Reward and recognition
We know that being valued and recognised at work is 
important. To this end, alongside a range of market leading 
benefits including pension and holiday entitlements above 
statutory levels, the vast majority of employees are members 
of a bonus or incentive scheme which is linked to either 
personal or site/company performance. To share further in the 
Company’s success, all employees are invited on a regular 
basis to join a ‘sharesave’ scheme. 
 Pension auto-enrolment went live in April 2013 with 
over 90% of our workforce now participating in a workplace 
pension scheme that after a year’s service offers an employers’ 
contribution above that required by law. Recently we have 
launched a supporting, bespoke pensions and retirement 
infosite to encourage responsible retirement saving. 
 
Finally, we’re proud that we have in place a recognition 
scheme that means any member of staff can nominate 
another employee for an award that carries with it a financial 
reward. Last year 551 such awards were approved. As well 
as celebrating individual achievements we have a team of 
the year award recognising the great innovations that can be 
made when employees work well together. 
Over 90%
of our workforce now participate in 
a workplace pension scheme
All employees
Gender proﬁle
Senior management
Female
23%   
   Male
77% 
Female
17%   
   Male
83% 
OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED
10 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 11
ACTinG CHAiRmAn’S STATemenT
Living by our Vision and Values
The Board fully recognises the importance 
of corporate governance in underpinning 
the integrity and performance of the 
business. It is acutely aware of Dairy 
Crest’s responsibilities to the farmers 
who supply us with milk, our employees 
and franchisees, our pensioners, the 
communities in which we operate and 
our shareholders. We use the framework 
provided by our Vision and Values to 
balance the different interests of these 
groups. This has served us well in the past 
and continues to underpin everything we 
do today.
A simpler, more financially robust 
business 
Last year’s transformational sale of our 
French spreads business, St Hubert, made 
Dairy Crest a simpler, more financially 
robust business and provided a strong 
base for future growth. By continuing to 
execute our long term strategy of growing 
our key brands and other added value 
sales and of reducing our costs we have 
continued to strengthen our business.
 The pleasing financial results for the 
year ended 31 March 2014, delivered 
against the backdrop of a trading 
environment that remains challenging, 
demonstrate that the transformed 
business can deliver improving returns 
for shareholders.
 We have chosen not to make 
any significant acquisitions since the 
disposal of St Hubert. We gave thorough 
consideration to doing so but to date we 
have not identified any opportunities which 
could provide the attractive returns which 
we can achieve by continuing to invest for 
growth in our existing business. The Board 
believes that choosing to invest in projects 
such as demineralised whey production 
provides a better route to profitable growth 
and has lower execution risk. Entering the 
demineralised whey powder market will 
also allow us to access new markets and 
should contribute to increased stability.
It is with sadness that, in my 
current role of Acting 
Chairman, I am delivering this 
year’s statement on behalf of 
our Chairman, Anthony Fry, 
who is currently away from the 
business for health reasons.
 Anthony has led Dairy 
Crest’s transformation with 
great skill over the last four 
years and our thoughts are 
with him and his family at this 
time. We wish him a full and 
fast recovery.
Corporate responsibility
Dairy Crest is a responsible business that 
demonstrates its commitment to corporate 
responsibility in many ways. This has been 
recognised by Business in the Community, 
including coming second in its Company 
of the Year competition last year. This year 
we have been awarded 4.5 stars by BITC 
and are its highest ranked business in 
the UK.
A stable board
Other than the appointment of Tom 
Atherton as Group Finance Director from 
23 May 2013, there have been no Board 
changes or Management Board changes 
during the year. 
increased dividend recommended
The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 15.4 pence per share, making 
a full year dividend of 21.3 pence per 
share, up 2.9% from last year. This 
dividend is covered 1.9 times by adjusted 
basic earnings per share, up from 1.4 last 
year. Looking beyond this year we propose 
to maintain our progressive dividend 
policy within a target cover range of 1.5 to 
2.5 times.
Summary
The year ended 31 March 2014 was 
a good one for Dairy Crest. We have 
consolidated the significant changes we 
made last year and are benefiting from 
operating as one business. Good progress 
is being made with our demineralised 
whey project which will provide increased 
stability and profit growth.
•	On-going growth for Cathedral City 
ahead of market 
•	Continued focus on costs: £25 
million annualised cost savings 
delivered in 2013/14, with a further 
£20 million identified for 2014/15 
•	Strong Corporate Responsibility 
commitment: highest UK ranked 
business by BITC
•	Adjusted profit before tax up 31% to 
£65.3 million, including higher profits 
from sale of surplus properties 
•	Year end net debt at £142 million 
leaves gearing within targeted range 
at 1.3 
•	Proposed final dividend payment up 
3% to 15.4p
•	Reorganised into one business 
structure 
•	Demineralised whey project on 
track to enhance annual profits from 
2015/16 by £5 million – in exclusive 
talks with one customer 
•	Move to a single spreads 
manufacturing facility nearing 
completion 
•	Reduced pension scheme 
contributions from 2014/15
o perating highlights Financial highlights Strategic highlights
Strategic report
Richard macdonald Acting Chairman
21 May 2014 12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
The rationalisation of our butter and 
spreads manufacturing onto one well-
invested site at Kirkby, Merseyside is 
nearing completion and our plan to close 
our factory in Crudgington is progressing.
 In parallel to the continued 
strengthening of our existing operations 
we have initiated a major project to add 
value to the whey we produce as a 
by-product of cheese manufacturing. In 
total we are investing £45 million at our 
cheese creamery at Davidstow, Cornwall 
to allow us to manufacture demineralised 
whey powder which we expect to boost 
annual profits by around £5 million from 
2015/16. We are in the process of agreeing 
a contract with an exclusive customer 
which is already well established in the 
appropriate markets. The customer will 
also provide technical advice as the 
project moves forward. 
 Adjusted Group profit before tax 
increased by 31% to £65.3 million (2013: 
£49.7 million). Adjusted basic earnings per 
share increased by 39% to 40.8 pence 
(2013: 29.4 pence). Key factors behind 
the increase in adjusted Group profit 
were higher profits from selling surplus 
properties, which increased by £10.5 
million, and lower interest costs which 
reduced by £8.8 million. 
 Exceptional costs fell sharply in the 
year from £56.5 million in the year ended 
31 March 2013 to £10.4 million in the 
year ended 31 March 2014 reflecting the 
reduced level of restructuring across the 
business.
 Group net debt at 31 March 2014 
was £142 million, up from £60 million at 
31 March 2013, but significantly lower 
than at 31 March 2012, prior to the sale 
of St Hubert, when it was £336 million. 
Net debt fell significantly in the second 
half of the year. Significant factors in the 
increase from 31 March 2013 were one-
off payments resulting from the sale of 
St Hubert to the pension scheme and 
bondholders which together totalled £49 
million. As noted above, we also invested 
significantly at Kirkby and Davidstow.
CHieF exeCUTiVe’S ReVieW
I start my review by echoing the thoughts of Richard Macdonald, 
our Acting Chairman, regarding Anthony Fry, our Chairman. 
Everyone in Dairy Crest wishes Anthony a successful recovery. 
His guidance and inspiration are missed.
Summary
The year ended 31 March 2014 was one of consolidation for Dairy 
Crest. Following the transformational sale of our French spreads 
business, St Hubert, last year we have completed our 
reorganisation into one business structure and are seeing the 
benefit of this project in the form of greater focus on consumers 
and a more integrated supply chain. This has also helped in our 
constant drive to reduce costs. Our largest brand, Cathedral City, 
continues to grow strongly.
market background
The year has seen an on-going decline 
in food sales by the major retailers, our 
principal customers. They continue 
to be intensely competitive and liquid 
milk in particular remains a key product 
where they are seeking to offer value to 
consumers. In this environment it has 
been difficult to pass higher input costs 
onto our customers and this emphasises 
the importance of our own cost reduction 
initiatives.
 Towards the end of the year most 
major retailers chose to reduce the price 
at which they sell milk to consumers. This 
had the effect of further increasing the gap 
between these prices and those which 
we charge our residential customers. We 
expect this to accelerate the downward 
trend in our residential sales.
 The background on the supply side 
is very different. UK milk production is 
buoyant and dairy farmer confidence 
high. We remain committed to paying fair, 
market related prices to the dairy farmers 
who supply us with milk. The milk prices 
we pay our farmers increased by 8% over 
the year ended 31 March 2014 and we 
continue to work with our direct suppliers 
to offer them a choice of milk supply 
contracts. These include those with prices 
determined by formulas, which allow them 
to optimise their production. We have 
broadly maintained our milk purchase 
prices since the year end although market 
prices are now starting to fall. 
 Looking ahead, European milk supply 
is likely to increase after the abolition of 
production quotas from April 2015. UK 
production, which has been below the 
available quota for over a decade, is 
unlikely to be affected by this change. 
Consumer preferences and the economics 
of milk transportation make it unlikely that 
liquid milk will be imported into the UK. It 
is possible that some additional cheese 
produced in Ireland, for example, may 
be exported to the UK but other global 
markets may well be more attractive. If 
more cheese was to be imported into the 
UK it could put downward pressure on 
commodity cheese prices and farmgate 
milk prices. However, we anticipate that 
our market-leading Cathedral City brand, 
will continue to perform strongly.
branded sales
We have continued to support our four key 
brands, Cathedral City, Clover, Country 
Life and FRijj. As the table shows, total 
sales of these brands have grown by 
4% this year. Cathedral City continued 
its strong performance and again 
significantly outperformed the market. It is 
now Britain’s 18th largest grocery brand 
(Source: The Grocer, March 2014).  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 13
In the butters and spreads market, which 
is declining, Clover’s market share reduced 
slightly. However, Country Life spreadable 
grew share and outperformed its major 
spreadable rivals. Country Life block butter 
sales fell as we reduced promotions due 
to higher cream input costs. 
 Over the year as a whole FRijj sales 
fell by 4%. However, FRijj sales rebounded 
strongly in the second half following the 
upgrade of our production facilities in the 
first half.
 Innovation is key to the success of 
these brands. We have an ambitious 
target that 10% of our sales will come 
from products introduced in the last 
three years. This year around 4% of our 
total revenue and 7% of our key brand 
revenue has come from such sales. This 
is a key target as we continue to move our 
focus to a consumer driven, demand led 
business. To support this we are building a 
new innovation centre in partnership with 
Harper Adams University, Shropshire.
Cost cutting
Cost reduction remains an important 
part of our strategy. We have made good 
progress to improve efficiency across 
the business. Cost reduction projects 
initiated in the year have delivered annual 
benefits of £25 million, ahead of our £20 
million target. We have also continued 
to benefit from work done in previous 
years. The greatest cost savings this 
year have arisen from the reorganisation 
of the business into ‘One Dairy Crest’. 
Next year we expect to benefit from 
lower spreads manufacturing costs as a 
result of the consolidation of our spreads 
manufacturing into Kirkby as well as lower 
milk distribution costs.
Future prospects
The current trading environment is 
challenging. However, the strength of our 
key brands and our proven ability to cut 
costs and drive efficiencies mean that we 
remain confident that we can generate 
profit growth in all three of our product 
groups over the medium term. Additional 
profit growth will come from our project 
to add value to the whey stream at 
Davidstow, which is on track.
 Our net debt is comfortably within our 
targeted range and we expect to be able 
to reduce it further in the future as capital 
expenditure on our existing business 
falls back towards depreciation and we 
continue to sell surplus properties. Debt 
reduction will also be supported by the 
reduction in our annual contributions 
to the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund 
from £20 million to £13 million for the next 
two years.
brand market Dairy Crest 
sales growth*
market statistics**
      Brand growth Market growth
  Cheese
+12% +10%
unchanged
 
Butters, spreads, 
margarine
-6% -6% -4%
 
Butters, spreads, 
margarine
-4% -7% -4%
  Ready to drink 
flavoured milk
-4%
unchanged
+16%
Total
 
+4% +3%
 
* Dairy Crest value sales 12 months to 31 March 2014 v 12 months to 31 March 2013  ** IRI data 52 weeks to 29 March 2014
Strategic report
4% 
Sales growth of 
four key brands
8% 
Increase in milk 
price paid to 
our farmers
39%
Increase in 
Adjusted basic 
earnings per 
share
31 % 
Increase in 
Adjusted Group 
profit before tax
mark Allen Chief Executive
21 May 2014 14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
We manage risk to help us achieve our strategic objectives 
and protect our reputation 
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group’s 
risk management processes and the Board is responsible for the 
appropriate identification of risks and the effective implementation 
of mitigating activities. 
 Internal Audit provides independent assurance to management 
and the Audit Committee as to the effectiveness of mechanisms 
put in place to mitigate risks. This process explicitly recognises 
the relationship between Internal Audit and Risk Management. 
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the processes are adequate 
and appropriate. Further details are set out in the Corporate 
Governance report on pages 35 to 44.
 Following the reorganisation of the business into One Dairy 
Crest we have revised how we compile our risk register. Central, 
demand and supply risks are identified separately by members of 
the Management Board and senior managers and consolidated 
into an initial register that is then reviewed and refined by the 
Management Board as a whole to create the Group Risk register. 
The Board formally reviews the Group Risk Register annually when 
the budget is set. The Company Secretary and General Counsel 
is responsible for highlighting to the Board any changes to the 
Group’s Risk Register identified during the intervening periods.
 The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set 
out in the table below. This is not intended to be an exhaustive 
analysis of all risks facing the Group.
Threats to objectives identified
Performance monitored
Business objectives set or reviewed
Existing controls assessed
Threats quantified
Improvements implemented
Risk register
Group board
Management board
Commercial risks
Reduced profitability
Risk area and potential impact
We operate in extremely competitive markets. If we fail to compete effectively 
or are subject to higher input prices that cannot be recovered by raising 
selling prices without losing volumes we could lose sales and profits.
mitigating controls
We set ourselves the target of continually reducing our cost base and are able 
to invest in our supply chain to help achieve this.
No one customer accounts for more than 15% of total revenues and we 
continually strive to widen our customer base. Despite challenging trading 
conditions we have maintained investment in marketing our four key brands. 
Our innovation programme continues to generate new products that reinforce 
our appeal to customers. We recognise the importance of strong customer 
relationships and the executive team plays an active part in maintaining and 
developing these. They are also involved in major customer negotiations. 
We conduct customer surveys to benchmark our performance and we 
continuously monitor the service and quality levels provided to our customers 
and consumers, and have procedures in place to react quickly to any issues. 
Our commitment to corporate responsibility is an important part of our overall 
proposition to some customers. 
Reduced demand from consumers 
Risk area and potential impact
Consumers could move away from dairy products for economic, health, 
ethical, or other reasons leading to lower sales and profits.
mitigating controls
Consumers are at the heart of our business and we regularly monitor 
consumer trends. We continue to promote the health benefits provided 
by dairy products and develop healthier products. We also continue to 
maintain our focus on developing a compelling new product development 
pipeline, enabling us to react to consumer trends, for example with more 
environmentally-friendly packaging, and healthier variants of our key brands. 
We have increased our direct involvement with government to understand and 
influence future legislation that could affect future consumer demand.
input cost volatility
Risk area and potential impact
Volatile milk and non-milk costs (vegetable oils, diesel, electricity, gas and 
packaging) could reduce margins unless we can manage cost risk, find other 
cost efficiencies elsewhere or increase selling prices.
Milk prices could become increasingly volatile as European milk production 
quotas are abolished from April 2015.
mitigating controls
This area is closely reviewed by the Management Board which has 
established a risk committee to monitor and hedge forward non-milk 
commodity prices as appropriate. The risks associated with purchasing 
large volumes of milk have been reduced by establishing milk pools linked to 
major customers. We seek to absorb short term cost movements through 
supply chain efficiencies. Our purchasing and commercial teams have clear 
lines of communication between them to ensure customers are kept aware 
of changes to our cost base and requests for price increases can be fully 
justified.
We have reviewed the effect that we believe the abolition of milk quotas will 
have on our business. We believe it is commodity cheese markets, in which 
we don’t operate, that are most likely to be affected, but we will continue to 
monitor this closely.
PRinCiPAL RiSKS AnD UnCeRTAinTieS Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 15
o perational risks
inability to source milk
Risk area and potential impact
Without milk we would not have a business. Restricted milk supply due to 
economic factors, weather, fuel availability or an epidemic which affects 
dairy cows could restrict milk supply. This in turn could lead to lower sales 
and profits. Consumer confidence in dairy products could also be adversely 
affected.
mitigating controls
We invest significant resources in maintaining strong relationships with 
our milk suppliers by attending forums and discussing current issues and 
pressures that affect both the farms and our business. The majority of our 
milk comes directly from farms on contracts that include a notice period of 
between three months and one year. Our experienced milk procurement 
team understand milk production and are alert to changes in supply. We aim 
to pay a fair, market related milk price and closely monitor the milk price we 
pay to suppliers in order to ensure we can purchase the right quantity of milk 
to meet demand forecasts and have established procedures for allocating 
milk between our businesses if a short term shortfall in supply does arise. We 
have contingency plans established for major incidents and work closely with 
DEFRA and industry bodies to ensure these are appropriate. These plans are 
regularly tested and reviewed with the Management Board. 
Failure of a key supplier
Risk area and potential impact
We are dependent on key suppliers and could lose sales and face financial 
penalties from customers if suppliers’ failure leaves us unable to supply. 
Failure of key information technology suppliers could adversely affect our 
financial systems.
mitigating controls
Our purchasing team regularly monitors suppliers’ ability to supply and puts 
in place alternative arrangements, including dual purchasing, if appropriate. 
We have taken specific actions to reduce our dependency on information 
technology suppliers.
o ther operational risks
Risk area and potential impact
An accident, product contamination, the failure of equipment or systems or 
deliberate act could disrupt production, affect food safety, cause injury, and/or 
cause reputational damage with adverse consequences. We are also reliant on 
information technology and exposed to losses in the event that systems fail.
mitigating controls
Dairy Crest takes product quality very seriously and has rigorous quality 
controls in place to minimise potential risks. Plans are maintained to respond 
quickly to any product quality concerns and minimise any impact to the 
Group. Our business is also committed to the health and safety of all our 
employees and maintains systems aimed at ensuring everyone is able to 
complete their work safely. All of our manufacturing sites have a trained 
engineering resource, are supported by our major equipment suppliers and 
hold appropriate stocks of spare parts. They also all have fire protection 
systems and regular fire drills. Our information technology systems are 
regularly backed up and duplicated in the majority of areas. We have 
procedures in place to help us deal with major incidents and insurance cover 
for property damage and business interruption risks.
People risks
Disease epidemic 
Risk area and potential impact
A disease epidemic such as swine flu could adversely affect the health of 
our employees and prevent them working, leaving us unable to service 
customers.
mitigating controls
Contingency plans which include working with industry bodies are in place for 
known epidemic risks. 
Recruitment and retention 
Risk area and potential impact
We need to retain high quality employees to provide customers and 
consumers with safe, high quality products and services.
mitigating controls
We carry out rigorous selection procedures and benchmark pay and benefits 
to ensure we can attract and retain the best people. We have a wide bonus 
scheme and a range of other incentives to reward good performance. Our 
Long Term Alignment Plan aligns the interest of management to shareholders 
and helps to retain key senior employees. There is a performance review 
and talent management scheme to identify and develop our own people. To 
encourage two-way communications with employees we invite them all to 
attend an annual roadshow at which they are encouraged to ask questions 
important to them. We undertake regular surveys to monitor the relationship 
with our employees and their engagement.
Financial risks
Pension scheme
Risk area and potential impact
Despite the action we have taken to reduce the risks associated with our 
pension scheme, including closing the scheme to future accrual in 2010 and 
buying insurance to meet the liabilities associated with many of our retired 
members in 2008 and 2009, the deficit could continue to increase and we 
may then have to increase our contributions.
mitigating controls
We continue to work closely with the Trustee of the Pension Fund to improve 
the Fund’s financial position at an acceptable cash cost to the business. Our 
one-off cash contribution of £40 million to the Pension Fund in April 2013 
reduces the risk of the deficit increasing.
Legal and compliance risks
Risk area and potential impact
Our sector is subject to a number of complex statutory requirements. There is 
a risk of fines or lawsuits and reputational damage if we fail to comply.
mitigating controls
We have a strong in-house legal function supported by external advisers. 
We have undertaken Group-wide training in respect of competition law and 
actively monitor and adjust to on-going legal and regulatory changes. We 
have a Business Conduct Policy, and a programme designed to ensure that 
all relevant employees understand what is and is not permissible under the 
UK Bribery Act.
major project risk
Risk area and potential impact
To remain competitive we periodically undertake major transformational 
projects following strategic reviews. Successful execution of these projects 
is often key to delivering strategic objectives. At the same time we have to 
ensure that major projects do not divert from the on-going day-to-day delivery 
of products and services to our customers.
mitigating controls
We have a good track record of managing projects and use experienced and 
appropriately skilled senior managers to lead these. Supervisory governance 
structures are also put in place to help successful delivery. We are aware that 
too much change concentrated in too short a timescale can be detrimental 
and manage this by ensuring key project resource is full time with appropriate 
backfilling and use of third parties.
Strategic report 16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
thinking 
differently Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 17
performance
£30m 
Investment to create 
a modern manufacturing 
and packing facility 
in Kirkby
£ million 2013/14 2012/13
r evenue 177.4 194.5
product group profit 16.8 25.5
margin 9.5% 13.1%
Dairy Crest
Unilever 27%
Arla 33%
 Retailer 
 own 
 label 
15%    
Other 8%
Source: IRI 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014
Share of retail butter and 
spreads market by value
17%
We make butter at our Severnside 
dairy in Gloucestershire and pack 
butter and make spreads in Kirkby, 
merseyside. We have two key brands, 
c lover (a dairy spread) and c ountry 
Life (spreadable and block butter). 
We also have several secondary 
brands in the spreads category and we 
produce and sell f rylight one calorie 
cooking spray through mH foods.
 Reported revenue for the year ended 
31 March 2014 fell by 9% to £177.4 million. 
Profits from the Spreads and butters 
product group declined by 34% to £16.8 
market share. For the first time Country 
Life spreadable sales were higher than 
those of Country Life block butter.
 In addition, the declining spreads 
market has led to some retailers reducing 
the amount of space they allocate to 
butters and spreads in their store and one 
of our secondary brands, Utterly Butterly, 
was particularly adversely affected. 
Good performance by f rylight one 
calorie cooking spray
We purchased MH Foods in 2011/12 and 
have grown sales and profits consistently. 
Following a significant rationalisation 
of the product range last year we have 
cut production costs and reinvested 
some of the savings in higher marketing 
expenditure. The brand has responded 
well and sales and profits have grown.
Looking forward – a more efficient 
business
We will shortly complete the rationalisation 
of our spreads and butter manufacturing 
onto one well-invested site in Kirkby, 
Merseyside, where we have spent over 
£30 million to create a modern, efficient 
facility. As previously announced, we 
expect to close our factory in Crudgington, 
Shropshire, in the year ending 31 
March 2015. We expect this to generate 
significant cost savings that will benefit 
the future profitability of our Spreads and 
butter operations.
million, resulting in a margin of 9.5% (2013: 
profit £25.5 million, margin 13.1%)
Although the year was a difficult one 
overall, lower cream prices in the last few 
months of the year and strong results 
from MH Foods meant the second half 
performance was better than the first. 
Looking forward, the action we have taken 
to reduce our cost base will make us 
more efficient and allow us to continue to 
compete strongly. Spreads and butters 
remains a high margin product group.
mixed performance of key brands in a 
difficult market
The butter and spreads market continued 
to decline during the year. Market volumes 
fell by around 5% and values by 4%. Own 
label sales grew at the expense of brands 
and butter sales declined less than those 
of spreads. Both butters and spreads were 
heavily promoted but this failed to reverse 
the downward trend in consumption.
 Clover grew volume but lost a little 
value market share. During the year we 
introduced a new range of healthy spreads 
into the Clover range and supported them 
and the other products in the range with 
TV advertising.
 Country Life spreadable grew sales 
and volumes, outperforming the market 
and other spreadable brands. However 
higher cream prices for most of the year 
increased the cost of Country Life block 
butter and we chose to promote it less. 
This led to significantly lower sales and 
Strategic report
Spreads & butters 18 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
product group grew by 19% to £39.3 million, 
resulting in a margin of 14.9% (2013: profit 
£33.1 million, margin 14.3%).
 Total retail cheese market 
sales remained unchanged in the year 
although volumes fell back by 3%. 
Cathedral City sales strongly outperformed 
the market, growing 12% by value and 
9% by volume. As a result Cathedral City 
now has an 11% share of retail cheese, 
up from 10% last year. Retailer own label 
cheese sales account for nearly 55% of 
this sector. Cathedral City sales continue 
comfortably to exceed the sales of the 
next three cheddar brands added together 
and it is now Britain’s 18th largest grocery 
brand (Source: The Grocer, March 2014). 
Innovation driving c athedral c ity’s 
success
New product development remains key 
to the success of Cathedral City. Grated 
mini-bags, spreadable cheese and 
Selections have all widened the appeal 
of the brand, as have new launches 
under the children’s brand, Cathedral City 
Chedds. For the first time we extended the 
Cathedral City brand outside of cheese 
with Baked Bites – Cathedral City cheese 
biscuits – which are manufactured by 
Burton’s Biscuit Company. Cathedral 
City also continues to lead the way with 
innovative packaging and has recently 
responded to consumer demand by 
introducing new ‘easy-tear’ packaging 
across its range.
 Advertising and promotions are also 
important and Dairy Crest has continued 
to invest in Cathedral City’s award winning 
advertising campaign.
 Alongside Cathedral City, Dairy Crest’s 
premium cheddar brand, Davidstow, has 
performed strongly in the year. Sales of 
this brand, supported by new varieties 
and improved packaging, have grown 
3% by value. 
Although nearly all of its sales are 
branded, Dairy Crest does supply cheese 
to two premium retailers for their own label 
products. One of these customers, Marks 
& Spencer, has awarded Dairy Crest sole 
supply of its entire cheddar range from 
April 2014.
 Dairy Crest’s Cheese operations are 
highly efficient and product group profits 
continue to be boosted by improved 
efficiencies at all three of its manufacturing 
locations.
Demineralised whey powder project 
on track to grow future profits
Profits have also been supported by 
strong returns from whey. At present this 
is dried into powder and sold to food 
manufacturers. Dairy Crest has initiated 
a project to invest in the manufacture 
of demineralised whey powder, a base 
ingredient of infant formula. We plan 
to spend around £45 million on new 
manufacturing assets at Davidstow before 
May 2015. We expect production of 
demineralised whey powder to commence 
in mid 2015. We anticipate that the 
project will have a five year cash payback 
and enhance annual Cheese and whey 
product group profits by over £5 million 
from 2015/16. We are in the process of 
agreeing a contract with an exclusive 
customer who is already well established 
in the appropriate markets and who will 
provide technical advice as we move the 
project forward.
Looking forward – well positioned 
for growth
Looking forward our strong cheese brands 
and efficient production facilities, together 
with the exciting whey project, leave us 
well positioned to increase the already 
strong returns from this product category.
Dairy c rest produces and markets 
the UK’s leading cheese brand, 
c athedral c ity, as well as the premium 
Davidstow cheddar brand.
 The short supply chain starts with 
milk from around 400 dairy farms in 
c ornwall and Devon. This is made into 
cheese at our Davidstow creamery in 
c ornwall. The cheese is then matured 
for on average 11 months at our 
purpose-built n uneaton facility before 
being cut packed and distributed 
to customers. We also operate a 
highly flexible packing site in f rome, 
Somerset. The whey produced as a 
by-product of cheese making is also 
processed at Davidstow.
 Since the year end we have further 
simplified the business by selling our 
remaining 30% stake in Wexford Creamery 
Limited for €3.4 million. 
 Reported revenue for the year ended 31 
March 2014 grew by 14% to £264.6 million 
and profits from the Cheese and whey 
Source: IRI 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014
Other 89%
Share of the total retail
cheese market by value
11%
Cathedral
      City
£ million 2013/14 2012/13
r evenue 264.6 231.3
product group profit 39.3 33.1
margin 14.9% 14.3%
PeRFORMANCe CONTINUeD
 12 % 
Growth in Cathedral 
City sales by value
c heese & whey Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 19
Strategic report
thinking 
differently 20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
thinking 
differently PeRFORMANCe CONTINUeD
Dairy c rest processes and delivers 
fresh conventional, organic and 
flavoured milk to major retailers, 
‘middle ground’ customers (including, 
for example, smaller retailers, coffee 
shops and hospitals) and residential 
customers. The Dairies product group 
analysis includes revenues and profits 
from these operations. It also takes in 
revenues and profits from one of our 
four key brands, fr ijj, the country’s 
leading ready to drink milk brand, and 
cream and milk powders
 We operate three modern dairies at 
Severnside, Chadwell Heath and Foston 
where we pack milk into polybottles; 
Hanworth, where we pack milk into glass 
bottles for residential customers; and a 
specialist cream potting facility at Chard. 
In addition we have around 70 operational 
depots from which we deliver milk to 
middle ground and residential customers. 
 We also run an ingredients operation 
that helps balance seasonal milk supplies 
by drying surplus milk and selling 
skimmed milk powder. We aim to minimise 
throughput in this business to reduce our 
exposure to commodity markets as far 
as possible.
 The raw milk that we purchase from 
farms contains more cream than the milk 
sold to customers does. We use some 
of the surplus cream generated during 
the bottling process to make butter with 
cream being transferred into our Spreads 
operation at market prices. The balance 
of this surplus cream that is not used to 
make butter is sold by our ingredients 
operations either as bulk butter or cream.
 Reported revenue was broadly flat in 
the year at £944.8 million (2013: £951.6 
million) with higher selling prices offsetting 
lower volumes. Profits from the Dairies 
product group increased to £18.8 million 
(2013: £ 9.8 million). 
medium term target to achieve 3% 
return on sales
We have set ourselves the target of 
achieving a 3% return on sales from our 
Dairies operations and in the year ended 
31 March 2014 the margin increased from 
1% to 2%.
£ million 2013/14 2012/13
r evenue 944.8 951.6
product group profit 18.8 9.8
margin 2.0% 1.0%
Dairies Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 21
The upgrade of our production facilities 
also delayed the full launch of our new 
long life product which we now expect to 
take place in the year ending 31 March 
2015. This will allow us to grow FRijj sales 
into convenience and other outlets where 
less refrigerated storage is available.
c ost saving initiatives underpin 
improved profitability
Across Dairy Crest as a whole we 
implemented annual cost saving initiatives 
during the year of £25 million, ahead of 
our established target of £20 million. Our 
Dairies operations benefitted most from 
these. Key elements of the savings were 
the on-going closure of depots, increased 
use of lighter bottles which contain less 
plastic and reduced distribution costs. 
 The total annual cost of moving milk 
from the farms that supply us to our 
customers via our dairies exceeds £200 
million. We use a combination of our own 
transport and that of third parties. We 
collect milk for our dairies from over 1,000 
farms across england and Wales and 
deliver daily to many of our customers 
including around 700,000 residential 
customers and the individual stores 
of most of our major retail customers. 
More efficient vehicles, improved routing 
software and better driver utilisation 
and training can all make a significant 
difference to the cost of this operation. 
We expect to make further savings in our 
distribution costs in the future.
r ecovering higher milk costs
The prices we paid our farmers for milk 
increased by around 8% during the year. 
This resulted in additional raw material 
costs for our Dairies operations of over 
£40 million. For most of the year these 
higher costs have been recovered from 
higher cream selling and transfer prices 
(from our Spreads operations), and higher 
selling prices to our customers. In a tough 
consumer environment increasing selling 
prices was not easy and we chose to stop 
supplying some smaller customers who 
were not prepared to pay higher prices. 
 Higher prices to farmers also meant 
that we had to increase the price we 
charged our residential customers. 
There are 4 elements to our plan:
•	
Growing fr ijj
•	
r educing costs and becoming more 
efficient
•	
Getting the right returns from fresh 
milk sales 
•	
maximising profits from the sale of 
surplus properties
Increased profits from these actions 
are offset by cost inflation and reduced 
residential sales which command an 
above average margin.
 The improvement in margins in the 
year came about from higher profits 
from the sale of redundant properties. 
For the year ended 31 March 2014 these 
were £18.2 million against £7.7 million 
in the prior year. The uplift was partially 
offset by higher employee bonuses 
which would not have been paid had the 
higher level of property profits not been 
achieved. Margins excluding property 
profits declined partly as a result of these 
higher bonuses and partly because of 
lower cream prices in the last part of the 
year, which were not reflected in lower 
milk purchase prices.  We anticipate 
profits from the sale of surplus properties 
to continue at a more normal level of 
between £5 million and £10 million in 
future years.
fr ijj – on track for growth after 
upgrade of production facilities
Over the year as a whole FRijj sales 
declined by 4% by value and 5% by 
volume. FRijj sales were down 17% 
by value in the first half as we scaled 
back promotions while we increased 
our production capacity and capability. 
Second half sales were much stronger 
following the upgrade of our production 
facilities in the first half. We also 
introduced new flavours and new pack 
sizes and configurations into the market. 
Sales in the second half of the year ended 
31 March 2014 grew by 11% compared 
to the second half of the year ended 31 
March 2013.
 The ready to drink flavoured milk 
market, in which FRijj is the leading brand, 
has continued to grow strongly during the 
year. Total market sales are up by 16% in 
value and 9% by volume.
Strategic report
Delivering milk to these customers remains 
important to us but sales continue to 
fall as more customers choose to buy 
their milk from shops rather than having 
it delivered by their milkman. Overall 
residential sales fell by 10% compared to 
the previous year. We continue to support 
our internet proposition for residential 
customers, milk&more, and we believe 
this has reduced the decline in residential 
sales.
 As a result of lower milk sales to 
middle ground and residential customers 
we sold our depot based business in the 
North West of england and we also closed 
a small dairy in Wales, Proper Welsh Milk. 
We are also carrying out a strategic review 
of FoodTec UK Limited, a small subsidiary 
which manufactures food ingredients.
 Towards the end of the year cream 
prices fell and this adversely impacted 
revenues and profits from the Dairies 
operations – with some benefit being seen 
in our Spreads operations. 
 At the same time most major retailers 
chose to reduce the price at which they 
sell milk to consumers. This had the effect 
of further increasing the gap between 
these prices and those which we charge 
our residential customers. We expect 
this to have an adverse effect on our 
residential sales and the profits we make 
from this delivery channel.
property profits exceed expectations
As residential and middle ground sales 
reduce we close distribution depots. Sales 
of these surplus properties generate cash 
and the profits from them contribute to 
our targeted 3% margin. In January 2014 
we completed the sale of one such depot, 
Nine elms, in London. The sale of this 
particularly valuable property for £17.6 
million generated a profit of £15.3 million 
and contributed to total property profits of 
£18.2 million in the year. Looking forward 
we anticipate profits from the sale of 
depots we no longer require are likely to 
return to a more normal £5 million to £10 
million in future years.
£25m
Cost saving initiatives 
implemented during  
the year 22 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Dairy Crest’s farmer 
commitment – we will:
Continue to innovate & build 
added value sales across 
our dairy product range in 
the UK and overseas 
Work in true partnership 
with farmers – offering a fair 
and market-related price 
and a choice of relevant 
contracts 
Provide the most 
comprehensive farm 
support service for farm 
businesses
Remain true to our British 
dairy heritage and strong 
values
milk production following poor production 
conditions in 2012. This was made 
available to all our farmers on standard 
contracts and resulted in a substantial 
proportion of our farmers achieving a price 
premium on their additional milk.
f armer support & benefits
In addition to the new contract 
opportunities, we have invested in the 
service we provide to our farmers through 
our Farm Business team. In mid 2013 we 
introduced the Farm Business Centre, a 
new head office based team with farming 
knowledge and experience, focused on 
direct supply management. We have also 
refreshed the role of our regional, field 
based team of Farm Business Managers, 
focusing them on delivering the many 
added value services we offer our farmers. 
 This new service package has 
received excellent feedback and is further 
supported by our interactive website, Farm 
Connect. The website provides a valuable 
farm management tool, with online access 
to individual farm production and payment 
data, contractual and technical information 
and news about Dairy Crest. 
 Our farmers continue to benefit from 
the unique WhiteGold Service provided 
by AB Sustain. This independent on-farm 
advisory service is recognised by our 
farmers as adding significant value to their 
business through practical support and 
advice on farm assurance together with 
technical and regulatory requirements. 
Working together
The development of the new contract 
options and farmer service package has 
been done in close consultation with 
DCD. This collaborative approach has 
further strengthened our relationship. 
There is close engagement with DCD at 
all levels within our business including the 
executive team. 
efficiency and innovation
As we are supporting our farmers to be 
more efficient for a sustainable future, 
we remain focused on our milk collection 
service and how we can use technology 
to improve operational performance and 
standards. Developments within our 
ex-farm collection fleet, including GPRS 
data transfer, auto sampling and new 
‘blue sky’ routing systems, have enabled 
us to increase efficiency and improve 
the way we work with our farmers and 
our customers.
f uture milk supply
We are continuing to work to expand the 
proportion of milk we buy from our direct 
supplying farms through both recruitment 
and growth on our current farms. We have 
a very competitive offer with our portfolio 
of contract options being supported by a 
strong service package.
 Our Farm Business team continues to 
engage in meetings and events with our 
farmers and with industry opinion formers, 
to help facilitate and encourage the 
sharing of best practice and knowledge 
transfer.
We are proud of our links to the 
countryside and of our British dairy 
heritage. We have a strong working 
relationship with our farmers, many 
of whom have supplied us for over 15 
years, which is greatly valued by our 
business. our strategy is geared to 
building our direct supplying farmer 
base and working in partnership 
with our farmers in order to deliver a 
sustainable supply chain.
 Whilst we experienced much better 
weather during 2013 than the previous 
year, with a warm and sunny growing 
season, severe flooding was a real 
challenge in some southern parts at 
the year end. The rise in the number 
of extreme weather patterns over 
recent years makes this an increasingly 
prominent factor in predicting future milk 
production levels. 
 At the start of 2013 we saw milk 
production held back due to the knock–on 
effects of poor weather in the previous 
year, but this has recovered towards 
the latter part of the year, resulting in 
extremely strong supply as we enter the 
peak period of milk production for 2014.
milk price and contracts
As well as experiencing different weather 
patterns during the year, we recognise that 
our farmers have very different business 
models and aspirations. Our aim is to treat 
every one of our farmers individually and 
to offer flexibility and choice through a 
portfolio of contract options so that they 
can optimise their production from which 
both they and we benefit. 
 Last year we launched an innovative 
formula pricing mechanism, the first milk 
processor to do so. We are very proud 
of the process we undertook to deliver 
a new way of milk pricing. We did this in 
partnership with Dairy Crest Direct (‘DCD’) 
which is the independent organisation 
which represents our farmers. Our formula 
is independent, responsive to dairy 
markets and farm costs and transparent. 
It has helped build trust in the milk pricing 
process, therefore strengthening the 
relationship we have with our farmers.
 Following the success of the initial 
12-month formula contract we have 
developed two new Liquid contract 
options for the coming milk year, both 
using the formula mechanism. The new 
options have been developed with DCD, 
taking in account feedback from our 
farmers for more straightforward contract 
terms and competitive pricing. 
 We also introduced a Volume Incentive 
Scheme to help farmers increase their 
Looking ahead
Optimism amongst dairy farmers in the UK 
is higher than at any point in recent years 
– as a result of better weather, higher milk 
prices and reduced costs. Milk production 
is at 10 year highs and we are seeing 
evidence of higher levels of farm 
investment, both to expand production 
and upgrade existing facilities. This is really 
positive news for our business and a key 
factor in ensuring we continue to deliver a 
sustainable and efficient supply of milk for 
Dairy Crest. 
 Although we do not expect the 
abolition of UK milk quotas from April 2015 
to significantly affect UK milk production, 
as noted above, production was extremely 
strong in the second half of the year ended 
31 March 2014 and we expect favourable 
conditions and strong supply in the year 
ending 31 March 2015. Our balanced 
business and well-invested assets leave 
us well placed to be able to deal with any 
further uplift.
PeRFORMANCe CONTINUeD
milk procurement Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 23
Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Report
In line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 our 
greenhouse gas (‘GHG’) emissions are quantified below.
 We follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard to calculate emissions 
from the combustion of fuels (Scope 1) and from purchased 
electricity, heat, steam and cooling (Scope 2). Carbon 
emission factors are used to convert each activity that 
gives rise to GHG emissions to a carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO
2
e) using the latest UK government conversion factors for 
company reporting.
 The GHG data reported below relates to emissions from 
activities in the operational control of Dairy Crest Group 
plc from 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014 consistent with our 
financial reporting period.
Green House Gas Emissions for 1 April 2013 to  
31 March 2014
Scope 1 87,256 Tonnes CO
2
e
Scope 2 74,646 Tonnes CO
2
e
Total – Scope 1 and 2 161,902 Tonnes CO
2
e
Intensity ratio 74.71
kg CO
2
e per tonne of 
milk intake
Emissions from 
biomass fuel
27,619 Tonnes CO
2
e
Scope 1 emissions data includes material sources of fossil 
fuels used at manufacturing sites and depots and road fuel 
used in the transport and distribution of intermediate and 
finished products. Road fuel used in company cars operated 
by Dairy Crest for business travel is also included. Minor 
losses of refrigerants used in cooling equipment have been 
converted to tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent and are 
included for completeness.
Scope 2 emissions data includes material sources of 
purchased electricity used at manufacturing sites, depots and 
offices.
 We employ a ‘per tonne of milk intake’ denominator as the 
most effective measure of relative performance. This measure 
is consistent with our internal target setting process and how 
we communicate progress.
 Consistent with the GHG Protocol emissions from 
biologically sequestered carbon are reported separate 
from the other Scopes. These comprise emissions from 
combustion of biomass fuel at our creamery in Davidstow 
that significantly reduce Scope 1 emissions from fossil fuels. 
Emissions from combustion of biomass fuels are not included 
in the emissions intensity ratio reported above. 
Dairy Crest places considerable store in its 
Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) work and oversight 
It is a core principle of the business to hold high values in the 
safety and wellbeing of our people; to engage with our local 
communities; to reduce our environmental footprint; and to 
play our part in a healthy marketplace. More information can 
be found in our CR Online Report which includes progress 
the business has made against its 40 CR pledges.
Winner 
Jaguar Land 
Rover Sustainable 
Marketplace 
Award 2013
Winner
Sustainable Supply 
Chain Award 2013
Top 50 
Reputation Institute
Highly 
Commended
Responsible 
Business of the 
Year 2013
First place
Dairy Crest 
came top of the 
prestigious BITC 
CR Index 2014  
with 4.5 stars (98%)
Winner
Food Manufacturer 
Awards – Judges 
Award for 
Sustainability 2013
Corporate Responsibility
Awards
Strategic report
Finalist
FT Corporate 
Responsibility 
Company of the 
Year 2014
Winner
Sustainable 
Leaders Awards 
– Supply Chain 
Sustainability 2013 24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
New brands launched in 2013/14
Clover Additions Utterly Butterly Lightly
Clover Lighter than Light Frylight Garlic Oil
Environment 
As a leading dairy 
manufacturer and 
processor we are aware of 
global trends and we are 
determined to play an active 
role in tackling climate 
change, reducing waste 
and looking after our natural 
resources.
Greenhouse gas emissions
As one of the UK’s leading dairy 
companies we are determined to 
play our full part in helping tackle 
climate change by reducing our energy 
consumption and dependency on 
fossil fuel.
 Since 2007 we have reduced our 
carbon emissions equivalent from 
manufacturing energy use by 23.7% and 
are on course to exceed our target of a 
30% reduction by 2020. Progress to date 
has principally been achieved through the 
use of environmentally friendly biomass 
boilers and through everyday efficiency 
saving and awareness programmes. Good 
examples of these include the investment 
we are making to replace lighting systems 
with LED alternatives in our factories which 
are much more energy efficient and the 
progress we are making to replace the few 
smaller remaining refrigeration systems 
that run on HCFC’s by 2015. 
 Today our fleet of primary distribution 
vehicles has an average carbon equivalent 
emissions rate of 794 grams per kilometre 
travelled and all company cars have an 
average published emissions level of less 
than 121 grams per kilometre travelled.
 Our total scope 1 and scope 2 
greenhouse gas emissions for 2013/14 are 
reported on page 23.
PERFORMANCE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
Environment Marketplace 
Primary distribution vehicles 
have an average carbon 
equivalent emission rate of 794 
grams per kilometres travelled
We avoid sending 91.1 % 
of our manufacturing waste to landfill
Our lighter brands have a retail sales 
value of £65.7 m
Cathedral City 
Mature Lighter: 
£33.9m
‘Lighter’ spreads 
& butters: 
£27.3m
All of the fresh 
milk we use is 
British and farm 
assured
We are committed 
to paying our 
farmers a fair, 
market led price
Dairy Crest 
has reduced 
water usage by 
17.4% 
since 2007
On target 
to achieve 
a 20% 
reduction 
by 2015
We offer
ALL staff a
free health
MOT 
The lower fat variants of our products 
have saved consumers about
10,000 tonnes
of saturated fat, 
the equivalent of approximately
83
blue whales
Since 2007
our carbon emission
equivalent from
manufacturing energy
is down by
23.7%
We are on target
to reduce this to
30% by 2020 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 25
tool provides the farmer with a detailed 
report benchmarking their results against 
industry data and provides them with 
recommendations for greater efficiency.
Waste 
We want to reduce waste that arises 
throughout our supply chain, from the 
point at which goods enter our doors right 
through to when the customer disposes 
of our packaging. Our overall aim is zero 
waste to landfill by 2015 (except where 
it is not environmentally beneficial to do 
so) and by the year end we achieved 
a 91.1% landfill avoidance across our 
manufacturing sites.
Environment 
Water
Over the course of the year we continued 
to reduce the amount of water we use 
in our sites by a further 1.7% which now 
means we have reduced water usage by 
17.4% since 2007 and are on target to 
exceed our target of a 20% reduction by 
2015 against that same base line. 
 In addition to reducing our own water 
footprint we are also helping farmers 
reduce theirs by paying for them to 
use ‘WaterWell’ an innovative on-farm 
water auditing programme. Through this 
programme our farmers can request a 
practical assessment of water usage for 
all aspects of their dairy enterprise. This 
Strategic report
In addition to avoiding sending waste to 
landfill we have also invested in new ways 
of packaging our products so they are not 
only made with less material but they are 
also made with more recycled material. 
Highlights include the continued roll out of 
our newly designed plastic milk bottle that 
is made from 15% less plastic on average 
compared to its previous counterpart and 
it is now made using up to 20% recycled 
material since February 2014.
Workplace Community 
Dairy Crest 
has reduced 
water usage by 
17.4% 
since 2007
On target 
to achieve 
a 20% 
reduction 
by 2015
We offer
ALL staff a
free health
MOT 
The lower fat variants of our products 
have saved consumers about
10,000 tonnes
of saturated fat, 
the equivalent of approximately
83
blue whales
Since 2007
our carbon emission
equivalent from
manufacturing energy
is down by
23.7%
We are on target
to reduce this to
30% by 2020
Number of accidents 
reportable to the HSC 
Progress against 3-year strategy
147
123
77 76
49
Days lost 
4,122
2,984
1,999
1,630
1,227
09
10
10
11
12
13
13
14
Number of safety issues 
reported (near misses)
Increased awareness of 
potential safety at work issues
2,669
5,239
9,327
12,354
11
12
9,078
09
10
10
11
12
13
13
14
11
12
09
10
10
11
12
13
13
14
11
12
Over the course of 2013/14 our staff 
supported over 110 local health, 
education and countryside related 
good causes
Our staff charity partner is the Prince’s 
Countryside Fund
In September 2013 we supported over 
400 young people in their quest 
to get a job through the IGD’s Feeding 
Britain’s Future Programme 
Staff volunteer to support ‘meals on 
wheels’ 26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
PERFORMANCE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
Safety at work
Our safety at work 
objective is simple; we 
want everyone who works 
for us, and with us, to go 
home to his or her family 
at the end of their working 
day without any injury or 
occupational ill health.
Although a single accident is always one 
too many, over the course of the last 12 
months we have made good progress in 
achieving our targets and the number of 
accidents with more than three days lost 
time or reportable to the HSE has fallen 
for the fifth consecutive year – since April 
2013 our accident rate has fallen by a 
further 30% to 708. 
 Despite changes by the HSE in 2012 
to the Riddor regulations which require 
companies to report accidents that result 
in seven days off work, or those involving 
specified injuries, we will continue to target 
a reduction in accidents that result in three 
days off work as we believe this target 
will help us further reduce accidents at 
work and maintain the focus required, in 
reducing all accidents with lost time. We 
Workplace 
will continue to concentrate on further 
reducing slips, trips and falls as this 
accounts for 45% of lost time accidents.
 Mirroring our progress in reducing 
accidents the number of days lost has 
also fallen for the fifth consecutive year, 
last year reducing by a further 24.7% from 
1,630 to 1,227.
 In addition to maintaining and growing 
accident awareness campaigns we have 
also worked hard to encourage colleagues 
to formally report near misses and hazards 
as we know that being aware of a potential 
problem is the most effective method 
of preventing it. We have also heavily 
promoted safety conversations, which 
include correcting unsafe behaviours and 
encouraging safe behaviours. To this end 
we have seen a continued increase year 
on year in both aspects with near misses 
and hazards increasing by 32% to 12,354 
and conversations by 118% to 53,143 
compared with last year.
Our wellbeing strategy
We are particularly proud of the 
scale and integrated approach to our 
wellbeing strategy which is based on 
three key strands:
–  for everyone who works for us, 
and with us, to be physically 
healthier
–  to use our position as a food 
manufacturer to encourage 
and engage our employees and 
consumers to live healthier 
lifestyles
–  to ensure our approach to 
wellbeing is integrated into all 
parts of our business so it reduces 
risk and enhances our reputation 
for producing healthy products
With an in-house Occupational Health 
team in place, Dairy Crest offers staff a 
range of special services including free 
voluntary health checks for all employees, 
including cholesterol and blood pressure. 
Over the course of 2013/14 almost 30% 
of employees had a health check related 
either specifically to the risks in their 
jobs or as part of our health promotion 
campaign. This builds on the 40% of 
employees who had a health check in 
2012/13. We also began a new wellbeing 
programme to deliver two wellbeing days 
at each site and depot over the next 12-18 
months, in order to increase participation 
in our voluntary wellbeing checks to a level 
cumulatively above 50% by 2018.
Independent research tells us that three 
quarters of people in the UK want to 
eat more healthily with fat, salt, sugar 
and calories respectively topping the 
concerns of consumers. To ensure we 
give consumers what they want we have 
continued to invest in our portfolio of 
lower fat brands through advertising, 
promotions, reformulation, rebranding 
and innovation.
 Consumer data shows that last year 
the lighter variants of our brands achieved 
a collective retail sales value of £65.7 
million with Cathedral City Mature Lighter 
leading the way with a retail sales value 
of over £33.9 million, our lighter spreads 
and butters brands now have a retail sales 
value of over £27.3 million. 
 It has been a busy year for innovation 
this year and over the course of 2013/14 
we were proud to develop and launch 
several healthier products including our 
Clover Additions range, Clover Lighter than 
Light, Utterly Butterly Lightly and Frylight 
Garlic Oil. 
 As part of our commitment to helping 
consumers manage their calorie intake 
and in order to meet the commitment 
we made as part of the Department of 
Health’s Responsibility Deal we have 
launched a greater range of portion sizes 
including a new 250ml sized bottle of FRijj 
milkshake and smaller individual 48 gram 
sized packs of Cathedral City Mature 
Lighter which are 150 calories.
 Dairy Crest remains fully committed 
to building a strong and secure business 
on which our farming suppliers can 
depend and as the only listed British dairy 
company we are proud that the 1.9 billion 
litres of milk we use each year to make our 
products is British and farm assured.
 We are publicly committed to 
offering our supplying farmers a fair and 
competitive milk price, help them focus on 
efficiency and best practice throughout 
the milk supply chain and provide advice 
and support services on issues such as 
legislation, animal welfare and wildlife 
support.
 We also work collaboratively with non 
farming suppliers to ensure compliance 
with our Ethical Supply Policy. The 
policy, which was introduced in 2011 and 
reviewed in 2013, is designed to extend 
our vision and values across a diverse 
and extensive supplier base, whilst 
recognising that those who supply our 
business with much needed goods and 
services operate in a variety of different 
cultural environments.
Marketplace 
We are committed to 
creating healthy, tasty 
enjoyable products, making 
it easier for consumers to 
choose healthier foods and 
to play our part in helping 
to tackle obesity. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 27
We know the actions we take 
often have an effect on the 
neighbourhoods where we 
are based, and as the main 
employer in many areas we 
believe we have a unique 
opportunity to play a positive 
role in supporting local and 
1. Looking after the countryside 
and broader environment
As the UK’s leading British owned dairy 
company we know that family run dairy 
farms are the backbone of the dairy sector 
in the UK and without them we wouldn’t 
have a business. We also know that for 
our business to remain successful the 
countryside needs to be an attractive place 
to live and that the rural economy is hugely 
important to the UK, turning over £300 
billion, employing 5.5 million people and 
offering untapped potential to generate 
another £236 billion to £347 billion per year. 
 To help achieve these aims through our 
community programme we support several 
key projects:
The Prince’s Rural Action Programme 
and The Prince’s Dairy Initiative
Through the Prince’s Rural Action 
Programme, which was until recently chaired 
by Mark Allen, we are working with a diverse 
number of companies from banks to retailers 
to understand the impact businesses can 
have on improving rural communities and 
put these thoughts into action. Through one 
such project The Prince’s Dairy Initiative, 
chaired by Lyndsay Chapman, our Director 
of Agriculture and Farming Communications, 
we are continuing to work with other 
businesses to help the most vulnerable, 
non-aligned, dairy farmers become more 
economically viable. Since we successfully 
completed the pilot with 74 dairy farms in 
2012 we have continued to make progress 
on our target of helping a further 300 farms 
by 2016.
The Prince’s Countryside Fund
Working alongside HRH the Prince of Wales 
and a handful of other businesses, Dairy 
Crest helped set up the Prince’s Countryside 
Fund the purpose of which is to; improve 
the sustainability of British farming and rural 
communities, target the areas of greatest 
need; reconnect consumers with the 
countryside and to support farming and 
rural crisis charities through a dedicated 
emergency funding stream. The latter 
of which was of particular importance 
in the winter of 2013/14 when there was 
severe flooding in many parts of the UK, in 
particular Somerset.
 By working collaboratively through the 
Fund, and with our Davidstow and Country 
Life brands, since 2010 all the companies 
involved have been able to donate £3.9 
million in grants, support over 87 rural 
projects ranging from helping upland 
farmers through to supporting rural youth 
unemployment groups the UK. In total the 
Fund has helped more than 64,000 people.
Pub is the Hub
Aware of the dwindling number of local 
facilities available to rural communities, 
and conscious that this decline has a 
detrimental effect on the sustainability of 
rural economies, we are proud to support 
‘Pub is the Hub’ a not-for-profit organisation 
that encourages local authorities, local 
communities, licensees and pub owners to 
work together to support, retain and locate 
services within rural pubs.
 To date 27 different varieties of 
services have been developed using pubs, 
including: shops, school meals, post offices, 
community centres, community cafes, 
keep fit, library services, allotments, play 
areas, take away food, cinemas, theatre, 
community travel, community acquisition 
and computer training.
 Of these projects Dairy Crest is 
particularly proud of the rural community 
shops we have helped fund in pubs in 
the South West of England – facilities that 
provide isolated communities with access to 
locally produced food and household goods. 
2. Promoting healthy living
With a significant catering and residential 
delivery business (Foodservice and 
milk&more) in 2012 we were proud to 
become the first company to support 
Elmbridge Council’s Meals on Wheels 
programme delivering much needed, hot, 
fresh meals to vulnerable people in our local 
community. 
 The support we give this programme 
was highlighted in September 2013 when 
staff from our Claygate office were filmed 
Community 
as part of the save ‘Meals on Wheels’ 
campaign which was fronted by celebrity 
cooks Si and Dave – more commonly 
known as the Hairy Bikers, who said:
 “Thank you to the lads and lasses at 
Dairy Crest who are volunteering their time 
to deliver hot meals to local people who 
need them. You’ve made a big difference to 
our saving ‘Meals on Wheels’ campaign”.
3. Supporting education and 
employability
To make sure we are able to play our part 
in helping young people onto the career 
ladder and to showcase a career in food 
production we have proactively set up a 
number of education programmes catering 
for GCSE, A-Level, undergraduate and 
postgraduate students and this year we 
again played a leading role in supporting the 
Institute of Grocers and Distributors (IGD) 
Feeding Britain’s Future Programme. 
Feeding Britain’s Future at a glance
•  Dairy Crest continues to sit on the steering 
group of the Institute of Grocers and 
Distributors (IGD) Employability Group
•  In 2013 we supported over 400 young 
people in their quest to get a job
•  We held events at our Davidstow 
Creamery and Nuneaton Distribution 
Centre 
•  We co-hosted over 30 sessions with 
Sainsbury’s, Asda and Marks & Spencer
In September 2013 we set up a new 
employability steering group to ensure that 
going forward we continue to focus on the 
skills gaps needed for both Dairy Crest 
and food manufacturing as a whole.
4. Engaging with local communities
The fourth strand of our community strategy 
is our Local Community programme which 
is owned and run by our staff. Through this 
programme any employee can put forward 
a good cause they would like the Company 
to support either through money, a product 
donation or volunteering. Over the course of 
2013/14 Dairy Crest staff supported over 110 
good causes.
Strategic report
national community projects 
that make best use of our 
expertise and knowledge, 
provide a legacy and support 
our overall business strategy. 
With this is mind our 
community programme is 
divided into four strands:
1.  Looking after the 
countryside and broader 
environment
2.  Promoting healthy living
3.  Supporting education 
and employability
4.  Engaging with local 
communities 28 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Performance continued
Overview
t he sale of our f rench spreads business,  
St Hubert, in august 2012 significantly reduced 
levels of Group borrowings and has enabled us 
to increase investment in our core uK business 
this year. t his investment, targeted at areas of 
growth opportunity and cost efficiency will help 
drive growth in future years. t he three main 
areas of capital investment are: 
•	 A	new	demineralised	whey	capability	
at Davidstow	to	take	advantage	of	high	
global	growth	in	added	value	whey	
protein	products
•	 Increased	FRijj	capacity	and	capability	
at Severnside	to	drive	the	brand	in	a	
growing	category
•	 Expansion	of	our	spreads	site	at	Kirkby	
to	enable	the	closure	of	Crudgington	
in 2014
Group profits have benefited this year from 
reduced interest charges following the St Hubert 
sale and the early repayment of loan notes in 
april 2013. f urthermore, we had higher than 
usual profits from the sale of surplus depots due 
to the gain of £15.3 million on the sale of a site in 
n ine elms, Battersea. t he trading environment 
remains challenging as milk input costs have 
increased by over £40 million in the year and 
consumers’ real incomes remain under pressure, 
however we have continued to focus on cost 
reduction and on our key brands in order to 
maintain margins. 
f inancial review
14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13
Cash generated 
from operations
(£m)
18.9
19.7
20.4
20.7
112.0
95.1
56.4
34.0
46.2
115
85
123
19
49
21.3
Total dividends 
per share 
(pence)
Gearing
(%)
Mar 
08
Sep 
08
Mar 
09
Sep 
09
Mar 
10
Sep 
10
Mar 
11
Sep 
11
Mar 
12
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0 
Net debt history Net debt (£m – left scale)
Net debt / EBITDA 
(multiples – right scale)
475 491 416 380 337 335 312 365 336
Sep 
12
Mar 
13
Sep 
13
Mar 
14
76 60 192 142
14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13
1,530.6
1,502.2
1,514.7
1,381.6
1,391.0
Revenue
(£m)
Adjusted earnings
per share  
(pence)
27.4
29.9
28.9
29.4
40.8
Product group
proﬁt 
(£m)
71.4
73.5
68.6
68.4
75.2
Before exceptional items 
and amortisation of 
acquired intangibles; 
includes associates
Before exceptional items, 
amortisation of acquired 
intangibles and pension 
interest   
Before exceptional items, 
amortisation of acquired 
intangibles, share of 
associates and discontinued 
operations   Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 29
Product	group	revenue
2014
£m
2013
£m
change
£m
change
%
Cheese 264.6 231.3 33.3 14.4
Spreads 177.4 194.5 (17.1) (8.8)
Dairies 944.8 951.6 (6.8) (0.7)
Other 4.2 4.2 – –
Total	external	revenue 1,391.0 1,381.6 9.4 0.7
f ollowing our major reorganisation at the start of the financial year 
which removed the divisional structure, we have assessed that 
the Group has only one reporting segment in accordance with 
the requirements of ifr S 8. However, we have chosen to provide 
product group analysis consistent with prior years to assist the 
users of the accounts.
Group revenue increased by 0.7% to £1,391.0 million, 
predominantly as a result of increased revenues in the c heese 
business as volumes rose and selling prices increased reflecting 
higher milk costs. Spreads revenue decreased by 8.8% as we 
promoted less butter for much of the year in an environment 
where cream prices were high and u tterly Butterly volumes 
reduced. dairies revenues decreased slightly reflecting levels of 
decline in our residential business.
Product	group	profit
2014
£m
2013
£m
change
£m
change
%
Cheese 39.3 33.1 6.2 18.7
Spreads 16.8 25.5 (8.7) (34.1)
Dairies 18.8 9.8 9.0 91.8
Share	of	associate 0.3 – 0.3 n/a
Total	product	group	profit 75.2 68.4 6.8 9.9
Remove	share	of	
associate (0.3) – (0.3) n/a
Acquired	intangible	
amortisation (0.4) (0.4) – n/a
Group	profit	on	
operations		
(pre-exceptionals) 74.5 68.0 6.5 9.6
Product group profit increased by £6.8 million to £75.2 million 
driven by a strong performance in c heese and a higher than 
usual level of property profits in dairies. o ur Spreads business 
had a challenging year as the category declined overall and we 
promoted less butter. However, our plans to close c rudgington in 
2014 are on track and this will deliver cost savings in 2014/15. 
f ollowing changes to iaS 19 that took effect from 1 april 2013, 
the Group recognises pension scheme administrative expenses 
within operating costs. all prior year amounts have been restated 
accordingly and further details are set out in n ote 20 to the 
accounts. t he table above quotes profit after pension scheme 
administrative expenses of £1.0 million (2013: £0.9 million). 
Exceptional	items
Pre-tax exceptional charges of £10.4 million have been recorded in 
the year (2013: £56.5 million).
in September 2012 we announced the closure of the c rudgington 
site with production moving to Kirkby. t his project, now nearing 
completion, will generate significant savings in future years. 
exceptional costs of £3.8 million have been recorded in the 
year, the majority of which are non-cash asset write-downs. 
c ash expenditure in the year was £2.4 million. We expect further 
exceptional costs of approximately £8.0 million in 2014/15 as this 
project comes to an end. 
in f ebruary 2013 the c ompany announced a major reorganisation, 
removing divisional structures and resulting in one unified 
business. exceptional costs of £4.4 million have been charged 
in the year being redundancy and restructuring costs. n o further 
exceptional costs will be incurred in 2014/15.
in december 2013 we announced the closure of Proper Welsh 
milk, a processing facility in Wales. in march 2014, we announced 
a strategic review of f oodt ec u K Limited, an ingredients plant 
near c rewe. in line with Group policy, the costs of closure of 
these sites, which are predominantly non-cash write-downs, have 
been classified as exceptional. in total, the exceptional costs in 
relation to the closure of these peripheral elements of the dairies 
manufacturing base amounted to £2.0 million. 
a small £0.2 million adjustment to the exceptional finance charges 
accrued in 2012/13 was made during the year. t his relates to the 
early repayment of loan notes completed in april 2013.
Finance	costs
f inance costs have reduced by £8.8 million to £9.9 million. 
t his primarily reflects the reduction in net debt following the sale 
of St Hubert in august 2012 and the further benefit from the 
early repayment of loan notes in april 2013 which removed the 
inefficiency of holding excess levels of cash on the balance sheet.
o ther finance expenses of £0.3 million (2013: £3.5 million) 
comprise the net expected return on pension scheme assets 
after deducting the interest cost on the defined benefit obligation. 
f ollowing changes to iaS 19 that took effect from 1 april 2013, 
the expected return on assets is calculated by reference to the 
discount rate applied to scheme liabilities rather than assumed 
rates of return on asset classes held by the pension scheme. Prior 
year amounts have been restated and further details are set out in 
n ote 20 to the accounts. 
o ther finance expenses are dependent upon the pension scheme 
position at 31 march each year and are volatile, being subject to 
market conditions. We therefore exclude this item from headline 
adjusted profit before tax.
interest cover excluding pension interest, calculated on total 
product group profit, remains comfortable, at 7.6 times (2013: 3.7 
times).
Profit	before	tax
2014
£m
2013
£m
change
£m
change
%
Total	product	group	profit 75.2 68.4 6.8 9.9
Finance	costs (9.9) (18.7) 8.8 47.1
Adjusted	profit	before	tax 65.3 49.7 15.6 31.4
Amortisation	of	acquired	
intangibles (0.4) (0.4) – –
Exceptional	items (10.4) (56.5) 46.1 81.6
Other	finance	expense	–	
pensions (0.3) (3.5) 3.2 91.4
Reported	profit/(loss)	
before	tax 54.2 (10.7) 64.9 n/a
adjusted profit before tax (before exceptional items and 
amortisation of acquired intangibles) increased by 31% to 
£65.3 million. t his is one of management’s key Group profit 
measures. t he reported profit before tax of £54.2 million 
represents a significant improvement from 2013 (£10.7 million loss) 
reflecting improved profit before tax and significantly lower levels 
of exceptional charges in 2013/14.
Strategic	report 30 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
f ollowing discussions with the t rustee a new schedule of 
contributions was signed in march 2014. t he t rustee has 
recognised that investments we are making in the business 
are expected to improve the covenant strength in future years 
and as a consequence the level of cash contributions has been 
reduced over the next three years. f or 2014/15 and 2015/16 
cash contributions will total £13 million per annum and in 2016/17 
will total £16 million. n o further security has been granted to the 
t rustee to support this position.
t he biggest threat to future levels of cash contribution is the 
relatively high proportion of risk assets held by the scheme 
(predominantly equities). excluding insurance policies, 
approximately 75% of scheme assets are currently held in equities 
or other risk asset classes. t he main focus of both the t rustee 
and the Group over the coming years is further to reduce pension 
risk by reducing the proportion of equities to which the scheme is 
exposed. t he latest funding plan assumes a full funding position 
within six years, based on company contributions reverting to £20 
million per annum from 2017/18 and the proportion of risk assets 
reducing from 75% to 20%. However, the level of contribution for 
2017/18 and beyond and the recovery period will be reassessed at 
the next triennial actuarial valuation in march 2016 and changes to 
this plan will be made accordingly based on actual performance of 
the scheme.
t he reported iaS19 pension liability at 31 march 2014 was £57.7 
million comprising an iaS 19 deficit of £47.6 million and a £10.1 
million additional liability reflecting an unrecoverable notional 
surplus that is required to be recognised under ifric 14. t he 
reported deficit at 31 march 2013 was £67.2 million. asset returns 
were strong during the year, however, corporate bond yields 
declined as investor demand for corporate bonds picked up as 
the global economic outlook improved.
Cash	flow
c ash used in operations was £13.8 million in the year (2013: cash 
generated £19.1 million). t his includes a working capital outflow 
of £22.6 million (2013: £40.0 million outflow) due mainly to the 
higher value of cheese stocks compared to march 2013 – £167.2 
million in march 2014 versus £155.5 million last year. Stock value 
increases are a result of increased manufacturing to support future 
volume growth and milk cost increases during 2013. f urthermore, 
the cash outflow from operations includes £20.8 million of 
exceptional items (2013: £29.9 million) and the £40 million one-off 
cash contribution to the pension scheme.
c apital expenditure of £58.8 million was £7.9 million higher than 
last year (2013: £50.9 million). Significant investment has been 
made at our spreads manufacturing site, Kirkby, to accommodate 
production of spreads following the closure of c rudgington 
planned for 2014. We invested in our fr ijj capacity and capability 
at Severnside to support future brand growth and substantial 
investment has already been incurred at our cheese creamery 
in davidstow in relation to the demineralised whey production, 
albeit we have spent less in the year to march 2014 than was 
originally anticipated. 
Proceeds from the sale of depots amounted to £25.1 million 
including £17.6 million from the sale of our n ine elms depot 
in Battersea. in addition, certain fr ijj capital expenditure was 
funded through equipment finance resulting in a cash inflow of 
£7.4 million. f inancing was for six years at fixed rates of interest 
and allowed us to take advantage of attractive longer term funding 
rates in the absence of any required refinancing in the next 
12 months.
Taxation
t he Group’s effective tax rate on profits from continuing 
operations (excluding exceptional items) was 14.6% (2013: 20.1%). 
t he effective tax rate continues to be below the headline rate of 
u K corporation tax due to the property profit income stream, on 
which the tax charges are sheltered by brought forward capital 
losses or roll over relief. t he higher level of property profits this 
year has reduced the effective rate of tax but we expect the 
effective tax rate to increase next year to approximately 18%. 
f uture decreases in the rate of u K corporation tax to 20% were 
enacted in 2013 and the one-off impact that this has on deferred 
tax balances has been classified as exceptional. t his resulted 
in an exceptional tax credit of £1.9 million in the year ended 31 
march 2014.
Group	result	for	the	year
t he reported Group profit for the year amounted to £50.2 million 
(2013: £46.6 million). t he 2013 result included discontinued 
operations in relation to St Hubert; both profits for the period to 
august 2012 and the gain on disposal of the business.
Earnings	per	share
t he Group’s adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations increased by 39% to 40.8 pence per share (2013: 29.4 
pence per share). t his reflects improved operating profits and 
reduced interest costs benefiting from the loan note repayments 
made in april 2013.
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations, which 
includes the impact of exceptional items, pension interest expense 
and the amortisation of acquired intangibles, amounted to 35.8 
pence per share (2013: 5.9 pence loss per share).
Dividends
We are committed to a progressive dividend policy and have 
delivered against that policy in the year ended march 2014. t he 
proposed final dividend of 15.4 pence per share represents a  
0.4 pence per share increase compared to last year. t ogether with 
the interim dividend of 5.9 pence per share this brings the total 
dividend to 21.3 pence per share for the full year, 2.9% higher  
than last year (2013: 20.7 pence per share). t he final dividend will 
be paid on 7 august 2014 to shareholders on the register on  
4 July 2014.
dividend cover of 1.9 times is within the target range of 1.5 to 2.5 
times (2013: 1.4 times).
Pensions
f ollowing the sale of St Hubert, the Group entered into 
discussions with the Pension f und t rustee about the impact of 
early loan note repayments. c onsequently, on 18 april 2013 the 
Group made an additional one-off cash contribution to the f und 
of £40 million. at the same time the Group granted the t rustee a 
floating charge over maturing cheese inventories, with a maximum 
realisable value of £60 million. t his charge was put in place to 
protect the f und in the unlikely event of an insolvency of dairy 
c rest Limited.
during the year, the Group paid £20 million cash contributions 
into the closed defined benefit pension scheme in line with the 
schedule of contributions agreed in June 2011. t he latest full 
actuarial valuation was performed at 31 march 2013 and resulted 
in an actuarial deficit of £145 million (£105 million after taking 
account of the £40 million one-off contribution paid in april 2013). 
Performance | financiaL revieW continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 31
c ash interest amounted to £14.0 million (2013: £18.0 million) 
and tax refunds totalled £2.1 million resulting from high levels 
of restructuring charges, pension contributions and capital 
expenditure in previous years (2013: tax payments £4.7 million).
Looking ahead, our ambition is to generate strong free cash 
flows. Higher conversion of profits into cash will be helped in 
the future by: lower levels of cash exceptionals; reduced capital 
expenditure in our existing business; lower pension contributions; 
and lower working capital requirements following two years of milk 
cost inflation.
c apital expenditure in our core business will reduce in 2014/15 
to approximately £35 million and we expect to spend a further 
£35 million completing our investment in demineralised whey 
capability.
Net	debt
n et debt increased by £82 million to £142 million at the end of the 
year albeit it reduced by £50 million in the second half of the year. 
t he opening net debt of £60 million did not include the costs of 
the april 2013 one-off pension contribution (£40 million) or the cost 
of loan note repayments (£9 million). 
n et debt as defined includes the fixed Sterling equivalent of 
foreign currency loan notes subject to swaps and excludes 
unamortised facility fees. at 31 march 2014, gearing (being the 
ratio of net debt to shareholders’ funds) was 49% (2013: 19%).
Borrowing	facilities
at the start of the financial year, the Group’s borrowing facilities 
comprised: £330 million of loan notes (at the effective swapped 
exchange rate) maturing between april 2013 and n ovember 2021, 
and a £170 million plus €150 million revolving credit facility expiring 
in o ctober 2016.
o n 4 april 2013, £60 million of notes from the 2006 series which 
had reached their maturity were repaid.
o n 18 april 2013, a further £100 million of loan notes were repaid 
from the 2007 series. o f these notes, the majority (£69 million) 
were due for repayment in april 2014 with the balance due in april 
2017. t his has reduced the Group’s future interest payments. t he 
repayment was effected by exercising the Group’s right to early 
redemption on payment of a make-whole premium. 
f ollowing these repayments, the Group has £170 million of notes 
outstanding which mature between 2014 and 2021. a further £25 
million of notes matured in april 2014 funded from the revolving 
credit facility. 
in 2013 the Group also reduced its revolving credit facility by €60 
million to £170 million plus €90 million (approximately £244 million).
Borrowing facilities are subject to covenants which specify 
a maximum ratio of net debt to eBitda of 3.5 times and a 
minimum interest cover ratio of 3.0 times. t he Group remains very 
comfortably within its covenants with a net debt to eBitda ratio of 
1.3 times as of 31 march 2014 (march 2013: 0.6 times).
Post	balance	sheet	events
o n 16 may 2014, we completed the sale of our 30% shareholding 
in Wexford c reamery Limited for €3.4 million (£2.8 million). at 31 
march 2014, the net carrying value totalled £2.1 million comprising 
share of associates, deferred consideration and valuation of 
options net of contract provisions.
Strategic	report
o n 14 april 2014, we completed the sale of a depot in Surbiton, 
Surrey for proceeds of £5.4 million resulting in a profit on disposal 
of £4.9 million.
Treasury	policies
t he Group operates a centralised treasury function, which controls 
cash management and borrowings and the Group’s financial risks. 
t he main treasury risks faced by the Group are liquidity, interest 
rates and foreign currency. t he Group only uses derivatives to 
manage its foreign currency and interest rate risks arising from 
underlying business and financing activities. t ransactions of a 
speculative nature are prohibited. t he Group’s treasury activities 
are governed by policies approved and monitored by the Board. 
t hese policies are summarised in note 30 to the financial 
statements.
Going	concern
t he financial statements have been prepared on a going concern 
basis as the directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate 
financial resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable 
future. in making this statement, the Group’s directors have: 
reviewed the Group budget, strategic plans and available facilities; 
have made such other enquiries as they considered appropriate; 
and have taken into account ‘Going c oncern and Liquidity r isk: 
Guidance for directors of u K c ompanies 2009’ published by the 
f inancial r eporting c ouncil in o ctober 2009. f urther information 
is presented in the directors’ r eport on page 63.
Tom	Atherton f inance director
21 may 2014
t he Strategic report from pages 4 to 31 has been approved by the 
Board and is signed on its behalf by 
Robin	Miller c ompany Secretary & General c ounsel.
21 may 2014 32 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
1. Mark Allen
Chief Executive ◊ ∆
Appointed a Director in 2002 and became Chief 
Executive in January 2007. He joined Dairy Crest 
in August 1991. He was formally with Shell UK 
Ltd. He is Chairman of the BITC South West 
Regional Advisory Board and a Trustee for The 
Prince’s Countryside Fund. He is Vice Chairman of 
Dairy UK and a Non-Executive Director of Howden 
Joinery Group Plc.
2. Tom Atherton 
Finance Director ◊ ∆
Appointed May 2013. A Chartered Accountant 
who has worked for Dairy Crest for over 8 years. 
Prior to his appointment to the Board he served 
as Director of Financial Control. He has previously 
held senior finance positions in Logica plc and 
Thorn plc.
3. Martyn Wilks 
Executive Managing Director ◊ ∆
Appointed in January 2008. He was President of 
the Snackfood Division of Mars USA, and has held 
other senior management positions within Mars 
Incorporated including Managing Director of Mars, 
France, and Global Vice President for Sales and 
Marketing. Martyn is also currently an Appointed 
Non-executive Director of England Netball, the 
governing body for the sport.
4. Anthony Fry 
Chairman ‡
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in July 
2007, as Chairman on 1 January 2010 and as 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee in May 
2011. Until March 2011 he was Senior Adviser 
of Evercore Partners in the firm’s London office. 
He has previously held senior appointments 
at Lehman Brothers, Credit Suisse and the 
Rothschild Group in a career in merchant banking 
which has spanned more than 30 years. In 
November 2010 he was appointed Chairman 
of Cala Group Limited and in November 2012 
he was appointed Senior Adviser to the Board 
of Espirito Santo Investment Bank. He became 
Chairman of the Premier League on 1 June 
2013 and is a Non-executive Director of Control 
Risks and of Twig Europe. He is on a number of 
advisory boards and has served on the boards 
of Mowlem, The British Standards Institution and 
Southern Water as well as numerous not-for-profit 
organisations.
 Anthony Fry was taken ill early in March 
2014 and has been unable to work since then. 
At the time of writing this Annual Report he is on 
sick leave.
BoArD oF DirECTors AnD ADvisErs
5 4
9 8
1
Dairy Crest is led by an experienced Board of Directors, 
which today comprises three Executive Directors, one n on-
executive Chairman and four independent n on-executive 
Directors. Together the Executive Directors have over 30 
years experience of the business.
 The Board sets strategy and monitors progress. Day-
to-day matters are the responsibility of the Management 
Board, which today comprises the three Executive 
Directors, the Company secretary & General Counsel and 
three other senior managers. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 33
Governance
5. r ichard Macdonald
Acting Chairman 
*
 ◊ ‡
Richard Macdonald has assumed the role of 
Acting Chairman and acting member and Acting 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee since 
Anthony Fry was taken ill in March 2014.
 Appointed as a Non-executive Director in 
November 2010, Chairman of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee in May 2011 and Senior 
Independent Director in May 2012. He had a 
30 year career with the National Farmers Union, 
serving as Director General for 13 years. He is a 
Non-executive Director of Moy Park Limited and 
until April 2014 was Chairman of DEFRA’s Better 
Regulation Task Force. He is a Governor of The 
Royal Agricultural University Cirencester, Vice 
Chairman of the National Institute of Agricultural 
Botany and became Chairman of Farm Africa in 
2013. He joined the board of the Environment 
Agency on 1 June 2013.
6. stephen Alexander
n on-Executive Director 
*
 † ‡
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in 
January 2011 and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee in May 2012. He is Chairman of 
Immediate Media Company Ltd, an Operating 
Partner at OpCapita LLP and Chairman of Look 
Ahead Care and Support. Previously Chairman 
of Maltby Capital Ltd (parent company of EMI 
Group), Chairman of Odeon Cinemas, Chief 
Executive of Hillsdown Holdings Ltd and held 
senior positions with Allied Domecq PLC and 
Imperial Foods. He was also Senior Independent 
Director at Devro plc.
7. Andrew Carr-Locke
n on-Executive Director 
*
 † ‡
Appointed as a Non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee in August 2009. 
A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants, he has previously held senior finance 
positions at Courtaulds Textiles, Diageo, Bowater 
Scott and Kodak and was Group Finance Director 
at George Wimpey plc until 2007. More recently 
he was Executive Chairman of Countryside 
Properties. He has previously held Non-executive 
directorships at Royal Mail Holdings, Venture 
Production and AWG.
8. sue Farr
n on-Executive Director † ◊
Appointed as a Non-executive Director in 
November 2011. She is a member of the 
Executive Management Team of Chime 
Communications PLC, a position she has 
held since 2003. She has extensive marketing 
communications experience, having served as 
Marketing Director of the BBC for 7 years, Director 
of Corporate Affairs, Thames Television for 3 
years and Director of Corporate Communications, 
Vauxhall Motors. She was a Trustee of the 
Historic Royal Palaces until April 2013, is a Non-
executive Director of Motivcom plc and was 
appointed a Non-executive Director and member 
of the remuneration committee of Millennium & 
Copthorne Hotels plc on 12 December 2013.
9. r obin Miller
Company secretary & General 
Counsel ◊ ∆ #
Appointed in April 2008. He is a solicitor having 
worked in private practice and in-house in both 
retail and international manufacturing, latterly with 
Gallaher Group Plc.
7 6
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
Solicitors
Eversheds LLP
Principal Bankers 
The royal Bank of 
scotland plc
rabobank 
international, 
London Branch 
Lloyds TsB plc
santander UK plc
Corporate Brokers
J. P. Morgan 
Cazenove
Jefferies Hoare 
Govett
Registered Office
Claygate House, 
Littleworth road, 
Esher, surrey  
KT10 9Pn
Registered in England
no. 3162897
*
 Audit Committee Member
† r emuneration Committee Member
‡ n omination Committee Member
◊ Corporate r esponsibility Committee 
Member
∆ Management Board Member
# n ot a Board Member
3 2  
MAnAGEMEnT BoArD
13
12
11
Day-to-day matters are the 
responsibility of the Management 
Board, which currently comprises 
the three Executive Directors, 
the Company secretary & 
General Counsel, the Group 
Procurement Director, the Group 
supply Chain Director and the 
Group Hr Director. o ther senior 
managers attend by invitation. 
The Management Board normally 
meets weekly.
11. Mike sheldon 
Group Procurement Director ∆
Mike joined Dairy Crest from PepsiCo 21 years 
ago. He has held several senior management 
positions within the business. He took up his 
current role in 2012.
12. Mike Barrington 
Group supply Chain Director ∆
Before joining Dairy Crest in 2011, Mike 
held senior management positions with 
Cadbury Schweppes and Kraft Foods, latterly 
Manufacturing Director for Cadbury in the UK & 
Ireland. Mike joined Dairy Crest as Supply Chain 
Director, Dairies and was appointed to his current 
role in April 2013.
13. r obert Willock 
Group Hr Director ◊ ∆
Robert joined Dairy Crest 8 years ago as HR 
Director, Dairies from The Maersk Company where 
he was Director of Human Resources. He was 
appointed to his current role in April 2013.
◊ Corporate r esponsibility 
Committee Member
∆ Management Board Member
34 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 35
Governance
In this, our Corporate Governance report, the Board and I shall try 
and demonstrate how we have brought to life the principles of good 
governance through, amongst other things, ensuring that an 
effective internal framework of systems and controls is in place 
which clearly defines authority and accountability while at the same 
time allowing the appropriate management of risk. A key benchmark 
is our compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
published by the Financial Reporting Council (‘FRC’) in September 
2012 (‘Code’) – which can be found at www.frc.org.uk. I am pleased 
to report that apart from Code provision B6 (for further information 
see page 37) we have complied with all relevant provisions of the 
Code during the 2013/14 year.
The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the governance 
of the Company. Its strong governance framework (as illustrated 
below) is supported by a combination of clear values which are 
discussed elsewhere in this Report (see pages 6 to 7), appropriate 
policy and an environment of transparency and accountability. The 
Board’s central role is to work alongside the executive team 
providing support, challenge, guidance and leadership. I believe that 
the Board of Dairy Crest is well balanced with a broad range of skills, 
diversity and experience.
One of the Chairman’s key objectives for the coming year is to 
maintain focus on succession planning at Board and senior 
management levels. The changes which the Group underwent in 
2013 with the One Dairy Crest project demonstrated the value of 
good succession planning and I and the Board were pleased to see 
the promotion of good internal candidates as some of the personnel 
changes associated with that project were implemented.
We continue to review our governance structure and processes, to 
ensure that governance at Dairy Crest evolves against the backdrop 
of an ever-changing world. 
r ichard Macdonald Acting Chairman 
21 May 2014
CorPorATE GovErnAnCE
Governance framework
The diagram below sets out the structure used to govern the 
Company. Through our governance structure we have established a 
clearly defined set of values which are communicated throughout 
the Group. Our values are supported by a range of procedures and 
guidelines providing an appropriate roadmap to inform employees’ 
behaviour. Together with external governance codes they set an 
effective framework for the Group’s standards and governance.
The Board
role: The Board is collectively responsible for the entrepreneurial 
leadership and control of the Company against a framework of 
prudent and effective controls enabling the assessment and 
management of risk. As custodian of the Group’s strategic aims, 
vision and values it ensures that the necessary human, financial and 
other resources necessary for the delivery of long term success of 
the Group are in place and scrutinises and reviews Management's 
performance. Each Director is aware of his/her responsibilities, 
individually and collectively, to promote the long term success of the 
Company consistent with their statutory duties.
How it operates: The Board’s agenda through the year is pre-
planned with sufficient time allowed to enable the Board to react and 
respond to the changing landscape of the Group’s business as the 
year progresses. The Board’s key accountabilities are:
•	 Approval of the Group’s long term objectives and business 
strategy
•	 Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets
•	 Maintaining an overview and control of the Group’s operating and 
financial performance
•	 Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control 
and risk management
•	 Oversight of the Company’s governance and compliance 
framework, including key Group policies, for example Health and 
Safety and Business Conduct and considering regulatory changes 
and developments
A formal schedule of matters reserved has been adopted by the 
Board and is available on the Group’s website www.dairycrest.co.uk.
Delegation of authority: the Board has delegated authority to five 
committees;
•	 Management Board
•	 Audit Committee
•	 Nomination Committee
•	 Corporate Responsibility Committee
•	 Remuneration Committee
The individual reports of the Audit, Nomination, Corporate 
Responsibility and Remuneration Committees prefaced by an 
introduction from the chairman of each can be found at pages 39 to 
62. The Committees’ terms of reference, which to the extent 
Remuneration
Committee
Audit
Committee
Group
Board
Nomination
Committee
CR
Committee
Demand   HR   Finance   Legal
Management
Board
Procurement         Supply
Strong governance promotes better 
business and helps boards to run 
companies well. It is the Chairman’s  
responsibility to lead the Board in 
fulfilling its obligations to the 
Company’s shareholders, the 
Group’s employees, suppliers, the 
customers and consumers of our 
products, in short, all our 
stakeholders, to ensure that an 
appropriate governance framework is in place at Dairy Crest. 
Your Board and I believe in the importance of corporate 
governance and the vital role it plays in underpinning the integrity 
and performance of our organisation. Amongst the myriad duties 
the Board and I owe to the broad constituency of stakeholders in 
our organisation, establishing, embedding and maintaining an 
effective governance framework through which it is able 
effectively to direct and control the Group is paramount. The 
Board recognises its duty to set the right tone at the top in order 
to guide our organisation’s behaviour and ensure that we live by 
and demonstrate the right values which in turn enable 
entrepreneurial and prudent management of the resources which 
you, our shareholders, have entrusted to us so that we can 
deliver long term success for Dairy Crest and all its stakeholders.
Acting Chairman’s introduction 36 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
required, comply with the Code can be found on the Group’s 
website. Day-to-day management responsibility rests with the 
Management Board which under its terms of reference has 
delegated authority from the Board over operational decisions.
Composition: At the date of this Report, the Board comprises eight 
Directors (three Executive, a Non-executive Chairman (who was 
independent on appointment) and four independent Non-executive 
Directors). Directors’ biographical details, experience, responsibilities 
and other commitments set out at pages 32 to 33.
Balance and independence: With four independent Non-
executive Directors and a Chairman who was independent on 
appointment, all of whom are free of any relationship which could 
materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement, 
the composition of the Board satisfies the requirements of the Code. 
The Board considers that the Directors demonstrate the suitable 
breadth of experience and backgrounds required to provide effective 
leadership for the Group. Details of the Group’s approach to diversity 
are set out in the Report of the Nomination Committee at pages 42 
to 43.
Chairman and Chief Executive: These roles are distinct and 
separate with clearly defined accountabilities set out for each which 
can be found on the Group’s website (Chairman/Chief Executive 
Division of Responsibilities). The Chairman has particular 
responsibility for the effectiveness of the Group’s governance. He is 
accountable for ensuring the Board’s effectiveness in discharging its 
responsibilities, safeguarding shareholder and other stakeholder 
interests and promoting effective communication with shareholders. 
Together with the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the 
Company Secretary he sets the agenda for Board Meetings and 
directs the focus of the Board ensuring that adequate time is 
available for all agenda items. In promoting a culture of openness 
among the Board and ensuring constructive relations between 
Executive and Non-executive Directors, he facilitates the effective 
contribution of all Directors. To help ensure a proper dialogue with all 
Directors the Chairman meets with Directors individually and talks to 
the Non-executive Directors in the absence of Executive Directors.
senior independent Director: As a result of Anthony Fry’s 
absence from the Group for medical reasons, Richard Macdonald is 
currently fulfilling the role of Acting Chairman. Ordinarily in his role as 
Senior Independent Director, Richard provides a sounding board to 
the Chairman. He also acts as a lightning rod should matters arise 
which Directors wish to discuss with someone other than the 
Chairman. He is available to shareholders and other stakeholders in 
the Group’s business as needed; and where required, he deputises 
for the Chairman.
n on-executive Directors: All Non-executive Directors (including 
the Chairman) confirmed on appointment that they had sufficient 
time available to fulfil their obligations as Directors and that they 
would inform the Board should the position change. Details of the 
Chairman’s other significant professional commitments are included 
in his biography (page 32). The Board is satisfied that he continues 
to have sufficient time available to fulfil his obligations as a Director 
and Chairman. All significant commitments of Non-executive 
Directors were disclosed to the Board prior to their appointment and 
the Board was informed of subsequent changes.
As members of a unitary board, the Non-executive Directors 
scrutinise Management’s performance in meeting agreed goals and 
objectives. The Board as a whole monitors the reporting of 
performance. The Chief Executive’s objectives, achievement of 
which influences his remuneration, are agreed with the 
Remuneration Committee following initial discussion with the 
Chairman. Performance against those objectives is scrutinised by 
the Remuneration Committee. The Audit Committee monitors and 
scrutinises the integrity of financial information as well as the 
robustness and defensibility of financial controls and systems of risk 
management. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for 
determining appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive 
Directors. The Nomination Committee has a prime role in selecting 
and appointing Directors and in succession planning. The 
appointment of Directors to or the removal of Directors from the 
Board is a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
The Chairman periodically meets individually or collectively with the 
Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors. 
Were Directors to have unresolved concerns about the running of 
the Company or a proposed action, they would be recorded in the 
Board minutes. The Non-executive Directors recognise the principle 
that if on resignation from the Board a Director has unresolved 
concerns, that Director should provide a written statement to the 
Chairman for circulation to the Board. The concept that Non-
executive Directors are free to question any executive decision of the 
Company is enshrined in the engagement letter of each Non-
executive Director.
information and s upport: The Company Secretary advises the 
Chairman and the Board on all governance matters and ensures 
Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations 
complied with. He ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely 
manner with information in a form and of a quality which enables the 
Board to discharge its duties. The Board, the Committees and all 
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary. He provides the Board with regular reports on 
governance issues. Procedures exist for Directors to seek 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense where 
required.
Effectiveness: Normally the Board has eight scheduled meetings 
in its annual work plan. It holds additional meetings on an ad hoc 
basis as and when required. Details of the Board and Committee 
meetings held during the 2013/14 year and Directors’ attendance at 
those meetings is set out in the table below.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 37
Governance
Board and main Committee meetings
The following Directors held office during the year. The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Directors in the year is 
shown in the table below. The numbers in brackets show the maximum number of meetings Directors could have attended during 2013/14.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Corporate
Responsibility
Management 
Board
Mr A Fry 6(8) – – 1(1) – –
Mr M Allen 8(8) – – – 4(4) 29(39)
Mr T Atherton 
i
7(7) – – – 3(3) 32(39)
Mr A Murray 
ii
1(1) – – – 1(1) 4(7)
Mr M Wilks 8(8) – – – 4(4) 34(39)
Mr s Alexander 8(8) 5(5) 9(9) 1(1) – –
Mr A Carr-Locke 8(8) 5(5) 8(9) 1(1) – –
Ms s Farr 8(8) – 7(9) – 4(4) –
Mr r Macdonald 8(8) 5(5) – – 4(4) –
appraisal of its performance pending Anthony’s return to his duties 
as Chairman.
The performance of Executive Directors in the context of their 
management and operational responsibilities was appraised in the 
normal way. As is the case with all management grade employees, 
Executive Directors participate in the Group’s performance and 
development review process. Under that process, the Chairman 
appraises the performance of the Chief Executive and the Chief 
Executive appraises the performance of the other Executive 
Directors. The outcome of reviews of performance of all of the 
Executive Directors is scrutinised by the Remuneration Committee. 
The outcome of the performance review of Executive Directors is set 
out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report at page 52.
induction and development: the Company Secretary ensures 
that Directors undergo a comprehensive induction programme on 
appointment. In addition to equipping Directors with sufficiently 
detailed knowledge of the operations of the Group’s business 
necessary to enable them effectively to carry out their duties, the 
induction programme is tailored to their experience, background and 
particular area of focus. A detailed development programme has 
been implemented to assist Tom Atherton’s development as Group 
Finance Director, details of which are set out in the Report of the 
Nomination Committee.
Conflicts of interest: CA 2006 places a duty on each Director to 
avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or 
indirect interest which conflicts or may conflict with the interests of 
the Company. That duty is in addition to the obligation owed by 
Directors to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction 
or arrangement which gives rise or may give rise to a conflict of 
interest under consideration by the Company. Procedures are in 
place for Directors to disclose conflicts or potential conflicts of 
interest. The Company’s Articles of Association (‘Articles’) authorise 
the Directors, where appropriate, to authorise conflicts or possible 
conflicts of interest between Directors and the Company. Non-
executive Directors’ letters of appointment require Non-executives to 
obtain the prior approval of the Board to appointments external to 
the Company. That requirement assists the Board to ensure no 
conflict of interest may result from such appointments. When 
considering conflicts or potential conflicts of interest, the conflicted 
In 2011/12 the Board undertook an externally facilitated process to 
evaluate its effectiveness. Rathmullan, a boutique evaluation and 
performance audit consultancy, conducted interviews with each of 
the Directors and the Company Secretary leading to a discursive 
review of the output from those interviews focusing not only on 
Board effectiveness but the effectiveness of the Chairman. 2012/13 
was an important year for the Board being the first full year of its 
then applicable composition and the second full year of Anthony 
Fry’s chairmanship. Accordingly, rather than immediately revert to an 
internally managed evaluation process, the Board felt there would be 
added value brought to the process by adopting a hybrid approach 
starting with an internal process using questionnaires which it then 
followed up with individual interviews with the Directors and 
Company Secretary. Interviews were conducted by IDDAS, a 
specialist mentoring, coaching and effectiveness consultancy 
focused on boards and senior executives. At the time of the last 
Report that effectiveness review had not been concluded, but has 
been concluded in the interim. Its focus was to continue with the 
themes of the previous effectiveness review and in particular to 
ensure adequate progress had been made with the conclusions 
drawn from the previous review. The review concluded that the 
Board had made good progress in ensuring its visibility through 
more regular site visits and that relationships amongst the Board 
continued to work well with any issues arising being quickly resolved 
in an open and constructive manner. During the year the Board 
visited the Group’s sites at Frome, Somerset (September 2013) and 
Chadwell Heath, London (January 2014). The Board expects to 
continue to rotate visits around the Group’s sites. The review further 
concluded that following changes to the Board’s composition in May 
2013 when Alastair Murray had stepped down from the Board and 
Tom Atherton had been appointed Group Finance Director, Tom had 
assimilated well into the Board quickly consolidating the relationships 
which he had begun to build with the Directors in his previous role as 
Director of Financial Control.
It had been intended that the annual appraisal of the Board’s 
effectiveness required by provision B6 of the Code for the 2013/14 
financial year would be undertaken in the spring of 2014. However, in 
light of Anthony Fry’s absence due to ill health and in recognition of 
the pivotal role played by the Chairman and the appraisal of his 
performance in the overall appraisal of the Board’s effectiveness and 
performance, the Board has decided to postpone the annual 
i  Tom Atherton was appointed to the Board on 23 May 2013
ii  Alastair Murray stepped down from the Board on 23 May 2013 38 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
or potentially conflicted Director is excluded from participation in the 
Board’s consideration of the conflict or potential conflict situation. At 
its meeting in July 2013, the Board received confirmation from all 
Directors that there were no arrangements, situations or transactions 
either current or anticipated, which they believed might give rise to 
any conflict of interest between them and the Company. Directors 
are required to confirm that there are no actual or anticipated 
conflicts of interest at least annually as part of the year-end sign off 
process when they approve of their emoluments statements and the 
confirmation process was repeated at the Board’s meeting on 14 
April 2014. No Director had a material interest in any significant 
contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Appointment and re-election: The Articles provide that the 
Directors or the members, by ordinary resolution, may appoint a 
Director either to fill a vacancy or as an additional director. A Director 
appointed by the Directors shall retire at the next AGM following 
appointment and shall be eligible for election by the members. The 
Articles require all Directors to be elected annually. All Directors will 
stand for re-election at the Company’s 2014 Annual General Meeting 
(‘AGM’). Having regard to the roles performed by each of the 
Directors, the individual input and contribution they make and their 
individual expertise and experience, the Board is satisfied that each 
candidate’s performance justifies nomination for re-election by 
shareholders. Service agreements of Executive Directors and a 
template letter of appointment of Non-executive Directors are 
published on the Company’s website and are available for inspection 
by any person at the Company’s registered office during normal 
office hours and will also be available at the 2014 AGM for 15 
minutes before and throughout the meeting.
Dialogue with shareholders
The Board believes in the importance of an on-going relationship 
with its shareholders. It fully supports the principles encouraging 
dialogue between companies and their shareholders in the Code 
and the UK Stewardship Code. The Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director have primary responsibility for investor relations. 
They are supported by the Group’s Corporate Affairs Director who, 
amongst other matters, organises presentations for analysts and 
institutional investors and holds meetings with key institutional 
shareholders to discuss strategy, financial performance and 
investment activities immediately after the Interim and Preliminary 
Results Announcements. Slide presentations made to institutional 
shareholders are made available on the Company’s website along 
with annual and interim reports, interim management statements, 
trading updates and company announcements. Announcements are 
made as appropriate and required through a Regulatory Information 
Service.
All the Non-executive Directors, and, in particular, the Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with 
shareholders. Feedback from meetings with shareholders is 
provided to the Board to ensure that all Directors have a balanced 
understanding of the issues and concerns of shareholders. The 
Board receives feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group 
Finance Director on their meetings with shareholders, periodic 
reports on investor relations and independent feedback from the 
Company’s brokers on the views of major shareholders. 
The notice of each AGM together with other related papers is 
dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the 
meeting. All Directors attend the AGM and are available to answer 
shareholder questions before, during and after the meeting. The 
Chairman of the Board provides the meeting with an update on the 
progress and performance of the Group before the formal business 
of each AGM is addressed and a resolution is proposed relating to 
the Annual Report and Accounts. Details of the proxy voting on each 
resolution are announced at the AGM including the level of votes for 
and against resolutions and abstentions, and are posted on the 
Company’s website following the conclusion of the meeting. At the 
last AGM, consistent with corporate governance best practice, 
voting was conducted on a poll and the result was published on the 
Company’s website after the meeting. Voting will again be 
conducted on a poll at this year’s AGM.
r isk management and internal control
The Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks it 
is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives. It has overall 
responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and for 
reviewing its effectiveness in which task it is assisted by the Audit 
Committee and the Group Internal Audit function. It has delegated 
responsibility for management of day-to-day operational risks to the 
Management Board and responsibility for the detailed review of 
internal control to the Audit Committee. It has established a sound 
system of risk management and internal control, the key components 
of which are set out below. Group Internal Audit supports the Board 
and Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of 
internal control. Through periodic reviews during the year, the Board 
has satisfied itself that its systems accord with the FRC’s Guidance 
on Internal Control (the ‘Turnbull Guidance’) and that satisfactory 
internal control procedures and systems have been in place 
throughout the year in compliance with the requirements of the Code. 
A rolling audit programme conducted by Group Internal Audit across 
the Group forms a key facet of the Group’s systems of internal 
control. The Head of Group Internal Audit reports independently to 
the chairman of the Audit Committee on assurance matters. It is not 
possible entirely to eliminate risk; accordingly, although the systems 
are designed to manage risks they cannot provide absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. They provide 
reasonable assurance that potential issues can be identified promptly 
and remedied appropriately. The key components of the risk 
management and internal control systems include:
•	 Reservation to the Board of control of, amongst other matters, all 
significant strategic, financial and organisational risks
•	 A management structure which includes clear lines of 
responsibility and documented delegations of authority with 
appropriate policies, levels and rules for, amongst other matters, 
incurring capital expenditure or divesting of the Group’s assets
•	 The operation of comprehensive financial and strategic planning, 
forecasting and review processes
•	 Exercise of oversight by the Audit Committee, with input from the 
Head of Group Internal Audit, over the Group’s control processes 
designed to ensure the integrity of internal and external financial 
reporting
•	 The preparation of monthly management accounts packs for the 
business, including KPI dashboards for each constituent part of 
the Group’s business, trading results, balance sheet and cash flow 
information with comparison against prior year and budget, all of 
which are reviewed by the Management Board and the Board
•	 Monthly scrutiny of performance against budget (including 
analysis of key trends, variances and key risks and plans for 
mitigation as well as the continued appropriateness of those risks) 
in meetings known internally as Accounts Reviews where each 
key constituent part of the Group and key departments report 
performance year-to-date and forecast against budget to a panel 
comprising the Management Board and other senior executives
•	 Formal documented financial controls and procedures including 
specific procedures for treasury transactions and the approval of 
significant contracts
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 39
Governance
In the fulfilment of the responsibilities which I have identified above, 
the Committee has clearly defined accountabilities which are set out 
in its terms of reference and has a work programme which 
encompasses regular, routine activity, planned proactive activity and 
when necessary, reactive activity. The Committee is supported in its 
work by Ernst & Young LLP (‘EY’), the Company and Group's 
external auditor, and by Group Internal Audit. The Code provides us 
with a useful framework against which to judge the appropriateness 
of the governance structure we have in place and performance 
against it.
Details of the Committee’s work programme undertaken during the 
year are set out in the Report below. For the first time this year 
though, the Code encourages audit committees to report not just on 
the areas of work they have undertaken, but also on the significant 
issues they have considered during the year. From my perspective, 
as Dairy Crest has gone through a period of significant change over 
the last year and the major internal restructuring associated with the 
One Dairy Crest project has been implemented, the Committee’s 
key activity has been ensuring oversight of the continued integrity of 
financial reporting as the Group’s finance team has undergone 
significant change; including, the promotion of good internal talent 
into new and more stretching roles with greater responsibility, not 
least the transition Tom Atherton has undertaken from Director of 
Financial Control to Group Finance Director. The other notably 
significant issues which the Committee considered during the year 
which particularly stand out were:
•	 An enquiry from the Financial Reporting Review Panel (‘FRRP’) 
concerning the manner of calculation of diluted EPS in the 
Company’s interim results announcement for the period ended 30 
In his introduction to the Corporate 
Governance section of the Annual 
Report the Acting Chairman 
stressed the importance of 
governance and the emphasis 
which the Board places on it. Being 
entirely independent of 
Management and enjoying a free 
ranging remit on behalf of the 
Board, the Audit Committee plays a 
critical role in the governance of Dairy Crest, providing oversight 
of the essential checks, balances and controls on which the 
owners of our business rely in order to have confidence that their 
interests are appropriately safeguarded. It is not possible to 
succeed in business without taking some risk. However, risk 
should be properly understood and appropriately mitigated. The 
Board is responsible for the identification, assessment and 
management of risk. It has asked the Committee to assist it in the 
oversight of risk. The Committee and I are acutely conscious of 
the responsibility entrusted to us to ensure that the Group 
operates an appropriate framework within which the risks which 
Dairy Crest assumes to generate growth in our business and 
enhance shareholder value are properly controlled and mitigated. 
Oversight of the control environment is only one facet of our 
accountability as a Committee. Equally important is our 
responsibility to give shareholders the comfort and reassurance 
that there is appropriate independent oversight of the Group’s 
financial management and reporting so that they may have 
confidence in the integrity of reporting on the Company’s financial 
performance and have sound information on which to base their 
investment decisions.
 Audit Committee report
•	 Quarterly completion by each key constituent part of the Group of 
a self-assessment controls questionnaire that requires the 
approval of business unit management
•	 Preparation and refreshment of risk registers which are reviewed 
by senior management, the Management Board and the Board 
with the assignment of individual responsibility for the ownership 
and mitigation of significant risks to members of the Management 
Board and independent assurance over the appropriate 
implementation and operation of mitigating activities provided by 
Group Internal Audit
•	 Review by the Audit Committee of the Group’s risk register 
processes
•	 Review and approval of the audit plan for the Group’s Internal 
Audit function together with progress against and revision of the 
plan as appropriate, throughout the year
•	 Receipt by the Audit Committee and the Management Board of all 
Group Internal Audit reports detailing audit issues noted, 
corrective action plans and progress against those plans
•	 The implementation of an integrated business planning process 
with formal procedures for highlighting on a monthly cycle financial 
performance and risks to budgetary delivery together with 
associated opportunities to counteract or mitigate those risks to 
performance
Fair balanced and understandable: Provision C.1 of the Code 
introduces the new principle that the Directors should present a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s 
position and prospects. At its meeting in September 2013 the Audit 
Committee with the assistance of the external auditor considered 
the adoption of a detailed process to enable the Board to ensure its 
ability to report against this principle of the Code. That has resulted 
in a more structured approach to the preparation of this year’s 
Report and Accounts which was formally signed off at the Board’s 
meeting in May 2014 at which meeting, the Board was satisfied that 
the Annual Report and Accounts for financial year 2013/14, taken as 
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and the Board 
believes that the information contained therein provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy. 40 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
September 2012 and the Company’s compliance with IAS 33 in 
the preparation of that disclosure: Although there had been no 
material misstatement of diluted EPS for the period in question 
and prior year comparatives, the FRRP’s enquiry was welcomed 
by the Committee and led to corrections to the prior year 
comparatives used in the Company’s interim results 
announcement and to proposed disclosure in its 2012/13 
financial statements
•	 The appropriate approach to adopt to segmental reporting 
following the changes brought about to the Group through the 
One Dairy Crest project: The Committee concluded that for IFRS8 
purposes only one segment should be reported on but that the 
previous product group analysis should be reported on as well in 
order to assist users of the financial statements in the transition to 
the new segmental analysis
•	 The changes and potential risks arising from the significant internal 
restructuring: I have already referred above to the focus brought to 
bear on ensuring the effectiveness of the Group’s finance function; 
in addition, the Committee reviewed the Group’s policies and 
internal controls to ensure the control environment was maintained 
during the transition
•	 Cyber security: In response to the identified growing threat to 
business organisations generally from cyber security issues, the 
Committee instigated a third party review of risk and controls and 
reviewed recommended changes in policy to ensure continued 
appropriate security
•	 The carrying value of property, plant and equipment in the Dairies 
cash generating unit: In the context of possible indicators of 
impairment, the Committee reviewed an assessment of the 
carrying value of the Dairies cash generating unit compared to its 
value in use. The assessment concluded that no impairment was 
required; however, as the value in use headroom over carrying 
value is limited and sensitive to small changes in key assumptions 
the Committee will keep the assessment under review
Looking more externally, considerable focus is rightly placed on the 
objectivity and independence of the external auditor and the 
committee has focused throughout the year on the evolving 
regulatory environment related to external audit. During the year the 
Committee reviewed the Group’s policy on external audit tendering 
keeping in mind the evolving regulatory backdrop. In last year’s 
Report we undertook to report more fully on the Code’s 
requirements on external audit tendering which we shall do later in 
this Report alongside an examination of expected future 
developments related to the external audit driven by the European 
Commission.
Andrew Carr-Locke Chairman of the Audit Committee
21 May 2014
Membership: details of the members of the Committee at the date 
of this Report and any changes throughout the year together with 
details of attendance at meetings are set out at page 37. The Board 
considers that the Chairman of the Committee has recent and 
relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code.
Invitations to attend meetings: A standing invitation has been 
made by the Committee to the Chairman of the Board as well as all 
other Directors to attend the Committee’s meetings. The Group 
Reporting Controller, Group Financial Controller, Head of Group 
Internal Audit and representatives of EY attend also meetings at the 
invitation of the Committee. During the year the External and Internal 
Auditors attended all meetings and also met privately with the 
Committee.
Role and responsibilities: Consistent with the FRC’s “Guidance 
on Audit Committees” the Committee’s role and responsibilities are 
concerned with financial reporting, narrative reporting, 
whistleblowing and fraud, internal controls and risk management 
systems, internal audit and external audit. The Committee’s 
scheduled activities are planned in accordance with its terms of 
reference, which have been approved by the Board. 
Terms of reference: the Committee has documented terms of 
reference which are approved by the Board. They are reviewed at 
least annually and during the year they were reviewed at the 
Committee’s meeting in September 2013. Its terms of reference are 
in compliance with the Code and can be found on the Group’s 
website.
Objectives: the Board has delegated authority to the Committee to 
oversee and review the Group’s financial reporting process, system 
of internal control and management of business risks, the internal 
audit process, the external audit process and relationship with the 
external auditor and the Company’s process for monitoring 
compliance with laws and external regulations. Final responsibility for 
financial reporting, compliance with laws and regulations and risk 
management rests with the Board to which the Committee regularly 
reports back.
Meetings: During the year, the Committee undertook the following 
core work at its meetings;
13 May 2013 • Reviewed the external auditor’s 2013 Audit Results Report
• Reviewed compliance during the year with Management and 
the Board’s procedures related to the preparation of the 
Going Concern Statement and the statement for inclusion in 
the Accounts and the draft Report and Accounts for the year 
ending 31 March 2013 and recommended their adoption to 
the Board
• Reviewed prior year agendas and planned agendas against 
its work plan and terms of reference and satisfied itself that 
sufficient additional time existed to accommodate one-off 
items arising
• Reviewed its own performance and that of EY along with 
EY’s objectivity and the independence and effectiveness of 
EY’s processes, and recommended to the Board EY’s 
reappointment as the external auditor
• Received Group Internal Audit’s updates on pre-existing 
whistleblowing notifications and any new notifications as well 
as its report on financial and operational controls audits 
and its progress against audit plan. Approved Group Internal 
Audit’s work plan for the next financial year
15 July 2013 • Received and considered recommendations contained in 
EY’s management letter findings and responses from its 
2013 audit
16 September 
2013
• Received Group Internal Audit’s report on financial and 
operational controls audits, pre-existing whistleblowing 
notifications and any new notifications
• Received an update report on the tax affairs of the Group
• Considered and approved EY’s 2013/14 audit planning 
report
• Received training concerning the Committee’s obligations 
related to changes to corporate governance, regulation and 
auditing standards
 
• Examined the potential risks to the financial control systems 
associated with the One Dairy Crest project and associated 
opportunities to identify new ways of working for 
management with clearer lines of responsibility; including, 
review and refreshment of key financial control documents 
(Authority Protocols and Minimum Levels of Financial 
Control) and other appropriate steps for mitigation of project 
risks. Approved new Authority Protocols and new Minimum 
Levels of Financial Control Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 41
Governance
16 September 
2013 continued
• Reviewed and approved appropriately amended Committee 
terms of reference in the context of the FRC’s (Guidance on 
Audit Committees) issued in September 2012
• Considered a proposed plan of action to address the new 
fair, balanced and understandable requirement
• Reviewed the Company’s policy on external auditor 
independence and provision of non-audit services including 
evolving audit tender regulation
1 November 
2013
• Received and considered EY’s Interim Review Report for the 
period ended 30 September 2013
 
• Reviewed and approved for recommendation to the Board 
draft Interim Accounts for the period ended 30 September 
2013
 
• Reviewed Management’s self-assessment of IT security and 
an independent assessment of the Group’s IT security and 
business systems controls environment conducted by PwC, 
and agreed with Management specific actions to improve 
that control environment
 
• Received Group Internal Audit’s report on financial and 
operational controls audits, pre-existing whistleblowing 
notifications and any new notifications
 
• Received and considered an update on further evolution of 
external audit tendering regulation and adopted appropriate 
amendments to the Group’s external audit tendering policy
7 March 2014 • Received Group Internal Audit’s update on audits conducted 
in the period and progress with its audit plan, as well as 
whistleblowing notifications received during the period and 
an update on investigations into previous notifications
 
• Reviewed the year end process and timetable particularly in 
the context of the fair, balanced and understanding 
obligations
 
• Received and considered EY’s Audit Update Report
 
• Approved the adoption of an updated audit tender policy for 
the Company and Group
 
• Reviewed the Committee’s performance during the year 
against its work plan satisfying itself that it had achieved its 
work plan as well as a number of additional matters which 
had arisen during the year
 
• Reviewed and approved updated Treasury and Accounting 
Policies for the Company and the Group
 
• Reviewed and considered an independent cyber maturity 
benchmark prepared by PwC following work on cyber 
security undertaken earlier in the year and endorsed 
proposed actions for implementation
External auditor objectivity and independence: The objectivity 
and independence of the external auditor is critical to the integrity of 
the audit. During the year the Committee reviewed the external 
auditor’s own policies and procedures for safeguarding its objectivity 
and independence. The audit engagement partner gave 
representations as to the external auditor’s independence and 
confirmed that the external auditor’s reward and remuneration 
structure includes no incentives for audit engagement partners to 
cross sell non-audit services to audit clients. The Committee’s 
assessment is underpinned by the Group’s policy on the 
engagement of the external auditor for the provision of non-audit 
services, which was revised and significantly strengthened in the 
prior year. The Committee conducted a review of the policy during 
the year and was satisfied that it continued to be appropriate. The 
policy contains a presumption against the use of the external auditor 
for non-audit services. The external auditor may only be engaged for 
the provision of non-audit services in contravention of that 
presumption where those services are expressly permitted under 
the policy and where there is a demonstrable efficiency, audit 
enhancement or cost benefit resulting from the engagement of the 
external auditor. Furthermore, before it may be engaged for the 
provision of such non-audit services, alternative providers must have 
been considered and discounted.
Services which the external auditor is prohibited from providing to 
the Group include, amongst others:
•	 Bookkeeping services and preparation of financial information
•	 The design, supply or implementation of financial information 
systems
•	 Appraisal or valuation services
•	 Internal audit services
•	 Actuarial services
Fees paid to EY during the year are set out in the table below, 
together with prior year comparisons:
2013/14
£m
2012/13
£m
Total audit fees
0.4 0.4
Non-audit fees
Taxation services
0.1 0.1
Other non-audit services
– 0.2
Total non-audit fees
0.1 0.3
Total Fees
0.5 0.7
Details of the non-audit work undertaken by EY during the year are 
set out at Note 2 to the Accounts at page 84.
The Committee was satisfied that the overall levels of audit related and 
non-audit fees were not material relative to the income of the external 
auditor firm as a whole. It was satisfied that the objectivity and 
independence of the external auditor was maintained throughout the 
year.
External auditor appointment: 
EY was first appointed as external auditor to the Company in 1996. 
There are no contractual restrictions on the Company with regard to 
its appointment. The external audit appointment to the Company 
and Group has not been tendered competitively since EY’s 
appointment.
As reported last year, the Committee has been closely monitoring 
regulatory developments concerning external auditor tendering. 
Since the publication of the Code in September 2012 where at 
provision C.3.7 it required that FTSE 350 companies “should put the 
external audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years”, the 
Competition Commission’s report on the statutory audit tender 
market was expected to result in a requirement that audit services 
are tendered at least each ten years and should they not be 
tendered each five years, companies should explain why it is in the 
best interests of their shareholders that the audit engagement is not 
tendered. Furthermore, the Competition Commission had stated an 
intention to introduce a requirement that companies who last put 
their audit to tender before 2005 must do so within two years of the 
next rotation of their audit engagement partner. In the case of Dairy 
Crest, that will require that the Group tenders the external audit 
engagement in 2019. As of January 2014, the Competition 
Commission had announced its intention to place implementation of 
an Order on hold pending the outcome of the European 
Commission’s review of the external audit market and its 
implementation of anticipated regulation placing particular 
requirements or companies for the tendering and rotation of external  42 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the selection and 
appointment of Directors and making its recommendations to the 
Board. In conjunction with the Chairman, it also evaluates the 
commitments of individual Directors and ensures that the 
membership of the Board and its principal committees are refreshed 
periodically. The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the 
Company that Executive Directors take up opportunities to act as 
non-executive directors in other appropriate companies. Executive 
Directors are permitted to serve in a non-executive capacity on the 
board of one other company and to retain any fees received. 
Non-executive Directors may serve as directors, executive or 
otherwise, on the boards of other companies. As Non-executive 
Directors’ letters of appointment require them to seek prior approval 
from the Board for other appointments, the Board is given the 
opportunity to satisfy itself that their other commitments allow 
sufficient time for Non-executive Directors to devote adequate time 
to their commitments to the Company. The Board approved all new 
appointments of Directors during the year and is satisfied that all 
Directors continue to have sufficient time to devote themselves 
properly to their duties for the Company.
The Committee has not been required during the year to assist the 
Board with the recruitment of a Director. Were it to be so required, it 
would ensure that the recruitment exercise was conducted against a 
documented brief setting out the requirements of the role and the 
skills and experience required of the person to fill it. In the past, the 
Company has engaged the services of external search 
consultancies and it is anticipated, in the ordinary course, that it 
would continue to do so in the future. Were it not to do so, open 
advertising would be used as an alternative. None of the Non-
executive Directors, or the Chairman, who was independent on 
appointment, has yet served six years in office. Andrew Carr-Locke 
is the longest serving of the independent Non-executive Directors, 
the test of independence no longer applying to the Chairman. He will 
have served six years on the Board in August 2015.
Sector experience Independence
Female 
13%
Finance
37%
Non-
independent 
37.5%
Independent 
62.5%
Communications/
Marketing 25%
Agriculture
13%
FMCG/
Manufacturing
25%
8+ years 
tenure 12%
4-7 years 
tenure 38%
0-3 years
tenure 50%
Male 
87%
Length of tenure Board gender
In Anthony Fry’s absence I present to shareholders the report on 
the work of the Nomination Committee during the 2013/14 
financial year. Details of the membership of the Committee and 
the attendance of members at Committee meetings during the 
year are set out on page 37.
n omination Committee report
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
audit services. Should the European Commission implement 
regulation in the anticipated form, companies will be required to 
change auditor each 10 years. It is anticipated that national states 
shall be able to derogate from the regulation by allowing an 
extension of up to 10 years for rotation, provided shareholders ratify 
the implementation of such extension. The Company has introduced 
a policy which requires the tendering of the external auditing 
engagement each 10 years, the first of which tendering exercises 
must be undertaken not later than the end of 2019. The Committee 
shall continue closely to monitor the developing regulatory 
landscape and will review the Company’s policy on audit tendering 
as required in response to further regulatory changes. 
The Committee monitors the performance of the external auditor 
throughout the year and formally concludes the assessment of its 
performance in each May and makes a commensurate 
recommendation on the appointment of EY for the financial year to 
the Board. Shareholders then formally appoint the auditor at the 
AGM in July. In the light of the assessments and review undertaken, 
the Board endorsed the Committee’s recommendation which was 
approved by shareholders in July 2013. At its meeting in May 2014, 
the Audit Committee considered the appropriateness of the 
re-appointment of EY as the Group’s external auditor for the 2013/14 
year. In doing so it took account of the Committee’s review of the 
external auditor’s independence and objectivity, the ratio of audit to 
non-audit fees and the effectiveness of the audit process together 
with other relevant review processes conducted throughout the year. 
The Committee was satisfied that it should recommend to the Board 
the re-appointment of EY as the Company’s and Group’s external 
auditor at the AGM on 15 July 2014. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 43
Governance
Following on from the work of the Committee in the prior year, its 
focus during 2013/14 has been on ensuring the appropriate balance 
of skills and experience on the Board. As Tom Atherton took on the 
role as Group Finance Director in the early summer 2013, the 
Committee was keen to ensure that he was given the appropriate 
support and guidance to help him flourish in his new role. Through 
the Board, the Committee took steps to ensure that he was given 
the necessary formal training and was provided with support, in the 
guise of a coach/mentor. In tandem with the Audit Committee, the 
Committee also wanted to ensure that appropriate steps were taken 
amongst the senior management group in the finance arena to 
enable Tom to focus on his new role and not get drawn into the work 
and accountabilities of his previous role as Director of Financial 
Control. That meant ensuring that there was sufficient breadth of 
experience and expertise in the finance team working for Tom such 
that they were able properly to support him in his new role.
During 2013/14 there were a number of other changes which 
occurred within the senior management team of the Group arising 
from the One Dairy Crest project. The Committee ensured that 
appropriate succession planning was in place for the level below the 
Board and we have been pleased to see a number of internal 
promotions to senior positions, including promotions to the 
Management Board.
The Group has not adopted targets for female representation 
amongst the Directors. It interprets diversity in its widest sense and 
aims to achieve the best possible leadership for the Group by 
ensuring an appropriate mix of skills, backgrounds, gender, 
experience and knowledge amongst its Directors, senior managers 
and other employees. The Committee considers that first and 
foremost, appointments must be made based on an objective 
assessment of who is the best person to fill a role, with candidates 
drawn from a diverse range of backgrounds. The Group will continue 
to operate policies giving equal opportunities to all, irrespective of 
age, gender, marital status, disability, nationality, colour, ethnic 
origin, sexual orientation or religious affiliation.
r ichard Macdonald Acting Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee
21 May 2014
Over the course of the year we believe good progress has been 
made towards ensuring that the Group’s commitment to ‘doing the 
right thing’ has benefitted the environment and society, and that the 
actions taken have improved profits and reduced risks for the 
business. Highlights include: the continued reduction of accidents in 
the workplace, which have fallen for the fifth consecutive year; the 
continued reduction of water usage and the launch of innovative, 
healthier products.
In 2013/14 the Group also benefited from working in collaboration 
with other businesses to deliver larger scale benefits to society, 
examples of which include working in partnerships to help young 
unemployed people gain employment and the work done through 
the Prince’s Dairy Initiative which helps the most vulnerable dairy 
farmers become more economically sustainable.
The Committee believes that the Group’s employees should be 
especially proud of achieving four and a half stars in the 2014 BITC 
corporate responsibility audit. This is the highest rating of any 
participating member company and builds on the Platinum Big Tick 
achieved in 2013. The Committee also noted the great achievement 
of being shortlisted to be the FT’s Responsible Business of the Year 
2014 and the several other prestigious sustainability accolades 
independently awarded over the course of the last 12 months.
Overall the Committee views corporate responsibility as an 
opportunity to improve the business. Accordingly, good corporate 
responsibility is in the interests of all of Dairy Crest’s stakeholders. 
We believe that the Group’s approach helps to spark creative, 
innovative ideas which contribute to the business’ better 
understanding of its consumers.
r ichard Macdonald Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee
21 May 2014
As Chairman of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee I am 
pleased to present the Group’s 
Corporate Responsibility report to 
shareholders for the financial year 
2013/14 on pages 23 to 27. The 
Committee oversees the Group’s 
corporate responsibility programme 
and ensures that key social, ethical 
and environmental issues are 
assessed and prioritised including reviewing the Company’s 40 
corporate responsibility pledges. Sue Farr, each of the Executive 
Directors, the Company Secretary, the Group HR Director and 
Head of Corporate Responsibility are the other members of the 
Committee. To ensure risks are fully identified staff with expertise 
in the relevant corporate responsibility issues are invited to 
present to the Committee at each of the meetings.
r eport of the Corporate r esponsibility Committee 44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Management Board
The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which comprises 
the other Executive Directors and senior members of the Group’s 
executive team. Details of the members of the Management Board 
can be found at pages 32 to 34. The Management Board is 
responsible, amongst other matters, for implementing the Group’s 
strategic direction and monitoring the performance of the business 
and its control procedures on a day-to-day basis, as well as the 
day-to-day operations of the Group’s business, its performance 
against forecasts and budgets and profitability. The Management 
Board normally meets weekly.
information included in the Directors’ report
Certain information fulfilling the requirements of the Corporate 
Governance Report can be found in the Directors’ Report at pages 
63 to 65 under the headings “Substantial shareholdings”, “Rights 
and obligations attaching to shares”, “Articles of association” and 
“Purchase of own shares” and is incorporated into this Corporate 
Governance Report by reference.
By order of the Board
r obin Miller Company Secretary & General Counsel
21 May 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 45
Governance
2013/14 
2013/14 has been a year of progress for Dairy Crest in which we 
have continued to deliver against our strategy despite challenging 
trading conditions reflecting a very competitive UK grocery market. 
The completion of our internal restructure delivered the forecast 
savings and streamlined and improved our processes. The new 
structure has delivered a greater focus on both customer and 
consumer insight, whilst offering opportunities to develop talent 
within the Company. The development of the whey business 
provides exciting revenue potential as well as further opportunities to 
nurture talent within the business. During the year the cost base has 
been effectively managed. In a year of considerable change and 
progress for the business, leadership by the Executives has been 
key in delivering value.
The Dairy Crest annual bonus incorporates stretching short term 
financial targets and personal objectives. This year’s bonus 
payments reflect improved profit before tax performance (including 
enhanced property profits), resulting in payments of 81.75% of salary 
for Mark Allen, 75.50% for Martyn Wilks and 81.75% for Tom 
Atherton.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Share Plan (‘LTISP’) 2011 had 
a three-year performance period to March 2014. Of the total award, 
40% was based on the Group’s adjusted basic earnings per share 
(‘Adjusted EPS’) and 60% was dependent on the Company’s total 
shareholder return (‘TSR’) performance against the TSR of the FTSE 
250 (excluding financial services companies, real estate companies 
and investment trusts). The Company did not achieve the minimum 
Adjusted EPS target threshold and so for this element, no awards 
will be released. Against the TSR performance measure, the 
Company achieved 39.1% growth which resulted in 23.5% of 
awards vesting.
Following a broad shareholder communication and consultation 
process we were delighted to receive strong shareholder support at 
the 2013 AGM for the revised long term incentive scheme, the LTAP, 
with a 97.8% vote in support. Constructed around a set of strategic 
Key Performance Indicators (‘KPIs’) supported by a 3 year 
Directors’ remuneration report
On behalf of the Board, I am 
pleased to present the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the 
2013/14 financial year.
The Dairy Crest remuneration 
policy continues to be based upon 
a core set of principles which 
support the strategic and financial 
ambitions of the Company:
•	 The remuneration package should support a performance 
based culture, attract and retain talented personnel and align 
executives’ and shareholders’ interests.
•	 The remuneration structure is both uncomplicated and 
transparent, and we remain committed to open disclosure.
•	 The measures used for incentive plans reflect the strategic 
priorities which the Committee considers critical to the future 
success of the Company.
During the year, the Committee has reviewed the components of 
executive remuneration in order to ensure that they remain true to 
these guiding principles, are motivating to Executives, appropriate 
to the needs of the business and competitive with the market.
performance measure relating to dividend performance, we believe 
this incentive structure delivers value to both the Company and its 
Executives and further aligns their interests with shareholders.
•	 For the 2012/13 financial year, performance against the LTAP 
scorecard delivered a grant of 80% of basic pay for Executive 
Directors, reflecting the strong performance of Dairy Crest against 
the Company’s strategic objectives. In the year, the Company 
faced highly challenging market conditions with reductions in milk 
production leading to significant increases in milk price. The 
achieved EBITDA growth represented a good performance 
against this very challenging backdrop. Particularly strong 
performance was noted against the balance sheet efficiency and 
ROCE metrics, with the disposal of St Hubert supporting a 
significant reduction in net debt and gearing. One of the key 
strategic objectives of Dairy Crest continues to be on-going 
annual cost savings and in 2012/13 the Group delivered savings of 
£23 million, combined with savings from factory closures, 
exceeding target. The 2012/13 LTAP award was granted in August 
2013, and therefore full details of the outcomes are given in the 
Implementation Report under “Scheme interests awarded during 
the financial year”
•	 For the 2013/14 financial year, the LTAP grant will be 80% of basic 
pay for the Executive Directors, which reflects the continued 
strong performance of Dairy Crest. In particular, EBITDA 
performance, which is key to our progressive dividend policy, has 
shown considerable improvement against the backdrop of a 
difficult market and another year of high milk prices. ROCE for the 
year of 13.8% was ahead of the long term target (12%), 
demonstrating a strong return on investment for Dairy Crest while 
maintaining a sustainable gearing level. This LTAP grant also 
recognises the above target cost savings of £25m achieved in the 
year and the Company’s progress towards our brand growth and 
innovation goals. As the 2013/14 grant level was determined 
based on performance against the LTAP scorecard over the 
previous financial year, we have provided full details of the 
outcomes against these measures in this report. This is contained 
in the Implementation Report under “Statement of implementation 
of policy in the following financial year”
•	 All grants under the LTAP will vest in two equal tranches after four 
years and five years, subject to the dividend performance 
condition being met
2014/15 
2014/15 is expected to be another challenging year particularly in 
light of the intensely competitive UK grocery market. Our focus will 
continue to be on investment in brands and innovation, reductions in 
our cost base and improving the quality of earnings.
Mark Allen and Martyn Wilks will receive no salary increase in 2014. 
This is in line with our approach to salary reviews for Administrative 
and Managerial employees for this year. As referenced in last year’s 
remuneration report, Tom Atherton’s promotion to Group Finance 
Director was at a salary level significantly below the market rate, but 
with a clear plan for enhanced salary adjustments in line with 
increasing experience and good performance in the role. I am 
pleased to confirm that further to an on-going review of Tom’s 
performance his salary will be increased by 18% to £260,000 p.a.. 
This change represents a move to a lower quartile position as 
compared to FTSE 250 CFOs. In line with our remuneration policy, it 
is anticipated that Tom’s salary will be moved towards the median for 
comparable roles over time.
c hanges to reporting 
Preparing a report in line with the new reporting requirements has 
been a key focus of the Remuneration Committee during 2013/14.  46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED
How the element 
supports our 
strategic 
objectives o peration of the element maximum opportunity under the element
performance metrics used, and time 
period applicable
Base salary
Reflect assessment 
of market practice 
based on role and 
experience.
Benchmarked against executives with 
similar responsibilities in companies of 
comparable size and complexity, in 
particular the constituent companies of 
the FTSE 250 index (excluding financial 
services).
Paid in 12 equal monthly instalments 
during the year.
Reviewed annually and any changes are 
in the ordinary course effective from 1st 
July.
Increases will normally be broadly in line with 
inflation and the wider employee population.
The Committee retains the flexibility to award 
higher base salary increases and to position 
salaries in such a way that ensures Dairy Crest 
remains competitive in the market, and to take 
into account an individual’s personal performance 
and experience in the role – as such the 
Committee may apply increases over time as 
appropriate to achieve alignment with market 
levels.
Changes may also be made in the case of a 
change in role or responsibility.
n ot applicable.
pension
Provide a market 
competitive level of 
provision with 
appropriate flexibility 
whilst minimising 
risk to the Group.
There is a defined contribution scheme 
and/or salary supplement in place. n o 
further service accrual under final salary 
pension scheme from 1 April 2010.
Mark Allen and Tom Atherton receive 
employer contributions up to Annual 
Allowance plus cash supplements. Total 
benefit will not exceed 23% of salary.
Martyn Wilks receives a cash supplement of 
23% of salary.
n ot applicable.
Benefits
Provide market-
competitive 
benefits.
Includes company car benefit, life 
assurance cover, permanent health 
insurance and medical insurance.
Dairy Crest pays the cost of providing the 
benefits on a monthly basis, or as 
required for one-off events.
The Remuneration Committee reserves 
the right to add to or remove these 
benefits as required.
All Executives receive a company car/car 
allowance and private medical insurance, 
commensurate with market levels.
Mark Allen and Tom Atherton receive life 
insurance cover of 7 x annual salary.
Martyn Wilks receives life insurance cover of 
4 x annual salary.
n ot applicable.
Supportive of the principles underpinning the new regulations, we 
have delivered a report that fulfils the requirements, providing details 
of our remuneration policies and outcomes in a way we believe will 
be most helpful to shareholders.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
stephen alexander
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
This report covers the reporting period from 1 April 2013 to 31 
March 2014 and provides details of the Remuneration Committee 
and remuneration policy for the Company, together with payments 
and awards made to Directors.
It complies fully with the new disclosure requirements for 
remuneration reporting, as required by the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013, and the rest of this remuneration report is split 
into two parts as follows
•	 The Directors’ Remuneration Policy sets out the Company’s 
proposed policy on Directors’ remuneration and the key factors 
that were taken into account when determining it. It is intended 
that the policy in this report will apply for a three year period from 
1 April 2015. However, if the remuneration policy ceases to be 
appropriate, the Committee will consider changes, putting any 
amended policy to a shareholder vote at the relevant time. This 
part of the report is subject to a binding vote by shareholders at 
the 2014 AGM.
•	 The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out the Remuneration 
Committee’s activities, payments and awards made to the 
Directors and details the link between company performance and 
remuneration for the 2013/14 financial year. This part of the report 
(together with the Annual Statement) is subject to an advisory vote 
at the 2014 AGM.
Directors’ remuneration policy
Directors’ remuneration policy
We seek to ensure that remuneration packages contribute to the 
delivery of long term shareholder value. This is reflected in the 
Company’s annual bonus scheme and long term alignment plan, 
which are explained in more detail below. The Committee will be 
requesting shareholder approval of the following remuneration policy 
at the Annual General Meeting on 15 July 2014 to cover a period of 
three years from 1 April 2015.
Future policy table 
The remuneration structure for Executive and non-executive 
Directors (who are paid only fees and receive no additional benefits), 
at Dairy Crest, and the underlying principles on which each element 
of the package is based are set out below: Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 47
Governance
How the element 
supports our 
strategic 
objectives o peration of the element maximum opportunity under the element
performance metrics used, and time 
period applicable
Bonus
Ensure that annual 
reward is consistent 
with successfully 
achieving the short 
term financial 
targets and strategic 
objectives of the 
Group.
To deliver an appropriate balance 
between long term and short term 
reward, any bonus earned over 50% of 
annual salary is deferred into shares (see 
below). The remainder is paid as cash.
The cash element of the bonus is paid 
three months after the end of the 
financial year to which it relates.
Current maximum award: 100% of salary.
Target award: 50% of salary.
Threshold award: 0% of salary.
In 2013/14 the Remuneration Committee 
adopted discretion to increase the maximum 
award to 150% of salary in exceptional 
circumstances. The Committee is not aware of 
any such circumstances and so does not 
currently expect to make awards above the 
maximum of 100% of salary.
Performance is measured by reference to the 
financial year.
Metrics used to determine performance 
under the bonus will be based on a mix of 
financial, operational and personal measures.
The Committee has the flexibility to vary the 
performance measures and weighting of 
metrics under this plan.
Deferred bonus
Deliver appropriate 
balance between 
long term and short 
term reward and to 
build up Directors’ 
shareholdings in line 
with policy.
Any bonus over 50% of annual salary is 
deferred for three years, conditional on 
continued employment until vesting date.
Delivered in shares. Participants will 
normally be entitled to an amount, 
payable in shares, on vesting equal in 
value to the dividends payable on 
deferred bonus shares over the deferral 
period.
Policy maximum award: 50% of salary 
(maximum potential deferral).
 
In the exceptional event the Remuneration 
Committee exercises discretion to award a 
bonus above 100% of salary, any bonus 
earned above 50% of salary would be 
deferred into shares.
n one. Value growth is achieved only through 
change in share price, and dividend 
equivalents paid.
Long t erm 
alignment plan 
(Ltap)
Encourage and 
reward continuing 
improvement in the 
Group’s 
performance over 
the longer term.
Alignment of interest 
between 
participants and 
shareholders.
Measures identified 
are central to Dairy 
Crest’s strategy and 
are considered by 
Directors in 
overseeing the 
operation of the 
business.
Annual grant of share awards.
Awards will be subject to a phased 
vesting requirement, with 50% of the 
award vesting in year 4 and 50% in year 
5 following grant.
Participants will normally be entitled to 
an amount on vesting, paid in shares, 
equal in value to the dividends payable 
on shares awarded.
The Board may at any time up to and on 
vesting reduce the number of shares that 
vest, should material misstatement or 
misconduct occur.
Maximum award: 90% of salary.
If performance falls below a minimum level 
against the scorecard no award will be made.
Achievements over the prior year against a 
pre-grant performance scorecard comprising 
measures aligned to Dairy Crest’s strategic 
priorities.
The Committee has flexibility to amend the 
relevant measures, weightings and KPIs 
which determine the size of the awards 
granted. The weighting of financial KPIs in 
determining annual grant levels will be at least 
60% of the scorecard.
Vesting is subject to continued employment.
The level of vesting may be reduced 
dependent on a dividend underpin over the 
first three years of the vesting period.
An amount of the award proportional to the 
percentage decrease in dividend may be 
clawed back in the event of a decline of up to 
50%. If the decline exceeds 50%, the 
Committee will use its discretion to determine 
the proportion of the award that shall vest. In 
such circumstances not more than 50% of 
the award will vest.
Dividend cover must be maintained in a 
specific range over the three-year 
measurement period. The Remuneration 
Committee retains discretion to reduce the 
vesting of awards as appropriate should 
dividend cover be outside this range. The 
dividend cover range will be determined by 
the Committee annually, and may be adjusted 
if the Committee determines this to be 
appropriate.
shareholding 
requirement
Alignment of interest 
between participants 
and shareholders.
Directors are encouraged to build a 
shareholding in the Company. Such 
shareholdings exclude unvested options 
under the Long Term Incentive Share 
Plan and include unvested deferred 
shares granted to Executive Directors as 
part payment of bonuses and unvested 
LTAP awards.
Directors who have not achieved the 
minimum shareholding requirement will 
be encouraged to retain 50% of any 
shares released under the deferred 
bonus/LTAP until the required level of 
shareholding is reached.
The shareholding requirement for Executive 
Directors is 200% of salary.
n ot applicable. 48 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED
How the element 
supports our 
strategic 
objectives o peration of the element maximum opportunity under the element
performance metrics used, and time 
period applicable
non-executive 
Directors’ fees
Remunerates 
n on-executive 
Directors and attracts 
n on-executive 
Directors of suitable 
calibre.
Benchmarked against n on-executive 
Directors with similar responsibilities in 
companies of comparable size and 
complexity.
The remuneration of the non-executive 
Chairman is determined by the Board 
following recommendations from the 
Remuneration Committee and Chief 
Executive. The remuneration of 
n on-executive Directors is determined 
by the Board following recommendations 
from the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee having consulted with an 
external adviser and the Chief Executive.
The total fees for n on-executive Directors 
remain within the limit of £600,000 set out in 
the Articles of Association.
n ot applicable.
Provisions of previous policy that will continue to apply – awards made in 2011 and 2012
Long t erm incentive 
share plan (Ltisp)
Alignment of interest 
between participants 
and shareholders.
Annual grant of share awards.
Three-year vesting period.
Annual limit – 150% of salary. 60% subject to three-year relative TSR 
performance against a comparator group 
comprising FTSE 250 constituents (as at 
the grant date) (excluding financial service 
companies, real estate companies and 
investment trusts).
40% subject to three-year Adjusted EPS 
growth targets.
n otes on policy table and components of remuneration
performance measures and targets
Measures for incentive plans reflect the strategic priorities which the Committee considers critical to the future success of the Company. 
Targets are set by reference to budgeted financials, wider Group targets, external market consensus and stretching strategic growth 
outcomes.
c hanges to remuneration policy from that operating in 2013/14
Base salary – n o change
Benefits – n o change
pension – n o change
Bonus – See Bonus policy page 47
Long term incentive – In 2013 the Committee introduced the LTAP to replace the LTISP. The LTAP was approved by shareholders at the 
2013 AGM, with the first grants made in August 2013.
Differences in remuneration for all employees
The majority of employees participate in a bonus plan. The size of award and the weighting of performance conditions vary by level, with 
specific measures incorporated where relevant.
All members of the senior management team have historically participated in the LTISP arrangement. A smaller group of senior management 
now participates in the LTAP at a reward level appropriate to their role.
statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the c ompany
The Committee considers the remuneration of the wider workforce when determining appropriate pay levels for Executive Directors. For 
2013/14 there was an 2% increase in basic pay and associated payments for operative level employees and an increase in salaries for 
administrative and managerial employees of 1.5%. However, the Directors and senior management group did not receive a general increase.
As the Committee has oversight of remuneration matters for the broader senior management population, it brings the reward of these 
individuals into consideration when discussing packages for Executive Directors.
The Committee does not specifically ask employees to comment on matters related to the remuneration of Executive Directors, but any 
comments received are taken into account. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 49
Governance
approach to recruitment remuneration
The Committee’s approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay a competitive salary as appropriate to attract and motivate the right talent in 
the role.
The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the 
appointment of an Executive Director. Any new Director’s remuneration package would include the same elements and be subject to the 
same constraints as those of the existing Directors performing similar roles, as shown below:
c omponent policy and principles
Base salary and 
benefits
The salary level will be set taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the salaries paid for similar roles in comparable 
companies.
Depending on the circumstances of any particular appointment the Committee may choose to set base salary above market median to attract 
the right talent, or below market median with increases applied over a period of time to achieve alignment with market levels for the role with 
reference to the experience and performance of the individual, all subject to the Company’s ability to pay.
Should relocation of a newly recruited Executive Director be required, reasonable costs associated with this relocation will be met by the 
Company. Such relocation support could include but not be limited to payment of legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation/hotel 
cost, a contribution to stamp duty, and replacement of non-transferrable household items. In addition, the Committee may grant additional 
support as appropriate.
Other benefits provided will be aligned to those set out on pages 46 to 47.
pension The Executive Director will be able to participate in the defined contribution scheme up to the annual allowance and a cash supplement 
payment above this. Total benefit will not exceed 23% of Basic Salary.
annual bonus The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the remuneration policy table.
The policy maximum award under the bonus will be 100% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to increase the maximum award to 150% of salary in exceptional circumstances. Any bonus over 
50% of salary is deferred into shares for three years as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Long term 
incentives
The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the Long Term Alignment Plan at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion.
The maximum potential opportunity under this scheme is 90% of salary.
Associated performance measures would apply as set out in the remuneration policy table.
replacement 
awards
The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards so that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period 
than the awards forfeited from a new recruit’s previous employer.
In determining quantum and structure of replacement awards, the Committee will seek to replicate the value taking into account, as far as 
practicable, the timing, form and performance requirements of remuneration forgone. The Committee has the flexibility to use cash and/or 
shares as the format for delivery of any replacement awards.
service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office
Service contracts and letters of appointment include the following terms.
executive Director Date of commencement of contract notice period
M Allen 18 July 2002 12 months
M Wilks 7 January 2008 12 months
T Atherton 23 May 2013 12 months
Executive Directors’ service agreements are available on the Company’s website www.dairycrest.co.uk.
n on-executive Director Letters of appointment notice period
A Fry 15 July 2009 3 months
A Carr-Locke 15 July 2009 3 months
R Macdonald 4 October 2010 3 months
S Alexander 4 October 2010 3 months
S Farr 6 October 2011 3 months
It is the Company’s policy that n on-executive Directors should not normally serve for more than nine years. A template n on-executive 
Director’s letter of appointment is available on the Company’s website. 50 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED
external appointments
Executive Directors may be invited to become n on-executive Directors of other companies and it is recognised that exposure to such duties 
can broaden their experience and skills which will benefit the Company. External appointments are subject to agreement by the Chairman and 
reported to the Board. Any external appointment must not conflict with a Director’s duties and commitments to Dairy Crest. Fees may be 
retained by Directors for such appointments.
t ermination policy
The Remuneration Committee’s approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual 
circumstances including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules 
(including relevant performance conditions).
The table below summarises the key elements of the Executive Director service contract and policy on payment for loss of office.
c omponent policy and principles
notice period 12 months’ notice from Company.
12 months’ notice from Director.
compensation for 
loss of office in 
service contracts
Up to 12 months’ salary plus an additional 3% to account for presumed salary increases from any salary review that may have taken place in 
the notice period.
Payable monthly and subject to mitigation if Director obtains alternative employment up to 12 months after termination.
Other payments to the Director in question include medical benefits, cost of company car and a sum equivalent to 23% of annual salary 
representing pension contribution for the unexpired part of the contractual notice period.
Under the terms of Mark Allen’s contract payments on termination are calculated as 90% of the sum of the following items – annual salary, 
benefits, pension plus 50% of maximum bonus opportunity for the notice period. This will not be the Company’s policy going forward for other 
Executive Directors.
Under the terms of Martyn Wilks’ contract, payments on termination are calculated as annual base salary, benefits and pension contribution, 
half of which would be paid on termination and the remainder paid in six equal monthly instalments.
Contractual provisions in respect of compensation for loss of office for Mark Allen and Martyn Wilks are therefore grandfathered.
In the event of a compromise or settlement agreement, the Remuneration Committee may make payments it considers reasonable in 
settlement of potential legal claims. This may include an entitlement to compensation in respect of their statutory rights under employment 
protection legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions. The Remuneration Committee may also include in such payments reasonable 
reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
The reimbursement of repatriation costs or fees for professional or outplacement advice may also be included in the termination package, as 
deemed reasonable by the Committee, as may the continuation of benefits for a limited period.
t reatment of 
unvested deferred 
bonus awards 
under plan rules
If termination is by way of death, injury, illness, disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances the Committee determines, 
deferred shares may be released on termination.
Otherwise, the proportion of awards released will be determined at the discretion of the Board.
t reatment of 
unvested long term 
incentive plan 
awards under plan 
rules
Any outstanding award will lapse at cessation of employment with the Company, unless the reason for cessation is by way of injury, ill-health, 
disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances the Committee determines, when the award will vest at the normal vesting date 
with the underpin and other conditions considered at the time of vesting. Alternatively, the Committee may determine that a proportion of the 
award will vest immediately, with the proportion determined by the Committee taking into account satisfaction of the underpin and any other 
factors the Committee consider relevant.
A proportion of the LTAP award will vest immediately on death, pro-rated for time.
exercise of 
discretion
Any discretion available in determining treatment of incentives on termination of employment is intended only to be relied upon to provide 
flexibility in certain circumstances.
The Remuneration Committee’s determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the Director’s departure and the recent 
performance of the Company.
change of control Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control to the extent that any performance 
condition has been satisfied.
The proportion of awards that vest under the LTAP will be determined by the Remuneration Committee. Deferred bonus awards would 
normally be released in full.
The Committee reserves the right to alter the performance period or the performance measures and targets of the annual bonus plan or of any 
outstanding awards under the annual bonus plan or the LTAP in the event of a change of control, to ensure that the performance conditions 
remain relevant but challenging.
The Committee has the discretion to test performance at the point of change of control or to allow awards to continue or roll-over in any 
reasonable manner with agreement of the acquirer, taking into account the circumstances of the change of control.
There are no pre-determined special provisions for n on-executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 51
Governance
illustration of application of remuneration policy
A significant proportion of a Director’s total remuneration package is variable, being subject to the achievement of specified short term and 
long term business objectives. The charts below show the composition of total remuneration at minimum, target and maximum performance 
scenarios for the Executive Directors.
Director   Value of package (£000s)
m allen    
m Wilks    
t atherton    
n otes to the scenarios:
Fixed: This element comprises salary as of 1 April 2014, pension benefits (including salary supplement) and other fixed benefits (company car, 
etc) as per the last known number.  
annual variable r emuneration: This element shows annual bonus (including any amount deferred) at 100% of salary in the maximum 
scenario and 50% of salary in the target scenario. 
Long term Variable r emuneration: This element shows remuneration in respect of the LTAP, at 90% of salary in the maximum scenario 
and 70% of salary in the target scenario. n o allowance is made for share price growth, in accordance with the requirements of the disclosure 
rules.
statement of consideration of shareholders views
The Board consulted with several larger shareholders on the proposal to replace the LTISP with the new LTAP. Following an in-depth 
consultation process, the Remuneration Committee and the Board considered the feedback received and put final proposals to a shareholder 
vote at the 2013 AGM, where a strong vote in favour of 97.8% was received.
The Committee discusses matters relating to Directors’ remuneration with major investors on an on-going basis and takes into account any 
comments which are received.
0 250 500 750 1000 1250 1500 1750
Maximum
Target
Minimum (Fixed)
Key:          Fixed Remuneration             Annual Variable Remuneration             Long term Variable Remuneration 
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200
Maximum
Target
Minimum (Fixed)
Maximum
Target
Minimum (Fixed)
0 150 300 450 600 750
41%
52%
28% (1,649)
28%
31%
20%
100%
41%
52%
28%
(1,286)
28%
31%
20%
100%
41%
52%
28%
(665)
(1,106)
(863)
(448)
(701)
(547)
(283)
28%
31%
20%
100% 52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED
single total figure of remuneration – subject to audit
The table below sets out the analysis of total remuneration for each Director. An explanation of how the figures are calculated follows the table. 
The total remuneration for each Director reflects the performance of the Company and the contribution each individual has made to the 
on-going success of the Company.
Director
 
Base salary/fees
 
t axable benefits
 
Bonus
 
Ltisp 2011 
iii  
pension 
iv
 
 t otal
(£’000s)
 
2013/14
 
2012/13
 
2013/14
 
2012/13
 
2013/14
 
2012/13
 
2013/14
 
2012/13
 
2013/14
 
2012/13
 
2013/14
 
2012/13
non-executive 
chairman
                                               
A Fry   155   155   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   155   155
executive 
Directors
                                               
M Allen   518   518   28   28   423   272   193   –   119   119   1,281   937
M Wilks   346   346   22   21   261   171   129   –   80   80   838   618
A Murray 
i
  51   345   3   21   –   170   92   –   11   80   157   616
T Atherton 
ii
  183   –   13   –   149   –   26   –   42   –   413   –
non-executive 
Directors
                                               
A Carr-Locke   43   43   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   43   43
R Macdonald   48   47   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   48   47
S Alexander   43   42   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   43   42
S Farr   38   38   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   38   38
i  Alastair Murray left the Board on 23 May 2013.
ii  Tom Atherton joined the Board on 23 May 2013.
iii  The values included for the 2011 LTISP have been calculated using the average middle market price during the final quarter of 2013/14. Awards will vest on 1 July  
 2014. Should an Executive Director leave employment before 1 July 2014, vesting shall be dependent upon qualification as a good leaver under the scheme rules.  
 The 2013 LTAP award will be included in the single figure table in the 2015/16 annual report on remuneration following completion of the dividend underpin 
 performance period for this award.
iv  Pension amounts include employer’s pension contribution and salary supplement.
Base salary, bonus and LTISP are defined on pages 46 to 48. Bonuses detailed above include the full value of bonus entitlement including 
bonus to be deferred in shares being £164k for Mark Allen, £88k for Martyn Wilks and £67k for Tom Atherton. 
Taxable benefits comprise £63k, valued at the taxable value.
During the year, Mark Allen held the position of non-executive Director including Audit Committee member and Remuneration Committee 
member at Howdens Joinery Group plc, with fees in association with this work totalling £43k (2013: £40k).
additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table – subject to audit 
performance against targets for annual bonus  
Payment of the bonus is subject to the achievement of demanding short term financial targets and personal objectives. To ensure that an 
appropriate balance is maintained between long term and short term reward, any bonus earned over 50% of annual salary is paid in the 
Company’s shares and deferred for a three-year period subject to continued employment.
Bonus payouts for the 2013/14 performance year are set out below:
measure Details
maximum potential 
as a % of salary
m allen – outcome 
as a % of salary
m Wilks – outcome 
as a % of salary
t a therton – outcome 
as a % of salary
profit before 
tax
Stretching targets based on budget, with 
a sliding scale between threshold and 
maximum
60% 60% 60% 60%
net debt Stretching targets based on budget, with 
a sliding scale between threshold and 
maximum
15% 3% 3% 3%
personal 
objectives
A range of non-financial operational and 
strategic objectives will be assessed by 
the Committee, with an appropriate 
award level set under this element with 
reference to the overall performance of 
the business.
25% 18.75% 12.5% 18.75%
Annual report on remuneration Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 53
Governance
measure Details
maximum potential 
as a % of salary
m allen – outcome as 
a % of salary
m Wilks – outcome as 
a % of salary
t a therton – outcome 
as a % of salary
t otal – 100% of salary
–
81.75% of salary
£423k
75.50% of salary
£261k
81.75% of salary
£149k
Deferred into 
shares
– – 31.75% of salary
£164k
 
25.5% of salary
£88k
 
31.75% of salary
£67k
 
Group adjusted profit before tax increased by 31% in the year to £65.3m triggering a maximum payout in respect of the profit target.
n et debt increased by £82m in the year, albeit reduced by £50m from 30 September 2013. Despite this improved second half performance, 
the overall increase in net debt resulted in an award at the lower end of the range.
Long t erm incentive share plan 2011 
Awards under the LTISP 2011 had a three-year performance period to 31 March 2014. 40% of the total award was based on the Group’s 
Adjusted EPS and 60% was measured against the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 (excluding financial services companies, real estate 
companies and investment trusts). 
measure t hreshold maximum o utcome
Vesting  
(as % award granted in 2011)
tsr performance against 
Ftse 250 constituents (60% 
of total Ltisp award)
Median (30% of TSR award 
vests)
Upper quartile or above (100% 
of TSR award vests)
73/155 23.5%
eps target (40% of total 
Ltisp award)
RPI + 1% p.a. over the three 
year performance period (30% 
of EPS award vests)
RPI + 5% p.a. over the three 
year performance period 
(100% of EPS award vests)
Threshold level not achieved 0%
overall outcome
     
23.5%
c urrent position on outstanding Ltisp awards – not subject to audit 
The table below sets out the current position against performance targets for the LTISP award granted in 2012:
measure t hreshold maximum o utcome
Vesting  
(as % award granted in 2012)
tsr performance against 
Ftse 250 constituents (60% 
of total Ltisp award)
Median (30% of TSR award 
vests)
Upper quartile or above (100% 
of TSR award vests)
59/159 40.3%
eps target (40% of total 
Ltisp award)
RPI + 1% p.a. over the three 
year performance period (30% 
of EPS award vests)
RPI + 5% p.a. over the three 
year performance period 
(100% of EPS award vests)
Threshold level unlikely to be 
achieved
0%
overall outcome
     
40.3%
c urrent position on outstanding Ltap awards – not subject to audit 
The LTAP award made in the year under review is subject to a dividend underpin for three years following the award being made. An amount 
of the award proportional to the percentage decrease in dividend may be clawed back in the event of a decline of up to 50%. If the decline 
exceeds 50%, the Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest.
Dividend cover must also be maintained in the range 1.5 – 2.5 over the three-year measurement period. The dividend increase over the period 
following the award is currently 3%, and the dividend cover is 1.9 times. Based on this performance continuing the full award granted would 
vest.
t otal pension entitlements – subject to audit 
Following the closure of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund (a defined benefit scheme) to future accruals, there is no increase in accrued 
pension during the year other than inflationary increases.
The scheme closed to future accrual at 31 March 2010. Mark Allen decided to draw benefits from 31 March 2010 and receives an annual 
pension and received a cash lump sum of £221,510 in 2010/11. Benefit accrual ceased on 31 March 2010 and Mark Allen is no longer paying 
contributions into the scheme.
Mark Allen and Tom Atherton were members of the defined contribution scheme throughout 2013/14. Alastair Murray was also a member of 
the defined contribution scheme until leaving the Company on 23 May 2013. The Company made contributions up to the £50,000 limit for 
employee and employer contributions. Further cash supplements were paid such that the total of cash supplements and employer 
contributions amounted to 23% of basic salary. Martyn Wilks was not a member of any Company pension scheme in the year ended 31 
March 2014 and received a salary supplement of 23% of basic salary. 54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED
payments for loss of office – subject to audit
Alastair Murray left the Board on 23 May 2013 and was succeeded as Group Finance Director by Tom Atherton. The payments for loss of 
office made to Alastair Murray are as follows:
t ermination payment
The termination payment to Alastair Murray on leaving employment was £557,020, calculated in accordance with the provisions of his service 
contract, which entitled him to an amount based on his salary, non-cash benefits, pension benefits and 50% of the maximum annual bonus 
potentially payable in the financial year of his departure. This amount was pro-rated by a factor of 0.9 for accelerated payment under a 
contractual formula.
Deferred bonus
All outstanding deferred bonus shares were released to Alastair Murray comprising 46.692 shares (including on vesting additional shares in 
respect of dividends paid).
Long term incentives
As his outstanding LTISP awards did not meet the minimum performance requirements for threshold vesting, no shares were released to 
Alastair Murray under these schemes.
payments to past Directors – subject to audit
n o payments were made in the year to past Directors other than the termination payments to Alastair Murray detailed above.
scheme interests awarded during the financial year – subject to audit 
Ltap 2013 award 
The award made under the LTAP in 2013 was made on 15 August 2013. The award level is determined based on achievements over the prior 
year against the pre-grant performance scorecard, comprising of measures aligned to Dairy Crest’s strategic priorities. Outcomes against the 
2013 scorecard are summarised in the second table below, and detail on these outcomes against the targets set and context in which 
decisions were made is included thereafter. n ote that this award is subject to a dividend underpin for the first three years of the vesting period.
Director
Level of award % of 
salary Face value £000s
percentage vesting 
at threshold 
performance n umber of shares end of vesting period
mark allen 80% 414 n /A 79,329 50% at August 2017 
50% at August 2018
martyn Wilks 80% 277 n /A 53,068 50% at August 2017 
50% at August 2018
t om atherton 80% 160 n /A 30,651 50% at August 2017 
50% at August 2018
Determination of 2013 grant:
measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting o utcome
1. profit Adjusted EBITDA target each year. Delivery of profit is core to the 
business and supports the 
progressive dividend policy.
30% 13%
2. Balance sheet efficiency ROCE target each year whilst 
maintaining net debt/EBITDA in the 
1.0-2.0 x range.
Ensuring acceptable return on 
investment within a sustainable level 
of gearing.
20% 20%
3. corporate activity & 
efficiencies
Delivery of annual cost savings 
targets.
Delivery of synergies and return on 
investment following acquisitions or 
successful divestments (when 
relevant).
Ensuring cost savings are delivered 
on an on-going basis.
Ensuring that major acquisitions/ 
divestments deliver against relevant 
synergy and return targets.
15% 15%
4. Brand Growth Key brand value growth over one and 
three years versus markets in which 
they operate.
Brand growth is key to longer term 
business growth.
15% 12%
5. innovation Achieve each year the targeted 
proportion of revenue from innovation 
in previous three years.
Innovation is a key driver of 
productivity and growth.
10% 6%
6. corporate responsibility A range of metrics including 
improvements in accident incident 
rates, reduced CO
2
 emissions & 
improved employee engagement.
Delivering results in a sustainable 
way which enhance reputation and 
stakeholder engagement.
10% 9% Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 55
Governance
measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting o utcome
t otal
     
75%
For Executive Directors 
this converts to an award 
of 80% of salary.
1. profit  Weighting: 30%. o utcome: 13%
Profit was assessed by the Remuneration Committee against an adjusted EBITDA KPI target range set by reference to the budget and taking 
into consideration the level of challenge included in budget at the beginning of the year. 
Conditions were particularly challenging in 2012. During the first part of the year cream prices fell dramatically before recovering as milk supply 
decreased. Milk costs reduced in the first quarter of 2012/13, but on-farm inflation, farmer action and significant reductions in milk production 
led to a 10% increase in the price of milk thereafter resulting in a c£60m increase in costs that had to be recovered. The business also incurred 
non-milk input cost inflation and the consumer environment remained weak.
The Remuneration Committee therefore considered that against this context the small year on year increase in adjusted EBITDA, in line with 
market consensus, represented a good performance although did not achieve budgeted levels. A reduced award under this component to 
13% was therefore considered appropriate.
2. Balance sheet efficiency  Weighting: 20%. o utcome: 20%
The Remuneration Committee determined balance sheet efficiency for FY 2012/13 through the assessment of ROCE performance (calculated 
based on average operating assets) against an annual target based on budget and the long term objective of 12%. The Remuneration 
Committee felt it important to underpin the assessment with the requirement that gearing (being net debt/adjusted EBITDA) remain below 2.0 
times. 
The disposal of St Hubert during the year transformed the Group’s balance sheet, leading to a significant reduction in net debt and gearing to 
fall to 0.6 times by year end. ROCE for the year of 13.3% was ahead of the long term 12% target.
This result, especially its positive impact on our ability to invest in future growth, was considered a significant accomplishment against our 
balance sheet efficiency objectives and resulted in a full award being made under this component. 
3. c orporate activity & efficiencies  Weighting: 15%. o utcome: 15%
For this year, the Remuneration Committee split this measure to be based on two equally-weighted KPIs: the assessment of the full year effect 
of cost efficiency projects initiated in the year, and the delivery of synergies and returns on acquisitions.
The Remuneration Committee recognised that the Group delivered cost savings of £23m against a target of £20m, alongside cost benefits 
from factory closures, and considered that this achievement warranted the full amount of this award. 
In assessing the second KPI, the Remuneration Committee considered the post-acquisition performance of MH Foods where a simplification 
of the business’s product range helped deliver operating profits in excess of targets, again resulting in the decision to award the full amount 
under this measure.
4. Brand Growth  Weighting: 15%. o utcome: 12%
Under this measure, the Remuneration Committee assessed the performance of the Cathedral City, Country Life, Clover and FRijj retail 
brands, both over a one year and three year timeline to ensure the rewarding of both short and long term growth.
Based on independent market data (n ielsen), brand growth for three of the four key brands was ahead of the market in 2012/13, the exception 
being FRijj where the market has seen several new branded entrants supported by heavy marketing and promotional activity plus our ability to 
promote being constrained pending the completion of our investment in Severnside which will increase capacity. In the view of the 
Remuneration Committee, brand performance for the year was good and also represented an improvement over the three-year performance 
period versus the market. Taking these factors into account an award of 12% was considered appropriate for this measure.
5. innovation  Weighting: 10%. o utcome: 6%
Under this measure, the Remuneration Committee took into account the Group target that 10% of annual revenue should be generated from 
product innovation over the previous three years. In their assessment, the Remuneration Committee noted that this target should be 
considered for branded sales as well as for overall Group revenue. 
The Remuneration Committee considered the achievement of 5% of Group revenue and 9% of branded revenue delivered through innovation 
over the last three years against this target as solid progress albeit it did not meet the Group’s challenging aspirations.
In the view of the Remuneration Committee an award of 6% against this measure was considered appropriate.
6. c orporate r esponsibility  Weighting: 10%. o utcome: 9%
The assessment for corporate responsibility encompasses a number of measurable targets but judgement is required in order to assess the 
overall performance in light of this. Overall, the Remuneration Committee noted that budget targets were met across the majority of KPIs,  56 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED
notably reductions in accident incident rates, CO
2
 emissions and use of water. The challenging target for landfill avoidance was not achieved, 
albeit progress was made against the prior year. 
Furthermore, Dairy Crest’s success in achieving the BITC platinum BIG TICK rating was a strong endorsement of the Group’s progress against 
the Corporate Responsibility agenda. The Remuneration Committee considered an award of 9% to be appropriate.
Dividend underpin
The level of vesting of this award may be reduced dependent on a dividend underpin over the period April 2013 – March 2016.
An amount of the award proportional to the percentage decrease in dividend may be clawed back in the event of a decline of up to 50%. If the 
decline exceeds 50%, the Remuneration Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest. In such 
circumstances not more than 50% of the award will vest.
Dividend cover must be maintained in a specific range over the three-year measurement period. The Committee retains discretion to reduce 
the vesting of awards as appropriate should dividend cover be outside this range.
shareholder dilution  
In accordance with the guidelines set by the Association of British Insurers (ABI), the Remuneration Committee can satisfy awards under all its 
share plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling 10-year 
period to employees under all its share plans. Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue (as newly issued shares or from treasury) 5% 
of its issued share capital to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans. Currently 6.3% of issued shares have been made under 
share plans, with 1.6% under discretionary or executive schemes.
statement of Director’s shareholdings and share interests – subject to audit
Executive Directors are encouraged to build a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 200% of salary and to this end would normally retain 
50% of net proceeds from share plans and deferred bonus share awards until that shareholding is achieved. Shareholdings exclude unvested 
options under the LTISP and include unvested deferred shares granted to Executive Directors as part payment of bonuses and unvested LTAP 
awards. Mark Allen has satisfied the shareholding requirement. Martyn Wilks and Tom Atherton have not met the requirement and will 
continue to grow their shareholding.
The interests of the Directors at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows:
Director
n umber of shares 
owned outright 
(including connected 
persons) Ltisp 2011 
i
Ltisp 2012 
ii
u nvested Ltap 
shares 
iii
Deferred annual 
bonus shares 
iv
saY e 
v
M Allen 143,798 37,379 169,038 80,193 7,945 3,202
M Wilks 46,411 25,005 113,080 53,646 3,426 3,202
T Atherton 3,347 4,996 22,861 30,985 – –
A Murray 
vi
154,018 17,794 42,959 – 46,692 –
A Carr-Locke 2,000 – – – – –
R Macdonald 1,000 – – – – –
S Alexander 1,000 – – – – –
S Farr 4,465 – – – – –
A Fry 3,000 – – – – –
i    Long Term Incentive Share Plan 2011 (nil cost share options) : The performance period ended on 31 March 2014 and all awards will vest on 1 July 2014.  
Amounts shown are numbers of shares which will vest
ii    Long Term Incentive Share Plan 2012 (nil cost share options) : The performance period will end on 31 March 2015 and awards will vest on 3 July 2015. Amounts 
shown include initial grant and options related to ‘reinvested’ dividends to the date of this Report
iii    Long Term Alignment Plan 2013 (nil cost share options) : The period for the dividend underpin condition will end on 31 March 2016. 50% of awards will vest on 15 
August 2017 and 50% will vest on 15 August 2018. Amounts shown include initial grant and options related to ‘reinvested’ dividends to the date of this Report
iv   This may include both deferred shares or unvested nil cost share options
v   Save As You Earn Scheme 2012 (cost options) : The exercise price for these options is 281 pence per share and the exercise period is 3/2016 - 9/2016. There are no 
applicable performance conditions
vi  Interests in shares as at 23 May 2013
There have been no changes in Directors’ shareholdings between 31 March 2014 and 21 May 2014.
Gain on sale of share options
Director n umber of options exercised market value at exercise date £000s
Gain on exercise of share options 
£000s
A Murray 3,754 19 19 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 57
Governance
performance graph and table 
The graph below sets out for the five years ended 31 March 2014 the total shareholder return of Dairy Crest Group plc and of the FTSE 250 
index (excluding investment companies) of which the Company is a constituent member.
ceo pay 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14
t otal remuneration (£’000s) 1,018 888 904 937 1,281
annual bonus (% max) 94% 54% 50% 52.5% 81.7%
Long term incentive vesting 
(% max)
0% 0% 0% 0% 23.5%
percentage change in ceo ’s remuneration
The table below sets out the percentage change in the CEO’s salary, benefits and bonus between 2012/13 and 2013/14, compared with the 
percentage change in the average of each of these components of pay for those salaried members of the clerical, administrative, supervisory 
and management population allocated to Hay bands. This group comprises 27% of the total workforce, and has been identified as the most 
appropriate for this table in view of the comparable nature of employment and incentive arrangements:
    salary   t axable benefits   Bonus  
  2013/14 2012/13 % change 2013/14 2012/13 % change 2013/14 2012/13 % change
ceo (£’000s) 518 518 0 28 28 0 423 272 56
average pay for wider 
employee population (£’000s)
41 40 1.4 5.2 4.8 9 5.4 3.5 56
r elative importance of spend on pay
The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay at Dairy Crest, compared with distributions made to shareholders in 
2012/13 and 2013/14:
£m 2013/14 2012/13 % change
employee remuneration costs 157.0 176.5 -11.0
Dividends 28.5 27.4 4.0
Dairy Crest – Total Shareholder Returns for £100 invested
FTSE 250 (excluding 
investment companies)
Dairy Crest Group plc
March 09 March 10 March 11 March 12 March 13 March 14
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
220 58 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED
statement of implementation of policy in the following financial year
The Directors’ remuneration policy will be implemented for the 2014/15 financial year as follows:
Base salary – £’000s
role 2013/14 effective 1 april 2014
Mark Allen 518 518
Martyn Wilks 346 346
Tom Atherton* 220 260 (from 1/7/2014)
*Tom Atherton was brought onto the Board at a salary level below the market lower quartile for his role. In line with the Remuneration Committee’s intent as stated in 
the 2013 Remuneration Report, he has been an awarded an increase for 2014 to bring his salary closer towards a market competitive level. The 18% increase reflects 
his exceptional performance in his first year and takes his positioning against the market to lower quartile. This forms part of a phased increase over time, and the 
Remuneration Committee expects that any subsequent increases will be lower as a percentage of salary. 
ne D fees – £’000s
role 2013/14 effective 1 april 2014
n on-executive Chairman 155 155
non-executive Director (base) 38 38
Audit Committee Chair +5 +5
Corporate Responsibility Chair +5 +5
Remuneration Committee Chair +5 +5
Senior Independent Director +5 +5
Bonus measures  
Maximum opportunity for Executive Directors under the 2014/15 bonus is 100% of salary, with 50% of salary paid for on-target performance.
Performance will be assessed against the following measures:
•	 Profit before tax (60% of award)
•	 n et debt (15% of award)
•	 Personal objectives (25% of award)
The targets for the 2014/15 annual bonus measures are considered commercially sensitive because of the information that this provides to the 
Company’s competitors. Payout outcomes against these targets will be disclosed in the 2014/15 report.
Ltap 2014 award   
The award made under the LTAP 2014 is based on achievements over the prior year against the pre-grant performance scorecard, comprising 
measures aligned to Dairy Crest’s strategic priorities. Outcomes against the 2014 scorecard are summarised in the second table below and 
detail on outcomes against the targets set and the context in which decisions were made is included thereafter. n ote that this award is subject 
to a dividend underpin for the first three years of the vesting period. 
Director Level of award % of salary Face value £’000s end of vesting period
mark allen 80% 414 50% 4 years after the award date
50% 5 years after the award date
martyn Wilks 80% 277 50% 4 years after the award date
50% 5 years after the award date
t om atherton 80% 176 50% 4 years after the award date
50% 5 years after the award date
The number of shares granted will be calculated in accordance with the rules approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 59
Governance
Determination of 2014 grant:
measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting o utcome
1. profit Adjusted EBITDA target each year. Delivery of profit is core to the business 
and supports the progressive dividend 
policy.
30% 23%
2. Balance sheet efficiency ROCE target each year whilst 
maintaining net debt/EBITDA in the 
1.0-2.0 x range.
Ensuring acceptable return on 
investment within a sustainable level of 
gearing.
20% 17%
3. corporate activity & 
efficiencies
Delivery of annual cost savings 
targets.
Delivery of synergies and return on 
investment following acquisitions or 
successful divestments (when 
relevant).
Ensuring cost savings are delivered on 
an on-going basis.
Ensuring that major acquisitions/ 
divestments deliver against relevant 
synergy and return targets.
15% 15%
4. Brand Growth Key brand value growth over one and 
three years versus markets in which 
they operate.
Brand growth is key to longer term 
business growth.
15% 5%
5. innovation Achieve each year the targeted 
proportion of revenue from innovation 
in previous three years.
Innovation is a key driver of productivity 
and growth.
10% 6% 
6. corporate responsibility A range of metrics including 
improvements in accident incident 
rates, reduced CO
2
 emissions & 
improved employee engagement.
Delivering results in a sustainable way 
which enhances reputation and 
stakeholder engagement. 
10% 8%
t otal 74%
For Executive Directors 
this converts to an 
award of 80% of salary.
1. profit  Weighting: 30%. o utcome: 23%
The Remuneration Committee assessed profit performance against an adjusted EBITDA KPI target range set by reference to the budget.
EBITDA performance in 2013/14 showed considerable improvement in what continued to be a challenging market. Milk prices remained high, 
resulting in a c£45m increase in costs that had to be recovered. Developments in the retail sector and the increased prominence of 
discounters led to further pressures being applied to the Dairies business.
The Remuneration Committee considered that against this context, the adjusted EBITDA outcome showed a good performance and awarded 
23% on this basis.
2. Balance sheet efficiency  Weighting: 20%. o utcome: 17% 
The Remuneration Committee determined balance sheet efficiency for FY 2012/13 through the assessment of ROCE performance (calculated 
based on average operating assets) against an annual target based on budget and the long term objective of 12%. As last year, the 
Remuneration Committee felt it important to underpin the assessment with the requirement that gearing (being net debt/EBITDA) remain 
below 2.0 times. 
ROCE for the year of 13.8% was ahead of the long term 12% target. This result represented a good performance against our balance sheet 
efficiency objectives and resulted in an award of 17%
3. c orporate activity & efficiencies  Weighting: 15%. o utcome: 15% 
Given no major M&A activity during the year, the outcome for this measure was based upon cost savings. Against a target of £20m the Group 
made savings of £25m. This resulted in a full award being made against this component.
4. Brand Growth  Weighting: 15%. o utcome: 5%
The key brand performance was mixed. Three of our four key brands recorded sales growth below the market albeit both FRijj and Country 
Life both performed better in the second half of the year. Cathedral City continues to significantly outperform the market. Although longer-term 
data shows three of our four key brands outperforming the market, we believe an award of 5% is appropriate given the importance of brand 
growth in the current environment. 60 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED
5. innovation  Weighting: 10%. o utcome: 6% 
Under this measure, the Remuneration Committee took into account the Group target that 10% of annual revenue should be generated from 
product innovation over the previous three years. In their assessment, the Remuneration Committee noted that this target should be 
considered for branded sales as well as for overall Group revenue. 
Achieving 4% of Group revenue and 7% of branded revenue through innovation was considered by the Remuneration Committee as showing 
some progress against this component, albeit not in line with the Group’s challenging targets. As a result, an award of 6% was considered 
appropriate.
6. c orporate r esponsibility  Weighting: 10%. o utcome: 8% 
We have made good progress on health and safety during the year but certain other targets with respect of landfill avoidance and employee 
engagement were not met. However, we were the highest scoring company in BITC’s CR index with 4.5 out of 5.0. This measures a range of 
Corporate Responsibility criteria consistent with our LTAP measures and therefore an award of 8% is considered appropriate. 
 
Dividend underpin 
The level of vesting of this award may be reduced dependent on a dividend underpin over the period April 2014 – March 2017.
An amount of the award proportional to the percentage decrease in dividend may be clawed back in the event of a decline of up to 50%. If the 
decline exceeds 50%, the Remuneration Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest. In such 
circumstances not more than 50% of the award will vest.
Dividend cover must be maintained in a specific range over the three-year measurement period. The Committee retains discretion to reduce 
the vesting of awards as appropriate should dividend cover be outside this range. 
Ltap 2015 award 
A grant will be made in 2015 under the LTAP, in line with the disclosed policy. As the grant will be based on scorecard of metrics assessed 
over the 2014/15 financial year, below we set out the scorecard which will determine the grants made in 2015. We have included the 2014/15 
KPIs on which performance will be assessed and the associated alignment to strategy. We have not included specific targets on the KPIs, as 
the targets are considered commercially sensitive. The outcomes for this award will be disclosed in the 2014/15 Directors Remuneration 
Report.
measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting
profit Adjusted EBITDA target each year. Delivery of profit is core to the business and supports the 
progressive dividend policy.
30%
Balance sheet 
efficiency
ROCE target each year whilst maintaining net debt/EBITDA 
in the 1.0-2.0 x range.
Ensuring acceptable return on investment within a 
sustainable level of gearing.
15%
corporate activity & 
efficiencies
Delivery of annual cost savings targets. 
Delivery of synergies and return on investment following 
acquisitions or successful divestments (when relevant).
Ensuring cost savings are delivered on an on-going basis.
Ensuring that major acquisitions/ divestments deliver 
against relevant synergy and return targets.
15%
Brand Growth Key brand value growth over one and three years versus 
markets in which they operate.
Brand growth is key to longer term business growth. 20%
innovation Achieve each year the targeted proportion of revenue from 
innovation in previous three years.
Innovation is a key driver of productivity and growth. 10%
corporate 
responsibility
A range of metrics including improvements in accident 
incident rates, reduced CO
2
 emissions & improved 
employee engagement.
Delivering results in a sustainable way which enhances 
reputation and stakeholder engagement.
10%
Dividend underpin To increase the dividend over the three years post-grant in 
line with progressive dividend policy whilst maintaining 
dividend cover within 1.5-2.5 x range for the three years 
post-grant.
Delivery of progressive dividend policy.
Measures and KPIs for 2014/15 are consistent with 2013/14 and support the long term strategy of the Group. However certain weightings 
have been adjusted to reflect changes in relative priorities over the next 12 months. The weighting for brand growth has been increased from 
15% to 20% following a mixed performance in 2013/14 and the need to deliver improved growth next year. The weighting for balance sheet 
efficiency has been reduced from 20% to 15% reflecting improved levels of gearing following the disposal of St. Hubert. The LTAP maintains a 
60% weighting of financial KPIs within the 2014/15 scorecard. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 61
Governance
sharesave scheme 
The Sharesave Scheme is open to all eligible employees and full time Directors. Employees enter into an approved savings contract over a 
three-year term to make monthly contributions up to an overall maximum of £500 per month (new maximum level with effect from 1 April 
2014). At the end of the term, members have the right to buy ordinary shares in the Company at a price fixed at the time of the option grant. 
Options may not be granted at less than 80% of the market price at the time of grant.
c onsideration by the Directors of matters relating to remuneration
members of the r emuneration c ommittee 
The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee of non-executive Directors of the Company. During the year the Committee 
consisted of:
•	 Stephen Alexander (Chairman); 
•	 Andrew Carr-Locke; and
•	 Sue Farr.
Anthony Fry, Company Chairman, Mark Allen, Chief Executive and Tom Atherton, Group Finance Director attend the Remuneration 
Committee by invitation. Members of the Remuneration Committee have no potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and 
they are not involved in the day-to-day running of the Company.
t he c ommittee’s activities during the financial year 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the broad policy with respect to senior executives’ salary and other remuneration. It 
specifically determines, within remuneration principles agreed with the Board, the total remuneration package of each Executive Director and 
reviews with the Chief Executive the remuneration packages for other senior executives. A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee 
can be found on the Company’s website.
In 2013/14, the Committee met nine times. Details of attendance are shown on page 37 and the Committee discussed, amongst others, the 
following matters:
meeting agenda items discussed
april • 	 Fe e d b a c k 	 f ro m 	 s h a re h o l d e r 	 c o n s u l t ati o n 	 o n 	 L T A P
may • 	 A p p ro va l 	 of 	 2 0 1 2 / 1 3 	 b o n u s 	 o u t c o m e
• 	 A p p ro va l 	 of 	 2 0 1 3/ 1 4 	 b o n u s 	 t a rg ets
• 	 Im p l e m e nt ati o n 	 of 	 L T A P
• 	 A p p ro va l 	 of 	 re m u n e rati o n 	 re p o r t
may • 	 A p p ro va l 	 of 	 L T A P 	 r u l e s
June • 	 R ev i ew 	 of 	 2 0 1 3 	 L T A P 	 o u t tu r n 	 a n d 	 p ro g re s s 	 o n 	 2 0 1 4 	 s c o re c a rd
august • 	 A p p ro va l 	 of 	 L T A P 	 g ra nt 	 fo r 	 2 0 1 3
• 	 D et e r m i n ati o n 	 of 	 L T A P 	 s c o re c a rd 	 fo r 	 2 0 1 4
november • 	 U p d at e 	 o n 	 n ew 	 d i s c l o s u re 	 r u l e s 	 fo r 	 re m u n e r ati o n 	 re p o r t
• 	 R ev i ew 	 of 	 S h a re s a ve
December • 	 Im p l i c ati o n s 	 of 	 n ew 	 d i s c l o s u re 	 r u l e s 	 fo r 	 re m u n e r ati o n 	 re p o r t
• 	 R e n ewa l 	 of 	 s h a re 	 p l a n 	 r u l e s
January • 	 R ev i ew 	 of 	 d raf t 	 re m u n e rati o n 	 re p o r t
march • 	 R ev i ew 	 of 	 p ot e nti a l 	 b o n u s 	 a n d 	 l o n g 	 t e r m 	 i n c e nti ve 	 o u t c o m e s
• 	 R ev i ew 	 of 	 d raf t 	 re m u n e rati o n 	 re p o r t 62 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
advisors to the r emuneration c ommittee 
The Remuneration Committee has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’) to provide advice on executive remuneration. PwC have 
provided such advice historically, and were originally appointed through a competitive tendering process. 
Work undertaken by PwC for the Committee included updates to the Remuneration Committee on remuneration and governance trends and 
market practice, and providing remuneration benchmarking information for Executive Directors. PwC have also supported the Remuneration 
Committee in the design of the LTAP, and in the preparation of new remuneration reporting disclosures under the BIS requirements. In this 
financial year, they were paid £95,600 based on agreed hourly rates.
During the year, PwC also provided other consultancy services to the Group, including corporate tax advice, share plans support, and 
programme management support. 
The Remuneration Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the advice it receives from PwC at a private meeting held in May 
each year. It is satisfied that PwC is providing objective and robust professional advice. PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and has signed up to that group’s Code of Conduct.
The Remuneration Committee also received materials, assistance and advice on remuneration policy from Robert Willock, the Group HR 
Director of Dairy Crest. The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director attend all meetings by invitation, but are not present at any 
discussions relating specifically to their own remuneration.
statement of voting at General meeting 
The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2012/13 remuneration report at the 2013 AGM.
n umber of votes cast For against Withheld
72,025,249 68,441,703
(95.02%)
3,583,546
(4.98%)
29,543
The Committee believes the 95.02% vote in favour of the remuneration report demonstrates the strength of support of shareholders for the 
executive remuneration arrangements at Dairy Crest. The disclosure in the 2014/15 report will include details of the binding shareholder vote 
on the Directors’ Remuneration policy to be held at the 2014 AGM. 
The Directors’ remuneration report from pages 45 to 62 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by
stephen alexander
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
21 May 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUnERATIOn REPORT COnTInUED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 63
Governance
Directors’ report
The Companies Act 2006 (‘CA 2006’) together with the UK Listing 
Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules (‘DTRs’) and Listing 
Rules (‘LRs’) require certain disclosures to be made. The Strategic 
report and the Corporate Governance report at pages 4 to 31 and 
pages 35 to 44 respectively, together with the details at pages 32 
and 33 of the Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report are 
expressly incorporated into this, the Directors’ Report.
Going concern: The Group and Company’s business activities, 
together with factors likely to affect future development, 
performance and position are set out in the Strategic report from 
pages 4 to 31. The financial position, cash flows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on 
pages 28 to 31 (which also form part of the Strategic report). In 
addition, Notes 30 and 31 to the Accounts include the Group and 
Company’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its 
capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to 
credit risk and liquidity risk. As highlighted in Note 30, the Company 
and Group meet day-to-day working capital requirements through 
syndicated revolving credit facilities and cash to ensure that forecast 
net borrowings plus a reasonable operating headroom are covered 
by committed facilities which mature at least 12 months after the 
year end. At 31 March 2014, effective headroom was £275.7 million. 
There were no breaches of bank covenants in the year ended 31 
March 2014 and projections do not indicate any breaches in the 
foreseeable future. Having reviewed and taken into account Going 
Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK 
Companies 2009, published by the Financial Reporting Council in 
October 2009, the Directors are satisfied that the Company and the 
Group have adequate resources to continue operating for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Future developments: Future developments are described in the 
Strategic report at pages 4 to 31.
Group results: The Group’s consolidated income statement set out 
on page 69 shows a profit for the financial year of £50.2 million 
compared with £46.6 million profit in 2012/13.
Dividends: the Directors are recommending a final dividend of 
15.4p (2012/13: 15.0p) per ordinary share, which if approved, will be 
paid to members on the register at the close of business on 4 July 
2013. Together, the final dividend and interim dividend (5.9p per 
ordinary share paid on 10 January 2014) make total dividends for the 
year of 21.3p per ordinary share (2012/2013: 20.7p).
Directors: Details of the Directors of the Company at the date of 
this Report are set out at pages 32 to 33. In addition, Alastair Murray 
served as a Director during the period 1 April 2013 to 23 May 2013 
when he stepped down from the Board. 
Directors’ interests: Details of the interests in the shares of the 
Company of the Directors holding office as at the date of this Report, 
along with those of the Directors who held office during the year but 
retired or resigned from office, and their immediate families appear in 
the Remuneration Report on page 56. Details of the Directors’ 
service contracts and letters of appointment appear in the 
Remuneration Report on page 49. No Director had a material 
interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries during the year. Procedures for dealing with Directors’ 
conflicts of interest are in place and are operating effectively. The 
Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and Officers 
and those of its subsidiaries. The Directors, Company Secretary and 
other Officers of the Company and those of its subsidiaries are 
indemnified by the Company to the extent permitted by company 
law. That indemnity provision has been in place during the year and 
remains in force.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor: So far as each 
Director in office at the date of approval of this Report is aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s External 
Auditor, Ernst & Young is unaware. Each of the Directors has taken 
all steps that they might reasonably be expected to have taken in 
order to (i) make themselves aware of any relevant audit information 
and (ii) establish that the External Auditor is aware of such 
information. For the purposes of this statement on disclosure of 
information to the External Auditor, ‘relevant audit information’ is the 
information needed by the Company’s External Auditor in 
connection with the preparation of its report at pages 67 to 68.
political Donations: No political donations or expenditures were 
made or incurred during the year.
Financial instruments: Details of the use by the Company and its 
subsidiaries of financial instruments and any related risk 
management objectives and policies (including hedging policy) and 
exposure, including to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash 
flow risk (of the Company in connection with such financial 
instruments) can be found at Note 30 to the financial statements.
post balance sheet events: On the 14 April 2014 the Group 
completed the sale of a depot in Surbiton for proceeds of £5.4 
million resulting in a profit on disposal of £4.9 million. 
On 16 May 2014 the Group completed the sale of it’s 30% 
shareholding in Wexford Creamery Limited for 3.4 million Euros (£2.8 
million). At March 2014 the net carrying value totalled £2.1 million 
comprising share of associates, deferred consideration and 
valuation of options net of contract provisions.
r esearch and development: The Group has adopted a target of 
delivering 10% of its annual turnover through new product 
development. Focus continues to be on offering consumers a wide 
product mix, and especially the development of lower fat variants of 
existing products. Dairy Crest remains at the forefront of dairy 
industry developments to reduce packaging waste through 
innovation.
employees: At the end of March 2014, the Group employed 
approximately 4,500 people. It depends on the skills and 
commitment of its employees in order to achieve its objectives. 
Personnel at every level are encouraged to make their fullest 
possible contribution to Dairy Crest’s success. Details of the Group’s 
employment policies can be found on pages 8, 9 and 10. Employees 
are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them and on issues 
affecting the Group’s performance through a variety of 
communication tools, including the Group intranet. Regular 
employee surveys are conducted, the last of which was carried out 
in September 2013. The employee surveys enable an understanding 
of, amongst other matters, the general satisfaction level of 
employees with their employment, any questions or concerns which 
employees have in relation to the business of the Group, an 
understanding of the effectiveness of management of and 
communication with employees. Following employee surveys, 
specific action plans are drawn up and implemented on a site by site 
basis to address issues which are raised through the surveys. Each 
year, the senior management team conducts road shows which all 
employees are invited to attend. The last road shows were 
conducted during autumn 2013 and provided a forum for, amongst 
other matters, the communication to employees of the performance  64 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
DIRECTORS' REPORT CONTINUED
of the business of the Group, anticipated future developments, 
significant matters of required focus for the coming period, and; the 
opportunity for employees to ask questions of the senior 
management. The Group has well-established consultation and 
negotiating arrangements with established trade unions. Employees 
are encouraged to acquire shares in the Group through participation 
in the savings-related share option scheme (‘Sharesave Scheme’). 
Details of the Scheme are set out in Note 26 to the financial 
statements.
share capital: The authorised and issued share capital of the 
Company together with details of movements in the Company’s 
issued share capital during 2013/414 are shown in Note 24 to the 
financial statements at page 109. As at the date of this report, 
136,722,751 ordinary 25p shares were in issue and fully paid with an 
aggregate nominal value of £34,180,687.
r ights and obligations attaching to shares: The holders of 
ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Company’s Reports and 
Accounts; to attend and speak at General Meetings of the 
Company; to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights. To be 
effective, electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting 
instructions must be received at the Company’s registered office, or 
such other place in the United Kingdom specified in the relevant 
notice of meeting, not later than 48 hours before a General Meeting. 
None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of 
the Company. There are no known arrangements under which 
financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the 
shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers 
or on voting rights. Shares acquired through Company share 
schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and 
have no special rights.
t ransfer of shares: Subject to applicable statutes and regulations, 
there are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of 
any class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any 
transfers.
shareholder waiver of dividends: The Company established an 
employee benefit trust in 1996 which in certain circumstances holds 
shares in connection with the Group’s employee share incentive 
plans. As the registered holder, the voting rights in the shares are 
exercisable by the trustee. However, the trustee does not ordinarily 
exercise those rights and waives its entitlement to dividends.
issue of shares: At the AGM on 16 July 2013, shareholders 
renewed the authority for the Board under the Articles to exercise all 
powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up to an 
aggregate nominal amount of £22,768,020.
purchase of own shares: At the AGM on 16 July 2013, 
shareholders granted the Company authority to make market 
purchases of up to 13,660,813 of its issued ordinary shares of 25 
pence each, provided that: the minimum price which may be paid 
for any such ordinary share is 25 pence (exclusive of expenses and 
appropriate taxes); the maximum price (exclusive of expenses and 
appropriate taxes) which may be paid for any such ordinary share 
shall be not more than 5% above the average of the middle market 
prices for an ordinary share in the Company, as taken from the 
London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days 
immediately preceding the date of purchase. The Company did not 
exercise this authority during the year and made no market 
purchases. Except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares, the 
contract for which was concluded before this authority expires and 
which will or may be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, the 
authority granted shall expire at the conclusion of this year’s AGM. 
The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of both of the 
above-mentioned authorities or replacement of them with suitable 
alternatives, annually at the AGM. Approval will be sought from the 
shareholders at this year’s AGM to renew the authorities for a 
further year.
substantial shareholdings: As at 31 March 2014, the Company 
had been notified in accordance with the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority of the 
following interests of 3% or more in the Company’s existing issued 
ordinary share capital.
Notified No. of 
shares
Notified 
percentage of 
issued share 
capital
BlackRock, Inc. 6,834,772 5.00
 
During the period 1 April 2014 to 21 May 2014 the Company has 
been notified by Legal & General Group Plc that it holds less than 
3% of the Company’s issued share capital.
Articles of association: Changes to the Articles must be 
approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in 
force from time to time.
significant agreements – change of control: A change of 
control of the Company following a takeover bid may cause a 
number of agreements to which the Company or its subsidiaries are 
party, to take effect, alter or terminate. The agreements that are 
considered significant are as follows: 
Borrowing facilities – Non-compliance with the change of control 
clauses in the Group’s funding arrangements, or failure to reach 
agreement with the parties on revised terms, would require any 
acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
Supply agreements – Certain supply agreements contain provisions 
whereby on a change of control of the Group, they may be 
terminable. Accordingly, a change of control of the Group could 
result in the need for the Group to source alternative supply for 
certain materials.
No compensation for loss of office: The Company does not 
have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide 
compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a 
takeover, except that provisions of the Company’s share schemes 
and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees 
under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
pensions: The Company employs only the Executive Directors. 
Most employees in the Group are employed by the Company’s main 
subsidiary, Dairy Crest Limited. Relevant companies within the 
Group became subject to the automatic enrolment regulations on 
1 April last year. Depending on their grade, effective from 1 April 
2013 employees either enter the auto enrolled pension 
arrangements for the Group which are provided by Zurich or into the 
Group’s defined contribution pension scheme also provided by 
Zurich. The Group’s defined benefit pension fund is closed to future 
accrual and is now in run-off. It remains under the control of a 
corporate trustee, Dairy Crest Pension Trustees Limited, the board 
of which comprises four directors nominated by Dairy Crest Limited 
and three directors elected by all members. Its assets are held 
separately from those of the Group and can only be used in 
accordance with the rules of the fund. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 65
Governance
Greenhouse gas emissions: The Company is required to state 
the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide 
equivalent from activities for which the Group is responsible, 
including the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility. 
Details of our emissions during the year ended 31 March 2014 and 
the actions which the Group has taken to reduce them are set out 
on pages 23 to 27 and form part of the Directors’ report disclosures.
Directors’ responsibility statements: The responsibility 
statements required under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1 are 
set out on page 66.
Annual general meeting: The AGM will be held at Eversheds LLP, 
One Wood Street, London, EC2V 7WS on Tuesday, 15 July 2014 at 
12.00 pm. The Notice convening the meeting will be issued 
separately, together with details of the business to be considered 
and explanatory notes relating to each of the resolutions being 
proposed.
Auditor: Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to 
continue as Auditor of the Company. A resolution to reappoint Ernst 
& Young LLP as the Company’s Auditor will be put to the 
forthcoming AGM.
The Directors’ Report from pages 63 to 65 has been approved by 
the Board and is signed on its behalf by
r obin Miller Company Secretary & General Counsel
21 May 2014 66 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group’s and Company’s financial statements in accordance with 
applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Group’s and 
Company’s financial statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for 
that period. In preparing the financial statements the Directors are 
required to:
•	 present fairly the financial position, financial performance and 
cash flows of the Group and Company;
•	 select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8, 
‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and 
Errors’ and then apply them consistently;
•	 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
•	 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is 
insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions on the financial position 
of the Group and Company and performance of the Group; 
•	 state that the Group and Company have complied with IFRSs, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements; and
•	 make judgements and estimates that are responsible and 
prudent.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the Group and of the Company and 
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and of the 
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud or other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ Report, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance 
Statement in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and 
applicable regulations, including the requirements of the Listing 
Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the Group’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Dtr 4.1 s tatement
Each of the Directors, the names and functions of whom are set out 
on pages 32 to 33 confirms that to the best of his knowledge, they 
have complied with the above requirements in preparing the Group’s 
and Company’s financial statements in accordance with applicable 
accounting standards and that the financial statements give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the 
Group and Company and of the Group’s income statement and the 
Company’s profit for that period. In addition, each of the Directors 
confirms that the management report represented by the Directors’ 
Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of 
the business and the position of the Group and Company, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it 
faces.
On behalf of the Board
Mark Allen Chief Executive
tom Atherton Finance Director
stAteMeNt oF Directors’ respoNsibilities iN relAtioN  
to the Group AND coMpANy FiNANciAl stAteMeNts Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 67
The numbers
IndependenT audITor’s reporT To The members of daIry CresT Group plc
o ur opinions and conclusion arising from our audit
o ur opinion on the financial statements
We have audited the financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc 
for the year ended 31 March 2014 which comprise the Consolidated 
Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the 
Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in 
Equity, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cash 
Flows and the related notes 1 to 35. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent 
company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
In our opinion: 
•	 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2014 
and of the group’s profit for the year then ended; 
•	 the group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
•	 the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
•	 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
group financial statements, Article 4 of IAS regulation. 
o ur assessment of risks of material misstatement 
We identified the following risks that have had the greatest 
effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of 
resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the 
engagement team: 
•	 Accounting for promotional accruals, including the impact on 
revenue recognition; 
•	 Assessing the carrying value of non-current assets;
•	 The treatment of exceptional items reported; and
•	 Determination of reportable segments in accordance with IFRS 8, 
Operating Segments.
o ur response to these risks
The principle ways in which we responded to the risks identified 
above included:
accounting for promotional accruals, including the impact of 
revenue recognition
We tested the key controls to ensure the recognition of promotional 
accruals was appropriate and applied in line with management’s 
policies. We performed analytical procedures to evaluate and 
corroborate the key inputs in calculating the level of promotional 
accruals to be recognised at 31 March 2014. We challenged 
management’s calculation based on current market trends, the 
history of claims that have been made from customers, and the level 
of claims subsequent to the year-end as compared to the level of the 
balance. 
assessing the carrying value of non-current assets
We challenged management’s assumptions used in its impairment 
model for goodwill, intangible and fixed assets across the Group’s 
four cash generating units (“CGUs”) as set out in notes 10 and 11. In 
particular, we focused on the appropriateness of the methodology 
applied and we challenged management on cash flow forecasts, in 
particular cash inflows from property sales, margin growth 
assumptions and the allocation of central costs across CGUs. We 
obtained corroborative evidence where appropriate and involved 
Ernst & Young LLP valuation specialist in assessing the 
appropriateness of property values and risk adjusted discount rates. 
We challenged management’s sensitivity analysis particularly in 
relation to the Dairies CGU which has limited headroom above 
carrying value.
accounting for exceptional items
We challenged the classification of items as exceptional to ensure 
that the nature of each item is consistent with the criteria set out in 
the group’s accounting policy as described in note in the Accounting 
Policies section of the financial statements and assessed the 
consistency in the application of the exceptional classification with 
previous accounting periods. We performed tests of transactions to 
audit both the amount and related disclosure for all exceptional 
items deemed material.
d etermination of reportable segments 
Following a significant business restructure, we challenged 
management’s revision of the Group’s reportable segments to a 
single Dairy Crest Group reportable segment, in accordance with 
the requirements of IFRS 8, Operating Segments. We evaluated 
changes in the day to day management of the Group’s operations, 
the mechanism by which forecasts were completed during the year 
and the nature and extent of the revised management information 
provided to the Dairy Crest Group plc board (the Group’s “Chief 
Operating Decision Maker”) and on which it made its resource 
allocation decisions. 
o ur application of materiality
Materiality is a key part of planning and executing our audit strategy. 
For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements 
are free from material misstatement, we define materiality as the 
magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the 
aggregate, in light of the surrounding circumstances, could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the 
users of the financial statements. As we develop our audit strategy, 
we determine materiality at the overall financial statement level and 
at the individual account level. Performance materiality is the 
application of materiality at the individual account level.
Planning the audit solely to detect individually material 
misstatements overlooks the fact that the aggregate of individually 
immaterial misstatements may cause the financial statements to be 
materially misstated, and leaves no margin for possible undetected 
misstatements. 
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a 
magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be 
material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the group to be £3.0 million (2013: 
£2.8 million), which is approximately 5% of profit before tax, and 
performance materiality to be £2.25 million (2013: £2.1 million). This 
provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk 
assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of 
material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent 
of further audit procedures. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the 
Committee all audit differences in excess of £0.2 million (2013: £0.2 
million), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 68 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
InDEPEnDEnT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO ThE MEMBERS OF DAIRY CREST GROUP plc 
COnTInUED
an overview of the scope of our audit 
All Dairy Crest Group plc operations are now based in the UK, with 
96% of revenues and 100% of profit before tax reported through the 
Dairy Crest Limited statutory entity, on which we performed a full 
scope audit. The risk associated to other statutory entities within the 
group was considered and no other entities were deemed to be 
significant on the grounds of size. Specific procedures were 
performed on Philpot Dairy Products given the complex accounting 
relating to the financial instruments that are held in this entity. All 
audit worked performed for the purposes of the Group audit was 
undertaken by the Group audit team.
o pinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies act 
2006
In our opinion:
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
•	 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the group financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial 
statements. 
matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
u nder the Isa s (u K and Ireland), we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: 
•	 Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or 
•	 Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or 
•	 Is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified 
any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the 
audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the Annual 
Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual 
report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated 
to the audit committee which we consider should have been 
disclosed. 
u nder the Companies act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•	 Certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or
•	 We have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit. 
u nder the Listing r ules we are required to review:
•	 The directors’ statement, set out on page 63, in relation to going 
concern; and
•	 The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
company’s compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code specific for our review. 
The scope of our report
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have 
formed. 
The scope of our audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In 
addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the 
Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If 
we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
The respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities on page 66, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and 
express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
alison d uncan (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP,
Statutory Auditor
London
21 May 2014
1. The maintenance and integrity of the Dairy Crest Group plc web site is the 
responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not 
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept 
no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial 
statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions.  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 69
The numbers
      2014   2013 – Restated
  Note
 
Before
exceptional
items
£m  
Exceptional
items
£m  
Total
£m
 
Before
exceptional
items
£m  
Exceptional
items
£m  
Total
£m
Group revenue 1   1,391.0   –   1,391.0   1,381.6   –   1,381.6
Operating costs 2,4   (1,334.7)  (10.2)  (1,344.9)  (1,321.3)  (47.8)  (1,369.1)
Other income – property 3   18.2   –   18.2   7.7   –   7.7
Profit/(loss) on operations     74.5   (10.2)  64.3   68.0   (47.8)  20.2
Finance costs 5   (9.9)  (0.2)  (10.1)  (18.7)  (8.7)  (27.4)
Other finance expense – pensions 20   (0.3)  –   (0.3)  (3.5)  –   (3.5)
Share of associate’s net profit 14   0.3   –   0.3   –   –   –
Profit/(loss) before tax     64.6   (10.4)  54.2   45.8   (56.5)  (10.7)
Tax (expense)/credit 6   (9.4)  4.0   (5.4)  (9.2)  12.0   2.8
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations     55.2   (6.4)  48.8   36.6   (44.5)  (7.9)
Profit from discontinued operations 29   –   1.4   1.4   6.8   47.7   54.5
Profit for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders  
 
55.2   (5.0)  50.2
 
43.4   3.2   46.6
The prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect the amendment to IAS 19R: Employee Benefits (see Note 20).
The prior year comparatives and current year information include discontinued operations that were a result of the disposal of the St Hubert 
business in August 2012.
The post-tax profit relating to discontinued activities is further analysed in Note 29.
  Earnings per share  
2014 2013 – Restated
 
  Basic earnings per share
on profit for the year (pence)
8 36.8 34.6
 
  Diluted earnings per share
on profit for the year (pence)
8 36.4 34.6
 
  Basic earnings/(loss) per share
from continuing operations (pence)
8 35.8 (5.9)
 
  Diluted earnings/(loss) per share
from continuing operations (pence)
8 35.3 (5.9)
 
  Adjusted basic earnings per share
from continuing operations (pence)*
8
40.8 29.4
 
  Adjusted diluted earnings per
share from continuing operations (pence)*
8 40.3 29.4
 
  Basic earnings per share from
discontinued operations (pence)
8 1.0 40.5
 
  Diluted earnings per share from
discontinued operations (pence) 8 1.0 40.5
 
  Dividends  
2014 2013
 
  Proposed final dividend (£m) 7 21.0 20.5  
  Interim dividend paid (£m) 7 8.0 7.8  
  Proposed final dividend (pence) 7 15.4 15.0  
  Interim dividend paid (pence) 7 5.9 5.7  
* Adjusted earnings per share calculations are presented to give an indication of the underlying operational performance of the Group. The calculations exclude exceptional 
items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest in relation to the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme, the latter being highly dependent upon market 
assumptions at 31 March each year.
The prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect the amendment to IAS 19R: Employee Benefits (see Notes 8 & 20).
ConsoliDaTED inComE sTaTEmEnT
Year ended 31 March 2014 70 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
ConsoliDaTED sTaTEmEnT of ComPrEhEnsivE inComE 
Year ended 31 March 2014
Note
2014
£m
Restated
2013
£m
Profit for the year 50.2 46.6 
Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit and loss in subsequent years:
Net investment hedges:
Exchange differences on foreign currency net investments – (15.3)
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings designated as net investment hedges – 6.0 
Exchange differences reclassified to income statement on sale of subsidiary – 11.4 
Cash flow hedges – reclassification adjustment for gains/(losses) in income statement 20.0 (9.5)
Cash flow hedges – (losses)/gains recognised in other comprehensive income (18.8) 10.0 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 6 (0.3) (0.2)
0.9 2.4 
Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit and loss in subsequent years:
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans 20 (49.6) (3.2)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 6 8.7 5.4
(40.9) 2.2
other comprehensive (loss)/gain for the year, net of tax (40.0) 4.6 
Total comprehensive gain for the year, net of tax 10.2 51.2 
All amounts are attributable to owners of the parent Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 71
The numbers
ConsoliDaTED anD ParEnT ComPany BalanCE shEETs
At 31 March 2014
Consolidated Parent Company
Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
assets
non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 288.6 270.3 – – 
Goodwill 11 74.3 74.3 – – 
Intangible assets 12 27.9 30.5 – – 
Investments 13 0.3 0.3 482.1 480.9 
Investment in associate using equity method 14 0.8 0.5 – – 
Deferred consideration 14 1.4 1.4 – – 
Deferred tax asset 6 – – 0.2 0.4 
Financial assets – Derivative financial instruments 17 7.0 14.5 5.4 12.9 
400.3 391.8 487.7 494.2 
Current assets
Inventories 15 219.6 208.2 – – 
Trade and other receivables 16 118.4 98.8 10.5 170.7 
Financial assets – Derivative financial instruments 17 0.4 9.6 – 9.6 
Cash and short-term deposits 18 67.3 276.1 – 14.8 
405.7 592.7 10.5 195.1 
Total assets 1 806.0 984.5 498.2 689.3 
Equity and liabilities
non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities – Long-term borrowings 19 (179.7) (184.3) (144.2) (182.4)
   – Derivative financial instruments 19 (6.2) (3.9) (6.2) (3.9)
Retirement benefit obligations 20 (57.7) (67.2) – – 
Deferred tax liability 6 (11.4) (14.6) – – 
Deferred income 22 (7.8) (9.6) – – 
(262.8) (279.6) (150.4) (186.3)
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (218.3) (221.8) (3.8) (16.9)
Financial liabilities – Short-term borrowings 19 (26.5) (167.5) (25.3) (165.7)
   – Derivative financial instruments 19 (2.0) (2.3) (2.0) (2.2)
Current tax liability (3.6) (2.6) (0.1) – 
Deferred income 22 (1.7) (1.6) – – 
Provisions 23 (1.7) (1.7) – – 
(253.8) (397.5) (31.2) (184.8)
Total liabilities (516.6) (677.1) (181.6) (371.1)
shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares 24 (34.2) (34.1) (34.2) (34.1)
Share premium 24 (77.6) (77.5) (77.6) (77.5)
Interest in ESOP 25 0.6 0.6 – – 
Other reserves 25 (52.3) (51.4) (156.1) (154.4)
Retained earnings (125.9) (145.0) (48.7) (52.2)
Total shareholders’ equity (289.4) (307.4) (316.6) (318.2)
Total equity and liabilities (806.0) (984.5) (498.2) (689.3)
mark allen Chief Executive
Tom atherton Finance Director
The financial statements were approved by the directors on 21 May 2014. 72 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
ConsoliDaTED sTaTEmEnT of ChanGEs in EquiTy
Year ended 31 March 2014
attributable to owners of the parent
2014
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Interest
in ESOP
£m
Other
reserves*
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
Equity
£m
At 31 March 2013 34.1 77.5 (0.6) 51.4 145.0 307.4 
Profit for the year – – – – 50.2 50.2 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):
Cash flow hedges – – – 1.2 – 1.2 
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plan – – – – (49.6) (49.6)
Tax on components of other 
comprehensive income – – – (0.3) 8.7 8.4 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss) – – – 0.9 (40.9) (40.0)
Total comprehensive gain – – – 0.9 9.3 10.2 
Issue of share capital 0.1 0.1 – – – 0.2 
Shares acquired by ESOP – – (1.1) – – (1.1)
Exercise of options – – 1.1 – (1.4) (0.3)
Share based payments – – – – 1.5 1.5 
Equity dividends – – – – (28.5) (28.5)
at 31 march 2014 34.2 77.6 (0.6) 52.3 125.9 289.4 
2013 – Restated
At 31 March 2012 33.3 70.9 (0.6) 49.0 121.7 274.3 
Profit for the year – – – – 46.6 46.6 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):
Net investment hedges – – – (9.3) – (9.3)
Exchange differences reclassified to income 
statement on sale of subsidiary
– – – 11.4 – 11.4 
Cash flow hedges – – – 0.5 – 0.5 
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plan – – – – (3.2) (3.2)
Tax on components of other 
comprehensive income – – – (0.2) 5.4 5.2 
Other comprehensive gain – – – 2.4 2.2 4.6 
Total comprehensive gain – – – 2.4 48.8 51.2 
Issue of share capital 0.8 6.6 – – – 7.4 
Share based payments – – – – 1.9 1.9 
Equity dividends – – – – (27.4) (27.4)
At 31 March 2013 34.1 77.5 (0.6) 51.4 145.0 307.4 
 * Further details are provided in Note 25. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 73
The numbers
ParEnT ComPany sTaTEmEnT of ChanGEs in EquiTy
Year ended 31 March 2014
2014
Ordinary
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Capital
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Other
reserve*
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
At 31 March 2013 34.1 77.5 142.7 (1.1) 12.8 52.2 318.2 
Profit for the year – – – – – 24.7 24.7 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):
Cash flow hedges – – – 0.7 – – 0.7 
Tax on components of other comprehensive 
income – – – (0.2) – – (0.2)
Other comprehensive gain – – – 0.5 – – 0.5 
Total comprehensive gain – – – 0.5 – 24.7 25.2
Issue of share capital 0.1 0.1 – – – – 0.2 
Share based payments – – – – 1.2 0.3 1.5 
Equity dividends – – – – – (28.5) (28.5)
at 31 march 2014 34.2 77.6 142.7 (0.6) 14.0 48.7 316.6 
2013
At 31 March 2012 33.3 70.9 142.7 (1.9) 11.4 34.7 291.1 
Profit for the year – – – – – 44.4 44.4 
Other comprehensive gain/(loss):
Cash flow hedges – – – 1.2 – – 1.2 
Tax on components of other comprehensive 
income – – – (0.4) – – (0.4)
Other comprehensive gain – – – 0.8 – – 0.8 
Total comprehensive gain – – – 0.8 – 44.4 45.2 
Issue of share capital 0.8 6.6 – – – – 7.4 
Share based payments – – – – 1.4 0.5 1.9 
Equity dividends – – – – – (27.4) (27.4)
At 31 March 2013 34.1 77.5 142.7 (1.1) 12.8 52.2 318.2 
 * Other reserve represents the share based payment credit in respect of amounts capitalised as investments (see Note 13). 74 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
ConsoliDaTED anD ParEnT ComPany sTaTEmEnT of Cash flows
Year ended 31 March 2014
     
Consolidated   Parent Company
  Note
 
2014
£m
 
2013
£m
 
2014
£m
 
2013
£m
Cash (used in)/generated from operations 32   (13.8)  19.1   –   –
Interest paid     (14.0)  (18.0)  –   –
Taxation repaid/(paid)     2.1   (4.7)  –   –
net cash outflow from operating activities     (25.7)  (3.6)  –   –
Cash flow from investing activities                  
Capital expenditure     (58.8)  (50.9)  –   –
Grants received 22   –   5.3   –   –
Grants repaid     –   (0.4)  –   –
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment     32.5   10.1   –   –
Purchase of businesses and investments 29   –   (0.6)  –   –
Sale of discontinued operation (net of cash disposed of and fees) 29   –   330.8   –   –
Amounts received from subsidiaries     –   –   172.9   97.1
net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities     (26.3)  294.3   172.9   97.1
Cash flow from financing activities                  
Repayment and cancellation of loan notes     (159.4)  (7.5)  (159.4)  (7.5)
New bank facilities advanced     –   –   –   –
Proceeds from issuance of loan notes     –   –   –   –
Net drawdown/(repayment) of borrowings under revolving credit facilities     36.0   (68.7)  –   (55.9)
Dividends paid 7   (28.5)  (27.4)  (28.5)  (27.4)
Proceeds from issue of shares (net of issue costs) 24   0.2   7.4   0.2   7.4
Purchase of shares by ESOP     (1.4)  –   –   –
Finance lease repayments 33   (3.7)  (1.7)  –   –
net cash used in financing activities     (156.8)  (97.9)  (187.7)  (83.4)
net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents     (208.8)  192.8   (14.8)  13.7
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 33   276.1   79.4   14.8   –
Exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents 33   –   3.9   –   1.1
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 33   67.3   276.1    –   14.8
memo: net debt at end of year 33
 
(142.2)
 
(59.7)
 
(171.7)
 
(315.5) Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 75
The numbers
AccounTing policies
Year ended 31 March 2014
Basis of preparation
The consolidated and Company financial statements have been 
prepared on a historical cost basis. They are presented in sterling 
and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million (£ million) except 
where otherwise indicated.
The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union (‘EU’). The separate Company financial statements 
have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption 
provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to 
publish its individual income statement and related notes.
Having reviewed and taken into account Going Concern and 
Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the 
Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements. See the Going Concern 
Statement on page 63 of the Directors’ Report.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk 
of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next financial year are (i) the measurement of 
the impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment (ii) the measurement of defined benefit pension scheme 
assets and obligations (iii) the calculation of promotional discount 
accruals and (iv) the estimation of tax costs in France in relation to 
the sale of St Hubert.
(i) The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual 
basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated. The 
assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of 
goodwill. This requires estimation of future cash flows and the 
selection of a suitable discount rate. Goodwill in Dairies was fully 
impaired in the year ended 31 March 2012. 
The Group tests whether intangible assets, property, plant and 
equipment are impaired where there are indications that there is a 
risk of impairment. This requires an estimation of the value in use of 
the cash-generating units in which these assets reside. The 
assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of 
assets. This requires estimation of future cash flows and the 
selection of a suitable discount rate. 
In the year ended 31 March 2014, the Group tested the intangible 
assets, property, plant and equipment of the Dairies cash-
generating unit for impairment due to indicators of impairment being 
present. Three key assumptions in performing the test included the 
projected value and timing of cash flows from property sales, the 
allocation of corporate costs following the restructure of the 
business to a single operating unit and the projected profit growth. 
The result of the test was that no impairment was required however 
the headroom was low and therefore sensitive to the above 
assumptions.
(ii) Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires 
estimation of future changes in inflation, mortality rates, the expected 
return on plan assets and the choice of a suitable discount rate.
(iii) The group accrues for customer claims against agreed 
promotional funding. Accruals are calculated based on an estimated 
redemption rate of the promotion. The redemption rate used is 
dependent on the promotional mechanic. Management consider 
this to be an area of judgment that is significant due to the potential 
size of the claims.
(iv) The sale of the St Hubert business will result in tax payable in 
France both on the chargeable gain on disposal and on dividend 
payments made to the UK parent between 31 March 2012 and the 
date of disposal in August 2012. An estimate has been made of the 
likely tax costs resulting from these transactions however the final 
assessment has yet to be agreed with the French tax authorities 
which may result in a change to the level of tax provisioning.
The key areas where judgment has been applied are (i) The timing 
and nature of exceptional costs and (ii) the judgment that for IFRS 8 
purposes only one segment should be reported on.
(i) Items of a material, one-off nature, which result from a 
restructuring of the business or some other event or circumstance 
are disclosed separately in the Consolidated Income Statement as 
exceptional. Management consider this to be an area of judgment 
due to the assumptions made around the timing and nature of 
exceptional costs.
(ii) Following the restructure of the Group to a single operating unit in 
2013, management has judged that following the implementation of 
a new structure, the Group comprises one segment under IFRS 8.
Further analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty and 
sensitivities are included in the relevant notes to the accounts.
c hanges in accounting policies
The following accounting standards and interpretations became 
effective for the current reporting period:
international Accounting standards (iAs/iFRss) 
iFRs 1 – Amendment to IFRS 1 – First Time Adoption of IFRS 
(effective 1 January 2013) 
iFRs 13 – Fair Value Measurement (effective from 1 January 2013)  
iFRs 7 – Amendments to IFRS 7 – Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures (effective 1 January 2013) 
iFRs 9 – Financial Instruments (effective 1 January 2015) 
iFRs 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements (effective 1 January 
2014) 
iFRs 11 – Joint Arrangements (effective 1 January 2014) 
iFRs 12 – Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities 
(effective 1 January 2014) 
iAs 1 – Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements 
(effective from 1 July 2012)  
iAs 19R – Amendments to IAS 19: Employee Benefits (effective 
from 1 January 2013)  
iAs 32 – Amendments to IAS 32: Financial Instruments (effective 
from 1 January 2014) 
iAs 27 – Separate Financial Statements (effective 1 January 2014)
iAs 28R – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (effective 1 
January 2014) 
iAs 32 – Improvement to IAS 32: Financial Instruments (effective 1 
July 2013) 
iFRs 3 – Improvement to IFRS 3: Business Combinations (effective 
1 January 2013)
international Financial Reporting interpretations c ommittee 
(iFRic)
iFRic 20 – Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface 
Mine (effective from 1 January 2013) 76 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
ACCOUnTInG POLICIES COnTInUED
The application of these standards has had no material impact on 
the net assets, results and disclosures of the Group in the year 
ended 31 March 2014 with the exception of the amendments to 
IAS19R – Employee Benefits. The principal impact on the Group of 
the application of this standard is the requirement to use the 
discount rate when calculating expected returns on the asset 
component of pension cost. This change has resulted in higher 
charges to the Consolidated Income Statement for the pension 
interest cost. There is no material impact on the reported pension 
liabilities each year end as the impact in the Consolidated Income 
Statement is mitigated by an offsetting change in the calculation of 
actuarial gains and losses in the Statement of Comprehensive 
Income – namely the difference between actual and expected asset 
returns will increase. 
Further details are included in n ote 20 to the accounts.
The impact of IAS 1 – Amendment to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial 
Statements has resulted in a presentation change to the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income that requires the 
‘other comprehensive income’ to be grouped into one of the 
following:
 • To be reclassified to profit and loss in subsequent years; or
 • n ot to be reclassified to the profit and loss in subsequent years
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards (with an 
effective date after the date of these accounts) and interpretations:
international Accounting standards (iAs/iFRss) 
iAs 16 – Improvement to IAS 16: Property, Plant and Equipment 
(effective 1 July 2014) 
iAs 38 – Improvement to IAS 38: Intangible Assets (effective 
1 July 2014) 
iAs 24 – Improvement to IAS 24: Related Party Disclosure (effective 
1 July 2014) 
iFRs 13 – Improvement to IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement 
(effective 1 July 2014)
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards 
and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group’s 
financial statements in the period of initial application.
c onsolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy 
Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 March each 
year using consistent accounting policies. All intercompany balances 
and transactions, including unrealised profits and losses arising from 
intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full. 
Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the date 
on which control is transferred to the Group. Subsidiaries continue 
to be consolidated until the date that control ceases. 
Where the Group ceases to control a subsidiary, it (i) derecognises 
the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary; (ii) 
derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest; (iii) 
derecognises the cumulative translation differences on net assets 
and borrowings designated as net investment hedges, previously 
recorded in other comprehensive income; (iv) recognises the fair 
value of any investment or associate retained; (v) recognises any 
surplus or deficit in the consolidated income statement; and (vi) 
reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously recognised 
in other comprehensive income or retained earnings as appropriate.
interest in associates 
The Group’s investments in associates are accounted for under the 
equity method of accounting. Associates are entities over which the 
Group exerts significant influence. The Company and its associates 
use consistent accounting policies. The investment in associates are 
carried in the balance sheet at initial fair value plus post-acquisition 
changes in the Group’s share of net assets, less any impairment in 
value and any distributions received. The consolidated income 
statement reflects the share of the post-tax results of associates. 
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the 
associates’ other comprehensive income, the Group recognises its 
share of such changes and discloses this, where applicable in other 
comprehensive income. 
Foreign currency translation 
The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group plc 
and its United Kingdom (‘UK’) subsidiaries is Sterling (£). 
Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the functional 
currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
Sterling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences on 
monetary items are taken to the income statement, except where 
recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow 
hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. 
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are 
translated into sterling at year end exchange rates. The results of 
foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of 
exchange for the year (being an approximation of actual exchange 
rates). Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the net 
investment in foreign subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, less 
exchange differences on borrowings, which finance or provide a 
hedge against those undertakings are taken to a separate 
component of equity as long as IFRS hedge accounting conditions 
are met. Exchange differences relating to foreign currency 
borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a 
foreign entity remain in equity until the disposal of the net investment, 
at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement. 
property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost comprises the 
purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the 
asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of 
operating in the manner intended by management. Depreciation is 
calculated to write off the cost (less residual value) of property, plant 
and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line basis over 
the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:
Freehold buildings: 25 years
Leasehold land and buildings: 25 years or, if shorter, the period 
of the lease
Office equipment: 4 to 6 years
Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years
Vehicles: 4 to 10 years
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for 
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. If the carrying value 
exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down 
to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of plant and 
equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value in 
use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are  Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 77
The numbers
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate 
largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated income statement.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon 
disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise 
from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on 
derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated income 
statement in the year that it is derecognised. 
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period 
of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the 
cost of the respective assets. 
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the 
period they occur.
investments
The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost 
being the fair value of consideration paid, less provisions for 
impairment where appropriate.
Business c ombinations and goodwill
Business combinations from 1 April 2010 are accounted for using 
the acquisition method (previously used the purchase method). 
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the 
consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, 
and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The 
choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value 
or at the proportionate share of acquiree’s identifiable net assets will 
be determined on a transaction by transaction basis. Acquisition 
costs incurred are expensed to profit and loss.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the cost of 
the acquisition (see above) less net identifiable amounts of the assets 
acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business 
combination. 
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment 
annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. All goodwill was 
tested for impairment at the time of transition to IFRS and no 
impairment was identified.
Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition 
to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date and is not 
subsequently amortised.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the 
cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units expected to 
benefit from the combination’s synergies. Impairment is determined 
by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to 
which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the 
cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment 
loss is recognised. Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating 
unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the 
goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the 
carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on 
disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is 
measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed 
of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
The Group’s cash-generating units, for the purpose of considering 
goodwill, are ‘Dairies’ (fully impaired), ‘Spreads’, ‘MH Foods’ and 
‘Cheese’. These represent the lowest level at which goodwill 
is monitored.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been 
charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off against 
reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the 
business sold.
The Group has not restated business combinations prior to the 
transition date of 1 April 2004. Acquisitions prior to this date are 
recorded under previous accounting rules.
intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are 
capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value can 
be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future expected 
economic benefits flow to the Group. Following initial recognition, the 
carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any 
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. 
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite 
or indefinite. Currently, all the Group’s intangible assets have finite 
useful lives and are amortised over 3 to 15 years. Acquired intangible 
assets principally comprise acquired brands and, following the sale 
of St Hubert, principally the Frylight brand which was considered to 
have a useful life of 15 years at the date of acquisition.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, 
where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Intangible assets generated internally comprise software 
development expenditure. Software development is carried at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and is amortised over four to seven 
years. Internally generated intangible assets that are not yet available 
for use are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the 
cash-generating unit level or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Research and development
Expenditure on research is written off as incurred. Development 
expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future 
recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as 
required by IAS 38: Intangible Assets.
Recoverable amount of non-current assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any 
indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of 
impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of recoverable 
amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired and is written 
down to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the 
higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to 
sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, 
unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials (on a first in first 
out basis), direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing 
overheads based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing 
each product to its present location and condition. n et realisable  78 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
ACCOUnTInG POLICIES COnTInUED
value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business 
less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original 
invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts. An 
estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount 
is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off when identified.
c ash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and 
short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
For the purposes of the Consolidated cash flow statement, cash and 
cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined 
above, net of bank overdrafts.
interest bearing loans
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value net 
of issue costs associated with the borrowing. After initial recognition, 
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Amortised 
cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any 
discount or premium on settlement. Gains and losses are 
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement when the 
liabilities are derecognised.
n et debt
The Group and Company define net debt as cash and cash 
equivalents, interest bearing loans and finance leases. The 
calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments with the exception of cross currency swaps to fix foreign 
currency debt in Sterling where they are designated as cash flow 
hedges. In this case the fixed Sterling debt, not the underlying 
foreign currency debt retranslated, is included in net debt. It includes 
any cash or borrowings included within disposal groups classified as 
held for sale and excludes unamortised upfront facility fees.
Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates two types of pension arrangements, a defined 
benefit scheme and defined contribution schemes.
Defined contribution schemes
These pension arrangements do not constitute a future obligation to 
the Group. Members of these schemes will contribute a percentage 
of their salary into the scheme and the Company will pay an 
additional amount into the scheme. The size of an individual’s 
pension on retirement is based on the performance of the asset 
portfolio and is not linked to salary. Company contributions to the 
scheme are charged to the profit and loss account in the same 
period as services are rendered by the relevant employee. 
Defined benefit schemes
Under these pension arrangements the individual and company 
make contributions into a scheme and future benefits to individuals 
are guaranteed subject to final salary, number of years service, 
future inflation and other factors. Scheme assets and future liabilities 
are recorded in the sponsoring company’s balance sheet as one net 
asset or obligation.
The company has closed its defined benefit scheme and therefore no 
current service costs are required to be charged to Income Statement.
At the beginning of each financial year the scheme actuaries will 
provide an estimate of the interest cost on the net scheme liability/
deficit. This interest is charged/credited to finance income/charges in 
the profit and loss account in each reporting period. Any correction 
required to this estimate is done at period 6 and period 12 based on 
updated calculations provided by the scheme actuary. 
Scheme admin costs that are not directly related to investment 
activities are charged to the profit and loss account. Admin costs 
that are directly related to investment are recognised as part of the 
re-measurement exercise through the OCI/reserves. 
Scheme admin costs, net pension interest and employer cash 
contributions (including any additional contributions) are posted to 
the retirement obligation on the balance sheet. At the half year and 
full year an updated actuarial valuation is obtained from external 
advisors. Any movement in the pension asset/liability resulting from 
changes in assumptions, or differences between expected and 
actual asset returns (namely actuarial gains or losses) are taken to 
the statement of comprehensive income in full along with the related 
deferred tax impact.
Where there is a potential pension surplus, further work would be 
undertaken by external advisors to ascertain the limit if any on any 
surplus that can be recognised. The present value of benefits from 
reduced company contributions beyond the agreed minimum 
funding level agreement form the upper limit for any recognisable 
surplus (IFRIC 14).
Any potential tax implications of an estimated scheme surplus would 
be allowed for in the total pension liability, transacted via deferred tax 
assets and OCI /reserves.
Any event that has a material impact on the scheme would be 
discussed with the scheme actuary. Examples of a material event 
would be a merger or acquisition or the implementation of an 
insurance buy-in.
Where a scheme-wide curtailment gain occurs because of 
amendments to the plan, the gain is recognised when the plan terms 
are amended even if the impact will only take effect in future 
accounting periods. The announcement itself of scheme term 
changes does not trigger a curtailment gain.
share based payments
equity based performance payments
The Group and Company has issued equity-settled share based 
payment schemes for which they receive services from employees 
in consideration for the equity instrument. Equity-settled share 
based payment schemes are measured at fair value at the grant 
date by an external valuer using an appropriate pricing model. In 
valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any 
service and performance (vesting conditions), other than 
performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the 
Company (market conditions). Any other conditions which are 
required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled 
to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions. Like 
market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken 
into account in determining the grant date fair value.
The cost of equity settled transactions with employees is measured 
by reference to the fair value and is recognised as an expense over 
the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant 
employees became fully entitled to the award. At each balance sheet 
date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, 
representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and 
management’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest. The movement in cumulative expense since 
the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income 
statement, with a corresponding entry in equity. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 79
The numbers
n o expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, 
except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or 
non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of 
whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, 
provided that all other performance or service conditions are satisfied.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled (including when a 
non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee is 
not met), it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, 
and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the 
award is expensed immediately.
Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over equity 
instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in the 
Company’s balance sheet.
employees’ s hare o wnership plan (‘esop ’)
The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees’ 
Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy Long Term Incentive Share 
Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in arriving at 
shareholders’ equity. Consideration received from the sale of such 
shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or loss recognised in 
the Consolidated Income Statement.
The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to apply 
IFRS 2 Share-based payments only to awards made after 7 
november 2002. 
l eased assets
Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the Group 
substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the 
leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value 
of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum 
lease payments. The net present value of future lease rentals is 
included as a liability on the balance sheet. The interest element of 
lease rentals is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in 
the year. Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks 
and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating 
leases. Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated 
Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Revenue
Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on 
delivery. Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods 
net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating 
sales within the Group. 
Discounts comprise mainly promotional accruals where the Group 
accrues for customer claims against agreed promotional funding. 
This is an area of judgment that management consider significant 
due to the potential size of the claims. Accruals are calculated based 
on an estimated redemption rate of the promotion. The redemption 
rate used is dependent on the promotional mechanic and considers 
known historic data on the performance of that mechanic.
Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s right to receive 
payment is established.
o ther income
Other income comprises the profit on disposal of closed 
household depots. 
exceptional items
Certain items are recorded separately in the Consolidated Income 
Statement as exceptional. Only items of a material, one-off nature, 
which result from a restructuring of the business or some other 
event or circumstance are disclosed in this manner in order to give a 
better understanding of the underlying operational performance of 
the Group. The profits arising on disposal of closed sites, other than 
as a result of depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional 
items.
government and other grants
Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value where 
there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all 
attaching conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to 
an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods 
necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that 
it is intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to an asset, 
the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is 
released to the Consolidated Income Statement over the expected 
useful life of the relevant asset in equal annual instalments.
income tax
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount 
expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, 
based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively 
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the 
balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, except 
as indicated below.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences except:
 • where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial 
recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at 
the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit 
nor taxable profit or loss; and
 • in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint 
ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and 
unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit 
will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, 
the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can 
be utilised except:
 • where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset 
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, 
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit 
nor taxable profit or loss; and 
 • in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint 
ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the 
foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against 
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow 
all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised. Deferred 
income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that  80 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the 
liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legal 
enforcement right exists to set off current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxation 
authority and that authority permits the group to make a single net 
payment.
Income tax is charged or credited to Other Comprehensive Income 
if it relates to items that are charged or credited to Other 
Comprehensive Income. Similarly, income tax is charged or credited 
directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged 
directly to equity. Otherwise income tax is recognised in the 
Consolidated Income Statement.
Financial assets
The Group and Company classifies financial assets that are within 
the scope of IAS 39 as: 
 • financial assets at fair value through profit and loss;
 • loans and receivables; 
 • held-to-maturity investments; or 
 • available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. 
The Group and Company determines the classification of financial 
assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each 
financial year-end. When financial assets are recognised initially, they 
are measured at fair value. The Group and Company currently hold 
only loans and receivables.
Derivative instruments
The Group and Company use derivative financial instruments such 
as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and interest 
rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and 
foreign currency fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments 
are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured to 
fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by 
reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with 
similar maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap and 
cross-currency swap contracts is determined by reference to market 
values for similar instruments and specific valuations performed by 
counterparties at the balance sheet date.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as 
either: 
 • fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes in 
the fair value of a recognised asset or liability;
 • cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash 
flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a 
recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast 
transaction, or a firm commitment in relation to foreign exchange 
exposure.
n either the Group nor the Company has entered into any fair value 
hedges during the year.
c ash flow hedges
In relation to cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge 
accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument 
that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in 
Other Comprehensive Income and the ineffective portion is 
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. 
When the hedged firm commitment (in relation to foreign exchange 
exposure) or the highly probable forecast transactions results in the 
recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, then, at the time 
the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses 
that had previously been recognised in Other Comprehensive 
Income are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition 
cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability. For all other 
cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in Other 
Comprehensive Income are transferred to the Consolidated Income 
Statement in the same year in which the hedged item affects the net 
profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs, 
interest payments are made or when debt matures. For derivatives 
that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising 
from changes in fair value are taken directly to the Consolidated 
Income Statement for the year. 
Fair value measurement
The Group measures financial instruments at fair value at each 
balance sheet date. Fair value is the price that would be received to 
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. The fair 
value measurement is based on the presumption that the 
transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
 • In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
 • In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous 
market for the asset or liability
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible 
to by the Group. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured 
using the assumptions that market participants would use when 
pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in 
their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account 
a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using 
the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. The 
Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the 
circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure 
fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and 
minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed 
in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
 • Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities
 • Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input 
that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or 
indirectly observable
 • Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input 
that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial 
statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether 
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-
assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of 
each reporting period.
ACCOUnTInG POLICIES COnTInUED Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 81
The numbers
NoTes To The fiNaNcial sTaTemeNTs
1 segmental analysis
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be determined based on the Group’s internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(‘CODM’). The CODM has been determined to be the Company’s Board members as they are primarily responsible for the allocation of 
resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments. 
The CODM uses product group profit, as reviewed at monthly business review meetings, as the key measure of the Group’s results as it 
reflects the Group’s underlying trading performance for the period under evaluation. Trading profit is defined as profit on operations before 
exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangible assets but includes the Group share of post-tax profit of associate.
In April 2013, the Group reorganised from a divisional structure to a functional structure to become ‘One Dairy Crest’. Prior to the 
reorganisation, the business was structured into divisions according to product types and this was used to identify and determine the Group’s 
operating segments as ‘Cheese’, ‘Spreads’, ‘MH Foods’, ‘Dairies’, ‘Share of Associate’ and ‘Other’. Certain of these operating segments were 
aggregated and the Group reported on five continuing segments within the business: ‘Cheese’, ‘Spreads’, ‘Dairies’, ‘Share of Associate’ 
and ‘Other’.
Following the reorganisation, the CODM’s primary focus for review and resource allocation is the Group as a whole and no longer any 
component part of the business. All revenue streams for the business are managed centrally by functional teams (Demand, Supply, 
Procurement and Finance) that have responsibility for the whole of the Group’s product portfolio. Although some discrete financial information 
is available to provide insight to the management team of the key performance drivers, the product group profit is not part of the CODM’s review.
Having considered these factors, management has judged that following the implementation of the new structure, the Group comprises one 
operating segment under IFRS 8. As such, disclosure required under IFRS 8 for the financial statements is shown on the face of the 
consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet.
Voluntary disclosure
To assist the readers of the financial statements, management considers it appropriate to provide voluntary disclosure on a basis consistent 
with historic reporting of the product groups. In disclosing the product group profit for the year, certain assumptions have been made when 
allocating resources which are now centralised at a group level.
Associate forms a separate product group whose results are reviewed on a post-tax basis.
The Other product group comprises revenue earned from distributing product for third parties and certain central costs net of recharges to 
the other product groups. Generally, central costs less external ‘other’ revenue are recharged back into the product groups such that their 
result reflects the total cost base of the Group. ‘Other’ operating profit therefore is nil.
The results under the historic segmentation basis for the year ended 31 March 2014 and for the year ended 31 March 2013 and the 
reconciliation of product group measures to the respective line items included in the financial information are as follows:
Year ended 31 march
Note
2014
£m
Restated
2013
£m
external revenue
Cheese 264.6 231.3 
Spreads 177.4 194.5 
Dairies 944.8 951.6 
Other 4.2 4.2 
Total product group external revenue 1,391.0 1,381.6 
Product group profit*
Cheese 39.3 33.1 
Spreads 16.8 25.5 
Dairies 18.8 9.8 
Share of associate’s net profit 14 0.3 –
Total product group profit 75.2 68.4 
Finance costs 5 (9.9) (18.7)
adjusted profit before tax 65.3 49.7 
Acquired intangible amortisation 2 (0.4) (0.4)
Exceptional items 4 (10.4) (56.5)
Other finance expense – pensions 20 (0.3) (3.5)
Group profit/(loss) before tax 54.2 (10.7)
* Before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest.
The prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect the amendment to IAS 19R: Employee Benefits (see Accounting policies 
and Note 20). 82 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD
Year ended 31 march
Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
Total assets
Cheese 266.2 237.7 
Spreads 156.7 138.0 
Dairies 268.5 268.1 
Investments and share of associate 2.5 2.2 
Other 37.4 38.3 
Total product group 731.3 684.3 
Un-allocated assets 74.7 300.2 
Total assets 806.0 984.5 
inter-product group revenue
Cheese 11.2 11.3 
Spreads 3.1 2.8 
Elimination (14.3) (14.1)
Total – –
Product group depreciation and amortisation (excluding amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets)
Cheese 7.0 6.7 
Spreads 2.5 3.2 
Dairies 15.4 17.2 
Other 7.0 4.5 
Continuing operations 31.9 31.6 
Discontinued operations – 0.8 
Total 31.9 32.4 
Product group additions to non-current assets 
Cheese 12.4 6.9 
Spreads 21.0 12.5 
Dairies 25.9 23.7 
Other 4.6 4.8 
63.9 47.9 
Discontinued operations – 1.1 
Total 63.9 49.0 
Product group exceptional items
Cheese – –
Spreads (3.8) (13.8)
Dairies (2.0) (30.5)
Unsegmented (4.4) (3.5)
Total exceptional operating costs 4 (10.2) (47.8)
1 segmental analysis continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 83
The numbers
Interest income and expense are not included in the measure of product group profit. Group treasury has always been centrally managed and 
external interest income and expense are not allocated to product groups. 
Further analysis of the Group interest expense is provided in Note 5.
Tax costs are not included in the measure of product group profit.
Product group assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, inventories, receivables, assets in disposal group 
held for sale and investments in associates using the equity method and deferred consideration but exclude cash and cash equivalents, 
derivative financial assets and deferred tax assets. Other product group assets comprise certain property, plant and equipment that is not 
reported in the principal groups.
Inter-product group revenue comprises the sale of finished Cheese and Spreads products to the Dairies product group on a cost plus basis 
and is included in the product group result. Other inter-product group transactions principally comprise the transfer of cream from the Dairies 
product group to the Spreads product group for the manufacture of butters. Cream transferred into Spreads is charged by reference to 
external commodity markets and is adjusted regularly so as to reflect the costs that the Spreads product group would incur if it was a stand 
alone entity. Revenue from inter-product group cream sales is not reported as revenue within the Dairies product group but as a reduction to 
the Dairies product group’s input costs.
Product group depreciation and amortisation excludes amortisation of acquired intangible assets of £0.4 million (2013: £0.4 million) as these 
costs are not charged in the product group result.
Product group additions to non-current assets comprise additions to goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through 
capital expenditure and acquisition of businesses.
Geographical information – continuing operations Year ended 31 march
External revenue attributed on basis of customer location
2014
£m
2013
£m
UK 1,330.9 1,336.3 
Rest of world 60.1 45.3 
Total revenue (excluding joint ventures) 1,391.0 1,381.6 
Non-current assets* based on location
UK 390.8 375.1 
Rest of world 1.1 0.8 
Total 391.9 375.9 
* Comprises property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, investments and investment in associate.
The Group has two customers which individually represent more than 10% of revenue from continuing operations in the year ended 31 March 
2014 (2013: two) with each customer accounting for £152.1 million and £174.8 million (2013: £151.8 million and £175.3 million) of revenue from 
continuing operations being 10.9% and 12.6% (2013: 11.0% and 12.7%).
The product group analysis provided above is based upon groupings of similar products, namely Cheese, Spreads and Dairies, and therefore 
the analysis of Group revenue by product and services is consistent with the revenue analysis presented above with the exception of non-milk 
product sales in the Dairies product group, which amounted to £66.3 million (2013: £81.3 million).
1 segmental analysis continued 84 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
2 o perating costs – continuing operations
Year ended 31 march 2014 Year ended 31 March 2013 – Restated
Before
exceptional
items
£m
exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Cost of sales 1,040.4 5.8 1,046.2 1,008.2 44.3 1,052.5 
Distribution costs 207.8 – 207.8 229.1 – 229.1 
Administrative expenses 86.5 4.4 90.9 84.0 3.5 87.5
1,334.7 10.2 1,344.9 1,321.3 47.8 1,369.1 
Profit on operations from continuing operations is stated after 
(charging)/crediting
Year ended
31 march 
2014
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£m
Release of grants 1.7 0.9 
Depreciation (28.6) (28.2)
Amortisation of intangibles – acquired (0.4) (0.4)
Amortisation of intangibles – internally generated (3.3) (3.4)
Operating lease rentals (27.0) (29.2)
Research and development expenditure (3.8) (3.3)
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense (1,040.4) (1,008.2)
Including: Write-down of inventories recognised as an expense (0.6) (1.2)
Remuneration paid to auditors
Year ended
31 march 
2014
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors – audit of Company’s annual accounts* 0.1 0.1 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services:
audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 
taxation services 0.1 0.1 
corporate finance services – 0.2 
0.5 0.7 
* £10,000 (2013: £10,000) of this relates to the Company.
Corporate finance services in the year ended 31 March 2013 comprised reporting accountant work in relation to the disposal of St Hubert.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young ll P and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual accounts 
of the Company because Group financial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Ernst & Young ll P are auditors of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund. Fees paid by the Fund for audit services are not included in the 
above table. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 85
The numbers
4 exceptional items
Exceptional items comprise those items that are material and one-off in nature that the Group believes should be separately disclosed to 
assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
operating costs
Year ended
31 march 
2014
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£m
Depot administration restructuring costs – (9.2)
Costs associated with closure of Dairy processing sites – (21.3)
Spreads restructuring costs (3.8) (13.8)
Business reorganisation (4.4) (3.5)
Rationalisation of operating sites (2.0) –
(10.2) (47.8)
finance costs
Repayment of loan notes and associated costs (Note 5) (0.2) (8.7)
(10.4) (56.5)
Tax relief on exceptional items 2.1 12.0 
Deferred tax adjustment for change in UK corporation tax rate 1.9 – 
(6.4) (44.5)
Discontinued operations – (Note 29) 1.4 47.7 
(5.0) 3.2 
exceptional items in the year ended 31 march 2014 comprise:
 – In September 2012 the Group announced that it was to consult with employees on plans to consolidate spreads production into a single 
UK location at its site in Kirkby, l iverpool. As a result of this consolidation the site at Crudgington, Shropshire is expected to close in the 
coming financial year. The exceptional costs incurred in the period ended 31 March 2014 were £3.8 million (2013: £13.8 million), 
comprising plant and equipment write-down,termination costs and duplicate running costs. The tax effect of this exceptional charge in 
the year was £0.8 million (2013: £2.8 million).
 – In February 2013 the Group announced plans to reorganise the business into a single management and operational structure from 1 April 
2013. This is replacing the divisional structures that previously existed and will lead to a more efficient and simplified organisation. This 
reorganisation has resulted in exceptional costs in the year ended 31 March 2014 of £4.4 million (2013: £3.5 million) comprising 
predominantly redundancy costs and the write-down of an intangible asset on the basis that there will be no future benefit from this asset 
following the reorganisation. The tax effect in the year of this exceptional charge in the year was £0.8 million (2013: £0.8 million). This 
project has now completed.
 – In December 2013 the Group announced that it was starting consultation with employees regarding the closure of its Proper Welsh Milk 
dairy in Whitland, Carmarthenshire. The dairy was subsequently closed in January 2014 resulting in exceptional costs in the year of £0.6 
million comprising plant and equipment write-down and redundancy costs. In March 2014, the Group announced a strategic review of its 
FoodTec UK ltd subsidiary and an exceptional cost of £1.4 million has been incurred in the period comprising the write-down of its 
working capital, plant and equipment. The tax effect of this exceptional charge in the year was £0.3 million.
 – In March 2013 the Group gave notice to the holders of its 2007 private placement loan notes that it would repay £100 million of principal in 
April 2013. The costs of early repayment were accrued at 31 March 2013 as the Group was irrevocably committed to the repayment at 
that date. Costs of £8.7 million predominantly comprise make whole penalties which were calculated based on the discounted future 
coupons between repayment date and original note maturity. A further £0.2 million of costs have been incurred in the period ended 31 
March 2014 comprising bank charges and professional fees relating to the transaction. The tax effect of this exceptional charge was nil 
(2013: £2.1 million).
3 o ther income – property
Year ended 31 march 2014 Year ended 31 March 2013
Before
exceptional
items
£m
exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Profit on disposal of depots 18.2 – 18.2 7.7 – 7.7 
The Group continues to rationalise its Dairies operations as a result of the ongoing decline in doorstep volumes. This rationalisation includes 
the closure of certain depots (the profit on which is shown above) and rationalisation of the ongoing Dairies operations. These activities 
represent a fundamental part of the ongoing ordinary activities of the Dairies operations. 86 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
5 f inance costs and other finance income
Year ended
31 march 
2014
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£m
Bank loans and overdrafts (at amortised cost) (9.7) (19.6)
Unwind of discount on provisions (Note 23) (0.2) (0.2)
Finance charges on finance leases (0.2) (0.3)
Pre-exceptional finance costs – continuing operations (10.1) (20.1)
Finance income on cash balances (financial assets not at fair value through profit and loss) 0.2 1.4 
Pre-exceptional net finance costs – continuing operations (9.9) (18.7)
Exceptional cost of repayment of loan notes (Note 4) (0.2) (8.7)
Total net finance costs – continuing operations (10.1) (27.4)
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts is stated after capitalising £1.6 million (2013: £0.1 million) of interest on expenditure on capital 
projects at the Group’s average cost of borrowing of 5.0%.
 – In the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group closed two processing sites in Aintree and Fenstanton. Whilst these projects were largely 
completed within the year, £0.5 million of closure costs have been incurred in the year ended 31 March 2014 that have been offset by 
proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment of £0.5 million. 
 – With effect from 1 April 2015, the corporation tax rate which was enacted on 2 July 2013 has changed from 23% to 20%. The deferred 
tax calculations are now based on the lower rate resulting in a deferred tax benefit of £1.9 million in the year ended 31 March 2014. Due to 
the size and one-off nature of this significant amendment in the enacted rate, it has been classified as an exceptional deferred tax credit 
in the period.
exceptional items in the year ended 31 march 2013 comprised:
 – £9.2 million of costs associated with the rationalisation of administrative activities and other structural changes in the Dairies depot 
network. This restructuring resulted in centralisation of back office activities supporting the depot network. These costs related to 
redundancies (£7.4 million), incremental operating costs associated with delivery of the project (£1.1 million) and write downs of property, 
plant and equipment (£0.7 million). The tax effect of this exceptional charge was £2.2 million. The project has now completed.
 – In the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group closed two processing sites at Aintree in l iverpool and Fenstanton in Cambridgeshire. The 
closure of the sites and resultant changes in the supply chain, volume requirements and customer channels resulted in exceptional costs 
of £21.3 million. These costs related to redundancies (£9.0 million), duplicate running costs (£6.2 million), asset write downs (£0.7 million) 
and other costs (£5.4 million) including stock write offs and duplicate running costs. The tax effect of this exceptional charge was £5.0m. 
This project has now completed.
4 exceptional items continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 87
The numbers
6 Tax expense
The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 March 2014 and 2013 are:
consolidated income statement
2014
£m
2013
£m
Current income tax
Adjustments in respect of previous years – current tax 0.2 – 
    – transfer from deferred tax – (2.8)
0.2 (2.8)
Deferred income tax
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 8.0 (3.3)
Effect of change in tax rate (1.9) (0.9)
Adjustments in respect of previous years – deferred tax (0.9) 1.4 
    – transfer to current tax – 2.8 
5.4 (2.8)
Analysed: Before exceptional items 9.4 9.2 
  Exceptional items (4.0) (12.0)
5.4 (2.8)
Reconciliation between tax charge/(credit) and the profit/(loss) before tax multiplied by the statutory rate of corporation tax in the UK:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Profit/(loss) before tax 54.2 (10.7)
Tax at UK statutory corporation tax rate of 23% (2013: 24%) 12.5 (2.5)
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.7) 1.4 
Adjustment in respect of associate’s profits (0.1) – 
Deferred tax adjustment for change in UK corporation tax rate (23% to 20%; 2013: 24% to 23%)* (1.9) (0.9)
Non-deductible expenses 1.2 1.5 
Profits offset by available tax relief (5.6) (2.3)
5.4 (2.8)
* Owing to the availability of brought forward trading tax losses, the Group does not expect any taxable profits to arise before 1 April 2015, accordingly deferred tax has 
been provided on all temporary differences at 20%.
The effective pre-exceptional rate of tax on Group profit before tax is 14.6% (2013: 20.1%). The effective tax rate continues to be below the 
headline rate of UK corporation tax due to the property profit income stream, on which the tax charges are sheltered by brought forward 
capital losses or roll over relief. The higher level of property profits this year have reduced the effective rate of tax but we expect the effective 
tax rate to increase next year to approximately 18%.       
The UK corporation tax rate reduced to 23% from April 2013. A further 2% reduction has been enacted, taking the rate to 21% from 
April 2014, as has an additional 1% reduction, taking the rate to 20% from April 2015. 
consolidated other comprehensive income
2014
£m
2013
£m
Deferred income tax related to items charged to other comprehensive income
Tax relief on actuarial losses (8.7) (5.4)
Valuation of financial instruments 0.3 0.2 
Tax credit (8.4) (5.2)
There were no income tax or deferred tax amounts charged to changes in equity in the year ended 31 March 2014 (2013: nil). 88 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax at 31 March 2014 and 2013 relates to the following:
Deferred tax liability
2014
£m
2013
£m
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes (28.0) (31.7)
Financial instruments valuation (0.1) –
Goodwill and intangible assets (8.0) (9.2)
(36.1) (40.9)
Deferred tax asset
Government grants 1.9 3.0 
Share based payments 0.1 0.1 
Pensions 17.9 17.1 
Financial instruments valuation – 0.2 
Other 4.8 5.9 
24.7 26.3 
Net deferred tax liability (11.4) (14.6)
The Company has a deferred tax asset of £0.2 million at 31 March 2014 (2013: £0.4 million asset). This relates to temporary differences in 
respect of financial instruments valuations.
The movement on the net deferred tax balance is shown below:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Opening net deferred tax liability (14.6) (69.4)
Charge to income statement (5.2) – 
Credit to other comprehensive income 8.4 5.2 
Disposal of businesses – 47.3 
Exchange impact – 2.3 
closing net deferred tax liability (11.4) (14.6)
The movement on the deferred tax liability is shown below:
Deferred tax asset/(liability)
Goodwill and
intangible
assets
£m
Pensions
£m
Accelerated
tax
depreciation
£m
Other
temporary
differences
£m
Total
£m
Balances at 31 March 2013 (9.2) 17.1 (31.7) 9.2 (14.6)
(Charge)/credit to income statement: continuing operations 1.2 (7.9) 3.7 (2.2) (5.2)
Credit/(charge) to other comprehensive income – 8.7 – (0.3) 8.4 
Balances at 31 march 2014 (8.0) 17.9 (28.0) 6.7 (11.4)
Balances at 31 March 2012 (55.4) 15.2 (37.4) 7.6 (70.0)
(Charge)/credit to income statement: continuing operations (0.9) (4.1) 3.2 1.8 – 
Credit/(charge) to other comprehensive income – 6.0 – (0.2) 5.8 
Disposal of businesses 44.8 – 2.5 – 47.3 
Exchange impact 2.3 – – – 2.3 
Balances at 31 March 2013 (9.2) 17.1 (31.7) 9.2 (14.6)
The Group has capital losses which arose in the UK of £137.5 million (2013: £56.3 million) that are available indefinitely for offset against future 
taxable gains. Deferred tax has not been recognised in respect of these losses as there is no foreseeable prospect of their being utilised. 
The Group has realised capital gains amounting to £27.6 million (2013: £36.9 million) for which rollover relief claims have been or are intended 
to be made.
6 Tax expense continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 89
The numbers
8 earnings per share
Basic earnings/losses per share (‘EPS’) on profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations is calculated by dividing profit/(loss) from 
continuing operations by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the profit from continuing operations by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 
during the year plus the difference between the number of ordinary shares issued and the number of ordinary shares that would have been 
issued at the average market price of ordinary shares during the year. Note that in the circumstances where there is a basic loss per share, 
share options are anti-dilutive and therefore are not included in the calculation of diluted losses per share.
The shares held by the Dairy Crest Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (‘ESOP’) are excluded from the weighted average number of 
shares in issue used in the calculation of earnings and diluted earnings per share.
To show earnings per share on a consistent basis, which in the Directors’ opinion reflects the ongoing performance of the business more 
appropriately, adjusted earnings per share has been calculated. The computation for basic and diluted earnings per share (including adjusted 
earnings per share) is as follows:
Year ended 31 march 2014 Year ended 31 March 2013 (Restated)
earnings
£m
Weighted
average
no of
shares
million
Per share
amount
pence
Earnings
£m
Weighted
average
no of
shares
million
Per share
amount
pence
Basic ePs from continuing operations 48.8 136.5 35.8 (7.9) 134.7 (5.9)
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 1.6 (0.5) – – – 
Diluted ePs from continuing operations 48.8 138.1 35.3 (7.9) 134.7 (5.9)
adjusted ePs from continuing operations
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 48.8 136.5 35.8 (7.9) 134.7 (5.9)
Exceptional items net of tax 6.4 – 4.7 44.5 – 33.0 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets (net of tax) 0.3 – 0.2 0.3 – 0.2 
Pension interest expense (net of tax) 0.2 – 0.1 2.7 – 2.1 
adjusted basic ePs from continuing operations 55.7 136.5 40.8 39.6 134.7 29.4 
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 1.6 (0.5) – – – 
adjusted diluted ePs from continuing operations 55.7 138.1 40.3 39.6 134.7 29.4 
Basic ePs from discontinued operations 1.4 136.5 1.0 54.5 134.7 40.5
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 1.6 – – – –
Diluted ePs from discontinued operations 1.4 138.1 1.0 54.5 134.7 40.5
Basic ePs on profit/(loss) for the year 50.2 136.5 36.8 46.6 134.7 34.6 
Effect of dilutive securities:
Share options – 1.6 (0.4) – – – 
Diluted ePs on profit/(loss) for the year 50.2 138.1 36.4 46.6 134.7 34.6 
7 Dividends paid and proposed
Declared and paid during the year
2014
£m
2013
£m
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2013: 15.0 pence (2012: 14.7 pence) 20.5 19.6 
Interim dividend for 2014: 5.9 pence (2013: 5.7 pence) 8.0 7.8 
28.5 27.4 
Proposed for approval at aGm (not recognised as a liability at 31 march)
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2014: 15.4 pence (2013: 15.0 pence) 21.0 20.5  90 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
9 Remuneration of employees and key management personnel
Number of employees (continuing operations) – Group
Year ended
31 march 
2014
number
Year ended
31 March 
2013
number
Average number of employees:
Production 1,859 2,036 
Sales, distribution and administration 2,686 3,247 
Total employees 4,545 5,283 
Remuneration of employees, including key management personnel (continuing operations)
Year ended
31 march 
2014
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£m
Wages and salaries 157.0 176.5 
Social security costs 15.2 17.2 
Equity settled share based payments expense (Note 26) 1.5 1.9 
Pension costs (Note 20) 7.0 7.1 
180.7 202.7 
The above costs relate to continuing operations and include amounts paid to the Company’s Executive and Non-executive Directors. 
Further analysis is as follows:
Directors
Year ended
31 march 
2014
£000
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£000
Salaries and benefits 1,374 1,528 
Bonuses 833 613 
Fees to Non-Executive Directors 327 331 
Emoluments 2,534 2,472 
Severance payments 577 –
Employer payments to defined contribution pension scheme 39 31 
Gain on exercise of sharesave options – 15 
highest paid director
Salary and benefits 656 656 
Bonus 423 272 
Emoluments 1,079 928 
Employer payments to defined contribution pension scheme 9 9 
Gain on exercise of sharesave options – 5 
Further information relating to directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2014 is provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 45 to 62.
There have been no transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of signing of 
these financial statements.
The prior period comparatives have been restated to reflect the amendment to IAS 19R: Employee Benefits (see Note 20). This resulted in a 
basic loss per share on continuing operations and therefore no dilution has been assumed across any EPS measures. This is in line with IAS 
33 guidelines.
8 earnings per share continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 91
The numbers
10 Property, plant and equipment
consolidated 2014
l and and
buildings
£m
Vehicles,
plant and
equipment
£m
assets in
the course of 
construction
£m
Total
£m
cost
At 1 April 2013 183.4 306.5 23.6 513.5 
Additions 1.6 6.3 54.9 62.8 
Disposals (12.3) (28.0) (5.2) (45.5)
Transfers and reclassifications 1.3 2.5 (3.8) – 
at 31 march 2014 174.0 287.3 69.5 530.8 
accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2013 64.4 178.8 – 243.2 
Charge for the year 5.6 23.0 – 28.6 
Asset impairments 0.1 1.7 – 1.8 
Disposals (6.4) (25.0) – (31.4)
at 31 march 2014 63.7 178.5 – 242.2 
Net book amount at 31 march 2014 110.3 108.8 69.5 288.6 
Consolidated 2013
Cost
At 1 April 2012 192.6 303.0 29.0 524.6 
Additions 3.5 18.0 21.3 42.8 
Acquisition of businesses – 0.5 – 0.5 
Disposals (4.2) (22.8) (0.5) (27.5)
Disposal of St Hubert (8.7) (15.7) (1.2) (25.6)
Transfers and reclassifications 0.6 24.3 (24.9) – 
Exchange (0.4) (0.8) (0.1) (1.3)
At 31 March 2013 183.4 306.5 23.6 513.5 
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2012 64.8 176.9 – 241.7 
Charge for the year 5.9 23.1 – 29.0 
Asset impairments 1.4 12.3 – 13.7 
Disposals (2.3) (22.8) – (25.1)
Disposal of St Hubert (5.2) (10.1) – (15.3)
Exchange (0.2) (0.6) – (0.8)
At 31 March 2013 64.4 178.8 – 243.2 
Net book amount at 31 March 2013 119.0 127.7 23.6 270.3 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment relating to the discontinued St Hubert business, included in the table above was nil in the year 
ended 31 March 2014 (2013: £0.8 million)
2013/14
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment within each cash generating unit (‘CGU’) is reviewed for impairment when events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. With regard to the Dairies CGU, goodwill was fully impaired 
in 2011/12 however given the low margins in this business and large movements in milk input costs during 2013/14, the carrying value of 
property, plant and equipment within this CGU has been reviewed along with its value in use. The impairment methodology and key inputs for 
all CGUs are as set out in Note 11. For the Dairies CGU, the discount rate applied to the value in use calculation was 9.3% (2013: 8.7%) and 
cashflows are forecast to year five with nil growth assumed thereafter. The key input assumptions in performing the impairment test were the 
profits expected from property sales, the allocation of corporate costs and the projected profit growth to 3%. The impairment review has not 
indicated any required write down of the carrying value of property, plant and equipment in the year ended 31 March 2014. However, the 
headroom was low and therefore sensitive to the discount rate used for each of the key input assumptions in deriving the projected cash flows.
In March 2014, the Group announced a strategic review of the FoodTec UK ltd ingredients subsidiary. The carrying value of £1.1 million 
working capital and £0.3 million property, plant and equipment has been fully impaired in the year ended 31 March 2014 (see Note 4). 92 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
Following the closure of the Proper Welsh Milk dairy in January 2014, the carrying value of property, plant and equipment of £0.5 million has 
been written down in full (see Note 4).
As a result of plans to consolidate spreads production into a single UK location, the carrying value of some property, plant and equipment of 
£1.0 million has been written down in the year ended 31 March 2014 (see Note 4).
2012/13
Following the decision in 2011 to transfer all Clover manufacture from Crudgington, Shropshire to Kirkby, l iverpool, in September 2012 the 
Group announced plans to consolidate all spreads production into a single UK location at its site in Kirkby. Subject to consultation, this 
decision will result in the closure of the site at Crudgington in 2014. As a result of this decision £11.4 million of plant and equipment at the sites 
has been impaired to nil net book value (representing management’s best estimate of resale value net of costs of sale). In addition, the land 
and buildings at Crudgington were impaired by £0.9 million (see Note 4).
The culmination of the centralisation of administrative activity in the Dairies depot network along with the closures of milk processing sites at 
Fenstanton, Cambridgeshire and Aintree, l iverpool resulted in impairments of £0.5 million to land and buildings and £0.9 million to plant and 
equipment (see Note 4).
Capitalised leases included in vehicles, plant and equipment comprise:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Cost 31.7 32.1 
Accumulated depreciation (24.0) (22.9)
Net book amount 7.7 9.2 
11 Goodwill
£m
cost
At 31 March 2012 333.0 
Disposal (Note 29) (176.4)
Exchange (9.3)
at 31 march 2013 and 31 march 2014 147.3 
accumulated impairment
At 31 March 2012 (73.0)
At 31 March 2013 (73.0)
Impairments in the year ended 31 March 2014 – 
at 31 march 2014 (73.0)
Net book amount at 31 march 2014 74.3 
Net book amount at 31 March 2013 74.3 
impairment testing of goodwill
Acquired goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to four groups of cash generating units (‘CGUs’): Dairies, Spreads, MH 
Foods and Cheese. At March 2012 goodwill in relation to the Dairies CGU was fully impaired and the carrying value of goodwill for this CGU at 
31 March 2014 is nil.
All groups of CGUs with goodwill are tested for impairment annually by comparing the carrying amount of that CGU with its recoverable 
amount. Recoverable amount is determined based on a value-in-use calculation using cash flow projections based on financial budgets and 
strategic plans approved by senior management covering a three-year period and appropriate growth rates beyond that. The discount rate 
applied to the projections is 9.8% for Spreads and 9.4% for MH Foods and Cheese (2013: 8.7% for all CGUs).
Discount rates are pre-tax and calculated by reference to average industry gearing levels, the cost of debt and the cost of equity based on the 
capital asset pricing model and CGU-specific risk factors.
The growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period for MH Foods and Cheese is 2.0% per annum (being the 
estimated UK long-term growth rate adjusted for industry growth rates and extrapolation risks) (2013: 2.0% per annum beyond year three). 
The growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period for Spreads is nil reflecting the minimal growth rates in that 
market (2013: 2% per annum beyond year three).
10 Property, plant and equipment continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 93
The numbers
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to groups of CGUs at 31 March 2014 is:
Dairies Nil (2013: nil)
MH Foods £6.7 million (2013: £6.7 million)
Spreads £65.5 million (2013: £65.5 million)
Cheese £2.1 million (2013: £2.1 million)
Gross margin – budgeted gross margins are based initially on actual margins achieved in the preceding year further adjusted for projected 
input and output price changes, volume changes, initiatives implemented and associated efficiency improvements. The budgeted margins 
form the basis for strategic plans, which incorporate longer-term market trends.
Discount rates – reflect management’s estimate of the risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital for each CGU.
Raw materials prices – budgets are prepared using the most up to date price and forecast price data available. This is based on forward 
prices in the market place adjusted for any contracted prices at the time of forecast. The key resources are milk, vegetable oils, fuel oil, diesel, 
gas and electricity and packaging costs.
Growth rate estimates – for periods beyond the length of the strategic plans, growth estimates are based upon published industry research 
adjusted downwards to reflect the risk of extrapolating growth beyond a three year time frame. For the residential business, long-term rates of 
market decline as seen over recent years have been extrapolated forward offset by growth assumptions for milk&more, FRijj and the liquid 
milk business.
The Directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each CGU where appropriate and to be 
realistically achievable in the light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
2013/14 and 2012/13
sensitivity to changes in assumptions
With regard to the assessment of value in use of the Spreads, MH Foods and Cheese CGUs, management believes that no reasonably 
possible change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of those units to exceed their recoverable amount.
11 Goodwill continued 94 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
12 intangible assets
Assets in
the course of 
construction
£m
Internally
generated
£m
Acquired
intangibles
£m
Total
£m
cost
At 31 March 2012 9.8 26.7 191.2 227.7 
Additions 5.7 – – 5.7 
Disposal – (7.2) (173.5) (180.7)
Transfers and reclassifications (7.2) 7.2 – – 
Exchange – (0.4) (9.0) (9.4)
At 31 March 2013 8.3 26.3 8.7 43.3 
Additions 1.1 – – 1.1 
Transfers and reclassifications (2.9) 2.9 – – 
at 31 march 2014 6.5 29.2 8.7 44.4 
accumulated amortisation
At 31 March 2012 – 13.4 43.8 57.2 
Disposal – (6.8) (42.4) (49.2)
Amortisation for the year – 3.4 3.4 6.8 
Impairments – – 0.2 0.2 
Exchange – (0.3) (1.9) (2.2)
At 31 March 2013 – 9.7 3.1 12.8 
Amortisation for the year – 3.3 0.4 3.7 
at 31 march 2014 – 13.0 3.5 16.5 
Net book amount at 31 march 2014 6.5 16.2 5.2 27.9 
Net book amount at 31 March 2013 8.3 16.6 5.6 30.5 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets relating to the discontinued St Hubert business, included in the table above amounted to £3.0 
million in the year ended 31 March 2013.
Assets in the course of construction comprise systems upgrade costs across all sites and implementation costs in relation to a supply chain 
demand forecasting model, that are yet to be completed as at 31 March 2014.
Internally generated intangible assets comprise software development and implementation costs across manufacturing sites, the milk&more 
business and Head Office.
Acquired intangibles comprise predominantly brands acquired with the acquisition of businesses. The largest component within acquired 
intangibles is the ‘Frylight’ brand acquired with the acquisition of Morehands l imited (MH Foods) in June 2011. A useful life of 15 years has 
been assumed for this brand. 
The remaining useful lives at 31 March 2014 for significant intangible assets are as follows:
Acquired Frylight brand: 12 years
The carrying value of the Frylight brand at 31 March 2014 is £4.9 million (2013: £5.3 million).
2012/2013
Disposal in the year relates to the sale of St Hubert – see Note 29. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 95
The numbers
13 investments
Group
During the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group acquired 7% of the share capital of HIECO l imited for a consideration of £0.3 million.
company
Share grants 
awarded in 
subsidiaries
£m
Shares in
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Total
£m
cost
At 1 April 2012 11.4 468.1 479.5 
Share based payment charge in subsidiary companies 1.4 – 1.4 
At 31 March 2013 12.8 468.1 480.9 
Share based payment charge in subsidiary companies 1.2 – 1.2 
at 31 march 2014 14.0 468.1 482.1 
Shares in subsidiary undertakings comprise an investment in Dairy Crest l imited of £239.2 million and an investment of £228.9 million in Dairy 
Crest UK l imited.
Share grants awarded in subsidiaries represent the cumulative cost of the Company’s grant of equity instruments, under share based 
payment awards, to employees of subsidiary undertakings. 
At 31 March 2014 the principal subsidiary undertakings and other associates were:
Business
Percentage of 
ordinary share 
capital held
subsidiary undertakings and associates:
Dairy Crest l imited Manufacture of dairy products 100%
Philpot Dairy Products l imited* Trading in dairy products 100%
FoodTec UK l imited* Manufacture and trading in dairy products and ingredients 100%
Morehands l imited* Manufacture of cooking oils 100%
Wexford Creamery l imited Manufacture of dairy products 30%
* Investments are held by Dairy Crest l imited
The principal place of operation and country of incorporation of all subsidiary undertakings and associates is England and Wales except for 
Wexford Creamery l imited which is in the Republic of Ireland. 96 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
15 inventories
c onsolidated
2014
£m
2013
£m
Raw materials and consumables 33.4 33.2 
Finished goods 186.2 175.0 
219.6 208.2 
Cheese inventories at 31 March 2014 totalled £167.2 million (2013: £155.5 million).
During the year ended 31 March 2014, £0.1 million of engineering and packaging inventories were written off following the on-going 
consolidation of Clover manufacture into one site and following a strategic review of FoodTec UK l imited, the Group’s dairy products and 
ingredients subsidiary, £0.5 million of inventories were written-off. See also Note 4.
In April 2013 the Group granted the Trustee of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund a floating charge over maturing cheese inventories with a 
maximum realisable value of £60 million.
14 investment in associates
The investment in associates using the equity method at 31 March 2014 is represented by a 20% interest in Wexford Creamery l imited (‘WCl ’) 
which is involved in the manufacture of cheese in the Republic of Ireland. 
Following the sale of 50% of the ordinary shares of WCl in June 2010, the Group equity accounts for a 20% shareholding in that company. 
The Group holds a further 10% of the issued share capital of WCl however, due to the existence of fixed-price put and call options in relation 
to this additional holding, it is assumed that the economic benefit from this 10% has been transferred and therefore accounted for as a sale. 
The fixed price under the options of 1.8 million Euros is recorded at its discounted amount of deferred consideration of £1.4 million.
The share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the associate at 31 March and for the years then ended, which are equity 
accounted for in the consolidated financial statements, are as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Current assets 2.2 1.7 
Current liabilities (1.4) (1.2)
share of net assets 0.8 0.5 
Revenue 13.5 10.3 
Operating costs (13.2) (10.3)
Result before tax 0.3 – 
Tax expense – – 
share of net result 0.3 – 
16 Trade and other receivables
c onsolidated Parent c ompany
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Trade receivables 104.8 83.3 – – 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 9.9 169.3 
Other receivables 8.4 10.6 0.6 1.4 
Prepayments and accrued income 5.2 4.9 – – 
118.4 98.8 10.5 170.7 
All amounts above, with the exception of prepayments and accrued income, are financial assets.    
       Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 97
The numbers
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
c onsolidated
2014
£m
2013
£m
Sterling 96.5 79.9 
Euro 2.0 0.6 
US Dollar 6.2 2.8 
Swiss Franc 0.1 – 
104.8 83.3 
There are no material concentrations of credit risk.
Trade receivables are non interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 days’ terms and are shown net of a provision for impairment. As at 31 
March 2014, trade receivables at nominal value of £7.7 million (2013: £7.0 million) were impaired and provided for. Movements in the provision 
for impairment of receivables were as follows:
c onsolidated
2014
£m
2013
£m
At 1 April 7.0 8.3 
Net charge for the year – operating 0.8 0.9 
Amounts written off (0.1) (2.2)
At 31 March 7.7 7.0 
Bad debt provisions are principally in the Dairies’ residential and mid sized commercial channels on debt over 90 days. These businesses sell 
product on the doorstep and to middle ground and foodservice customers. The Group has no history of bad debt with regard to sales to large 
multiple retailers. There were no impairment provisions on any other class of receivables at 31 March 2014 or 2013.
At 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Past due, not impaired
Neither past
due nor
Total
£m
impaired
£m
30 – 60 days
£m
60 – 90 days
£m
> 90 days
£m
31 march 2014 104.8 89.5 12.3 2.6 0.4 
31 March 2013 83.3 72.1 6.7 3.0 1.5 
The credit quality of trade receivables is assessed by reference to external credit ratings where available, otherwise historical information 
relating to counterparty default rates is used.
16 Trade and other receivables continued 98 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
17 f inancial assets
Derivative financial instruments
consolidated Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
current
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) – 9.6 
Forward currency contracts (cash flow hedges) 31 0.4 – 
0.4 9.6 
Non-current
Option to sell 20% holding in Wexford Creamery l imited 31 1.6 1.6 
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 31 5.4 12.9 
7.0 14.5 
company
2014
£m
2013
£m
current
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 31 – 9.6 
Non-current
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 31 5.4 12.9 
All derivative financial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all, with the exception of the option to sell a 20% holding in 
Wexford Creamery l imited (‘WCl ’), comprise l evel 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based 
on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
The WCl options comprise call and put options over 20% of the company for a price of €3.6 million adjusted for 20% of WC l s post-tax 
profits/losses from June 2010 until the date of exercise. This comprises a l evel 3 valuation, namely that it is not based on inputs observable 
directly or indirectly. Management has valued this option by comparing the current equity accounted carrying value of the 20% holding with 
the estimated present value of consideration received from the exercise of the option. The difference between these amounts comprises the 
option value of £1.6 million at 31 March 2014. The principal input assumptions in valuing these options are (i) estimated future profits of WCl 
which have been based upon best available budgets and forecasts (ii) an appropriate post-tax discount rate of 6% and (iii) an option exercise 
date of 2018. Over the period until exercise of these options, any movement in the fair value of these instruments is charged/credited to the 
income statement. 
There has been no material movement in the fair value of the WCl options between recognition in June 2010 and 31 March 2014.
18 c ash and short-term deposits
c onsolidated Parent c ompany
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Cash and short-term deposits 67.3 276.1 – 14.8 
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. 
Following the sale of St Hubert, significant amounts of cash were placed on deposit resulting in concentrations of credit until the repayment of 
loan notes and the one-off contribution to the pension scheme in April 2013. Counterparty risk and the Group’s policy for managing deposits 
are described in Note 30. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 99
The numbers
19 f inancial liabilities
Group Note
2014
£m
2013
£m
current
Obligations under finance leases 31 1.8 2.4 
l oan notes (at amortised cost) 31 25.3 165.7 
Debt issuance costs (0.6) (0.6)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 26.5 167.5 
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 2.0 2.2 
Forward currency contracts (at fair value: cash flow hedge) 31 – 0.1 
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments 2.0 2.3 
Current financial liabilities 28.5 169.8 
Non-current
Obligations under finance leases 31 – 3.1 
l oan notes (at amortised cost) 31 144.2 182.4 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) 31 36.0 – 
Debt issuance costs (0.5) (1.2)
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 179.7 184.3 
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 6.2 3.9 
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments 6.2 3.9 
Non-current financial liabilities 185.9 188.2 
All derivative financial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise l evel 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial 
Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices). 100 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
interest bearing loans and borrowings
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows: 
maturity
2014
£m
effective
interest rate
at march 2014
2013
£m
Effective
Interest rate
at March 
2013
current
l oan notes: US$ swapped into £ April 2013 – – 68.7 5.32%
Euro April 2014 – – 21.0 4.74%
Euro April 2017 – – 23.2 4.85%
Euro swapped into £ April 2014 25.3 4.97% 45.6 5.04%
Sterling April 2017 – – 7.2 5.84%
Finance leases 1.8 5.18% 2.4 5.18%
Debt issuance costs (0.6) (0.6)
26.5 167.5 
Non-current
Multi-currency revolving credit facilities:
Sterling floating October 2016 36.0 liBoR +115bps – –
l oan notes: US$ swapped into £ April 2016 73.8 5.31% 81.0 5.31%
Sterling April 2016 10.0 5.27% 10.0 5.27%
Euro swapped into £ April 2017 8.8 5.53% 9.0 4.85%
Sterling April 2017 2.8 5.84% 2.8 5.84%
US$ swapped into £ November 2018 15.0 3.87% 16.5 3.87%
US$ swapped into £ November 2021 33.8 4.52% 37.1 4.52%
Euro April 2014 – – 8.2 4.74%
Euro swapped into £ April 2014 – – 17.8 5.04%
Finance l eases – 5.18% 3.1 5.18%
Debt issuance costs (0.5) (1.2)
179.7 184.3 
On 18 April 2013 the Group repaid €106.9 million (£92.7 million) and £7.2 million of 2007 notes at a combined premium of £8.7 million. £69.2 
million of these notes were due for repayment in April 2014 and £30.7 million were due for repayment in April 2017. In addition there was 
a natural maturity of £59.5 million ($104.3 million) of loan notes and a €60.0 million (£51.0 million) reduction in the revolving credit facility.
The Group is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities which, if contravened, would result in its loans becoming 
immediately repayable. These covenants specify a maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio of 3.5 times, and minimum interest cover ratio of 3.0 
times. No covenants were contravened in the year ended 31 March 2014 (2013: None). Key covenants under the 2011 revolving credit facility 
and debt private placement were unchanged from existing covenants.
Details of the Group’s interest rate management strategy and interest rate swaps are included in notes 30 and 31.
19 f inancial liabilities continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 101
The numbers
company
2014
£m
2013
£m
current
l oan notes (at amortised cost) 25.3 165.7 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 25.3 165.7 
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 2.0 2.2 
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments 2.0 2.2 
Current financial liabilities 27.3 167.9 
Non-current
l oan notes (at amortised cost) 144.2 182.4 
Bank loans (at amortised cost) – – 
Financial liabilities – Borrowings 144.2 182.4 
Cross currency swaps (cash flow hedges) 6.2 3.9 
Financial liabilities – Derivative financial instruments 6.2 3.9 
Non-current financial liabilities 150.4 186.3 
All derivative financial instruments are fair valued at each balance sheet date and all comprise l evel 2 valuations under IFRS 7: Financial 
Instruments – Disclosures, namely, that they are based on inputs observable directly (from prices) or indirectly (derived from prices).
interest bearing loans and borrowings
The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows.
Maturity
2014
£m
effective
interest rate
at march 
2014
2013
£m
Effective
Interest rate
at March 
2013
current
l oan notes: US$ swapped into £ April 2013 – – 68.7 5.32%
Euro April 2014 – – 21.0 4.74%
Euro April 2017 – – 23.2 4.85%
Euro swapped into £ April 2014 25.3 4.97% 45.6 5.04%
Sterling April 2017 – – 7.2 5.84%
25.3 165.7 
Non-current
l oan notes: US$ swapped into £ April 2016 73.8 5.31% 81.0 5.31%
Sterling April 2016 10.0 5.27% 10.0 5.27%
Euro swapped into £ April 2017 8.8 5.53% 9.0 4.85%
Sterling April 2017 2.8 5.84% 2.8 5.84%
US$ swapped into £ November 2018 15.0 3.87% 16.5 3.87%
US$ swapped into £ November 2021 33.8 4.52% 37.1 4.52%
Euro April 2014 – – 8.2 4.74%
Euro swapped into £ April 2014 – – 17.8 5.04%
144.2 182.4 
19 f inancial liabilities continued 102 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
20 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group has one defined benefit pension scheme (Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund) in the UK which was closed to future service accrual 
from 1 April 2010. This pension scheme is a final salary scheme that had previously been closed to new employees joining after 30 June 
2006. Employees joining after this date and those members of the defined benefit pension scheme on its closure to future service accrual 
were invited to join the Dairy Crest Group defined contribution plan. 
The Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund is administered by a corporate trustee which is legally separate from the Company. The Trustee’s 
directors are comprised of representatives of both the employer and employees, plus a professional trustee. The Trustee is required by law to 
act in the interest of all relevant beneficiaries and is responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets plus the day to day 
administration of the benefits.
The most recent full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund was carried out as at 31 March 2013 by the Fund’s 
independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. Full actuarial valuations are carried out triennially. This valuation resulted in a 
deficit of £145.0 million compared to the IAS 19 deficit of £56.3 million reported at that date. The next full actuarial valuation will be carried out 
in 2016/17 on the 31 March 2016 position. 
The Company adopted IAS19R (revised 2011) for 2013/14. As a result the interest cost and expected returns on plan assets of defined benefit 
plans recognised in the profit and loss have been replaced by the net interest on the defined benefit liability, calculated using the discount rate 
used to measure the net pension obligation. Administration expenses are now charged as operating costs in the income statement rather 
than as finance expenses.
The following tables summarise the components recognised in the consolidated income statement and the funded status and amounts 
recognised in the consolidated balance sheet for the defined benefit pension scheme. 2013 comparators have been restated to reflect IAS19R.
Dairy c rest Group
Pension f und
amounts recognised in consolidated income statement
2014
£m
2013
£m
Administration expenses (1.0) (0.9)
Other finance income/(costs) – pensions (0.3) (3.5)
Profit/(loss) before tax (1.3) (4.4)
Deferred tax 0.3 1.0 
Profit/(loss) for the period (1.0) (3.4)
amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest) 26.8 79.7 
Experience gains arising on scheme liabilities 4.3 0.8 
Actuarial losses due to changes in the demographic assumptions (18.0) –
Actuarial losses due to changes in the financial assumptions (63.5) (72.8)
Net actuarial (loss)/gain (50.4) 7.7 
Recognition of liability for unrecoverable notional surplus 0.8 (10.9)
Recognised in other comprehensive income (49.6) (3.2)
Related tax 8.7 5.4 
Net actuarial loss recognised in other comprehensive income (40.9) 2.2
Actual returns on plan assets were £68.3 million (2013: £117.7 million). Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 103
The numbers
Dairy c rest Group
Pension f und
Defined benefit obligation
2014
£m
Restated 
2013
£m
Fair value of scheme assets: – Equities 45.5 84.3 
– Bonds and cash 523.6 393.4 
– Equity return swaps valuation 3.3 42.9 
– Property and other 92.3 62.5 
– Insured retirement obligations 299.4 286.3 
964.1 869.4 
Defined benefit obligation: – Uninsured retirement obligations (714.3) (639.4)
– Insured retirement obligations (297.4) (286.3)
Total defined benefit obligation (1,011.7) (925.7)
Recognition of liability for unrecoverable notional surplus (10.1) (10.9)
(1,021.8) (936.6)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (57.7) (67.2)
Related deferred tax asset 17.9 17.1 
Net pension liability (39.8) (50.1)
UK legislation requires that pension schemes are funded prudently. In 2013/14 the Group paid £20.0 million into the fund in line with the 
agreed schedule of contributions plus an additional £40.0 million from the proceeds of the sale of St Hubert. In addition to this, the Company 
granted the trustee of the Group’s pension scheme to a floating charge over the maturing cheese inventories with a maximum realisable value 
of £60.0 million.
From October 2009, the Group has been making additional funding contributions to the scheme of £20.0 million per annum. Under the latest 
schedule of contributions agreed with Trustees (which was signed in March 2014), the contributions will be £13.0 million per annum for 
2014/15 and 2015/16, increasing to £16.0 million per annum in 2016/17 reverting to £20.0 million per annum for 2017/18 through to 2019/20.
These annual contributions include £2.8 million per annum of rental payments for land and buildings that are subject to a sale and leaseback 
agreement between the Group and the Fund as part of the schedule of contributions. The land and buildings included in these arrangements 
are subject to long term leases and the Group will continue to benefit from substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership. On this 
basis, under IFRS, these land and buildings continue to be recognised in property, plant and equipment and rental payments of £2.8 million 
per annum are treated as cash contributions, reflecting the substance of the arrangements.
The Group is entitled to any surplus on winding up of the Fund albeit refunds are subject to tax deductions of 35% at source. Based on the 
present value of committed cash contributions at 31 March 2014 and the IAS 19 valuation at that date of £47.6 million, £10.1 million would be 
deducted from any notional surplus returned to the Group and this has been recognised as an additional liability in accordance with IFRIC 14. 
However, it should be noted that cash contributions are determined by reference to the triennial actuarial valuation, not the IAS 19 valuation. 
The actuarial deficit is greater than that recognised under IAS 19 since liabilities are discounted by reference to gilt yields rather than high 
quality corporate bond yields.
In December 2008, certain obligations relating to retired members were hedged by the purchase of an insurance contract. A further insurance 
contract for retired members was purchased in June 2009 resulting in coverage for all members who retired up to August 2008. These 
contracts are included within scheme assets and their value will always be equal to the obligation as calculated under IAS 19 for those 
members covered.
The purchase of the second insurance contract in June 2009 was funded by the sale of equities. Subsequently, in order to re-establish an 
appropriate equity weighting of scheme assets, the Fund purchased equity total return swaps (synthetic equity). These instruments comprise 
an asset leg and a liability leg. The asset leg generates a return based on UK and overseas equity indices and the liability leg incurs a cost 
based on l IBOR plus margin. Credit risk is minimised since collateral is provided by the counterparties to the benefit of the Fund when the 
instruments are in the money. At 31 March 2014, the valuation of the above comprises a positive equity exposure of £155.7 million and 
a negative l IBOR exposure of £152.4 million (2013: equity exposure of £276.8 million and l IBOR exposure of £233.9 million).
The 2013/14 results have been produced under IAS 19R (revised 2011). 
Administration expenses are now recognised in the income statement rather than as part of the actuarial gains and losses.
20 Retirement benefit obligations continued 104 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD
The effects of the adoption of IAS19R on previously reported results are summarised as follows:
consolidated income statement
Originally
Reported
31 Mar 13
£m
Amended
IAS 19R
31 Mar 13
£m
Movement
31 Mar 13
£m
Operating costs (1,368.2) (1,369.1) (0.9)
Other finance income/(costs) – pensions 5.9 (3.5) (9.4)
Profit before tax (0.4) (10.7) (10.3)
Tax 0.4 2.8 2.4
Profit for the period 54.5 46.6 (7.9)
consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Profit for the period 54.5 46.6 (7.9)
Actuarial gains/(losses) (13.5) (3.2) 10.3
Tax 7.6 5.2 (2.4)
consolidated Balance sheet
Deferred tax liability – – –
Shareholders’ funds – – –
Decrease in reported earnings per share:
Basic earnings per share on profit for the year (pence) 40.5 34.6 (5.9)
Diluted earnings per share on profit for the year (pence) 39.9 34.6 (5.3)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share from continuing operations (pence) – (5.9) (5.9)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share from continuing operations (pence) – (5.9) (5.9)
Adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing operations (pence) 29.9 29.4 (0.5)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (pence) 29.5 29.4 (0.1)
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations (pence) 40.5 40.5 –
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations (pence) 39.9 40.5 0.6
The average duration of Fund liabilities is approximately 17 years (2013: 18 years). Discount rate assumptions for each reporting period are 
based upon quoted AA-rated corporate bond indices with maturities matching the Fund’s expected benefit payments. The Fund duration is an 
indicator of the weighted-average time until benefit payments are made. For the Fund as a whole, the duration is around 18 years reflecting the 
approximate split of the defined benefit obligation (including insured pensioners) between deferred members (duration of 24 years), current 
non-insured pensioners (duration of 15 years) and insured pensioners (duration of 11 years).
The following table provides an analysis of the defined benefit obligation by membership category:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Deferred members 498.6 442.5 
Non-insured pensioner members 215.7 196.9 
Insured pensioner members 297.4 286.3 
Total defined benefit obligation 1,011.7 925.7 
The RPI inflation assumptions are determined by adopting a yield curve approach, based on the break-even rate of inflation implied by fixed 
interest gilt yields and index-linked yields. Applying this approach to the Fund’s projected benefit payments gives an average break-even 
inflation assumption of 3.6% (2013: 3.5%). The CPI inflation assumption is determined by reference to adjusted RPI rather than by reference to 
CPI-linked investments where the market is small and illiquid. The principal differences between RPI and CPI are (i) the formula effect due to 
RPI using arithmetic means and CPI geometric means, and (ii) the bundles of goods considered – CPI excludes mortgage payments and other 
housing costs. The assumption used at 31 March 2014 is that CPI inflation will track 1.0% points below RPI inflation in the long term (2013: 
1.0%) and is therefore set at 2.6% (2013: 2.5%). Pension increase assumptions are based on RPI with an adjustment to reflect caps within the 
Fund rules.
20 Retirement benefit obligations continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 105
The numbers
The annuity contracts purchased in 2008 and 2009 provide increases on post-88 GMP in line with RPI inflation up to 3% per annum. However, 
since 2011 the post-88 GMP paid to members only need to increase with CPI inflation up to 3% per annum which is expected to be less than 
RPI. It is therefore expected that the annuity contracts are expected to pay out slightly more than will be paid out to members so the asset 
valuation for the annuity contracts are £2.0 million higher than the corresponding liabilities.
Mortality assumptions were updated in the year ended 31 March 2014 based on analysis of the membership data performed as part of the 
March 2013 full actuarial valuation. The result was an increase in life expectancy assumptions of approximately 0.9 years. Details of the 
changes to mortality assumptions are detailed later in this note.
The key assumptions used for IAS 19 are discount rate, inflation and mortality. If different assumptions were used, this could have a material 
effect on the results disclosed. The sensitivity of the results to these assumptions is as follows:
Expected Expense for 14/15
Service
Cost
Net
Interest
Total P&l
Charge
March 2014
Deficit
Current Figures 1.0 1.8 2.8 (47.6)
Effect of a 0.1% decrease in the discount rate – 0.6 0.6 (15.4)
Recalculated value 1.0 2.4 3.4 (63.0)
Effect of a 0.1% increase in the inflation assumption – 0.4 0.4 (10.0)
Recalculated value 1.0 2.2 3.2 (57.6)
Effect of a 1 year increase in life expectancy – 1.1 1.1 (25.4)
Recalculated value 1.0 2.9 3.9 (73.0)
The above sensitivities assume that the Fund’s assets remain unchanged but in practice changes in interest and inflation rates will also affect 
the value of the Fund’s assets. The Company and Trustee have agreed a long-term strategy for reducing investment risk as and when 
appropriate. This includes an asset/liability matching policy which aims to reduce the volatility of the funding level of the Fund by investing in 
assets which perform in line with the liabilities of the Fund. In December 2008 and June 2009, certain obligations relating to retired members 
were fully hedged by the purchase of annuity contracts. The Fund’s other investments include matching assets which protect against changes 
in bond yields and against inflation risk: the respective interest rate and inflation hedge ratios for these assets as at 31 March 2014 were 25.8% 
and 23.3% of those obligations not covered by annuity contracts.
The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if assets underperform this yield, this will create 
an increased deficit. The Fund holds a significant proportion in a range of return-seeking assets which, though expected to outperform 
corporate bonds in the long-term, create volatility and risk in the short-term. The allocation to return-seeking assets is monitored to ensure it 
remains appropriate given the Fund’s long term objectives.
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed on the Fund’s liabilities for accounting purposes, although this will be 
partially offset by an expected increase in the value of the Fund’s bond holdings.
A significant proportion of the Fund’s benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher expected future inflation will lead to higher liabilities 
(although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect against extreme inflation). The majority of the assets 
are either unaffected by or only loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an increase in expected future inflation will also increase the deficit.
The majority of the Fund’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase 
in the liabilities.
A contingent liability exists in relation to the equalisation of Guaranteed Minimum Pension (‘GMP’). The UK Government intends to implement 
legislation which could result in higher benefits for some members. This would increase the defined benefit obligation of the Fund. At this 
stage, it is not possible to quantify the impact of this change.
20 Retirement benefit obligations continued 106 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
Dairy c rest Group
Pension f und
movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Opening defined benefit obligation (925.7) (845.9)
Interest cost (41.8) (41.5)
Actuarial losses (77.2) (72.0)
Benefits paid 33.0 33.7 
Closing defined benefit obligation (1,011.7) (925.7)
movement in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
Opening fair value of scheme assets 869.4 766.1 
Interest income on fund assets 41.5 38.0 
Remeasurement gains on fund assets 26.8 79.7 
Contributions by employer 60.4 20.2 
Administration costs incurred (1.0) (0.9)
Benefits paid out (33.0) (33.7)
Closing fair value of plan assets 964.1 869.4 
The principal assumptions used in determining retirement benefit obligations for the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund are shown below:
2014
%
2013
%
2012
%
Key assumptions:
Price inflation (RPI) 3.6 3.5 3.4 
Price inflation (CPI) 2.6 2.5 2.4 
Pension increases (Pre 1993 – RPI to 7%/annum) 3.6 3.5 3.4 
Pension increases (1993 to 2006 – RPI to 5%/annum) 3.4 3.3 3.2 
Pension increases (Post 2006 – RPI to 4% pa) 3.1 3.0 3.0 
l ife expectancy at 65 for a male currently aged 50 (years) 23.8 22.6 22.5 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old retired male (years) 22.3 21.7 21.6 
l ife expectancy at 65 for a female currently aged 50 (years) 26.7 25.3 25.2 
Average expected remaining life of a 65 year old retired female (years) 24.5 24.1 24.0 
Discount rate 4.3 4.6 5.0 
The financial assumptions reflect the nature and term of the Fund’s liabilities.
The mortality assumptions are based on analysis of the Fund members, and allow for expected future improvements in mortality rates.
It has been assumed that members exchange 25% of their pension for a cash lump sum at retirement.
The results of the latest funding valuation at 31 March 2013 have been adjusted to the balance sheet date taking account of experience over 
the period since 31 March 2013, changes in market conditions and differences in the financial and demographic assumptions. The present 
value of the defined obligation and the related current service cost were measured using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
20 Retirement benefit obligations continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 107
The numbers
The Fund’s assets are invested in the following asset classes (all assets have a quoted market value in an active market with the exception of 
property, annuity policy and cash).
assets
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
equities:
United Kingdom 50.6  137.3  115.9 
North America 62.8  89.3  69.0 
Europe (ex UK) 29.1  35.8  27.7 
Japan 15.8  34.4  29.8 
Asia (ex Japan) 8.2  16.0  12.6 
Emerging Markets 21.0  37.8  34.4 
Global Small Cap 13.7  12.2  9.7 
Cash/l IBOR Synthetic Equity (152.4) (235.5) (164.8)
emerging market Debt
 i
 61.2  38.4  33.8 
high Yield Bonds –  22.7  20.0 
multi asset credit
 ii
 60.0  –  – 
insurance linked securities
 iii
 24.7  –  – 
absolute Return Bonds
 iv
 30.4  –  – 
Bonds:
Government Index linked Gilts – 111.4 59.4
Network Rail Index l inked Gilts – 60.5 55.0
Corporate Bonds 98.0 131.8 117.1
liability Driven investments
 v
170.0 –  – 
annuity Policy 299.4 286.3 279.6
Property 67.6  62.5  58.8 
cash 104.0 28.5 8.1
Total 964.1 869.4 766.1
31/3/2014 equities are a combination of physical equities of £45.5 million, a positive synthetic equity exposure of £155.7 million and a negative 
l IBOR exposure of £152.4 million. The Group does not use any of the pension fund assets.
i   This is debt issued by emerging market countries denominated in the emerging market’s domestic currency. The debt is almost entirely issued by governments and 
not by corporations. Investors benefit from higher yields on the bonds due to the additional risks of investing in emerging market countries, compared to developed 
countries and it is also expected that the emerging market currencies will appreciate over time relative to developed countries.
ii   Multi Asset Credit strategies invest globally in a wide range of credit-based asset classes which include bank loans, high yield bonds, securitised debt, emerging 
market debt and distressed debt of non-investment grade. The investment strategies will also allocate amounts in investment grade credit, sovereign bonds and 
cash for defensive reasons. The strategies are opportunistic and allocate dynamically to the best opportunities within the credit market from an asset allocation and 
individual security selection perspective.
iii   Insurance linked securities are event-linked investments which allow investors outside the insurance industry to access insurance premiums for assuming 
various forms and degrees of insurance risk. The underlying risk premium is a type of invent risk where the event is linked to natural or man-made catastrophes. 
The premium paid to the investor represents compensation for the “expected loss” due to the uncertainty around the size and timing of the insured event.
iv   Absolute Return Bond strategies are designed to deliver a positive return in all market environments and will take advantage of numerous alpha opportunities within 
the fixed income universe. The objective of the strategy is to capture returns from active management in a number of areas within fixed income including interest 
rates, currencies, asset allocation and security selection. The strategy will have long and short positions and employ a degree of leverage. The strategies tend to 
have low sensitivity to the direction of interest rates and credit.
v   Insight have been appointed to manage the l iability Driven Investment (‘l DI’) portfolio for the Fund. The objective is to hedge a proportion of the Fund’s liabilities 
against changes in interest rates and inflation expectations by investing in assets that are similarly sensitive to changes in interest rates and inflation expectations. 
The current hedging target for the l DI portfolio is to hedge approximately 36% of the fixed and inflation linked liabilities of the Fund. Currently the l DI portfolio 
hedges c20.7% and c23.3% of the fixed and inflation linked liabilities respectively. Insight will seek to add interest and inflation exposure to the l DI portfolio over 
time in line with parameters that have been set by the Trustee. Insight are permitted to use a range of swaps and gilt based derivative instruments as well as 
physical bonds to structure the liability hedge for the Fund. In addition, Insight are responsible for monitoring market yields against a number of pre-set yield 
triggers and will increase the level of hedging as and when the triggers are met.
20 Retirement benefit obligations continued 108 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
21 Trade and other payables
c onsolidated Parent c ompany
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Trade payables* 131.2 109.9 – – 
Other tax and social security 4.2 4.7 – – 
Other creditors* 15.8 13.6 – – 
Accruals* 67.1 93.6 3.8 16.9 
218.3 221.8 3.8 16.9 
* Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
history of experience gains and losses:
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
Fair value of Fund assets 680.1 718.6 766.1 869.4 964.1 
Present value of defined benefit obligation (822.5) (778.7) (845.9) (936.6) (1,021.8)
Net deficit (142.4) (60.1) (79.8) (67.2) (57.7)
Experience adjustments arising on Fund liabilities* 7.4 16.4 (6.5) 0.8 4.3 
Adjustments arising from changes in underlying assumptions (258.9) 21.7 (61.6) (72.8) (81.5)
Experience adjustments arising on Fund assets 143.1 31.5 32.9 79.7 26.8 
Recognition of liability for unrecoverable notional surplus – – – (10.9) 0.8 
Net actuarial (loss)/gain (108.4) 69.6 (35.2) (3.2) (49.6)
* This item consists of gains/(losses) in respect of liability experience only and excludes any change in liabilities in respect of changes to the actuarial assumptions used.
These figures have been restated as if the accounts had been prepared under IAS 19R.
The Company recognises no liabilities on its balance sheet, or charges or credits in its income statement or statement of recognised income 
and expense in relation to the Group pension plans. The legal sponsor of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund is Dairy Crest l imited.
The Group has charged £7.0 million in respect of the Dairy Crest Group defined contribution scheme in the year ended 31 March 2014 (2013: 
£7.1 million). The Company has made no charge in respect of the Dairy Crest Group defined contribution scheme in the year ended 31 March 
2014 (2013: nil).
22 Deferred income
current
2014
£m
2013
£m
Grants 1.7 1.6 
Non-current
Grants 7.8 9.6 
In 2010/11 two new biomass boilers were installed at the Davidstow cheese manufacturing site. Capital expenditure amounted to £3.9 million 
and we received cash grants of £0.8 million during the year ended 31 March 2011 and £0.2 million during the year ended 31 March 2012 from 
the South West of England Regional Development Agency. This grant is conditional upon certain conditions principally regarding continued 
use and ownership of the boilers until 29 November 2014. In the year ended 31 March 2013, £0.4 million of this grant was voluntarily repaid in 
order to receive annual renewable heat incentives. The conditions concerning the remaining outstanding grant are unchanged.
In 2012/13 the Group announced that it was consolidating its spreads manufacturing in a single site at Kirkby, l iverpool. During the year the 
Group received a grant of £5.3 million under the Regional Growth Fund from the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills in relation to 
this project. This grant is conditional upon certain conditions over a five year term, principally the project being completed and creating or 
safeguarding the agreed number of jobs.
A grant of £0.3 million in relation to the Crudgington site was written off to exceptional items in the year ended 31 March 2013 following the 
write down of property, plant and equipment at that site following the announced closure plans. All conditions on this grant had been met and 
no repayment was required.
With the exception of the grants relating to the biomass boiler at Davidstow and the Kirkby job creation, the Group has met all applicable 
conditions attaching to grants at 31 March 2014 and all previously received grants were unconditional at that date.
20 Retirement benefit obligations continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 109
The numbers
24 share capital
authorised
2014
Thousands
2013
Thousands
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 240,000 240,000 
issued and fully paid Thousands £m
At 31 March 2012 133,351 33.3 
Issued for cash on exercise of share options 3,245 0.8 
At 31 March 2013 136,596 34.1 
Issued for cash on exercise of share options 113 0.1 
at 31 march 2014 136,709 34.2 
During the year ended 31 March 2014 113,558 shares were issued at a premium of £0.1 million for an aggregate consideration of £0.2 million 
(2013: 3,244,954 shares at a premium of £6.6 million for an aggregate consideration of £7.4 million). Exercises of l TISP options and vesting of 
deferred bonus shares are fulfilled by the issue of existing shares from the Dairy Crest Employees’ Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’) - 
see Note 25. 
23 Provisions
Onerous
contracts
£m
At 31 March 2012 – current 2.3 
Utilised (0.8)
Discount unwind 0.2 
At 31 March 2013 – current 1.7 
Utilised (0.2)
Discount unwind 0.2 
at 31 march 2014 – current 1.7 
onerous contract
In June 2010, the Group disposed of 50% of the share capital of Wexford Creamery l imited (‘WCl ’). As part of the disposal, the Group 
entered into an agreement to purchase guaranteed minimum volumes of cheese from WCl for a period of five years from the date of disposal. 
The price paid by the Group for that cheese is determined by reference to cost plus margin. Realisations for commodity cheese fluctuate and 
at the date of disposal a provision of £3.6 million was charged in order to provide for the cost of the cheese purchase arrangements. At 31 
March 2014 the provision amounted to £1.7 million (2013: £1.7 million). 110 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
25 Notes to statement of changes in equity
c onsolidated
The shares held by the ESOP are available to satisfy awards under l TISP (see Note 26)
At 31 March 2014 the ESOP held 129,024 shares (2013: 127,939 shares) in the Company at a cost of £0.6 million (2013: £0.6 million). The 
ESOP was established in August 1996 to purchase shares in the Company in order to hedge certain future obligations of the Group including 
shares awarded under the l TISP, ESOS and the deferred bonus plan. During the year the Trustee of the ESOP issued 1,085 (2013: nil) shares 
following exercises of l TISP options and deferred bonuses.
The market value of the shares held by the ESOP, which are listed on the l ondon Stock Exchange was £0.6 million at 31 March 2014 (2013: 
£0.5 million).
other reserves – consolidated
Merger
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
o ther
reserves
£m
At 31 March 2013 55.9 (3.0) (1.5) 51.4 
Total recognised in other comprehensive income – 0.9 – 0.9 
at 31 march 2014 55.9 (2.1) (1.5) 52.3 
At 31 March 2012 55.9 (3.3) (3.6) 49.0 
Total recognised in other comprehensive income – 0.3 2.1 2.4 
At 31 March 2013 55.9 (3.0) (1.5) 51.4 
The merger reserve includes the premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Dairy Crest l imited in 1996. The cumulative amount 
of goodwill charged against the merger reserve is £86.8 million (2013: £86.8 million). The reserve is not distributable.
The hedging reserve records the gains and losses on hedging instruments, to the extent that they are effective cash flow hedges. Any gains 
and losses previously recorded in the hedging reserve are reclassified in profit and loss when the underlying hedged item affects profit 
and loss.
The translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries 
offset by the movements on loans and derivatives designated to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Parent c ompany
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account is presented for the Company. The profit for the 
year dealt with in the accounts of the Company is £24.7 million (2013: £44.4 million) including dividends received from subsidiary companies of 
£25.3 million (2013: £51.5 million). Dividends paid amounted to £28.5 million (2013: £27.4 million) which, along with a credit for share based 
payments of £0.3 million (2013: £0.5 million) resulted in a £3.5 million decrease in retained earnings (2013: £17.5 million increase).
In 1996 the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of Dairy Crest l imited. Consideration was in the form of cash and the issue of 
109.8 million ordinary shares of 25 pence each. The fair value of the shares issued was estimated as £170.2 million. The capital reserve of 
£142.7 million, shown in the statement of changes in equity, represents the difference between the fair value of shares issued and their 
nominal value of £27.5 million. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 111
The numbers
26 share based payment plans
Group
The Group has four share option schemes in operation.
The Dairy c rest l ong Term incentive share Plan (‘l Tis P’)
This is a long-term incentive scheme under which awards are made to directors and senior managers consisting of the right to acquire shares 
for a nominal price subject to the achievement of financial targets based on (i) total shareholder returns (‘TSR’) over a three year period versus 
comparator companies and (ii) growth in adjusted basic earnings per share. From 2009, the TSR element was increased from 50% to 60% of 
the awards granted. The vesting period for grants made under this scheme is 3 years with an exercise period of 7 years. In July 2013, a total of 
nil options was granted under the l TISP scheme (July 2012: 1,094,734). There are no cash settlement alternatives.
Dairy c rest sharesave scheme
All employees are eligible to join the Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme, which allows employees to use regular monthly savings to purchase 
shares. Options are granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the shares. No financial performance criteria are attached to 
these options and they vest three years from the date of grant with an exercise period of six months. In December 2013, nil options were 
granted under the Dairy Crest Sharesave Scheme (December 2012: 2,390,456 options at a grant price of 281 pence). There are no cash 
settlement alternatives.
Deferred Bonus scheme (‘DBs ’)
From 2005/06, bonuses earned that are in excess of 50% of basic salary are deferred in shares (and from 2011 in share options) with a vesting 
period of three years. The only vesting condition is continuing employment. The cost of these shares is charged over four years (being the year 
the bonus was earned and the three-year vesting period) and is based on the number of shares issued (or from 2011 over which nil cost 
options are granted) and the share price at the date of issue. No deferred shares were awarded or issued in relation to the year ended 31 
March 2014 (2013:£nil).
The Dairy c rest l ong Term alignment Plan (‘l TaP’)
The l TAP replaced the l TISP in the year ended 31 March 2014. This is a long-term incentive scheme under which awards are made to 
directors and senior managers consisting of the right to acquire shares for a nominal price. The vesting period for grants made under this 
scheme is 50% of the award after 4 years and 50% after 5 years. Pre-grant performance criteria determine the amount of any initial grant after 
which there are no significant performance conditions prior to vesting. As such, these options are fair valued at 100% of the price at the date 
of the grant.
The number of share options and weighted average exercise price for each of the principal schemes is set out as follows:
lT aP lT is P* sharesave scheme
number number number
weighted 
average
exercise 
price 
(pence)
Options outstanding at 1 April 2013 – 2,000,800 3,526,048 275.4 
Options granted during the year 333,953 – – – 
Reinvested dividends 3,642 94,469 – – 
Options exercised during the year – (57,573) (68,369) 264.4 
Options forfeited during the year – (1,052,498) (462,902) 273.1 
options outstanding at 31 march 2014 337,595 985,198 2,994,777 276.0 
exercisable at 31 march 2014 – 177,231 – – 
Options outstanding at 1 April 2012 – 1,860,408 4,768,410 238.4 
Options granted during the year – 1,094,734 2,390,456 281.0 
Reinvested dividends – 154,244 – – 
Options exercised during the year – – (3,244,954) 227.2 
Options forfeited during the year – (1,108,586) (387,864) 259.3 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2013 – 2,000,800 3,526,048 275.4 
Exercisable at 31 March 2013 – 24,978 34,459 227.0 
* The weighted average exercise price for l TISP options is nil.
Sharesave scheme options are exercisable up to September 2016 at prices ranging from 265p to 281p (March 2013: exercisable up to 
September 2016 at prices ranging from 227p to 281p). l TISP options are exercisable at varying dates up to July 2022 (March 2013: July 2022). 
l TAP options are exercisable at varying dates up to August 2023.
The remaining weighted average contractual life of options outstanding at March 2014 is 8.1 years for the l TISP, 9.4 years for the l TAP and 2.1 
years for the Sharesave Scheme (2013: 8.7 years for the l TISP and 3.1 years for the Sharesave Scheme). The weighted average share price 
on exercise of Sharesave options was £2.76 (2013: £3.53). 112 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
The fair value factor of the Sharesave Scheme options issued in December 2012 was 20.7% giving a fair value of £0.81 per option granted. 
This has been computed using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The key assumptions used in the valuation model for the December 
2012 grant were: Expected share price volatility 22% risk free rate of interest 0.5% and dividend yield 5.22%. The volatility assumption is based 
on the historical volatility of the Dairy Crest Group plc share price over a period commensurate with the expected option life, ending on the 
grant date of option.
The l TISP has market and non-market based performance conditions. The fair value of the market performance element of the l TISP awards 
is calculated using a Monte Carlo option pricing model. The fair value factor for the award in July 2012 was 65% for the TSR element and 
100% for the EPS element giving a fair value of £2.75 per option granted. The share price on granting 2012 awards was £3.34. The non-
market performance element of the l TISP is based on EPS and the charge for this is the value of shares expected to vest calculated by 
reference to the share price at the date of grant. Volatility assumptions are made for Dairy Crest Group plc and comparator companies based 
on historical volatility of share prices over a period commensurate with the option life.
The input assumptions for the l TISP grant in the year ended 31 March 2013 were as follows:
Term 3 years
Volatility 23%
Risk free rate 0.4%
Average volatility of comparator TSR 36%
TSR correlation (Dairy Crest vs comparators) 22%
The expected life of the l TISP options is assumed to be equal to the vesting period, being three years.
The Group expense arising from share option plans for the year ended 31 March 2014 is £1.5 million (2013: £1.9 million) (see Note 9).
c ompany
The number of share options and weighted average exercise price for each of the schemes for employees of the Company is set out as 
follows:
lT aP lT is P sharesave scheme
number number number
weighted 
average
exercise 
price 
(pence)
Options outstanding at 1 April 2013 – 777,916 12,808 281.0 
Options granted during the year 177,919 – – – 
Reinvested dividends 1,938 34,221 – – 
Adjustment for change of director during the year – (165,222) (3,202) – 
Options exercised during the year – – – – 
Options forfeited during the year – (240,158) – – 
options outstanding at 31 march 2014 179,857 406,757 9,606 281.0 
exercisable at 31 march 2014 – 73,609 – – 
Options outstanding at 1 April 2012 – 683,272 15,988 227.0 
Options granted during the year – 393,540 12,808 281.0 
Reinvested dividends – 59,351 – – 
Options exercised during the year – – (15,988) 227.0 
Options forfeited during the year – (358,247) – – 
Options outstanding at 31 March 2013 – 777,916 12,808 281.0 
Exercisable at 31 March 2013 – – – – 
Sharesave Scheme options are exercisable up to September 2016 at a price of 281p (March 2013: up to September 2016 at a price of 281p). 
l TISP options are exercisable at varying dates up to July 2022 (2013: July 2022). The remaining average weighted average contractual life of 
options outstanding at 31 March 2014 is 8.1 years for the l TISP, 9.4 years for the l TAP and 2.4 years for the Sharesave Scheme (2013: l TISP 
8.8 years and Sharesave Scheme 3.4 years). There were no exercises of l TISP options in the year ended 31 March 2014 (2013: nil).
The Company expense arising from share option plans for the year ended 31 March 2014 was £0.3 million (2013: £0.5 million).
26 share based payment plans continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 113
The numbers
27 c ommitments and contingencies
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain land and buildings, vehicles and equipment. There are no material renewal options, 
escalation clauses or purchase options included in the lease contracts. There are no contingent rentals or operating leases or material 
sub-leases. There are no significant restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases. Excluding land and buildings, these 
leases have an average life of between three and seven years.
During the year ended 31 March 2014, certain assets at the Severnside facility were sold for cash consideration of £7.4 million. This equipment 
has been leased back under an operating lease with a six year term. There are no purchase option clauses or any contingent lease rentals.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 March are as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Within one year 21.0 23.6 
After one year but not more than five years 33.0 43.8 
More than five years 13.9 14.5 
f inance leases
The Group finance leases principally comprise certain items of plant and equipment at the Davidstow site. The initial lease term is for 10 years 
with a further renewal term of 7 years. There are no purchase options and escalation clauses and there is no sub-leasing of the assets or 
contingent rentals. Future minimum payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as 
follows:
2014 2013
minimum
payments
£m
Present 
value of 
payments
£m
Minimum
payments
£m
Present 
value of 
payments
£m
Within one year 1.9 1.8 2.5 2.4 
After one year but not more than two years – – 3.2 3.1 
After two years but not more than five years – – – – 
After more than five years – – – – 
Total minimum lease payments 1.9 1.8 5.7 5.5 
l ess: amounts representing finance charges (0.1) – (0.2) – 
Present value of minimum lease payments 1.8 1.8 5.5 5.5 
Trading guarantees
The Group has provided guarantees and counter-indemnities which totalled £4.0 million at 31 March 2014 (2013: £4.1 million). These 
guarantees are made principally by Philpot Dairy Products l imited, a subsidiary company, to customers as performance bonds and to the 
Rural Payment Agency in relation to EU subsidies claimed. 114 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
29 Business combinations and disposals
Year ended 31 march 2014
Disposal of Northern Depots
As part of the ongoing rationalisation of the depot network, on 27 July 2013, the Group completed the disposal of seven depots located in the 
north-west of England for a cash consideration of £1.2 million. The carrying value of assets sold was £0.8 million including net working capital 
and fees of £0.1 million resulting in a profit on disposal of £0.3 million. The gain on disposal of these depots has been included in other income 
– property in the consolidated income statement.
Disposal of Discontinued o peration
£1.4 million of the original tax provision resulting from the trading of St Hubert SAS (‘St Hubert’) up to its disposal in August 2012 has now 
been released back to the income statement as discontinued operations. The provision for taxes crystallising as a result of the disposal are 
unchanged – see below.
Year ended 31 march 2013
Disposal of Discontinued o peration
Following a strategic review of the Group’s overseas operations in the light of the inability to undertake synergistic acquisitions, on 28 August 
2012 the Group completed the disposal of St Hubert SAS (‘St Hubert’) for a cash consideration of £341.1 million (€430.5 million). St Hubert 
formed part of the Spreads reportable segment. Cash held in the disposed business at that date amounted to £4.1 million, resulting in a net 
cash inflow to the Group of £337.0 million. This amount has been reduced by fees of £6.2 million. The disposal resulted in a post-tax profit of 
£47.7 million which can be analysed as follows:
28 Related party transactions
In June 2010, the Group disposed of its controlling interest in Wexford Creamery l imited (‘WCl ’). WCl has been treated as an equity 
accounted associate from June 2010 to 31 March 2014. On disposal, the Group contracted to purchase guaranteed minimum volumes of 
cheese from WCl for a period of five years from the date of disposal. In the year ended 31 March 2014 the cost of cheese purchased was 
£6.4 million (2013: £7.5 million).
compensation of key management personnel of the Group and company
2014
£m
2013
£m
Short-term employee benefits 3.4 2.8 
Share-based payments 0.3 0.5 
Total compensation paid to key management personnel* 3.7 3.3 
Key management personnel comprise Executive and Non-executive Board members of Dairy Crest Group plc. The senior management team 
is small and all key decisions are made by either the three Executive directors in the Executive Management Committee or by the Group 
Board which meets regularly.
Further details relating to compensation of key management personnel are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. This includes 
a description of pension arrangements and any cash supplements paid.
Dairy Crest l imited, a subsidiary company, incurred costs of £3.4 million (2013: £2.8 million) from the Company for the provision of 
management and administrative services carried out on its behalf. Dairy Crest l imited received £3.2 million (2013: £2.1 million) for the 
remuneration of the Company’s employees which had been paid by Dairy Crest l imited. 
Interest charges of £2.9 million (2013: £0.2 million) were incurred by the Company from Dairy Crest l imited loans reflecting an interest rate of 
l IBOR+100 basis points. Interest income of £11.3 million (2013: £12.1 million) was received by the Company from Dairy Crest l imited on loans 
reflecting an interest rate of 5.3% (2013: 5.3%) and a further £0.3 million was received by the Company from Dairy Crest l imited on floating 
rate loans paying l IBOR plus margin (2013: £0.3 million). The Company paid no interest (2013: £0 million) to Dairy Crest l imited on cross-
currency swaps paying l IBOR and receiving EURIBOR. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 115
The numbers
£m £m
Sales proceeds – cash consideration 341.1 
Book value of assets disposed of:
Property, plant and equipment 10.3 
Goodwill 176.4 
Intangible assets 131.5 
Inventories 3.3 
Trade and other receivables 14.9 
Cash and short-term deposits 4.1 
Trade and other payables (18.4)
Current tax (5.5)
Deferred tax (44.5) (272.1)
Gain on disposal before fees and recycling of exchange differences 69.0 
Fees (6.2)
Amounts reclassified to profit and loss (11.4)
Pre-tax gain on disposal 51.4 
Expected tax charge (3.7)
Post-tax gain on disposal of Discontinued Operation 47.7
The expected tax charge principally comprises capital gains taxes resulting from the disposal as well as expected taxation on €74 million of 
dividends paid in the period up to the date of disposal. These taxes were crystallised as a result of the divestment and as a consequence the 
breaking of the St Hubert tax group. An estimate has been made of the likely tax costs resulting from these transactions however the final 
assessment has yet to be agreed with the French tax authorities which may result in a change to the level of tax provisioning.
As a result of the disposal the St Hubert business has been classified as discontinued operations. The post-tax profit of discontinued 
operations can be analysed as follows:
Year ended
31 march 
2014
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£m
Revenue – 41.7
Operating costs before amortisation of acquired intangibles – (27.5)
Trading profit – 14.2 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles – (3.0)
Profit on operations – 11.2 
Finance income – 0.1 
Profit before tax – 11.3 
Tax credit/(expense) 1.4 (4.5)
Profit for the year from Discontinued Operation 1.4 6.8 
The cash flows of the St Hubert business in the period to the date of disposal can be analysed as follows:
Cash flow from operating activities – 0.3 
Cash used in investing activities – (0.6)
Cash generated from financing activities – 0.1 
Net movement in cash and cash equivalents – (0.2)
acquisitions
On 1 March 2013, the Group acquired the business and certain assets of Proper Welsh Milk Company l imited from the administrators BDO 
ll P for £0.3 million. The fair value of the net assets acquired was £0.3 million, comprising property, plant and equipment of £0.5 million less 
statutory and other liabilities taken over of £0.2 million, resulting in goodwill on acquisition of nil.
During the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group acquired 7% of the share capital of HIECO l imited for a consideration of £0.3 million.
29 Business combinations and disposals continued 116 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
30 f inancial risk management objectives and policies
The objective of the treasury function, which is accountable to the Board, is to manage the Group’s and Company’s financial risk, secure 
cost-effective funding for the Group’s operations and to minimise the effects of fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates on the value of 
the Group’s and Company’s financial assets and liabilities, on reported profitability and on cash flows.
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans and overdrafts, loan notes, finance leases and cash and short-term deposits. 
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various other financial assets 
and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions; principally cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts. The purpose is to 
manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations and its sources of finance. It is, and has been throughout 
2013 and 2014, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, price risk and credit risk. 
Information on how these risks arise is set out below, as are the objectives, policies and processes agreed by the Board for their management 
and the methods used to measure each risk. Derivative instruments are used to change the economic characteristics of financial instruments 
in accordance with the Group’s treasury policies. The Group’s accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in the Accounting 
Policies note.
l iquidity risk
The Group’s objectives are:
 • to ensure that forecast peak net borrowings, plus a prudent operating headroom are covered by committed facilities which mature after at 
least 12 months; 
 • to ensure that prudent headroom versus bank and loan note covenant ratios are forecast for the next three years;
 • to maintain flexibility of funding by employing diverse sources of funds (eg: use of non-bank markets such as private placements); and
 • to avoid a concentration of facility maturities in any particular year. 
The maturity analysis of Group borrowings is set out in Note 19. At 31 March 2014 the Group’s total credit facilities amounted to £414.0 million 
(2013: £627.3 million) excluding finance leases of £1.8 million (2013: £5.5 million) and the impact of cross-currency swaps on US Dollar and 
Euro loan notes of £2.1 million (2013: £17.8 million). The facilities at 31 March 2014 and 2013 consisted of:
march 2014
 • £170 million plus €90 million multi-currency revolving credit facility repayable at maturity in October 2016; and
 • loan notes totalling £169.5 million repayable between April 2014 and November 2021.
march 2013
 • £170 million plus €150 million multi-currency revolving credit facility repayable at maturity in October 2016; and
 • loan notes totalling £330.4 million repayable between April 2013 and November 2021.
Undrawn revolving credit facilities at 31 March 2014 amounted to £208 million (2013: £297 million). Effective headroom including cash and 
short term deposits amounted to £275.7 million (2013: £573.1 million).
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by closely managing cash generation by its operating businesses and by monitoring performance to 
budgets and forecasts. Capital investment is carefully controlled, with detailed authorisation limits in place up to Executive level and cash 
payback criteria considered as part of the investment appraisal process. Short-term and long-term cash and debt forecasts are constantly 
reviewed and there are regular treasury updates to the Executive highlighting facility headroom and net debt performance. 
Day-to-day cash management utilises undrawn revolving credit facilities, overdraft facilities and occasionally short-term money market 
deposits if there is excess cash.
interest rate risk 
The Group’s exposure to the risk for changes in market interest rates relate primarily to the Group’s long-term debt obligations with a floating 
interest rate.
The Group’s policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The Group’s long-term strategy is to keep between 
one third and three quarters of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest in the medium term. To manage this mix in a cost-efficient manner, the 
Group has issued fixed coupon loan notes and also enters into interest rate swaps from time to time on a portion of its floating bank 
borrowings, in which the Group agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and variable rate interest amounts 
calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal amount. These swaps are designated to hedge underlying debt interest cash 
flow obligations. In the short-term the proportion of fixed and floating rate borrowings can go outside the long-term range.
At 31 March 2014, 83% of the Group’s borrowings were at a fixed rate of interest (2013: 100%). Following the maturity and repayment of loan 
notes in April 2013 the amounts drawn under revolving credit facilities have increased in 2013/14 and the fixed rate percentage of borrowings 
has fallen. In the medium term we expect the fixed proportion of borrowings to be in the target range.
The Group’s borrowing facilities require minimum interest cover of 3.0 times. 
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk is shown (by way of a sensitivity analysis) in Note 31. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 117
The numbers
foreign currency risk
Following the sale of St Hubert SAS, the Group has no significant operations outside the UK. However it buys and sells a small amount of 
goods in currencies other than Sterling. As a result the value of the Group’s non-Sterling revenues, purchases, assets, liabilities and cash flows 
can be affected by movements in exchange rates – predominantly Euro/Sterling.
The majority of the Group’s transactions are carried out in the relevant entity’s functional currency and therefore transaction exposures are 
limited. It can be seen in Note 16 that the only significant non-Sterling debtors are in Dollars. The Group trades skimmed milk products and 
bulk butter mainly to customers in Europe and Central and South America. The Group also exports its own skimmed milk products, bulk 
butter and other branded products. The Group’s policy requires foreign currency sales and purchases through Philpot Dairy Products l imited, 
a subsidiary company, to be hedged by foreign exchange contracts once the transaction is committed so that the margin on the transaction 
can be fixed. 
Currency exposures on other transactions, such as certain capital expenditure denominated in a foreign currency, are hedged following 
approval of the project using forward foreign exchange contracts.
In 2006 , 2007 and 2011 the Group issued loan notes denominated either in $US, € or £. Cross-currency swaps were implemented as 
required to hedge the interest and principal repayment cash flows. These have the effect of fixing the liability and coupon in Sterling. The 
principal amount and interest and principal payment dates on these swaps match those on the loan notes exactly and all swaps are with 
counterparties with strong credit ratings. There is no profit and loss exposure in relation to $US or € note debts as any retranslation impact on 
the profit and loss account is offset by reclassification of amounts from other comprehensive income into profit and loss. 
Price risk
The Group is exposed to price risk related to certain commodities and their by-products used by the Group’s businesses. The principal 
non-milk commodities that affect input prices for the Group are vegetable oils, gas, electricity, diesel, heavy fuel oil and crude oil by-products 
(used in packaging). 
The Group monitors prices on an ongoing basis in order to assess the impact that movements have on profitability and to assess whether the 
amount of forward cover is appropriate. This includes vegetable oil contracts and energy, which is generally contracted one season in 
advance for both Summer and Winter energy but with some requirement contracted at more regular intervals. 
The Group regularly reviews relevant commodity markets and levels of future cover. Fixed price contracts are only entered into with the 
approval of the Commodity Risk Committee comprising senior operational and finance management and external advisers.
credit risk 
It is the Group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. The Group only offers 
these terms to recognised, creditworthy third parties. In addition, receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that 
the Group’s history of bad debt losses is not significant. 
The Dairies’ doorstep business trades with individuals and receives cash payments on a weekly basis. Cash and debt management is a 
crucial part of this business and cash collection and balances due are closely monitored to ensure write-downs are minimised.
Debtor days outstanding are closely monitored throughout the year and action is taken promptly when payment terms are breached.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, trade and other 
debtors (excludes prepayments) and certain derivative instruments, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty. 
The maximum exposure for the Group is equal to the carrying amount of these financial assets of £189.3 million (2013: £395.5 million). 
Following the sale of St Hubert the Group had significant cash deposits and until those funds were utilised to repay loan notes and provide 
one-off funding to the pension scheme in April 2013, no one financial institution had deposits in excess of £60 million and all institutions 
holding deposits were required to be rated A or above.
All revolving credit facility borrowings are through banks with long-term credit ratings of A or above. Funds temporarily surplus to business 
requirements are invested overnight through deposit accounts with mainstream UK commercial banks with a credit rating of A or better. The 
Group currently has no requirement to place deposits for a longer period, accordingly counterparty risk is considered to be acceptable. 
Derivative financial instruments are contracted with a range of banks with long-term credit ratings of A or above to avoid excessive 
concentration of financial instruments with one counterparty.
c apital management
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains an appropriate level of gearing in order to support its 
business and maximise shareholder value. In addition, the Group monitors its forecast net debt to EBITDA ratios in order that they are 
comfortably within its banking covenant requirements. The maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio for the purposes of bank covenants is 3.5 
times. At 31 March 2014 the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 1.3 times (March 2013: 0.6 times).
The Group monitors its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions or changes in Group 
structure. Possible mechanisms for changing capital structure include adjusting the level of dividends, issuance of new shares or returning 
capital to shareholders. No significant changes in capital structure have been implemented in the year ended 31 March 2014 or 2013. 
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by shareholders’ funds. The analysis of net debt is included in Note 
33. The gearing ratio at March 2014 and 2013 can be analysed as follows:
30 f inancial risk management objectives and policies continued 118 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
31 f inancial instruments
An explanation of the Group’s financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies are set out in the discussion of Treasury 
policies in Note 30.
c onsolidated
interest rate maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate risk. 
No other financial assets and liabilities, other than those shown below, are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
at 31 march 2014
fixed rate
l oan notes* (25.3) – (83.8) (11.6) (15.0) (33.8) (169.5)
Finance leases (1.8) – – – – – (1.8)
Forward currency contracts 0.4 – – – – – 0.4 
Deferred consideration – 1.4 – – – – 1.4
Cross currency swaps (2.0) – 5.4 (0.3) (1.4) (4.5) (2.8)
floating rate
Bank loans – – (36.0) – – – (36.0)
Option to sell 20% holding in WCl – – – – 1.6 – 1.6 
Cash at bank and in hand 67.3 – – – – – 67.3 
At 31 March 2013
Fixed rate
l oan notes* (165.7) (26.0) – (91.0) (11.8) (53.6) (348.1)
Finance leases (2.4) (3.1) – – – – (5.5)
Forward currency contracts (0.1) – – – – – (0.1)
Deferred consideration – – 1.4 – – – 1.4 
Cross currency swaps 7.4 – – 12.9 – (3.9) 16.4 
Floating rate
Option to sell 20% holding in WCl – – – – – 1.6 1.6 
Cash at bank and in hand 276.1 – – – – – 276.1 
* Classified as fixed rate after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial instruments 
classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings. There is no material impact on the Group’s equity resulting from 
movements in interest rates other than in relation to the $US/GBP and EUR/GBP cross-currency swaps used as a cash flow hedge on $US 
and EUR loan notes. The impact on equity is nil over the life of the instruments as these swaps comprise an effective hedge. At 31 March 2014 
83% of Group borrowings were at fixed rates of interest (2013: 100%) (see Note 30).
2014 
£m
2013
£m
Net debt 142.2 59.7
Shareholders’ funds 289.4 307.4
Gearing ratio 49% 19%
Dividends
Details of dividends paid and proposed during the year are given in Note 7. The dividend policy following the sale of St Hubert is to maintain a 
progressive dividend whilst seeking to maintain a level of dividend cover between 1.5 and 2.5 times. The final proposed dividend for 2013/14 is 
15.4 pence up 0.4 pence from last year (2013: 15.0 pence). Total dividends paid and proposed in respect of the year ended 31 March 2014 
amount to 21.3 pence (2013: 20.7 pence). 
30 f inancial risk management objectives and policies continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 119
The numbers
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes non-derivative floating 
rate financial instruments except those where interest rate swaps have been used as cash flow hedges. This is due to the fact that gains and 
losses on the hedging instrument offset losses and gains on the non-derivative floating rate financial instrument which are subject to the hedge 
and are matched in both profit and loss and cash terms. No non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments have profit and loss exposure due to 
floating rates as a result of interest rate swaps.
The 2014 analysis below reflects lower reasonably possible changes in interest rates to 2013 – upside l IBOR expectations assumed last year 
were not realised and the assumption is that base rates will increase less than anticipated at March 2013.
Increase/
decrease in
basis points
Effect on
profit
 before tax
£m
Effect on
equity
£m
2014
Sterling + 100 0.4 – 
Sterling - 50 (0.2) – 
2013
Sterling + 50 – – 
Dollar + 50 – – 
Sterling - 50 – – 
Dollar - 50 – – 
equity price risk
The Group holds no listed equity investments and is not subject to equity price risk other than through the pension scheme (Note 20).
credit risk
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group unless otherwise disclosed. The maximum credit risk exposure relating 
to financial assets is represented by carrying value as at the balance sheet date (see Note 30).
l iquidity risk
The Group’s policy on managing its liquidity risk is set out in Note 30. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial 
liabilities at 31 March 2014 and 2013 based on contractual undiscounted payments of interest and principal. 
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
at 31 march 2014
l oan Notes (32.6) (7.3) (86.2) (13.4) (16.7) (37.3) (193.5)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):
payment leg (33.3) (6.5) (73.0) (11.4) (18.1) (40.4) (182.7)
receipt leg 31.9 6.6 76.1 10.6 16.7 37.3 179.2 
Bank loans – – (36.0) – – – (36.0)
Finance leases (1.8) – – – – – (1.8)
At 31 March 2013
l oan Notes (174.7) (33.8) (7.9) (93.6) (13.8) (59.4) (383.2)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes): – 
payment leg (106.6) (33.3) (6.0) (72.6) (2.3) (60.5) (281.3)
receipt leg 114.2 32.7 6.7 83.0 2.0 59.4 298.0 
Finance leases (2.5) (3.2) – – – – (5.7)
Forward currency contracts, and short-term payables all mature within one year.
f air values of financial assets and financial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the 
financial statements.
31 f inancial instruments continued 120 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
f air values
Carrying amount Fair value
 
2014
£m
  2013
£m
2014
£m
  2013
£m
financial assets
current
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 18) 67.3 276.1 67.3 276.1 
Forward currency contracts (Note 17) 0.4 – 0.4 – 
Cross currency swaps (Note 17) – 9.6 – 9.6 
Non-current
Deferred consideration 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 
Wexford Creamery l imited option (Note 17) 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 
Cross currency swaps (Note 17) 5.4   12.9 5.4   12.9 
financial liabilities
current
Current obligations under finance leases (Note 19) (1.8) (2.4) (1.8) (2.4)
l oan notes (Note 19) (25.3) (165.7) (25.3) (165.7)
Forward currency contracts (Note 19) – (0.1) – (0.1)
Cross currency swaps (Note 19) (2.0) (2.2) (2.0) (2.2)
Non-current
Non-current obligations under finance leases (Note 19) – (3.1) – (3.1)
Non-current instalments due on bank loans (Note 19) (36.0) – (36.0) –
l oan notes (Note 19) (144.2) (182.4) (142.9) (189.5)
Cross currency swaps (Note 19) (6.2)   (3.9) (6.2)   (3.9)
The above table excludes trade and other receivables and payables as their fair value approximates carrying value. The fair value of interest 
rate swaps and forward currency contracts has been determined by the third party financial institution with whom the Group holds the 
instrument, in line with the market value of similar instruments. The fair value of borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected 
future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
c ross currency swaps
The notional principal amount of the outstanding USD/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2014 was $204.4 million (£122.4 
million) (2013: $308.7 million, £181.9 million). These cross currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash flow 
hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2014 the fixed interest rates varied from 3.863% to 5.305% (2013: 3.863% to 
5.315%). Any gains/losses arising from fair value adjustments deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (finance costs) during the 
next one to eight years (being the life of the swaps).
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2014 was €41.3 million (£36.5 million) 
(2013: €75.0 million; £67.0 million). These cross currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash flow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2014 the fixed interest rates varied from 4.955% to 5.600% (2013: 4.955% to 5.180%). The 
loss deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (finance costs) during the next year (being the life of the swaps).
forward currency contracts
The Group has entered into certain forward currency contracts in order to hedge the Sterling cost of currency-denominated future purchases 
and receipts. These forward currency purchases have been designated cash flow hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. They all 
have a duration of less than one year and any gains or losses deferred will then be reclassified to the income statement (operating costs).
Borrowing facilities
The Group has undrawn committed long-term borrowing facilities available at 31 March 2014 of £208 million (2013: £297 million) in respect of 
which all conditions precedent had been met at that date. In April 2013, £51 million of the facilities were cancelled. Undrawn facilities expire in 
October 2016. 
31 f inancial instruments continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 121
The numbers
c ompany
interest rate maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate 
risk. No other financial assets and liabilities, other than those shown below, are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
at 31 march 2014
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
fixed rate
l oan notes* (25.3) – (83.8) (11.6) (15.0) (33.8) (169.5)
Intercompany receivables 168.8 – – – – – 168.8 
Cross currency swaps (2.0)  –   5.4   (0.3)  (1.4)  (4.5)  (2.8)
floating rate
Intercompany payables (159.0)  –   –   –   –   –   (159.0)
 
At 31 March 2013                          
Fixed rate
l oan notes* (165.7) (26.0) – (91.0) (11.8) (53.6) (348.1)
Intercompany receivables 218.7 – – – – – 218.7 
Cross currency swaps 7.4   –   –   12.9   –   (3.9)  16.4 
Floating rate
Cash at bank and in hand 14.8 – – – – – 14.8 
Intercompany payables (49.4)  –   –   –   –   –   (49.4)
* These have been classified as fixed rate after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
31 f inancial instruments continued 122 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
interest rate risk
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Company’s profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings. There is no impact on the Company’s equity resulting from 
movements in interest rates other than in relation to the $US/GBP and EUR/GBP cross-currency swaps used as a cash flow hedge on $US 
and EUR loan notes. The impact on equity is nil over the life of the instruments as these swaps comprise an effective hedge. 
The sensitivity analysis excludes all non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments carried at amortised cost but includes non-derivative floating 
rate financial instruments except those where interest rate swaps have been used as cash flow hedges. This is due to the fact that gains and 
losses on the hedging instrument offset losses and gains on the non-derivative floating rate financial instrument which are subject to the 
hedge are matched in both profit and loss and cash terms. No non-derivative fixed rate financial instruments have profit and loss exposure 
due to floating rates as a result of interest rate swaps.
The 2014 analysis below reflects lower reasonably possible changes in interest rates to 2013 – upside l IBOR expectations assumed last year 
were not realised and the assumption is that base rates will increase less than anticipated at March 2013.
 
Increases/
decrease in
basis points 
Effect on
profit before 
tax
£m
Effect on
equity
£m
2014
Sterling + 100 – –
Sterling - 50 – –
2013
Sterling + 50 – –
Dollar + 50 – –
Sterling - 50 – –
Dollar - 50 – –
equity price risk
The Company holds no listed equity investments and is not subject to equity price risk.
credit risk
The maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount of financial assets.
l iquidity risk
The Company’s policy on managing its liquidity risk is set out in Note 30. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s 
financial liabilities at 31 March 2014 and 2013 based on contractual undiscounted payments of interest and principal.
at 31 march 2014
< 1 year
£m
>1 <2 years
£m
>2 <3 years
£m
>3 <4 years
£m
>4 <5 years
£m
> 5 years
£m
Total
£m
l oan Notes (32.6) (7.3) (86.2) (13.4) (16.7) (37.3) (193.5)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):
payment leg (33.3) (6.5) (73.0) (11.4) (18.1) (40.4) (182.7)
receipt leg 31.9 6.6 76.1 10.6 16.7 37.3 179.2 
At 31 March 2013
l oan Notes (174.7) (33.8) (7.9) (93.6) (13.8) (59.4) (383.2)
Cross-currency swaps (on loan notes):
payment leg (106.6) (33.3) (6.0) (72.6) (2.3) (60.5) (281.3)
receipt leg 114.2 32.7 6.7 83.0 2.0 59.4 298.0 
Forward currency contracts, and short-term payables and accruals all mature within one year.
31 f inancial instruments continued Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 123
The numbers
f air values of financial assets and financial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Company’s financial instruments that are carried in 
the financial statements.
c arrying amount f air value
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
financial assets
current
Cash and cash equivalents (Note 18) – 14.8 – 14.8 
Other receivables (Note 16) 9.9 169.3 9.9 169.3 
External cross currency swaps (Note 17) – 9.6 – 9.6 
Non-current
External cross currency swaps (Note 17) 5.4 12.9 5.4 12.9 
financial liabilities 
current
l oan notes (Note 19) (25.3) (165.7) (25.3) (165.7)
External cross currency swaps (Note 19) (2.0) (2.2) (2.0) (2.2)
Non-current
l oan notes (Note 19) (144.2) (182.4) (142.0) (189.5)
External cross currency swaps (Note 19) (6.2) (3.9) (6.2) (3.9)
No other financial assets and liabilities are exposed directly to interest rate risk.
Other receivables comprise the net of all intercompany balances with Dairy Crest l imited. All intercompany balances are repayable on 
demand and are subject to interest based on l IBOR plus a margin with the exception of one intercompany receivable from Dairy Crest l imited 
of £171.7 million (2013: £277.1 million) on which interest is receivable at 5.0% % (2013: 5.0%).
c ross currency swaps
external
The notional principal amount of the outstanding USD/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2014 was $204.4 million 
(£122.4 million) (2013: $308.7 million, £181.9 million). These cross currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash 
flow hedges and meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2014 the fixed interest rates varied from 3.863% to 5.305% 
(2013: 3.863% to 5.315%). Any gains/losses arising from fair value adjustments deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (finance 
costs) during the next one to eight years (being the life of the swaps).
The notional principal amount of the outstanding EUR/GBP cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2014 was €41.3 million (£36.5 million) 
(2013: €75.0 million; £67.0 million). These cross currency swaps have both legs at fixed interest rates, are designated as cash flow hedges and 
meet the criteria for hedge accounting. At 31 March 2014 the fixed interest rate varied from 4.955% to 5.600% (2013:4.955% to 5.180%). The 
loss deferred in equity will reverse in the income statement (finance costs) during the next year (being the life of the swaps).
Borrowing facilities
The Company has undrawn committed long-term borrowing facilities available at 31 March 2014 of £208 million (2013: £297 million) in respect 
of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date. These undrawn facilities expire in October 2016. 
31 f inancial instruments continued 124 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
32 c ash flow from operating activities
Year ended
31 march 
2014
£m
Year ended
31 March 
2013
£m
Profit/(loss) before taxation – continuing operations 54.2 (10.7)
Profit before taxation – discontinued operations – 62.7 
Remove pre-tax profit on disposal of business – (51.4)
Finance costs and other finance income – continuing operations 10.4 30.9 
Finance costs and other finance income – discontinued operations – (0.1)
Share of associate’s net profit (0.3) – 
Profit on operations 64.3 31.4 
Depreciation 28.6 29.0 
Amortisation of internally generated intangible assets 3.3 3.4 
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 0.4 3.4 
Exceptional items (10.6) 17.9 
Release of grants (1.7) (0.9)
Share based payments 1.5 1.9 
Profit on disposal of depots (18.2) (7.7)
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement (59.4) (19.3)
R&D tax credits (0.2) – 
Realised exchange loss on early loan note repayment 0.8 –
Increase in inventories (12.0) (25.0)
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (20.8) 18.7 
Increase/(decrease) in payables 10.2 (33.7)
cash (used in)/generated from operations (13.8) 19.1 
No cash was generated from operations for the Company in the year ended 31 March 2014 (2013: nil) Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 125
The numbers
33 analysis of net debt
Group
At 1 April
2013
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Non-cash
movement
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
at 31 march
2014
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 276.1 (208.8) – – 67.3 
Borrowings (current) (165.7) 159.4 (25.3) 6.3 (25.3)
Borrowings (non-current) (182.4) (36.0) 25.3 12.9 (180.2)
Finance leases (5.5) 3.7 – – (1.8)
Debt issuance costs 1.8 – (0.7) – 1.1 
(75.7) (81.7) (0.7) 19.2 (138.9)
Debt issuance costs excluded (1.8) – 0.7 – (1.1)
Impact of cross-currency swaps* 17.8 – – (20.0) (2.2)
Net debt (59.7) (81.7) – (0.8) (142.2)
At 1 April
2012
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Non–cash
movement
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 31 March
2013
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 79.4 192.8 – 3.9 276.1 
Borrowings (current) – – (165.7) – (165.7)
Borrowings (non-current) (417.2) 76.2 165.7 (7.1) (182.4)
Finance leases (7.2) 1.7 – – (5.5)
Debt issuance costs 2.7 – (0.9) – 1.8 
(342.3) 270.7 (0.9) (3.2) (75.7)
Debt issuance costs excluded (2.7) – 0.9 – (1.8)
Impact of cross-currency swaps* 8.6 – – 9.2 17.8 
Net debt (336.4) 270.7 – 6.0 (59.7)
* The Group has $204.4 million and €41.3 million of loan notes against which cross-currency swaps have been put in place to fix interest and principal repayments in 
Sterling (March 2013: $308.7 million and €75.0 million). Under IFRS, currency borrowings are retranslated into Sterling at year end exchange rates. The cross-currency 
swaps are recorded at fair value and incorporate movements in both market exchange rates and interest rates. The Group defines net debt so as to include the 
effective Sterling liability where cross-currency swaps have been used to convert foreign currency borrowings into Sterling. The £2.2 million adjustment included in 
the above (March 2013: £17.8 million) converts the Sterling equivalent of Dollar and Euro loan notes from year end exchange rates (£156.8 million (March 2013: £266.7 
million) to the fixed Sterling liability of £158.9 million (March 2013: £248.9 million)).
On 18 April 2013 the Group repaid €106.9 million (£92.7 million) and £7.2 million of 2007 notes at a combined premium of £8.7 million. 
£69.2 million of these notes were due for repayment in April 2014 and £30.7 million were due for repayment in April 2017. In addition there was 
a natural maturity of £59.5 million ($104.3 million) of loan notes and a €60.0 million (£51.0 million) reduction in the revolving credit facility.
company
At 1 April
2013
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Non-cash
movement
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
at 1 march
2014
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 14.8 (14.8) – – –
Borrowings (current) (165.7) 159.4 (25.3) 6.3 (25.3)
Borrowings (non-current) (182.4) – 25.3 12.9 (144.2)
(333.3) 144.6 – 19.2 (169.5)
Borrowings (non-current) – impact of cross-currency swaps 17.8 – – (20.0) (2.2)
Net debt (315.5) 144.6 – (0.8) (171.7)
At 1 April
2012
£m
Cash
flow
£m
Non–cash
movement
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At 1 March
2013
£m
Cash and cash equivalents – 13.7 – 1.1 14.8
Borrowings (current) – (165.7) – – (165.7)
Borrowings (non-current) (407.2) 229.1 – (4.3) (182.4)
(407.2) 77.1 – (3.2) (333.3)
Borrowings (non-current) – impact of cross-currency swaps 8.6 – – 9.2 17.8
Net debt (398.6) 77.1 – 6.0 (315.5) 126 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
Notes to the fiNANCiAl stAtemeNts CoNtiNueD NOTES TO THE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS CONTINUED
34 Post balance sheet events
On 14 April 2014 the Group completed the sale of a depot in Surbiton, Surrey for proceeds of £5.4 million resulting in a profit on disposal of 
£4.9 million.
On 16 May 2014 the Group completed the sale of its 30% shareholding in Wexford Creamery l imited for 3.4 million Euros (£2.8 million). 
At 31 March 2014 the net carrying value totalled £2.1 million comprising share of associates, deferred consideration and valuation of options 
net of contract provisions.
35 c orporate information
The consolidated accounts of Dairy Crest Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance with 
a resolution of the Directors on 21 May 2014 and the consolidated and Company balance sheets were signed on the Board’s behalf by 
Mr M Allen and Mr T Atherton. Dairy Crest Group plc is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the United 
Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded on the l ondon Stock Exchange. Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 127
The numbers
consolidated income statement summary – continuing operations
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
Product group revenue
Cheese 260.0 223.1 229.6 231.3 264.6 
Spreads 178.6 183.2 211.3 194.5 177.4 
Dairies 1,081.2 1,089.8 1,069.0 951.6 944.8 
Other 10.8 6.1 4.8 4.2 4.2 
Group 1,530.6 1,502.2 1,514.7 1,381.6 1,391.0 
Product group profit
Cheese 16.9 28.0 35.5 33.1 39.3 
Spreads 19.5 18.6 23.2 25.5 16.8 
Dairies 34.9 27.1 10.2 9.8 18.8 
Associates & joint ventures 0.1 (0.2) (0.3) – 0.3 
Group including share of joint ventures 71.4 73.5 68.6 68.4 75.2 
l ess: share of associates & joint ventures (0.1) 0.2 0.3 – (0.3)
Group 71.3 73.7 68.9 68.4 74.9 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (0.8) (0.3) (0.8) (0.4) (0.4)
Exceptional items 2.0 (1.1) (93.9) (56.5) (10.4)
Profit on disposal of joint venture 2.0 – – – – 
Finance costs (22.4) (20.6) (21.1) (18.7) (9.9)
Other finance income/(charges) – pensions (0.5) – 5.5 (3.5) (0.3)
Share of associate net profit/(loss) 0.1 (0.2) (0.3) – 0.3 
Profit/(loss) before tax 51.7 51.5 (41.7) (10.7) 54.2 
adjusted profit before tax 49.0 52.9 47.5 49.7 65.3 
Balance sheet summary
Property, plant & equipment, goodwill and intangibles, investments 794.4 800.6 713.9 375.9 391.9 
Inventories, receivables, payables, deferred income and provisions 43.7 21.9 45.8 74.1 109.6 
Total operating assets 838.1 822.5 759.7 450.0 501.5 
Financial instruments excluding amounts included in net debt 0.9 5.0 0.9 1.5 2.8 
Tax (70.3) (90.3) (70.1) (17.2) (15.0)
Retirement obligations (142.4) (60.1) (79.8) (67.2) (57.7)
Disposal group held for sale (excluding cash) 3.7 – – – – 
Net debt (337.2) (311.6) (336.4) (59.7) (142.2)
Net assets 292.8 365.5 274.3 307.4 289.4 
Non-controlling interests (3.0) – – – – 
shareholders’ equity 289.8 365.5 274.3 307.4 289.4 
cash flow summary
Generated from operating activities 145.9 128.1 84.5 19.1 (13.8)
Dividends from associate 0.1 – – – – 
Fixed asset investments (net of grants) (26.9) (48.5) (53.1) (46.0) (58.8)
119.1 79.6 31.4 (26.9) (72.6)
Interest paid (22.1) (19.8) (23.6) (18.0) (14.0)
Taxation (paid)/repaid (10.5) (16.1) (14.1) (4.7) 2.1 
Dividends paid (24.3) (25.4) (26.5) (27.4) (28.5)
Purchase of businesses (1.9) (0.1) (12.3) (0.6) – 
Other items (principally asset disposals) 18.3 7.4 20.3 354.3 30.5 
movement in net debt 78.6 25.6 (24.8) 276.7 (82.5)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share from continuing operations (pence) 27.7 30.1 (29.1) (5.9) 35.8 
Adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing operations (pence)* 27.4 29.9 28.9 29.4 40.8 
* Adjusted basic earnings per share excludes exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension interest
GRouP fiNaNcial hisToRY 128 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
ShareholderS’ information
Company r egistrar and Shareholder enquiries
If you have administrative enquiries concerning your shareholdings  
in the Company, such as the loss of share certificates, change of 
address, dividend payment arrangements or amalgamation of 
accounts, please contact the Company’s registrar by writing to, 
Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, 
Kent BR3 4TU or by telephone on (UK) 0871 664 9266.
(Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.) Lines are open 
9.00am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday. From overseas please call  
+44 800 181 4706.
Capita also provides online facilities for shareholders to check their 
holdings and update their details. Registering is easy, and there is no 
fee involved, simply access www.dairycrestshares.com
Payment of dividends
Shareholders may arrange to have their dividends paid directly into a 
bank or building society account using the Bankers Automated 
Clearing System (BACS). Bank mandate forms are available from 
Capita whose details appear above or you can register your 
mandate details online at www.dairycrestshares.com
l ow cost share dealing service
If you do not have share dealing arrangements in place, Dairy Crest 
has a low cost share dealing service arranged by Capita Share 
Dealing Services. Shareholders wishing to use the service should 
either visit the Capita Share Dealing website at www.capitadeal.com 
or call 0871 664 0445. (Calls cost 10p per minute plus network 
extras.) From overseas please call +44 203 367 2686. Lines are 
open 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday. 
Gifting shares to charity
Shareholders who have a small holding of shares on the register 
whereby their value makes them uneconomic to sell, may donate 
these shares to charity under the Sharegift Scheme – administered 
by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation – a registered charity. Information 
can be found at www.sharegift.org Telephone: 020 7930 3737.
General information
General information about Dairy Crest can be found on our 
corporate website, www.dairycrest.co.uk
Investors who have questions relating to the Group’s business 
activities should contact: 
Investor Relations, Dairy Crest Group plc, Claygate House, 
Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN.
Telephone: 01372 472200
e-mail: investorrelations@dairycrest.co.uk
f inancial calendar
dividends final
Ex-dividend Wednesday 2 July 2014
Record date Friday 4 July 2014
Payment date Thursday 7 August 2014
Group results (anticipated)
Half Year (Interims) November 2014
Preliminary Announcement 
of 2014/15 results May 2015
2014/15 Report and Accounts 
circulation  June 2015
analysis of ordinary shareholders at 20 may 2014
holders
n umber
% Shares %
Category        
Individuals and other holders 17,642 87.73 29,429,023 21.52
Insurance companies, pension funds, banks,        
nominees and limited companies 2,468 12.27 107,293,728 78.48
  20,110 100.00 136,722,751 100.00
Size of holdings        
Up to 5,000 shares 18,559 92.29 25,025,931 18.30
5,001 – 20,000 shares 1,312 6.52 9,814,565 7.18
20,001 – 100,000 shares 138 0.69 5,679,060 4.15
Over 100,000 shares 101 0.50 96,203,195 70.37
  20,110 100.00 136,722,751 100.00 This report is printed on Hello Silk paper. 
This paper has been independently certified as meeting  
the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC)  
and was manufactured at a mill that is certified to the 
ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards. 
The inks used are all vegetable based.
Printed at Pureprint.
Designed and produced by Tor Pettersen & Partners.
Photographic direction by Hudson Wright Associates.
Board photography by Ed Hill. 
THINKING
DIFFERENTLY
THINKING
DIFFERENTLY
Cows pictured with kind 
permission of their owners: 
John S. Pile (Farms) Ltd, 
Middle Farm, Lewes, East 
Sussex and D.Goodwin 
& Sons, Hill House Farm, 
Lindfield, West Sussex; 
both of whom supply their 
milk to Dairy Crest. Dairy Crest Group plc   Annual Report 2014
Dairy Crest Group plc 
Annual Report 2014
Dairy Crest Group plc
Claygate House
Littleworth Road
Esher
Surrey KT10 9PN
Company No: 3162897
Visit our website at 
www.dairycrest.co.uk
http://www.dairycrest.co.uk/investors/
THINKING
DIFFERENTLY
