 Kesa Electricals plc
Annual report 2005/06
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 Contents
2 Group trading philosophy
4 Financial highlights
5 Group at a glance
6 Chairman’s statement
8 Chief Executive’s review
14 Corporate social responsibility 
17 Financial review
20 Directors and advisers
22 Directors’ report
25 Corporate governance
29 Report on Directors’ remuneration and related matters
38 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
39 Independent auditors’ report to the shareholders of 
Kesa Electricals plc (IFRS)
40 Group income statement (IFRS)
41 Group statement of recognised income and expense (IFRS)
42 Group balance sheet (IFRS)
44 Group cash flow statement (IFRS)
45 Notes to the Group financial statements (IFRS)
105 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of 
Kesa Electricals plc (UK GAAP)
106 Company balance sheet (UK GAAP)
107 Notes to the Company financial statements (UK GAAP)
112 Shareholder information Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 1
Kesa is Europe’s third largest electrical retailing
group operating in nine countries. All of the
Group’s operating companies share a common
trading philosophy which is based on three
principles: best price, best choice, best service Group trading philosophy
2 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
c ch ho oi ic ce e
p pr ri ic ce e
s se er rv vi ic ce e
Best
Best
Best Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 3
We aim to offer our customers guaranteed low prices
every day, in every market we operate in. We constantly
check our main competitors’ prices and we will happily
refund any difference should a customer find the same
item at a lower price elsewhere.
Our philosophy is to give our customers the widest
choice of ranges and products to meet their own
individual needs. Our sourcing teams are dedicated 
to buying products from across the globe, ranging 
from price entry to premium brands. 
As a specialist electrical retailer, we can differentiate
our offer from our competitors by offering a total
customer service package before, during and after the
sale. Our goal is to ensure that our sales staff are
helpful and knowledgeable, supported by an efficient
home delivery and after-sales service network.  Financial highlights
4 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
l Group turnover increased by 3.6 per cent 
to £4,100.0 million during the period 
(3.4 per cent in constant currency
1
).
l Group retail profit
2
excluding start-up losses
for Darty Italy and Darty Switzerland was
£176.0 million, down 12.4 per cent.
l Total Group retail profit
2
fell by 17.5 per cent
to £164.9 million.  
l Total operating profit fell by 16.5 per cent 
to £159.9 million.   
l Cash generated from operations was 
£259.7 million, enabling net debt to be
reduced by £44.4 million to £166.3 million.
l Capital expenditure grew by 5.3 per cent 
to £97.8 million.
l Basic earnings per share were 17.9 pence,
down 19.0 per cent. 
l The Board is recommending a final dividend
of 9.15 pence per share, making a total
dividend for the year of 12.1 pence per 
share, an increase of 10.0 per cent.
Notes
1 Constant exchange rate of £1 = Euro 1.4645
2 Retail profit equates to the total operating profit before the effects of the Demerger Award Plan charge, losses on
disposal of property, plant and equipment and the share of joint venture and associates’ interest and taxation.
Others Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 5
Group at a glance
249 stores
258,048 square metres
of selling space
10,563 employees
Turnover
2005/06 £1,529.8m
2004/05 £1,538.1m
Retail profit
2005/06 £38.3m
2004/05 £48.7m
106 stores
345,480 square metres
of selling space
4,118 employees
38 stores
51,180 square metres 
of selling space
1,015 employees
53 stores
52,171 square metres 
of selling space
857 employees
30 stores
30,246 square metres 
of selling space
974 employees
Italy
5 stores
7,500 square
metres of 
selling space
Turnover
2005/06 f846.5m
2004/05 f808.4m
Retail profit
2005/06 f50.1m
2004/05 f61.2m
Turnover
2005/06 f578.2m
2004/05 f494.7m
Retail profit
2005/06 f(7.9)m
2004/05 f4.0m
206 stores
269,000 square metres
of selling space
11,059 employees
Turnover
2005/06 f2,339.4m
2004/05 f2,263.9m
Retail profit
2005/06 f160.9m
2004/05 f174.6m
Switzerland
3 stores
4,420 square
metres of 
selling space Chairman’s statement
6 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
Dear fellow shareholders
I would like to introduce the third Annual report for KESA Electricals.
2005 was a very tough year for electrical retailers across Europe.
There was no exception for Kesa and this is reflected in our lower
profits for the year. However, relative to their difficult markets, our
businesses put in creditable performances.
All our electrical businesses maintained or improved their market share,
our three small businesses, BCC, Vanden Borre and Datart, made
useful improvements in their contributions and we made a good start 
in developing the Darty brand in new markets, opening stores in Italy
and Switzerland.
BUT had a difficult year but I am convinced we are taking the necessary
steps to turn the business round. We have strengthened the
management team and put more efficient financial processes in place
which will enable tighter financial control to be exercised. BUT will now
focus its investment on a store relay programme concentrating on the
small- to medium-sized stores that represent 80 per cent of its portfolio.
The Board has decided to recommend an increase in the final dividend
of 11 per cent to 9.15 pence bringing the total dividend for the year to
12.1 pence, an increase of 10 per cent over last year, which reflects the
strong cash generation and the Board’s confidence in the future of the
business. 
I remain encouraged by the performance we have achieved this year.
Kesa is by no means the only retailer facing challenging times in Europe
but we are helped by some key underlying strengths: 
Cash generation
At 1 February 2003 our net debt was £368 million under UK GAAP .
Opportunities for growth
At the time of the demerger we said that it was our intention
to investigate opportunities in selected European countries.
First we needed to prove the cash generative nature of our
business model by reducing our debt and to prove we could
make a success of our three small businesses before doing
anything further. This we have done. We have now started 
to develop the Darty brand in Italy and Switzerland and 
we have announced that we intend to open stores in Turkey
before the end of 2007.
David Newlands, Chairman Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 7
In the subsequent three years we have generated over £200 million of
free cash flow reducing our net debt under IFRS to £166 million. It has
enabled Kesa to create significant future growth opportunities and to
substantially increase our dividends. Substantial and sustainable free
cash flow generation is one of the most valuable measures for
shareholders.
Margin management
Managing a pan-European electrical retailing business successfully is 
a complex task in a period of very significant retail sales price deflation
combined with cost inflation, particularly property costs. Against this
background, given the price deflation we have experienced, it is a
testament to the skill and professionalism of our management team 
that we have achieved the margins we have.
We have already made considerable progress on the cost front through
centralised buying, rationalising warehousing, installing new computer
systems and there is more benefit to come in these areas.
The Darty brand
The Darty brand is a tremendous asset for Kesa. Darty’s well earned
reputation for service and quality is unsurpassed in France. We believe
that there is still more to be done to further leverage the brand. 
On another note, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome
Simon Fox, formerly Managing Director at Comet, who has become 
the Group’s Chief Operating Officer. Simon’s responsibilities will include
Comet, Vanden Borre, BCC, Datart and our growing E-business. 
His appointment adds further strength to our senior management 
team whilst allowing Jean-Noel Labroue to focus on our key French
businesses, Darty and BUT.
Outlook
Overall trading since the year end has improved but it is too early to
predict if this will continue. 
Once again we expect sales to be led by digital products and that the
World Cup will produce an increase in the already booming sales of 
flat-screen TVs. We will also see continuing price deflation across all 
our digital ranges. We are facing another year of fragile consumer
confidence, although we have seen early signs of an improvement in
France, and are not anticipating any significant upturn in the market 
for white goods.
These market conditions inevitably impact on profits. We are reducing
this impact by developing our specialist business model with new store
formats, productivity gains in logistics and leveraging our service
propositions. We will continue to focus on cash generation to drive our
investment in existing businesses whilst developing the Darty brand in
promising new markets.
Overall, we believe Kesa is a good business with significant growth
prospects over the medium term and management are working hard to
deliver them for the shareholders.
Once again my thanks go out to everyone in the Group for the effort
and dedication they have shown over the past year. I firmly believe that
KESA has both the ambition and ability to become Europe’s leading
specialist in electrical retail.
David Newlands Chairman
The Kesa Group
n Established businesses
n Developing businesses
n New markets Global sourcing
The supply chain model we are creating is one of the
fundamental strengths of our combined strategy as 
the Kesa Group. Our Hong Kong office is sourcing exciting 
and innovative new products and is working with quality-
control engineers based in Shenzhen to ensure that they 
are reliable and safe and are manufactured under conditions
that respect human rights and environmental concerns.
Chief Executive’s review
8 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
Trading conditions have been tough in nearly all our core markets.
Sales growth has been led by increasing consumer demand for new
technologies, particularly flat-screen televisions, MP3 players and
DVD recorders. White goods sales have remained weak, but strong
actions taken on cost control and margin management reduced the
impact of this on profits.
In 2006 we again expect sales to be led by digital products, with the
World Cup accelerating the fast-growing sales of flat-screen televisions.
We do not anticipate any upturn in the white goods market, however
this is an area that we expect to improve with time. We will continue 
to focus on cost control and margin management whilst moving ahead
with investment in our existing businesses and developing the Darty
brand in new markets.
In keeping with our strategy of seeking long-term organic growth we
have developed the Darty brand in new markets, Italy and Switzerland.
We are now turning our attention towards Turkey, a country that is
currently experiencing strong economic growth, including a fast-growing
electricals market. Working with a local partner we have identified an
opportunity to become the first European multi-category specialist
electricals retailer in a market that already shows signs of consolidation.
In France, there has been very fast development of broadband internet
and ADSL technology which has created a new customer demand 
for combined telephone, TV and internet access packages. Darty will
respond to this demand with the launch of its own triple play
proposition, Darty Box.  
On a different note I would like to join the Chairman in welcoming
Simon Fox as he takes up his new position. I am very much looking
forward to working with Simon and I am sure that his experience and
abilities will enable him to make a very positive contribution to the 
future of the Kesa Group.
Jean-Noel Labroue, Chief Executive Around the Group
Sales demand across the Group has been led by the continuing
popularity of digital technologies, which is to a great extent being
triggered by price deflation. All our electrical businesses saw strong
year-on-year growth in products such as flat-screen televisions, MP3
players and DVD recorders. Sales of white goods were consistently
weak across Europe, particularly in the UK.
In a French electricals market which is estimated to have grown by 
2 per cent, Darty increased its market share in all categories except
mobile phones. Total sales growth at Darty was up by 3.3 per cent in
local currency, a rise of 1.5 per cent on a like-for-like basis. The strong
sales growth of new technologies had a negative effect on the gross
margin mix. Darty partially offset this decline in retail profits by making
productivity gains.
In the very tough trading conditions in the UK, Comet’s turnover 
fell by just 0.5 per cent, a drop of 3.6 per cent on a like-for-like 
basis. Nevertheless, Comet still managed to maintain its overall market
share. The decline in profits was limited by swift action taken on the
cost base in the first half of the year. Average selling price also
improved in all of Comet’s key categories, reflecting the success of 
the company’s ongoing repositioning and the total store re-branding
programme launched during the second half of the year. Comet 
lost a small share of the price entry end of the market to the mass
merchandisers.
BUT’s total store sales grew by just 1.9 per cent in local currency
against a very difficult trading climate in the second half of the year. 
This represents a fall of 2.2 per cent on a like-for-like basis. Turnover 
for the in-house wholesale business grew by 15.0 per cent in local
currency, diluting BUT’s profitability overall.  
Progress has been made on the action plan we established to improve
profitability at BUT. The more contemporary furniture ranges have been
rolled out and a revised electrical offer is now being finalised. This will
better reflect BUT’s actual customer base. The store relay programme
started in the third quarter for the small- to mid-sized stores showed very
encouraging results and will be accelerated during 2006 and beyond. 
Total turnover at the other businesses, BCC, Vanden Borre, Datart,
Darty Italy and Darty Switzerland, grew by 16.9 per cent in local
currency, a rise of 3.8 per cent on a like-for-like basis. This encouraging
performance was helped by continuing like-for-like sales growth at
Vanden Borre and strong sales at BCC in the second half. Retail profit
in the more established businesses increased by 64.7 per cent to 
c8.3 million. Start up losses for Darty Italy and Darty Switzerland
totalled c16.2 million.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 9 Chief Executive’s review
Darty
In a French market which is estimated to have grown by 2 per cent
during the period, Darty achieved market share gains in every
category except mobile phones.
Total turnover grew by 3.3 per cent in local currency with like-for-like
sales increasing by 1.5 per cent. This was helped by strong sales of
new technologies, particularly flat-screen televisions, MP3 players and
DVD recorders.
Price deflation continued to drive consumer demand for new
technologies, creating a negative effect on gross margin. Darty
managed to limit the fall in retail profits by achieving productivity gains. 
The warehouse rationalisation was successfully completed with the
opening of the new warehouse in Lyon and closure of the three existing
warehouses in Metz, Marseilles and Lyon. The national after-sales
service call centre network was also completed when the sixth and final
centre opened in the first half of the year.
Darty continued to invest in its store modernisation programme with 
the opening of 18 new format stores and the closure of four old ones.
Of these, six were new, five were relocations and seven were
refurbished/extended stores.
This brings the total number of new format stores to 42. Those trading in
their second and third years since opening continue to outperform the
rest of the portfolio on a like-for-like basis. During 2006, Darty will open
a further 17 new format stores including two new ones. Of the remainder,
three will be relocations and 12 will be refurbished/extended stores.  
The Darty website showed a year-on-year sales growth of 44 per cent.
Sales accelerated sharply during the second half following the launch 
of the re-vamped site. 
10 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
Darty Box
The success of digital product convergence, and the very fast
development of broadband internet and ADSL technology in
France, has created a new customer demand for combined
telephone, TV and internet access packages. The complexity 
of this technology requires a high level of customer service 
and advice. With its strong reputation for service, Darty is
ideally positioned to address these new customer needs 
and will launch its own triple play proposition in the third
quarter of the year in association with a leading broadband
network operator. 
Darty Box
Television
Voice on IP
Broadband
internet Comet
In very difficult market conditions Comet delivered a turnover of
£1,529.8 million. This was down by 0.5 per cent on the previous 
year and by 3.6 per cent on a like-for like-basis. Sales were driven
by strong growth in flat-screen televisions, MP3 players and multi-
media, particularly laptops. Sales in white goods declined in line with
the general market trend.
E-comet sales continued to grow and increased by 20 per cent year 
on year.
In all its key categories Comet’s average selling price improved. 
This reflects the success of the ongoing repositioning and the total
store re-branding programme which was launched during the second
half of the year.
Comet quickly reacted to a downturn in the market in the early part 
of the year with a focused approach on cost control and margin
management. The integration of after-sales service and home delivery
continued. The National Customer Support Centre opened in Clevedon
in July and the fourth combined delivery and repair centre opened in
Wolverhampton in May.
The store modernisation programme saw the opening of one new
store, three relocations and seven refurbishments. Four of these are
now trading with a mezzanine floor. This brings the current total of new
format stores to 73. These stores generated 40 per cent of Comet’s
overall turnover. During the year two older stores were closed.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 11
Store development
To limit the impact of rising rents and rates, Comet accelerated
its store modernisation programme with specific emphasis 
on rightsizing and mezzanine trading floors. Of the 12 new
refurbished and relocated stores to be completed during 2006,
most will include a trading mezzanine floor. A further two
stores will close. Chief Executive’s review
12 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
Store relay programme
Five of the small- to mid-size stores which trade from 2,500 to
4,000 square metres of selling space, representing 80 per cent
of the portfolio, have already shown a promising increase in
sales. BUT will now focus its investment on these formats. 
Fifteen stores will be relayed by the end of 2006 and this process
is set to continue at an average of 15 a year from then on.
BUT
BUT’s total store turnover grew by 1.9 per cent in local currency 
but was down by 2.2 per cent on a like-for-like basis. Turnover at
the lower-margin in-house wholesale business grew by 15.0 per
cent in local currency, reducing overall profitability.
Following an encouraging first half, BUT’s store sales declined as 
a result of tough market conditions and an aggressive competitive
environment. This was combined with a drop in margin also due to
competitive pressures and inflationary costs. These factors led to 
a profit decline of 18.1 per cent.
The action plan put in place at the beginning of 2005 has
progressed. More efficient financial processes are now in place and
the centralisation of logistics will be completed when the fourth 
and final platform is opened in 2006. The new more contemporary
furniture ranges have been rolled out to all the stores. A revised
electricals offer which better reflects BUT’s customers needs is 
also being finalised. Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 13
Other businesses
The total turnover at our other businesses grew by 16.9 per cent 
in local currency. This represents 3.8 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
For the more established businesses, BCC, Vanden Borre and
Datart, retail profit increased by 64.7 per cent to c8.3 million. Start-
up losses for Darty Italy and Darty Switzerland totalled c16.2 million.
All three of our existing businesses made significant gains in market
share. Overall sales growth was helped by a good like-for-like
performance at Vanden Borre and particularly strong sales at BCC 
in the second half of the year, which reflected an upturn in Dutch
consumer confidence.
During the year, the two new ventures, Darty Italy and Darty
Switzerland, opened and received positive customer response and we
now have five stores in Italy and three in Switzerland. During 2006 four
more Darty stores will open in Italy and two in Switzerland. We expect
to break even on these projects in 2008/09 when both operations will
become self funding for future development.
New developments
Following this encouraging progress Kesa now intends to open stores
in Turkey using the Darty model and brand. Turkey has significant
economic growth potential and is at the very early stages of market
consolidation. We will be working with an experienced local partner and
will open a cluster of five stores around Istanbul by the end of 2007.
Start-up losses for the coming year are expected to be c3.0 million.
As always I would like to thank everyone in the Kesa Group for their
dedication and hard work over the past year. It is the efforts of all our
29,000 colleagues across the Group that makes the difference and on
behalf of the Board I express my thanks to all of them.
Jean-Noel Labroue Chief Executive
Store modernisation
The store modernisation programme
for the three established businesses;
Vanden Borre, BCC and Datart,
continued with the opening of nine
new stores, two relocations and five
refurbished/extended stores. In 2006,
eight new stores, three relocations
and seven refurbishments/extensions
will be completed while two old
stores will be closed.  Corporate social responsibility
Our objectives
As one of Europe’s leading retail specialists in electricals and furniture,
Kesa’s aim is to provide our customers with high-quality products 
at the right price, made with a proper respect for people and the
environment. 
Since our demerger from Kingfisher three years ago we have been
progressively developing our own set of policies with regard to CSR.
We are establishing targets and objectives which we expect all our
companies to meet. We do not see any conflict between our
commitment to these policies and the pursuit of profitable growth.
We are working to improve the social and environmental performance 
of all our businesses and are committed to keeping abreast of society’s
evolving expectations. We will learn from the example of others as well
as sharing experience and best practice from companies within the
Kesa Group. 
We have developed a code of conduct which outlines standards of
behaviour to be followed both within the Group and in our relations 
with external stakeholders. These include our investors, our customers,
our suppliers and our employees.
Today’s businesses are expected to have high standards of social
conduct and to take increasing responsibility for the direct and indirect
effects of their operations. As a group we understand and respond to
any sensitivities about the origin and production of the products we sell.
It is also becoming clear that ethical business practice makes good
commercial sense.
Our people
Our aim is to be recognised as a good employer that provides 
a professional and stimulating working environment for its employees. 
We have established effective mechanisms for staff consultation 
and feedback through workers’ council meetings where issues are
discussed with elected representatives from across the organisation.
We also have other forums for discussion and regularly conduct
employee surveys. This allows our management to take employees’
views into account when they make decisions that affect the future 
of the Group.
We fully respect the principles of diversity at work. Our aim is to have
the right employee in the right place regardless of gender, race, age 
or sexual orientation. In the UK we are members of “Opportunity Now”
an organisation which focuses on the needs of women at work.
As well as our responsibility to customers and shareholders we also
recognise that our employees deserve the opportunity to develop their
talents and achieve satisfying and rewarding careers. We are committed
to promoting individual development and we regularly assess our
employees’ abilities, progress and individual training needs. 
We are concerned to provide a safe and healthy working environment
for all our employees and to minimise occupational accidents and
illness. Our Company Secretary co-ordinates a network of advisors 
who periodically report to the Board on these matters.
14 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
The environment
We accept a responsibility for what happens to our products
when they reach the end of their expected life and we are
involved in a wide range of collection and recycling schemes.
We have direct professional contact with industrial companies
and associations specialising in “green” issues. We place
particular emphasis on waste treatments for batteries and
accumulators and on issues surrounding “end of life”
electricals. Our communities
With 690 stores in nine countries we take considerable care to understand
and respond to the needs of the communities in which we operate.
We want our stores to provide quality products and good opportunities
for local employment. We also want to work in harmony with our local
communities, to contribute to community activities and to produce
lasting benefits in the areas we serve.
Kesa companies work with a wide range of partner organisations 
and outside bodies on community issues and we support a number 
of different charities on a regional basis. 
Darty regularly donates products for specific community and charitable
needs throughout the year particularly with regard to those who are
experiencing social exclusion.
Since 1985 Darty has been in partnership with the Envie programme.
Envie runs a network of centres that train unemployed people to repair
unwanted appliances that are then re-sold. Comet runs a similar
operation in the UK known as Renew and Vanden Borre also has its
own version of this socially beneficial scheme.
Darty supports fundraising initiatives in the medical research and 
social area, including the Fondation Pasteur Weismann, and runs 
a partnership with Ares to help the long-term unemployed.
Darty and Vanden Borre also raise money for charity by selling small-
scale models of their home service vans. BUT continues to donate
kitchen appliances to Boutique Solidarite and Comet supports numerous
charities through a range of sponsored events. In 2005 Comet raised
over £100,000 for its chosen charity, The British Heart Foundation.
Our environment
Our objective is to minimise the environmental impact of all our
operations throughout the Group. Neither our products nor our
operations should adversely affect the health of customers, 
employees or the community at large.
Kesa is committed to the promotion and marketing of energy-efficient
products that minimise emissions of CO
2
. An increasing number of the
fridges we sell are A-rated. We also produce guides on saving energy 
in the home and we work with the Energy Saving Trust in the UK. Both
Comet and Darty have fridge and freezer take-back schemes, a policy
that we are actively promoting throughout the Group.
We also aim to reduce the amount of packaging we use and to ensure
that it can be recycled. Darty has been especially pro-active in this
respect. They collect all waste packaging when delivering a household
appliance unless the customer explicitly asks to keep it. 
Packaging waste is also collected from Darty’s warehouses and 
after-sales service centres. All Darty stores send their waste back 
to a distribution centre to be sorted for recycling.
As a further environmental measure we are consciously trying to
minimise the emissions from our transport operations. Darty has
modified its logistics operation to achieve a more efficient use of 
its transport fleet. This has resulted in a 20 per cent decrease in
vehicle movements so far.
WEEE
In January 2007, the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment
(“WEEE”) Directive will come into force. The aim of the Directive 
is to minimise the impact of electrical and electronic equipment on 
the environment when those products become waste. The initiative 
means electrical retailers will need to extend their take-back facilities 
to cover all categories including smaller appliances such as kettles and
microwaves. In preparation for the directive, we have trialled schemes
with other retailers and social enterprise partners and are now
consolidating the findings to ensure the best possible solution is put
into practice. 
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 15
WEEE
All our operating companies have been running successful
take-back schemes for large white appliances such as washing
machines, refrigeration products and televisions since the late
1990s. This has resulted in one in five returned appliances
being diverted from landfill into re-use through social
enterprise schemes for local communities.
We have taken a proactive stance on WEEE and most of our
operating companies are already complying with the new
requirements. We will continue to drive this forward. Corporate social responsibility
Our supply chain
As an electricals retailer we have a relatively low operational impact 
but a number of critical supply chain issues. Many of Kesa’s electrical
products are sourced through the major international brands and have
their own CSR policies in place.
We do not have operations or retail outlets in countries that present 
a significant risk from bribery or corruption, poor labour standards 
or protection of civil or political rights. However, some of our suppliers 
do. We are determined that the respect for human rights in our own
operations should be matched by the companies and organisations 
with whom we do business.
Whether we are dealing with major brands or sourcing from elsewhere
we ensure our products have been tested for safety, health and
environmental issues. At the same time our policy is to work in
partnership with our suppliers to help them reduce their impact on the
environment and to manage the challenges of sustainable growth.
Our sourcing policy
Kesa sources products exclusively from factories that are committed 
to improving workers’ welfare and reducing environmental impact. We
believe that every link of the supply chain should benefit from the trade
in our products and this would be undermined if our manufacturing
production was at the expense of the quality of life of those involved.
Our quality team based in China carries out regular factory audits to
ensure that they meet the strict social, environmental and supply chain
standards we require. We know the identity of all our suppliers and
where their products are being made.
The team also carries out random inspections of goods before
shipments are made to ensure that quality standards are being
maintained. They co-ordinate new product development which involves
communicating between quality engineers in Shenzhen and our quality
assurance laboratory based in the UK.
16 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
Sourcing policy
An important part of Kesa’s commercial strategy is to provide
our customers with access to the wide range of innovative 
and competitive products manufactured in Asia. We have
opened a dedicated sourcing office in Hong Kong as a base 
for our commercial buying team. A second office has recently
opened in Shenzhen in China. This office is the quality
headquarters for our whole Asian operation and is equipped
with extensive laboratory facilities for testing both own-label
and suppliers’ products. Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 17
Shareholder returns
The closing share price at 31 January 2006 was 249 pence, 33
per cent higher than the price at 7 July 2003, the date of
demerger from Kingfisher.
The lowest price between 7 July 2003 and 31 January 2006 was
188 pence (7 July 2003) and the highest price during the same
period was 338.5 pence (7 February 2005).
Total dividends paid per share since 7 July 2003 will be 
33.1 pence including the 9.15 pence final dividend for the 
year ended 31 January 2006, as recommended by the Board.
Financial review
Accounting policies and International Financial Reporting
Standards
All European listed companies must now consolidate financial
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union. These financial
statements are the first full set to be reported by KESA under IFRS. 
The accounting policies used by the Group in compliance with IFRS are
shown at note 1 to the financial statements on pages 45 to 56. 
In accordance with IFRS these standards have been applied to the
restatement of the Group financial results for the year ended 31 January
2005 and so, except for the exemptions taken under IFRS 1 enabling
the non-adoption of IAS 32 “Financial instruments: disclosure and
presentation” and IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: recognition and
measurement” for the year ended 31 January 2005, the current 
and prior-year financial statements are completely comparable.
It should be noted that the application of IFRS will not change the way
Kesa is managed and will have no impact on the cash flows of the
business, but certain standards may lead to increased uncertainty and
volatility in the Group income statement and balance sheet and some
significant changes to the information disclosed in the notes to the
accounts.
Shareholder returns and dividends
Basic earnings per share were 17.9 pence in the year to 31 January
2006 compared to 22.1 pence last year. 
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 9.15 pence per share, a rise
of 11 per cent on last year. The dividend for the year as a whole of 12.1
pence per share represents an increase of 10 per cent and is covered
1.5 times from earnings. The final dividend will be paid on 14 July 2006
to shareholders registered at the close of business on 16 June 2006,
subject to the approval of shareholders at the Company’s Annual
General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 24 May 2006 at 11am.
Non-retail charges
Non-retail charges included in total operating profit were £5.0 million,
being the charge for the Demerger Award Plan of £1.8 million (2005:
£4.8 million), the share of interest and taxation in joint ventures and
associates of £2.2 million (2005: £2.6 million) and losses on the
disposal of properties of £1.0 million (2005: £1.0 million). 
Simon Herrick, Finance Director Financial review
Cash flow and net debt
At the year end the Group had net debt of £166.3 million, a reduction 
of £44.4 million.
Once again Kesa demonstrated its ability to generate cash, even
despite reduced operating profit generating £259.7 million from operating
activities. After significant investment in capex and payment of shareholder
dividend, this brings the total reduction in net debt since the demerger from
Kingfisher to over £200 million.
Interest costs
The net interest charge amounted to £16.6 million (2005: £13.6 million)
including £11.0 million of net interest on bank borrowings 
(2005: £12.8 million) £3.0 million of interest on pension schemes 
(2005: £1.8 million), and £2.1 million of advanced amortisation 
of loan arrangement fees following the replacement and repayment 
of the loan facility negotiated at the time of demerger from Kingfisher.
Treasury activities
Kesa Group treasury manages liquidity and exposure to funding, credit,
price, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks. Group treasury uses 
a combination of derivative and conventional financial instruments 
to manage these underlying financial risks. Treasury operations are
conducted within a framework of Board-approved policies and
guidelines, which are recommended and monitored by the Treasury
Committee. These policies and guidelines include bank exposure 
limits and hedge cover levels for each of the key areas of treasury risk.
The Board and Treasury Committee receive monthly reports covering
the activities of Group treasury .
The main elements of treasury activity are outlined below:
Liquidity and funding
It is Group policy to maintain sufficient committed financial resources 
to meet its business objectives. The interest rate, currency and maturity
profiles of the Group’s borrowings are disclosed in notes 20 and 22 to
the financial statements. 
On 14 July 2005 an c800 million revolving credit facility was entered
into with a number of banks, to be used for general corporate purposes
and to replace and repay the c1 billion five-year credit facility entered
into on demerger. The new facility provides committed funding on
improved terms and has extended the maturity to July 2010. 
Currency
The Group publishes its financial statements in sterling and conducts
business in several foreign currencies. As a result, it is subject to foreign
currency exchange risk from exchange movements affecting the
Group’s sterling transactions and the translation of the results and
underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The Group hedges a substantial proportion of its exposure to
fluctuations on the translation into sterling of its foreign currency net
assets by holding net borrowings in foreign currencies, primarily the
euro. However it is the Group’s policy not to actively hedge the
translation of overseas earnings into sterling. 
The Group adopts a centralised approach to foreign exchange risk
management. No foreign exchange transaction may be undertaken
without the express permission of Group Treasury, which is responsible
for all hedging transactions. Any foreign exchange transaction must be
demonstrably linked to an underlying exposure and the hedge must 
be continually monitored through the life of the transaction to ensure 
it remains effective and appropriate in accordance with IAS 39.
The treasury policy requires that all committed and quantifiable
transactional foreign exchange risk must be hedged, up to a 
maximum of 12 months forward, using forward foreign exchange
contracts. The gain or loss on the hedge is recognised at the same 
time as the underlying transaction.
18 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
Cash generation fuelling growth
Since the demerger we have generated well over £200 million 
of free cash flow which has enabled us to significantly reduce
debt, increase our dividends and invest in our future growth.
During the last year we have launched two new ventures,
Darty Italy and Darty Switzerland and we now have five stores
in Italy and three in Switzerland. During 2006 four more Darty
stores will open in Italy and two in Switzerland. We expect to
break even on these projects in 2008/2009 when both
operations will become self funding for future development. Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 19
Interest rate risk
The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk on its primary 
credit facility and manages this exposure using interest rate swaps. 
The treasury policy requires that at least 30 per cent, but no more 
than 70 per cent of total borrowing in the Group must be fixed. 
The current profile of fixed- to floating-rate borrowings is approximately
60 per cent fixed and 40 per cent floating. The percentage of fixed-rate
borrowings will change as the level of total borrowing evolves, but will
remain within the treasury policy.
Credit risk
Several major financial institutions are counterparties to the interest rate
swaps, foreign exchange contracts and deposits transacted by the
Group. These transactions are only entered into with counterparties
possessing a long-term credit rating of A or better. Group treasury
monitors the Group’s credit exposure to its counterparties on a monthly
basis, together with their credit ratings. There are no significant
concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
Taxation
The tax charge included within the Group income statement is £48.6
million (2005: £60.7 million). This excludes a charge of £2.2 million
(2005: £2.6 million) in respect of its joint venture and associates, which
is included within “total operating profit” in accordance with IFRS. The
tax charge including the charge for the joint venture and associates is
therefore £50.8 million (2005: £63.3 million ).
The Group’s profit before tax included in the income statement is
£143.3 million (2005: £177.9 million). Adjusting for the tax charges 
that have been included within total operating profit, profit before tax
was £145.5 million (2005: £180.5 million).
These adjusted figures for the tax charge and profit before tax, show
that the Group’s effective tax rate for the year was 34.9% (2005: 35.1%)
– see note 7.
Pensions
The IAS 19 disclosures show a net deficit for all the Group’s defined
benefit pension schemes at 31 January 2006 of £119.7 million (2005:
£103.4 million) before taking account of any deferred tax assets. 
The total deficit amounts to less than 10 per cent of the Group’s market
capitalisation and we believe can be prudently resolved over a period
of time.
In accordance with IAS 19 the total pension deficit is included as a
liability in Post-employment benefits on the face of the Group balance
sheet. The corresponding deferred tax asset is recorded in non-current
“deferred tax assets”.
In the UK the Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme, 
the “Comet Pension Scheme”, which was closed to new entrants on
1 April 2004, with a few limited exceptions. The scheme has a deficit 
as at 31 January 2006 of £94.7 million (2005: £81.1 million). A formal
actuarial valuation of the Comet Pension Scheme was carried out by 
an independent professionally qualified actuary at 31 August 2005. 
This valuation was then updated by the actuary to give the year-end
position. In line with the Group’s decision to make additional voluntary
contributions to improve the funding of this scheme, the Group made
an additional contribution of £5.1 million. During 2005 it was decided
that an annual £6.1 million additional Company contribution would be
made, which when coupled with the scheme trustees’ agreed
investment strategy, was anticipated to restore the Comet Pension
Scheme to full funding on an ongoing basis, by the end of 2015/16.
All other UK employees are offered access to the Comet Stakeholder
Pension Plan, a defined contribution pension scheme.
In France the main pension benefits are provided through the state
system. The Group is also legally required to pay lump sums
(“retirement indemnities”) to employees when they retire from service.
In addition there is a supplementary funded defined benefit plan for the
top executives (the “Supplementary Pension Plan”). This Plan has a
deficit of £25.0 million (2005: £22.3 million) and is funded through
invested assets, insurance policies and direct payments to the retiring
employees. No voluntary special contributions were made to the
scheme during the course of the year.
Going concern
After making enquiries the Directors confirm that they are satisfied that
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence
for the foreseeable future. The Directors therefore continue to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Simon Herrick Finance Director Directors and advisers
20 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
Secretary
Simon Enoch
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Stockbrokers
UBS
Merrill Lynch
Solicitors
Slaughter and May
Registered office
22-24 Ely Place
London EC1N 6TE
Registrars and 
transfer office
Computershare Investor 
Services PLC
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 7NH
Audit Committee
Andrew Robb (Chairman)
Peter Wilson
Michel Brossard
Bernard Dufau
Remuneration Committee
Peter Wilson (Chairman)
Michel Brossard
Bernard Dufau
Andrew Robb
Nomination Committee
David Newlands (Chairman)
Jean-Noël Labroue
Peter Wilson
Bernard Dufau
Andrew Robb
David Newlands Jean-Noël Labroue Simon Herrick
Peter Wilson Michel Brossard Bernard Dufau Andrew Robb David Newlands (59), Chairman
David Newlands was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman of Kesa
Electricals on 13 June 2003 and is Chairman of the Nomination
Committee. He became a partner at Deloitte and Touche London 
in 1977 and joined Saatchi & Saatchi plc in 1986 as Group Finance
Director. Between 1989 and 1997 he was Group Finance Director of
GEC plc. He is Non-Executive Chairman of Tomkins plc, and PayPoint
plc. He is also a Director of several private companies.
Jean-Noël Labroue (58), Chief Executive
Jean-Noël Labroue was appointed Chief Executive of Kesa Electricals
on 13 June 2003 having been Chief Executive of the Kesa Group and 
a member of the Kingfisher Board, since Autumn 2000. From Spring
2000 to Autumn 2000 he was first Senior Vice President of the Kesa
Group and responsible for business development, logistics and IT. 
He was Chief Executive of Darty between 1994 and 2000, having
previously held a number of senior roles at Darty since joining the
company in 1979. He worked with Intertechnique, a computer
manufacturer, as Commercial Director from 1972 to 1979. Jean-Noël 
is a trained engineer and graduated with a Master of Science from the
Northwestern University, Chicago in 1971. 
Simon Herrick (43), Finance Director
Simon Herrick was appointed Finance Director of Kesa Electricals on 
31 March 2005. Simon trained as an accountant with Price Waterhouse
in London before moving to Paris in 1990 to work for Alcatel Alsthom 
and subsequently PepsiCo, Inc. Since returning to London in 1997 
with PepsiCo International as European Director of Forecasting and
Planning, he has held senior finance roles within Hays plc and Regus plc,
where he was Group Financial Controller involved in the group’s flotation
on the London Stock Exchange and NASDAQ. Simon joined PA
Consulting Group in 2001 as Chief Financial Officer. He is a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales, holds 
a masters degree in business administration from the University of
Durham and graduated from the University of Newcastle upon Tyne 
in 1985 with an Honours Degree in Microbiology.
Peter Wilson (64), Senior Independent Director
Peter Wilson was appointed Non-Executive Director of Kesa Electricals
on 13 June 2003. He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Peter was employed by the Gallaher Group from 1969 to 1999,
becoming Chairman and Chief Executive in 1994, and became 
Non-Executive Chairman of Gallaher Group Plc from January 2000 
until March 2004 when he retired. Peter is a Non-Executive Director 
of Fortune Brands, Inc. Peter graduated from Oxford University with 
a Law Degree. 
Michel Brossard (62), Non-Executive Director
Michel Brossard was appointed Non-Executive Director of Kesa
Electricals on 13 June 2003. Michel was General Manager of Philips
E.G.P. until April 1999. Michel then moved to become General Manager
of the Philips France Consumer Electronics Division where he stayed
until January 2002. Michel has also served as Chairman of the French
Electronics Manufacturers Syndicate. Michel graduated from the Institut
d’Etudes Politique de Paris.
Bernard Dufau (64), Non-Executive Director
Bernard Dufau was appointed Non-Executive Director of Kesa
Electricals on 19 December 2003. Bernard Dufau enjoyed a highly
successful career at IBM, most recently as Chairman and Country
General Manager for IBM France. In a career that spanned more than
30 years with IBM, Bernard held a series of senior positions, including
Assistant General Manager, Sales and Marketing, IBM France, and
General Manager, Distribution Industry, IBM Europe. Bernard is a 
Non-Executive Director of Dassault Systems, a French- headquartered
and NASDAQ quoted software company and a Non-Executive Director
of France Telecom. He is also Chairman of the Audit Committee at 
both companies.
Andrew Robb (63), Non-Executive Director
Andrew Robb was appointed Non-Executive Director of Kesa Electricals
on 13 June 2003. He is Chairman of the Audit Committee. He is also 
a Non-Executive Director of Corus Group plc, Laird Group plc and
PayPoint plc and he is also Chairman of the audit committee for these
companies. Andrew worked for P&O Steam Navigation Co. from 1971
to 1989, initially as Financial Controller and, from 1983, as Group
Finance Director. From 1989 to 2001 he was Group Finance Director 
of Pilkington plc. Andrew remained an Executive Director until he retired
from Pilkington plc in July 2003. From 1993 to 2003 Andrew also
served on the board of Alfred McAlpine plc as a Non-Executive Director
and Chairman of the audit committee. Andrew is a Fellow of the
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and holds a Joint
Diploma in Management Accounting. 
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 21 Directors’ report
22 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
The Directors present their Annual report together with the audited
financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2006.
Principal activities and business review
The Kesa Group is an electricals and furniture retailer operating through
690 stores in nine European countries. It is Europe’s third-largest home
equipment retailing business by sales.
Kesa Electricals’ businesses share a trading philosophy based on three
principles: Best Price, Best Choice and Best Service. This distinctive
customer proposition is designed to address the needs of a broad
customer base, to create strong customer brand loyalty and to deliver a
business model that is both profitable and cash generative. This model
has a track record of success within Kesa Electricals and is being rolled
out across the Group’s businesses in line with changing customer
aspirations, so as to differentiate Kesa Electricals’ retail brands from
those of its competitors.
In the year the Group expanded its business activities under the Darty
brand by opening five stores in Italy and two stores in Switzerland.
The Group’s businesses offer a broad range of home equipment
products across the key white, brown and grey electrical product
categories whilst, in addition, BUT offers a wide selection of 
furniture products.
The Chief Executive’s report sets out in more detail the plans and
prospects for the Group over the coming year.
Kesa Group sales for the financial year to 31 January 2006 were 
£4.1 billion (c6.0 billion) (2005: £3.96 billion (c5.86 billion)) with 
retail profit of £164.9 million (c241.5 million (2005: £199.9 million 
(c294.6 million)).
Profit and dividends
The retained profit for the year amounts to £94.7 million (2005: £117.2
million). An interim dividend of 2.95 pence was paid to the ordinary
shareholders of the Company on 9 December 2005 and on 22 March
2006 the Directors recommended the payment, on 14 July 2006 of a
final dividend of 9.15 pence, giving a total dividend for the year of 12.1
pence. The final dividend, once approved, will be paid to those persons
on the Register of Members at the close of business on 16 June 2006. 
Directors
The names and biographical details of the Directors holding office 
at the date of this report are shown on pages 20 and 21. Martin
Reavley ceased to be a Director of the Company on 8 April 2005.
Particulars of Directors’ emoluments and their interests in the shares of
the Company and its subsidiaries are shown in the report on Directors’
remuneration and related matters on pages 29 to 37. There were no
changes in the Directors’ interests in shares between the end of the
financial year and 22 March 2006.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the following Directors will
be retiring and being eligible are offering themselves for re-election:
Michel Brossard
Jean-Noël Labroue
Andrew Robb
Details of the terms of the appointments for Michel Brossard, Jean-Nöel
Labroue and Andrew Robb can be found in the Remuneration
Committee report on page 35. Their biographies are set out on in the
Directors’ report on page 21. The Board strongly supports their re-
election and recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the
resolutions proposing their re-election.
Details of all the Directors’ service contracts are set out in the report 
on Directors’ remuneration and related matters on page 35.
Throughout the year, the Company has maintained liability insurance for
its Directors and officers against the costs of defending themselves in
civil proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect of
damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
To the extent permitted by UK law, the Company has also provided an
indemnity for its Directors and officers. Neither the insurance nor the
indemnity provides any cover where the Director has acted fraudulently
or dishonestly.
Corporate governance
The Company’s statement on corporate governance is set out on
pages 25 to 28.
Share capital
At 31 January 2006 there were 529,553,216 ordinary shares of 
25 pence each in issue together with rights under the Company’s
Long-Term Incentive Plans 2,221,531 ordinary shares of 25 pence.
It is intended to satisfy these rights through market purchase, rather
than issuing new shares. 
Further details of the share capital are given in note 25 to the financial
statements.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 25 May 2005 the shareholders
authorised the Company in accordance with Section 166 of the Act 
to purchase ordinary shares in the capital of the Company by way of
market purchase (as defined in Section 163(3) of the Companies Act
1985) upon and subject to the following conditions:
a) the maximum number of such ordinary shares which may be
purchased pursuant to this authority shall be 52,955,321;
b) the minimum price which may be paid for any ordinary share is 
25 pence and the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which
may be paid for such ordinary share is not more than 5 per cent
above the average of the middle market value taken from the
London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business 
days before the date on which such ordinary share is contracted to
be purchased.
Such authority unless it is renewed will expire at the conclusion of the
Annual General Meeting 2007. Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 23
Substantial shareholding
As at 22 March 2006 the following interests of more than 3 per cent 
in the issued share capital of the Company had been notified pursuant
to sections 198 to 210 of the Companies Act 1985 (as amended). 
Number of Percentage of 
ordinary issued shared 
Name shares held capital 
Fidelity Investments 29,175,687 5.51%
Capital Group Companies 68,814,983 12.995%
Legal and General 21,646,744 4.08%
Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc 16,116,377 3.04%
UBS AG 63,295,801 11.95%
This represented 37.575% of the issued share capital of the Company
at that date.
Save for the above, no person has reported any interest of 3 per cent
or more. 
Annual General Meeting
The third Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 
11.00 am on Wednesday 24 May 2006 at Jurys Hotel, 16-22 Great
Russell Street, London WC1B 3NN. 
Corporate social responsibility
The Group has a code of conduct which sets out the standards 
of behaviour expected in the Group and of all who work for the Group,
in their relationships with employees, customers, suppliers, business
partners, the community (including the environment), government and
all other stakeholders in the business. 
More information on corporate social responsibility is set out on 
pages 14 to 16.
Donations
The Group’s support for charitable causes is principally through the
work done by the Group’s operating companies to the value of
£174,000. Details of the types of activity undertaken are set out in the
corporate social responsibility report on page 14 to 16. 
The Group made no political donations and incurred no items of
political expenditure.
Employment policies
At 31 January 2006 the average number of full time equivalent
employees working for the Group throughout Europe was 25,642. 
Kesa Electricals consists of a number of businesses operating in
different sectors. While employment practices may vary between these
businesses, the Group is, nevertheless, committed to ensuring that:
•
All employees receive fair and equal treatment irrespective 
of gender, ethnic origin, age, nationality, marital status, religion,
sexuality or disability.
•
The working environment is conducive to achievement and free 
from harassment and intimidation.
•
Disabled persons, whether registered or not, have equal
opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their
aptitudes and abilities. In addition to complying with legislative
requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly
treated and that their training and career development needs are
carefully managed.
•
The assessment of training needs and the provision of appropriate
training is delivered to its employees. 
Health and safety
Group companies have a responsibility to ensure that all reasonable
precautions are taken to provide and maintain working conditions, for
employees and visitors alike, which are safe, healthy and in compliance
with statutory requirements and appropriate codes of practice. 
The Group’s companies pursue the objective of minimising the
instances of occupational accidents and illnesses. Examples of this 
are to be seen in the employment of health and safety advisers and 
in the establishment of detailed policies and statements of intent. 
The Company Secretary has the responsibility to ensure that the 
Board is presented with a review at least annually detailing how 
the Group complies with the statutory requirements and appropriate 
codes of practice. 
Employee involvement
Group companies actively consult their staff on matters of concern to
them in the context of their employment. In Europe, where the largest
numbers of employees are, there is a formal consultation process
through workers’ councils. Consultation also takes place through joint
consultation committees.
Information on matters of concern to employees including the financial
and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group is also
disseminated through conferences, meetings, publications and
electronic media.
An all-employee savings plan exists for employees in the UK. Directors’ report
Creditor payment
For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to:
•
Agree and confirm the terms of supply at the commencement 
of business with that supplier.
•
Pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
•
Continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers
as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining a good working
relationship. 
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 January 2006 were 36.2 (2005: 36.8)
days based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year
to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors. The trade
creditors for the Company were nil (2005: nil).
Related parties 
The Company, through its subsidiary BUT, owned 49 per cent of two
subsidiaries, FIGAP and SPEM (the “businesses”) with the outstanding
51 per cent of both businesses indirectly owned by Alain Garioud, who
is also Directeur Général Délégué (Deputy Director General) of BUT. As
of 31 October 2005, FIGAP and SPEM merged, with FIGAP remaining
as the surviving entity. FIGAP remained owned 49 per cent by BUT 
and 51 per cent indirectly by Alain Garioud. By a contract dated 
21 November 2005 BUT acquired from companies controlled by 
M Garioud an additional 3 per cent of FIGAP , taking its ownership to 
52 per cent for an aggregate consideration of c144,000.
A refundable up front payment of c1.6 million was also made for an
option agreement giving BUT the right in 2009 to call for the remaining
48 per cent of FIGAP and M Garioud the right to put his interest to BUT.
The c1.6 million is refundable in the event that no option is exercised
and is offsettable against the proceeds realisable at the time of exercise.
Financial risk management policy
The financial risk management and objectives of the Group and the
exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risks are
set out in note 22 on pages 74 to 81.
Auditors
Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of the auditors and
authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed 
at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
Simon Enoch Secretary
22 March 2006
Registered Office:
22–24 Ely Place
London EC1N 6TE
24 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 Combined Code
The Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) requires listed companies 
to disclose, in relation to the Combined Code as revised in 2003 
(“the Code”), how they have applied its principles and whether they
have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
The Board of Kesa Electricals supports the principles of corporate
governance advocated by the Code and the Board believes that since 
18 March 2005 it complies in full with the terms of the Code when
Bernard Dufau joined the Nomination Committee, and therefore made
the majority of the Nomination Committee members independent in
compliance with Principle A.4.1. 
Directors
The Board consists of a Chairman, a Chief Executive, a Finance
Director and four Non-Executive Directors. There is a clear division 
of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The four Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be
independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships 
or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, a Director’s
judgement. Peter Wilson is the Senior Independent Director. Andrew
Robb, an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the
Audit Committee, is a qualified accountant. He is considered to have
recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and is
satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as Non-Executive
Directors of the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and 
the details of their respective appointments are set out in the report 
on Directors’ remuneration and related matters on page 29. Copies 
of their respective letters of appointment or contracts are available for
inspection at the Company’s registered office and will also be available
for inspection at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first
opportunity after their appointment and thereafter in accordance with 
the Articles 107 and 108 of the Company’s Articles of Association. 
This ensures compliance with the Code by providing that all Directors
are required to submit themselves for re-appointment at least once
every three years
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet as a group without 
the Executive Directors present. The Non-Executive Directors meet in 
the absence of the Chairman if there are any concerns, which the
Chairman has failed to resolve, or to consider his performance or terms 
of appointment. 
The role of the Chairman is to ensure that the Board has full and timely
access to all relevant information. The Chairman leads the Board and
represents the Board to the Chief Executive as necessary between 
Board meetings.
The duties of the Board and its committees are set out clearly 
in formal terms of reference, copies of which are available from
www.kesaelectricals.com which are reviewed regularly, stating the items
specifically reserved for decisions by the Board. The Board establishes
overall Group strategy, including new activities and withdrawal from 
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 25
Corporate governance
existing activities. It approves the Group’s commercial strategy and 
the operating budget and monitors divisional performance through the
receipt of monthly reports and management accounts. The process 
for the approval of acquisitions/divestments for the most part is a matter
reserved for the Board save that it delegates to the Chief Executive 
the responsibility for such activities up to a specified level of authority.
Similarly there are authority levels covering capital expenditure, which
can be exercised by the Chief Executive. Beyond these levels of
authority, projects are referred to the Board for approval. 
Other matters reserved to the Board include:
•
Overview of control, audit and risk management.
•
Remuneration:
– The Group’s framework of executive remuneration and its cost 
in the light of recommendations made by the Remuneration
Committee.
– The remuneration of the Directors.
•
Senior management succession plans and the overall direction 
of management development.
•
Pension schemes.
•
Corporate social responsibility.
•
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary. 
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and
of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties. This includes
monthly management accounts irrespective of whether or not a Board
meeting is scheduled. There is also a procedure under which Directors,
in furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent professional
advice, if necessary, at the Company’s expense. The Company
Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are
followed and all Directors have access to his advice and services.
The Directors receive training as part of their induction from the
Company’s legal advisers on the duties and responsibilities of being
Directors of a publicly listed company. The training needs of the
Directors are periodically discussed at Board meetings and briefings 
are given by the Company Secretary on various elements of corporate
governance, regulatory compliance and best practice.
During 2005, the Board, and each of the Audit and Remuneration
Committees undertook performance evaluations. Using the Higgs
“Suggestions for Good Practice” as guidance, the individual committee
members initially completed separate questionnaires. The results were
compiled and analysed by the Company Secretary, who prepared
reports to the Board and each of the committees. The areas covered
included the role of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the
Board/Board committees, preparation for and the performance at
meetings, the effectiveness of the Board/Board committees, leadership
and culture and corporate governance. The results were then
considered by the Board and each of these committees in meetings 
as specific items of business. The Board and Board committees
consider that they are operating effectively. 
The Senior Independent Director, Peter Wilson, also met with the 
Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman, to assess 
the Chairman’s effectiveness. Details of the Chairman’s professional
commitments are included in his biography on page 21.  Corporate governance
During the year to 31 January 2006 the Board met eight times to deal 
with regular business and a further two times to approve periodic
trading statements. This is felt adequate to enable effective running of
the Company. The attendance record of individual Directors at Board
and Committee meetings is detailed below:
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
10 meetings 4 Meetings 4 Meetings 1 meeting
David Newlands 10 N/A N/A 1
Jean-Noël Labroue 10 N/A N/A 1
Peter Wilson 9 4 4 1
Michel Brossard 10 4 4 1
Bernard Dufau 10 4 4 1
Andrew Robb 10 4 4 1
Simon Herrick * 8 N/A N/A N/A
* Joined the Board on 31 March 2005.
The Board has established a number of committees, including Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination:
a) Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of four Non-Executive Directors,
considered by the Board to be independent. They are Andrew Robb
(Chairman), Peter Wilson, Michel Brossard and Bernard Dufau. The
Committee has at least one member, Andrew Robb, who possesses
recent and relevant financial experience. It will be seen from the
Directors’ biographical details, appearing on pages 20 and 21, that the
members of the Committee bring to it a wide range of experience from
positions at the highest level both in the UK and France. 
The Committee normally meets at least four times a year. Both the
external auditors and the Director of Audit and Risk Management are
normally present at the meetings and, in addition, it is common practice
for the Committee to meet the external auditors without management
present. The Director of Audit and Risk Management has the right to
request a meeting without other management present, and he regularly
meets the Chairman of the Audit Committee without management
being present. The Group Chief Executive and the Finance Director
attend meetings as appropriate. 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of meetings
to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Audit Committee
meetings.
The main role and responsibilities are set out in written terms of
reference which encompass those recommended by the Combined
Code, i.e.:
•
To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company,
reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements
contained therein.
•
To review financial reports for publication and to ensure compliance
with all accounting policies and standards.
•
To review the Company’s compliance with legal and regulatory
requirements.
•
To review the Company’s internal financial control and risk
management systems and to review risk exposures and steps taken
to monitor and control them.
•
To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
audit function.
•
To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the
appointment of the external auditor and to approve the
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
•
To monitor and review the external auditors’ independence,
objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account UK professional
and regulatory requirements.
•
To monitor the operation of formal complaints procedures, including
whistleblowing.
•
To satisfy itself the Company’s code of conduct is being enforced.
These responsibilities are discharged in the following manner:
•
At its meetings in September and March, the focus falls on a review
of the preliminary announcement/Annual report and financial
statements, and the interim announcement respectively. On both
occasions, the Committee receives reports from the external
auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring
its attention. 
•
A quarterly report from the Director of Audit and Risk Management
is presented at each of the four meetings, which highlights any
significant risk and control issues. In addition, at the March meeting,
the Director of Audit and Risk Management submits the internal
audit plans for the coming year.
•
The external auditors also present their audit plans at the 
September meeting, and at the March meeting there is a review 
of the management letter covering the auditors’ findings in respect
of the prior financial year.
•
Group companies are, from time to time, required to make
presentations to the Committee on the subject of risk, its
identification, management and control.
•
As a matter of routine, the Committee is presented with information
on material litigation involving Group companies.
•
The Committee reviews all financial statements prior to their
publication. 
As noted above, one of the duties of the Audit Committee is to make
recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the
external auditors. The Committee, in assessing whether to recommend
the auditors for re-appointment, takes a number of factors into account.
These include:
•
The quality of reports provided to the Audit Committee and the
Board and the quality of advice given.
•
The level of understanding demonstrated of the Group’s business
and industry.
•
The objectivity of the auditors’ views on the controls around the
Group and their ability to co-ordinate a global audit working to tight
deadlines. 
The Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the
independence of the audit is not compromised and the auditors are
substantially restricted in their ability to perform any non-audit activities.
Arrangements are in place for the auditors to report to the Committee
on actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory
requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence
from the Company. 
26 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 b) Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of Non-Executive
Directors considered by the Board to be independent: Peter Wilson
(Chairman), Michel Brossard, Bernard Dufau and Andrew Robb. Its
responsibilities include setting remuneration policy, ensuring that the
remuneration and terms of service of the Executive Directors are
appropriate and that Directors are fairly rewarded for their individual
contribution to the Company’s overall performance. It also ensures that
the allocation of shares under the Group’s share schemes are on a fair
and equitable basis and in accordance with agreed performance
criteria. The application of corporate governance principles in relation 
to Directors’ remuneration is described in the report on Directors’
remuneration and related matters on pages 29 to 37. 
c) Nomination Committee
The members of the Nomination Committee are David Newlands
(Chairman), Jean-Noël Labroue, Peter Wilson, Michel Brossard and
Andrew Robb. Bernard Dufau joined the Committee on 18 March 2005.
The Committee would be chaired by the Senior Independent Director
on any matter concerning the Chairmanship of the Company.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference covering the
authority delegated to it by the Board. These include the following duties:
•
To review regularly the Board performance, including structure, size
and composition and make recommendations to the Board with
regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
•
Board appointments and removals are matters reserved for the
Board. It is the responsibility of the Nomination Committee to identify
and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, to fill Board
vacancies as and when they arise and to review succession plans
for both Board and senior executive positions.
•
Setting policy for granting of service agreements (including 
mitigation policy).
Relations with shareholders
The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its
shareholders and does this through its Annual and Interim reports and
at the Annual General Meeting. Although it does not have precise rules
covering meetings with institutional shareholders, it is always ready to
enter into a dialogue with investors, and meetings take place frequently. 
The Board believes that good communication with shareholders is
important. There are programmes for the Chief Executive and Finance
Director to meet with the Company’s institutional investors in the UK,
Europe and US and presentations are made on the operating and
financial performance of the Group and its longer-term strategy. Road
shows are held in the UK and Europe immediately after the presentation
of the full-year and interim results. If it is not possible to arrange face-to-
face meetings, meetings are held by telephone conference. The slide
presentations made to representatives of the investment community
following the announcement of the full-year and interim results are
available on-line at www.kesaelectricals.com as is a web cast of the
results presentations.
The Non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the views
of institutional shareholders and the Senior Independent Director, Peter
Wilson, is available to meet with institutional shareholders should there
be unresolved matters that such shareholders believe should be
brought to his attention.
The principal communication with private investors is through the
Annual report, the Interim report and the Annual General Meeting. 
A presentation is made at the Annual General Meeting to facilitate
greater awareness of the Group’s activities. Shareholders are given 
the opportunity to ask questions of the Board and the Chairman of
each Board committee at the meeting and meet the Directors informally
after the meeting. Separate resolutions are proposed for each item 
of business and the “for”, “against” and “abstention” proxy votes cast 
in respect of each resolution proposed at the meeting are counted 
and announced after the shareholders present have voted on each
resolution. Notice of the Annual General Meeting is posted to
shareholders with the Annual report at least 20 working days before the
date of the Annual General Meeting. 
Financial and other information including the terms of reference for 
the Board and Board committees are available from the Company’s
registered office and are also available on the Company’s website
www.kesaelectricals.com. 
Accountability; risk management and internal control
It is a requirement of the Combined Code that the Board should present
a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s position
and prospects. In this context, reference should be made to the
statement of Directors’ responsibilities on page 38, which includes 
a statement in compliance with the Code regarding the Group’s status
as a going concern, and to the report of the auditors on page 39, which
includes a statement by the auditors about their reporting
responsibilities.
The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced and
understandable assessment extends to interim and other price sensitive
public reports and reports to regulators as well as information required
to be presented by law.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness and confirms that such a
review has taken place during the year. Such a system is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance
against material mis-statement or loss. The Board has reviewed the
effectiveness of the key procedures, which have been established to
provide internal control.
Following publication of guidance for Directors on internal control in the
Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process
for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by
the Group. These include those relating to social, environmental and
ethical matters. The process is regularly reviewed by the Audit
Committee, which reports its findings for consideration by the Board,
and is in accordance with the Combined Code and the Turnbull
Committee guidance.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 27 Corporate governance
The key procedures, which operated throughout the year, 
are as follows:
•
Risk assessment:
– The Group clearly sets out its objectives as part of its medium-
term planning process. These objectives are then incorporated
as part of the budgeting and planning cycle and are supported
by the use of both financial and non-financial key performance
indicators. 
– The operating companies make presentations on risk to their
audit committees whose reports in turn are reviewed by the
Group Audit Committee, which reports to the Group Board 
on the risks facing the businesses.
– The detailed assessment of strategic risks is delegated to 
the Group Chief Executive. This review is carried out as 
part of the annual budgeting and the monthly reporting and 
re-forecasting cycles.
– The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering
operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis 
and receives reports on the controls over these risks biannually.
This includes risks arising from social, environmental and 
ethical matters.
•
Control environment and control activities:
– The Group consists of a number of major operating companies
each with its own management and control structures.
– The Group has established procedures for delegated authority,
which ensure that decisions that are significant, either because
of the value or the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken
at an appropriate level. 
– The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with
each significant risk that has been identified. These strategies
include not only internal controls but also other approaches 
such as insurance, joint ventures and specialised treasury
instruments, although the risk assessment process does not
cover franchisees.
– The operating companies work within a framework of policies
and procedures laid down in organisation and authority manuals,
and personnel are required to comply with these procedures.
Policies and procedures cover key issues such as authorisation
levels, segregation of duties, compliance with legislation and
physical and data security. The Group has also established 
a whistleblowing policy.
•
Information and communication:
– The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control
including monthly performance review for each major business
and division. These reviews are at a detailed level within the
operating companies and at a high level for the Group Board.
– On a monthly basis, the achievement of business objectives,
both financial and non-financial, is assessed using a range of key
performance indicators. These indicators are reviewed to ensure
that they remain relevant and reliable.
– There are clear procedures in the major trading divisions for
employees to report suspected improprieties.
•
Monitoring:
A range of procedures are used to monitor the effective application 
of internal control within the Group.
The Audit Committee, which in respect of the Group:
•
monitors the integrity of the financial statements and any formal
announcements relating to the financial performance;
•
reviews internal financial controls and systems, and other internal
control and risk management systems including reports from internal
audit on material control weaknesses.
•
reviews risk management systems; and
•
monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function
and the function’s workplans.
The business head of each major operating company, who:
•
maintains systems that continually identify and evaluate significant
risks resulting from their strategies and that apply to their areas of
the business;
•
reviews and monitors the effectiveness of internal control systems
through an operating company audit committee and reports from
internal and external audit functions;
•
has responsibility for identification and evaluation of significant risks
to their business area, together with the design of mitigating
controls;
•
has responsibility for their local audit committee; and
•
supported by their operating company audit committee, reports 
on any control weaknesses or breakdowns that could be material 
to the Group.
The internal audit and risk management function, which:
•
works with the operating companies to develop, improve and
embed risk management tools and processes into their business
operations;
•
oversees the operation of the individual operating business’s 
audit committee;
•
ensures that business risks are identified, managed and regularly
reviewed at all levels of the Group and that Directors are periodically
appraised of the key risks in accordance with the Turnbull guidance;
•
provides the Board with assurance on the control environment
across the Group;
•
ensures that the operating companies have appropriate organisation
and processes to carry out regular reviews of their internal controls;
•
monitors adherence to the Group’s key policies and principles; and
•
provides the Group Audit Committee with necessary assurances on
the control environment.
Whilst management at each operating business has responsibility for
the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their
business and any mitigating actions to be taken, Group executive
management reviews, identifies and evaluates the risks which are
significant at a Group level as well as the mitigating actions against
those risks. These are then considered by the Board after review by 
the Audit Committee. The type of risks identified include strategic risk,
external factors (such as the competitive environment and regulations)
change management programmes, health and safety, retention of 
key management and macro market risks. The internal audit plans 
are designed to address the controls and actions in relation to each
business’s significant identified risks. Where appropriate the risk
management process will include the use of insurance.
The Directors can confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness 
of this system of internal control, and that it accords with the guidance
of the Turnbull committee on internal control. 
28 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 The Board presents its report on Directors’ remuneration and 
related matters in compliance with the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report Regulations. The report includes the following sections:
1 Role and membership of the Remuneration Committee.
2 Terms of Reference.
3 Remuneration policy and description of Kesa pay elements.
4 Performance linkages.
5 Performance graph illustrating Kesa’s performance against the
FTSE 250 and General Retailer Index.
6 Directors’ emoluments.
7 Share and long-term incentive plan awards.
8 Retirement benefits.
9 Directors’ service contracts.
10 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
11 The Combined Code
12 Shareholding guideline
13 Directors’ interests
1 Role and membership of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee decides both the level and structure 
of Executive Directors’ pay and the remuneration of the Chairman. 
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter reserved for
the Chairman and the Executive Directors and no Director is involved 
in setting their own remuneration.
2 Terms of reference
The Remuneration Committee is a Board committee consisting
exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors: Peter Wilson
(Chairman), Michel Brossard, Bernard Dufau and Andrew Robb. 
It has written terms of reference from the Board, which currently 
specify the major duties to be as follows:
•
To make recommendations to the Board, within these terms of
reference, on the Company’s framework of executive remuneration
and its cost, its aim being to demonstrate that executive
remuneration is set objectively and that Executive Directors 
are fairly rewarded. 
•
To determine on behalf of the Board specific remuneration packages
for each of the Executive Directors, following the process described
below, together with conditions of employment (including pension
rights), contracts of employment and any compensation package 
in the event of the early termination of a contract.
•
To monitor the remuneration of senior executives below main Board
level so that it can be sensitive to the wider scene especially when
determining annual salary increases for main Board Executive
Directors.
•
To establish incentive schemes for Executive Directors, set
performance criteria and monitor their performance.
Pay decisions are made on the advice of or proposals prepared by 
the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Company Secretary
who are invited to attend meetings of the Committee as and when
appropriate. In addition, in making its decisions, the Committee has had
access to the relevant external advisers appointed by the Remuneration
Committee and the Company. The Committee has sought advice 
in the past 12 months from Towers Perrin and Hays Management
Consultants (France) in connection with the benchmarking of executive
remuneration. The Committee has also used KPMG to assist in 
the design and implementation of the share-based incentive plans.
3 Remuneration policy and description of Kesa 
pay elements
Kesa’s businesses are well positioned to achieve sustained growth. 
The key element to achieving this is the move towards a more
performance-oriented culture with a clear link between remuneration
and performance.
The five core principles on which the remuneration structure is founded
are as follows:
1 Base pay levels are established on a market competitive basis on
the basis of mid-market practice amongst UK and European
companies of comparable size. 
2 Benefits (for example pensions) are provided on a basis that is
appropriate to the local market in which the employee is employed.
3 Performance-related incentives provide the opportunity to deliver
substantial rewards for high performance.
4 Wherever reasonable, total remuneration is aligned to shareholders’
interests. This is reflected in the choice of performance standards
targeted at upper quartile levels to produce a highly leveraged
package if our growth objectives are attained. 
5 Wider share ownership is encouraged amongst all Kesa employees,
by offering employees the opportunity to purchase shares via tax
effective vehicles, and by creating a Long-Term Incentive Plan,
which reflects the Anglo-French nature of the Company and is
available to all senior managers. 
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 29
Report on Directors’ remuneration and related matters Report on Directors’ remuneration and related matters
4 Performance linkages
Each element in the reward package is designed to support the
achievement of different corporate objectives. 
In fair value terms, the proportion of total pay (excluding pensions and
benefits), which is variable, is equal to approximately 40 per cent.
We believe that linking incentives to profit growth helps to reinforce our
growth objectives and is an appropriate measure for a predominantly
retail business.
The pay elements are further explained below:
a) Base salary
To ascertain the job’s market value, external remuneration consultants
annually review and provide data about market salary levels and advise
the Remuneration Committee accordingly. These market rates are
based on peer group data and derived from the pay position described
above. Before making a final decision on individual salary awards, the
Committee assesses each Director’s contribution to the business to
reflect individual performance.
b) Annual bonus
To reward annual performance, the Chief Executive is eligible for an
annual incentive with a target of up to 60 per cent of base salary and 
a maximum of 80 per cent of salary for substantially exceeding targets.
Other Executive Directors are eligible for an annual incentive with a
target of up to 50 per cent of base salary and a maximum of 60 per
cent of salary for substantially exceeding targets. If the minimum targets
are not met there is no bonus. 
The target bonus for the Chief Executive and the Finance Director is
currently awarded for achieving budgeted profit after interest. If the
amendments to the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DAB) are accepted at
the forthcoming AGM the Chief Executive’s target bonus will be 75 per
cent and his maximum will be 95 per cent of salary. For the Finance
Director the target bonus will be 65 per cent of salary and the maximum
bonus will be 75 per cent of salary.
c) Pensions and other benefits
Pensions are offered in line with local competitive practice. The
retirement age for Directors in France is 60. Senior employees have the
benefit of le plan de retraite complementaire Kesa Internationale which
is a defined benefit scheme and provides life insurance of 4.25 times
annual basic salary (including travel allowance). Pensionable salary is
the annual gross remuneration received over the three preceding years,
excluding profit sharing plans, any termination payments and any
exceptional compensation.
The retirement age for Directors in the UK is 60 under arrangements
which provide a pension equal to 1/60th of pensionable salary, subject
to a maximum of two-thirds of final salary (subject to Inland Revenue
limits), life assurance at four times salary and ill health and dependents’
pensions. Incentive payments (such as annual bonuses) are not
pensionable. Currently to the extent that the salary of an Executive
Director exceeds the permitted maximum (the “earnings cap”), an age-
related supplement of the excess over the earnings cap is paid to the
executive as a pension supplement.
Following changes to the UK pensions regime effective from 6 April
2006, changes to the UK Pension Scheme have been agreed on the
basis of cost neutrality and no compensation for changes in taxation.
Further details are provided under the disclosure of the arrangements
for each Director.
Cars or a car allowance are provided on a basis that is consistent with
competitive practice.
d) Share incentives
For the year under review the Company has three executive share
award plans. 
The Demerger Award Plan – designed to ensure executives’ interests
were aligned with those of shareholders, and to reflect the lost
opportunity to participate in the 2002 and 2003 Kingfisher Option
Awards. In addition, executives would face a financial penalty if they 
left the Company in the three-year period following the demerger. 
The Long-Term Incentive Plan – which consists of two elements,
i) A matching award of shares on a ratio of 1:1 based on the gross
value of the shares received as part of the annual bonus for up to
140 senior executives. The number of matching shares that vest 
will depend on Kesa’s total shareholder return (“TSR”) performance
compared to the TSR performance of the companies in the FTSE
250 measured over the four-year period from grant. TSR is a
measure of performance based on share price and dividends. 
If Kesa’s TSR performance is at the middle point of the FTSE 250
then 25 per cent of the matching shares will vest. For 100 per cent
of the matching shares to vest, Kesa’s TSR performance must be 
in the top quarter of the companies in the FTSE 250, and there 
is a sliding scale between this and the mid-point. If the resolutions
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting are accepted
to amend the LTIP, then this element of the Plan will be superseded. 
ii) A Performance Share Plan (“PSP”), which applies up to a maximum
of 40 senior employees. There is a base award equal to 30 per cent 
of the eligible executives’ basic salary, and the award is normally made
irrespective of any achievement of Group or operating company
bonus targets or overall Group financial performance. The PSP 
is intended to both build a shareholding and reward individual
performance as opposed to corporate performance. An eligible
executive may also receive up to a further 20 per cent based on 
their personal performance and contribution to the Group rather 
than on any specific financial metrics.
All awards made under the PSP are subject to a TSR performance
hurdle set out above, and it is intended that the TSR performance
hurdle will continue to apply if shareholders’ approve the DAB referred
to above. However, it is intended to use the FTSE General Retailer Index,
rather than the FTSE 250 index when calculating TSR for the PSP.
30 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 The Demerger Award Plan was implemented in July 2003 to act as a
retention tool for Kesa executives to recompense executives for options
granted in October 2002 that had lapsed and their non-inclusion in the
regular Kingfisher option grant which took place in April 2003. 
Approval will be sought at the forthcoming AGM to amend the DAB
which was formerly known as the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and
the PSP. The first grants were made under these plans in April 2005,
but there was a low take up, and the Remuneration Committee felt that
the original objectives and intention behind the introduction of the DAB
and PSP were not being met.
As a result, the following changes to the DAB will be put to
shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and are
proposed as resolution number 8:
•
The current maximum bonus opportunity will be increased by 15 per
cent of base salary. However, any realised increase will be subject to
compulsory deferral into investment shares.
•
Deferrals will be made on a before-tax rather than an after-tax basis.
•
The deferral period will be three years.
•
There will be no matching shares in relation to the amount
compulsorily deferred.
•
If a participant leaves for any reason other than death they will forfeit
the investment shares derived from the compulsory deferral.
These changes will also result in the decoupling of DAB and PSP
awards made in the same year.
Performance Share Plan
The following changes are proposed to future awards under the PSP:
•
A change in the TSR comparator group from the FTSE 250 to 
a group comprising FTSE 350 general retailers; and
•
A reduction of the vesting period from four to three years following
changes in the relevant French tax legislation.
The Committee believes that the increased bonus opportunity will
rebalance share-based and cash-based incentives, and brings the
annual bonus opportunity more in line with market practice. The total
bonus opportunity, however, will continue to be on or below median in
most cases and will ensure a longer-term interest in the Kesa share
price through both the DAB and the PSP.
e) Service contracts
The Board’s policy is to limit service contracts of Executive Directors 
to one-year rolling terms. In the event of termination of the Director’s
contract, any compensation payment is calculated in accordance 
with normal legal principles, including the application of mitigation 
to the extent appropriate to the circumstances of the case and 
local legislation.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 31
5 Performance graph illustrating Kesa’s performance against the FTSE 250 and General Retailer Index
The following performance graph shows the TSR for Kesa versus the FTSE General Retailer Index for the period 7 July 2003, being the date of
demerger, and 31 January 2006. The Committee believes that the FTSE General Retailer Index is the most appropriate comparator group for
measuring the Company’s TSR and provides a transparent and accessible method of gauging performance. 
Feb 05 Mar 05 Apr 05 May 05 Jun 05 Jul 05 Aug 05 Oct 05 Sep 05 Nov 05 Dec 05 Jan 06
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
TSR (rebased to 100)
Kesa
Kesa’s performance against the FTSE 250 General Retailer Index
FTSE 250
FTSE all share General Retailers 6 Directors’ emoluments (audited)
2006 2005
££
Total emoluments: Salary 954,535 791,193
Performance-related bonuses 85,957 413,490
Taxable benefits in kind 23,837 19,932
Non-Executive Directors 346,665 335,000
Pensions contributions 137,393 76,444
Total 1,410,994 1,559,615
In addition the Directors received £280,972 (2005: £595,246) on the exercise of employee share schemes.
The following table shows an analysis of the remuneration of the individual Executive Directors:
Annual Taxable Total Total
Salary bonus benefits 2006 2005
££ £££
Jean-Noël Labroue (Note 1) 605,445 57,782 2,842 666,069 731,805
Martin Reavley (Note 2) 48,583 28,400 3,363 81,089 492,810
Simon Herrick (Note 3) 300,507 28,175 17,632 346,314 N/A
Benefits for Executive Directors comprise a fully expensed company car or cash equivalent and private medical insurance. 
The following table provides details of the emoluments of the Chairman and individual Non-Executive Directors. There were no taxable benefits.
2006 2005
£ £
David Newlands 191,667 185,000
Peter Wilson (Note 4) 41,333 40,000
Michel Brossard 36,167 35,000
Bernard Dufau (Note 5) 36,167 35,000
Andrew Robb 41,333 40,000
1) Translated at a rate of £1 to c1.4735 for the period 1 February 2004 to 31 January 2005. and £1 to c1.465 for the period from 1 February 2005 to 31 January 2006.
2) For the period 31 January 2005 until 8 April 2005 when he ceased to be a Director and left the business.
3) Relates to the period from 31 March 2005 when he was appointed as a Director, to 31 January 2006.
4) Includes a pro rated payment equivalent to £5,000 pa for acting as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until 31 May 2005 and £5,250 pa from 1 June 2005.
5) Includes a pro rated payment equivalent to £5,000 pa for acting as Chairman of the Audit Committee until 31 May 2005 and £5,250 pa from 1 June 2005.
Report on Directors’ remuneration and related matters
32 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 7 Share and Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards (audited)
Demerger Award Plan 
The rights granted to the Directors under the terms of the Demerger Award Plan are as follows:
No. of shares No. of shares Market price 
at 31 January Exercised at 31 January at date of
2005 Granted during year Lapsed 2006 exercise Expiry date
Jean-Noel Labroue 285,363 28.07.03 71,341 71,341 142,682 £2.55 28.07.04 – 28.01.07
Martin Reavley 132,511 28.07.03 66,256 33,128 33,128 £2.99 28.07.04 – 28.01.07
The award vests in three equal annual instalments. One half of the award is subject to TSR performance criteria. To achieve the hurdle, the TSR must
outperform the FTSE 250. The TSR is measured from the date of grant to the appropriate exercise date. 
Kesa Group Incentive Compensation Plan
The rights granted under the terms of this Plan are as follows:
Number of Share Unvested
Kesa shares price at Total Kesa  
held at award Exercise value at shares at
1 February Lapsed in Awarded in Vested in date price vesting date 31 January Vesting
2005 the year the year the year p p £ 2006 date
Martin Reavley 10,909 – – 10,909 192 299 32,618 0
The awards granted pursuant to the Kesa Group Incentive Compensation Plan replaced awards made under various Kingfisher incentive plans.
Awards provide a cash element (representing a deferred bonus) and a matching award in respect of a combination of Kingfisher shares and Kesa
shares having a value equal to the shares under award under the relevant Kingfisher incentive plan (allowing for the effect of the demerger and the
Kingfisher share consolidation). The cash element of the replacement awards for each Director are set out in the table below. The share elements 
of the replacement awards for each Director are set out in the table above. 
Number of
Kingfisher shares
replaced by awards 
over a combination 
Cash of Kingfisher shares Kingfisher Kesa 
entitlement and Kesa shares shares shares
Martin Reavley £276,444 54,542 47,724 10,909
The value of the awards is based on the respective closing share prices of Kingfisher and Kesa shares following the announcement of their full-year
results for the year ending 31 January 2004, 2005 and 2006. For the year ended 31 January 2005 the awards were based on the closing price for
the Kingfisher shares on 17 March 2005, which was 295.5 pence per share and the Kesa share price on 23 March 2005, which was 299 pence
per share. 
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 33 Report on Directors’ remuneration and related matters
Long-Term Incentive Plan 
The following rights were granted to the Directors and other senior managers under the terms of the Long-Term Incentive Plan in 2005 based 
on the 2004 bonus in accordance with the rules of the scheme disclosed on page 30 and based on a share price of 299 pence on 23 March 2005, 
being the date of the preliminary announcement of the results for the financial year 2004. 
Option Date
At start Granted Exercised Lapsed At end price  from which Lapse 
of year during year during year during year of year (pence) exercisable date
Simon Herrick 0 47,859 0 0 47,859 0p 22.05.09 22.11.09
As at the close of the market on 31 January 2006 the share price was 249 pence. Between 31 January 2005 and 31 January 2006, the lowest
price has been 227.25 pence and the highest price was 338.5 pence.
Kesa Share Incentive Plan 
A UK Inland Revenue approved Share Incentive Plan is open to all eligible UK employees, including Executive Directors, in the UK. As is the usual
with plans of this type, open to all employees, there are no performance criteria provisions. Employees receive one matching share for every four
partnership shares they acquire.
Date
At start Granted Exercised Lapsed At end from which 
of year during year during year during year of year exercisable
Simon Herrick 0 483 0 0 483 05.09
8 Retirement benefits (audited)
The following table shows details required under both Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and the UKLA’s Listing Rules as they apply to Kesa
Electricals for the year ended 31 January 2006. 
Director’s Remuneration Report Regulation 2002 Additional Listing Rules
Transfer
Increase in value of the
accrued increase 
Increase in pension in accrued 
Increase in transfer value £000 pa benefits
accrued £000 (net (net of (net of 
pension Accrued pensions (2) of director’s Transfer value (4) inflation/ director’s 
Years of £000 pa 2006 2005 contributions 2006 2005 revaluation) contribution Pension cost (7)
Age service (1) £000 pa £000 pa (3) £000 pa £000 pa (5) (6) 2006 2005
Jean-Noël 
Labroue 58 27 5 150 155 293 2,962 2,669 (8) (158) 110 102
Martin Reavley 51 2 2 10 8 25 149 124 1 23 4 25
Simon Herrick 43 1 2 3 1 19 32 13 2 16 17 0
34 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 Schedule 7A requires the disclosure of: the accrued benefit at the end of the year; the change in accrued benefit over the year; the transfer value 
at both the beginning and end of the year and the change in the transfer value over the year. The Listing Rules require additional disclosure of the
change in accrued benefits net of inflation and the transfer value of this change.
Columns (1) and (2) represent the deferred pension to which the Directors would have been entitled had they left the Group on 31 January 2005
and 2006 and the associated movement between these dates.
Column (3) is the change in transfer value of accrued pension during the year, net of contributions by the Director.
Column (4) is the transfer value of the deferred pension in column (2) calculated as at 31 January 2006 and 31 January 2005 based on factors
supplied by the actuary of the relevant Group pension scheme in accordance with actuarial guidance note GN11 at the relevant date. 
Column (5) is the increase in pension built up during the year, recognising (i) the accrual rate for the additional service based on the pensionable
salary in force at the year end, and (ii) where appropriate the effect of pay changes in “real” (inflation adjusted) terms on the pension already earned
at the start of the year.
Column (6) is the capital value of the pension in column (5). It represents the amount of cash required to secure that increase in accrued pension
net of inflation.
Column (7) is the cost to the Company of providing the pension benefits in the year.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to pension benefits from the Company. 
9 Directors’ service contracts
The disclosures required by the Regulations in respect of Directors’ service contracts are as follows:
Jean-Noël Labroue
Mr Labroue’s service contract dated 13 June 2003 is covered by the applicable French collective Bargaining Agreement in force within Kesa
Electricals SAS from time to time, which sets certain of his terms and conditions of employment. Mr Labroue also participates in mandatory French
retirement benefit arrangements. In line with French practice, Mr Labroue’s pensionable salary is the annual gross remuneration received by him
over the three preceding years, excluding profit-sharing plans, any termination payments and any exceptional compensation received by him.
Under his service contract, Mr Labroue’s employment may be terminated on not less than six months’ notice given by either party. Kesa Electricals
SAS may require Mr Labroue not to serve out his notice but in that case Kesa Electricals SAS must maintain his contractual remuneration and
benefits (save for bonus and incentive arrangements) during the notice period. In addition to notice, if certain conditions are met, Kesa Electricals
SAS may be required under French law to make a further payment to Mr Labroue as compensation for the termination of his employment. This
payment is not likely to exceed twelve months’ remuneration. In addition, Mr Labroue’s service contract provides that if during the twelve months
immediately following a change of control of Kesa Electricals, Kesa Electricals SAS gives Mr Labroue notice of termination of his employment (other
than cause) he is entitled to receive a liquidated damages payment equivalent to twelve months’ remuneration. For these purposes, one month’s
remuneration for Mr Labroue is calculated by reference to his annual basic salary at the time (including the allowance for his travel outside France),
and such bonus and benefits provided to him in the 12 months prior to the month in which the change of control occurs. Any amounts payable
under French law to Mr Labroue on any termination of his employment count towards the liquidated damages payment and are not deducted from
the contractual obligations. 
Simon Herrick 
Simon Herrick has a service contract with Kesa Electricals dated 15 March 2005. Mr Herrick’s service contract provides for an annual basic salary,
a travel allowance, pension benefits and private medical insurance. Mr Herrick is also provided with life insurance of four times the earnings cap.
Under his service contract he is subject to post-employment restrictive covenants. Mr Herrick’s pension and life insurance benefits are provided
under the Comet Pension Scheme. Mr Herrick is also provided with a pension supplement of 13 per cent of such amount of his basic salary as
exceeds the permitted maximum as defined in the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 from time to time, included as salary.
Under his service contract, Mr Herrick’s employment can be terminated on not less than 12 months’ notice given by Kesa Electricals or not 
less than six months’ notice from Mr Herrick. In the case of notice given by Kesa Electricals, a payment may be made in lieu of the unexpired
portion of notice and Kesa Electricals can reduce the payment to take into account the receipt of a lump sum and mitigation.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 35 Report on Directors’ remuneration and related matters
10 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts and their appointment may be terminated at any time without
compensation. Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of three years and their appointments are reviewed at the end of each 
three-year term.
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors
The Board determines the fees paid to Non-Executive Directors under a policy which after taking advice seeks to recognise the time commitment,
responsibility and technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to an effective board. For the year ended 31 January 2006 Non-Executive
Directors were paid an annual fee of £35,000 until 1 June 2005 when the fee was increased to £36,750. The fees will be reviewed again in June
2007 for their services as members of the Board plus, where appropriate, the following additional fees:
Chairman of the Audit Committee Andrew Robb £5,250.00
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Peter Wilson £5,250.00
Non-Executive Directors have letters of engagement instead of service contracts. Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of three
years. Their position can be revoked without compensation at any time at the discretion of the Company.
Date of last letter Unexpired term Total length of service
David Newlands 18.03.03 Three months Two years nine months
Peter Wilson 13.06.03 Three months Two years nine months
Andrew Robb 13.06.03 Three months Two years nine months
Michel Brossard 13.06.03 Three months Two years nine months
Bernard Dufau 08.12.03 Nine months Two years three months
36 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 11 The Combined Code
The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee are in compliance with the principles of good governance and Code of Best
Practice set out in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
12 Shareholding guideline
It is one of the tenets of Kesa’s reward strategy that shareholders’ and Directors’ interests be aligned. To reinforce this, the Remuneration
Committee expects that over a period of years Executive Directors will build a personal holding in Kesa shares. 
To underpin this commitment, the Committee expects that, while the guideline holding remains unfulfilled, Executive Directors will not dispose 
of any shares vesting to them under any of the Kesa incentive plans (save for any disposals necessary to meet tax liabilities arising from them), 
until they hold shares worth the following percentage of their base salary.
Chief Executive Officer 150% of base salary
Other Executive Directors 100% of base salary
Executive Committee Members 50% of base salary
13 Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of the Directors which includes holdings by their spouses or other related parties, together with non-beneficial interests 
in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below. Share options or rights over shares granted to Directors, are shown on pages 33 and 34. 
Company
31 January 2006 31 January 2005 
Beneficial holdings
Jean-Noël Labroue 242,663 199,859
Simon Herrick 483 N/A
David Newlands 73,765 63,775
Peter Wilson 10,000 10,000
Michel Brossard 7,000 3,000
Bernard Dufau 4,000 1,730
Andrew Robb 15,100 10,000
On behalf of the Board
Peter Wilson Chairman – Remuneration Committee
22 March 2006
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 37 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Going concern 
The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate
resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, they continue to adopt the “going concern” basis for preparing
the accounts.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities for accounts
The following statement which should be read in conjunction with the
auditors’ report set out on page 39, is made with a view to distinguishing
for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of
the auditors in relation to the accounts.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for
each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of
the company and the group and for the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to:
•
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently
•
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent
•
State that the group financial statements comply with IFRS
•
State that the company financial statements comply with UK GAAP
•
Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it
is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Kesa Electricals plc
will continue in business
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Companies’ Act 1985. They are
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the
Group and hence from taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 41 to
103 and 107 to 111, the Group has used appropriate accounting
policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent
judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which
they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The maintenance and integrity of the Kesa Electricals website is the
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does
not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors
accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the
financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
38 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 We have audited the Group financial statements of Kesa Electricals
plc for the year ended 31 January 2006 which comprise the Group
income statement, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow
statement, the Group statement of recognised income and expense
and the related notes. These Group financial statements have been
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial
statements of Kesa Electricals plc for the year ended 31 January
2006 and on the information in the Directors’ remuneration report
that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual report and 
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted 
by the European Union are set out in the statement of Directors’
responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report,
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the
Company’s shareholders as a body in accordance with Section 235 
of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, 
in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or 
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by 
our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also
report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors’ report is not consistent
with the Group financial statements, if we have not received all 
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding Director’s remuneration 
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects 
the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not
required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal
control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures 
or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider
whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Group trading philosophy,
the financial highlights, the Group at a glance, the Chairman’s
statement, the Chief Executive’s review, corporate social responsibility,
the financial review, Directors and advisers, the Directors’ report, the
corporate governance statement, the unaudited part of the Directors’
remuneration report and the statement of Directors’ responsibilities.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group
financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other
information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements. 
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary 
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the
presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
•
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, 
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 January 2006 and 
of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended; and 
•
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
22 March 2006
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 39
Independent auditors’ report to the shareholders of Kesa Electricals plc (IFRS) Group income statement
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 January 31 January 31 January
2006 2005 2006
Note £m £m dm
Revenue 2 4,100.0 3,958.8 6,004.5
Group operating profit 2 151.8 181.7 222.3
Share of post-tax profit in joint venture and associates 2 8.1 9.8 11.9
Total operating profit 159.9 191.5 234.2
Analysed as:
Retail profit
(2)
3 164.9 199.9 241.5
Share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation 3 (2.2) (2.6) (3.2)
Demerger award plan charge 3 (1.8) (4.8) (2.6)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 (1.0) (1.0) (1.5)
Total operating profit 159.9 191.5 234.2
Interest payable and similar charges 4 (24.4) (24.1) (35.7)
Interest receivable 5 7.8 10.5 11.4
Profit before tax 6 143.3 177.9 209.9
Taxation 7 (48.6) (60.7) (71.2)
Profit for the financial year from continuing operations 94.7 117.2 138.7
Profit attributable to:
– Equity shareholders 94.2 115.7 138.0
– Minority interests 0.5 1.5 0.7
94.7 117.2 138.7
Earnings per share – basic and diluted (pence) 9 17.9 22.1 26.2
Notes
1) Income statement information in euros is provided for illustrative purposes only and is translated at the average exchange rate of c1.4645 for £1.
2) Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation, the Demerger Award Plan charge and losses on disposal of property, plant
and equipment.
3) The notes on pages 45 to 104 form part of these financial statements.
4) For details of equity dividends paid and proposed, see note 8 of the financial statements.
40 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 January 31 January 31 January 
2006 2005 2006
Note £m £m dm
Exchange differences 27 (2.5) (0.5) (3.7)
Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations 36 (14.6) (17.7) (21.4)
Tax on actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations 4.4 5.6 6.4
Available for sale assets – fair value gains net of tax 27 2.3 – 3.4
– recycled and reported in net profit (0.3) – (0.4)
Cash flow hedges – fair value gains net of tax 27 2.8 – 4.1
Net loss recognised directly in equity (7.9) (12.6) (11.6)
Profit for the year 3 94.7 117.2 138.7
Total recognised income for the year 86.8 104.6 127.1
Adjustment for the first time adoption of IAS 39 42 2.9 – 4.2
Total recognised income 89.7 104.6 131.3
Attributable to:
– Equity shareholders 86.3 103.1 126.4
– Minority interests 0.5 1.5 0.7
Total recognised income for the year 86.8 104.6 127.1
The adjustment for the first time adoption of IAS 39 is attributable to equity shareholders.
Notes
1) Statement of reconised income and expense information in euros is provided for illustrative purposes only and is translated at the average exchange rate of c1.4645 for £1.
2) The notes on pages 45 to 104 form part of these financial statements.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 41
Group statement of recognised income and expense
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 Group balance sheet
As at 31 January 2006
Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 January 31 January 31 January
2006 2005 2006
Note £m £m dm
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 10 200.8 201.0 293.9
Property, plant and equipment 11 530.8 522.5 777.0
Available for sale investments 13 20.0 – 29.3
Other investments 13 – 5.4 – 
Investments in joint venture and associates 12 39.1 37.1 57.2
Other receivables 16 9.7 11.2 14.2
Deferred-tax assets 24 38.6 34.7 56.5
Total non-current assets 839.0 811.9 1,228.1
Current assets
Inventories 14 616.7 601.0 902.7
Trade and other receivables 15 244.5 242.3 357.9
Income tax 9.3 6.7 13.6
Other investments 12 80.5 95.6 117.8
Derivative financial instruments 22 1.4 – 2.0
Cash and cash equivalents 17 159.6 275.6 233.6
Total current assets 1,112.0 1,221.2 1,627.6
Total assets 1,951.0 2,033.1 2,855.7
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Borrowings 20 (56.6) (135.8) (82.9)
Income tax liabilities 19 (11.9) (16.3) (17.4)
Trade and other payables 18 (816.5) (769.4) (1,195.1)
Derivative financial instruments 22 (2.9) – (4.3)
Provisions 23 (0.6) (0.5) (0.9)
Total current liabilities (888.5) (922.0) (1,300.6)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 20 (347.0) (442.0) (507.9)
Other payables 21 (238.7) (239.0) (349.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 24 (26.4) (24.8) (38.6)
Post-employment benefits 36 (119.7) (103.4) (175.2)
Provisions 23 (0.5) (0.8) (0.7)
Total non-current liabilities (732.3) (810.0) (1,071.8)
Total liabilities (1,620.8) (1,732.0) (2,372.4)
Net assets 330.2 301.1 483.3
42 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 January 31 January 31 January 
2006 2005 2006
Note £m £m dm
Equity
Share capital 25 132.4 132.4 193.8
Other reserves 27 751.8 741.3 1,100.5
Retained earnings 26 (565.3) (584.5) (827.6)
Total equity shareholders' funds 28 318.9 289.2 466.7
Minority interests 29 11.3 11.9 16.5
Total equity 330.2 301.1 483.2
Notes
1) Balance sheet information in euros is provided for illustrative purposes only and is translated at the closing exchange rate of c1.4638 for £1.
2) The notes on pages 45 to 104 form part of these financial statements.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 22 March 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
Jean-Noël Labroue Director Simon Herrick Director
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 43 Group cash flow statement
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 January 31 January 31 January 
2006 2005 2006
Note £m £m dm
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 30 259.7 271.2 380.3
Interest received 7.9 9.0 11.6
Interest paid (17.5) (22.2) (25.6)
Tax paid (54.1) (57.0) (79.2)
Net cash flows from operating activities 196.0 201.0 287.1
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidaries (net of cash acquired) (0.4) (2.8) (0.6)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 5.2 6.5 7.6
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (97.8) (92.9) (143.2)
Proceeds from sale of available for sale investments 0.4 – 0.6
Purchase of intangible assets (4.9) (3.8) (7.2)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 0.1 – 0.1
Cash inflow/(outflow) from other current investments 14.1 (2.8) 20.6
Dividends received from joint venture 3.4 8.6 5.0
Net cash used in investing activities (79.9) (87.2) (117.1)
Cash flows from financing activities
Finance lease principal payments (1.7) (1.4) (2.5)
Proceeds from long-term borrowings 472.6 – 692.1
Repayment of long term borrowings (602.5) (45.9) (882.4)
Dividends paid to shareholders (59.3) (54.4) (86.8)
Dividends paid to minority interests (0.9) – (1.3)
Net cash used in financing activities (191.8) (101.7) (280.9)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from cash and cash equivalents 31 (75.7) 12.1 (110.9)
Transfers and other non-cash items – 21.1 –
Effects of exchange rate changes 31 (3.4) 5.4 (5.0)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (79.1) 38.6 (115.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 31 184.9 146.3 270.8
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 31 105.8 184.9 154.9
Notes
1) Cash flow information in euros is provided for illustrative purposes only and is translated at the average exchange rate of c1.4645 for £1.
2) The notes on pages 45 to 104 form part of these financial statements.
44 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial information set out on pages 40 to 44 comprises the consolidated financial statements of Kesa Electricals plc for the year ended 
31 January 2006 prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International Financial
Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations as adopted by the European Union (EU) and with those parts of the Companies Act
1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified
by the revaluation of certain financial instruments. The date of transition to IFRS was 1 February 2004.
From 1 February 2005, Kesa Electricals plc is required to prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting standards
adopted for use in the EU. Kesa Electricals plc previously reported consolidated financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP until 31 January
2005. The adjustments required to restate previously reported UK GAAP comparative financial information on to an IFRS basis are set out in note
42 of the financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of certain critical estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of the amount, event or actions,
actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The rules for first time adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS 1 “First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards”. IFRS 1 
requires the use of the same accounting policies in the IFRS transition balance sheet (1 February 2004) and for all periods presented thereafter. 
The accounting policies must comply with all IFRSs effective at the reporting date and for the first financial reporting under IFRS.
IFRS 1 permits companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of taking the following exemptions:
a)  Business combinations prior to 1 February 2004 have not been restated to comply with IFRS 3 “Business Combinations”.
b)  All cumulative actuarial gains and losses with respect to employee benefits have been recognised in shareholders’ equity at 1 February 2004.
c)  Cumulative translation differences on foreign operations are deemed to be zero at 1 February 2004. Any gains and losses recognised in the
consolidated income statement on subsequent disposal of foreign operations will therefore exclude translation differences arising prior to the
transition date.
d) IAS 32 “Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation” and IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement” have been
adopted from 1 February 2005, with no restatement of comparative information.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 45
  Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
1 Accounting policies continued
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective.
Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the Group’s accounting
periods beginning on or after 1 February 2006 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted, as follows:
– IAS 39 (Amendment) “The Fair Value Option” (effective from 1 January 2006). This amendment changes the definition of financial instruments
classified at fair value through profit or loss and restricts the ability to designate financial instruments as part of this category. The Group believes
that the impact of this amendment will be minimal as it currently holds no financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss.
– IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures”, and a complementary amendment to IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Instruments - Capital
Disclosures”, (effective from 1 January 2007). IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures to improve the information about financial instruments. It requires
the disclosure of qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments, including specified minimum
disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including sensitivity analysis to market risk. It replaces IAS 30 “Disclosures in the
Financial Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions”, and disclosure requirements in IAS 32 “Financial Instruments: Disclosure and
Presentation”. It is applicable to all operations that report under IFRS. The amendment to IAS 1 introduces disclosures about the level of an entity’s
capital and how it manages capital. The Group assessed the impact of IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 and concluded that the main
additional disclosures will be the sensitivity analysis to market risk and the capital disclosures required by the amendment to IAS 1. The Group 
will apply IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 from annual periods beginning 1 January 2007.
– IFRIC 6 “Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market - waste electrical and electronic equipment” (effective from 1 January 2006). 
IFRIC 6 requires that the determination of what constitutes the obligatory event in the context of decommissioning waste electrical and electronic
equipment for the purpose of recognising a provision for waste management costs to be based on participation in the market during a
measurement period. Management have considered IFRIC 6 and have determined that it will have minimal impact on the Group.
Use of adjusted measures
Kesa Electricals plc believes that retail profit (representing total operating profit before the Demerger Award Plan charge, losses on disposal 
of property, plant and equipment and the share of joint venture and associate interest and taxation) and adjusted earnings per share provides
additional useful information on underlying trends and business performance to shareholders. These measures are used by the Group for internal
performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements by employees. The term retail profit is not defined by IFRS and may therefore 
not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies. It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, 
GAAP measurements of profit. 
The principal accounting policies in dealing with items considered material in relation to the accounts are set out below. These policies have 
been consistently applied to both years presented with the exception of IAS 32 and IAS 39 which have been adopted from 1 February 2005.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and
associated undertakings. Subsidiary undertakings acquired are recorded under the acquisition method and their results are included from 
the date of acquisition. Associated undertakings and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The results of subsidiary
undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings that have been disposed of during the year are included up to the effective date 
of disposal. All significant consolidated companies have a 31 January accounting year end. Datart Investments S.A. makes up its accounts 
to 31 December owing to local conditions and to avoid undue delay in the presentation of the Group accounts.
Consolidation
a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all operations over which the Group has the power to control the financial and operating policies. The existence and effect 
of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another 
entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date 
that control ceases.
46 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 1 Accounting policies continued
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. The cost of an acquisition is measured as 
the fair value of the settlement including assets, equity instruments and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly
attributable to the acquisition. Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured
initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair
value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the
net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised
losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subsidiaries
have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
b) Associates and joint ventures
Associates are all operations over which the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control. Joint ventures are all operations
over which the Group exercises joint control with partners. 
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method and are initially recognised at cost. The Group’s investment 
in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition.
The Group’s share of its associates’ and joint venture post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, its share of 
post-acquisition valuation movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment and its share of post-acquisition movements 
in reserves are recognised in reserves. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate or a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the
associate or joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred 
obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in 
the associates and joint venture. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset
transferred. Accounting policies of associates and joint ventures have been changed where possible to ensure consistency with the policies
adopted by the Group.
Foreign currency translation
a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s operations are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment
in which the operation operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Group's
presentation currency. 
b) Transaction and balances 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as
qualifying cash flow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value 
gain or loss. 
Translation differences on non-monetary assets held for sale are included in fair value reserves in equity. 
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 47 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
1 Accounting policies continued
c) Group companies
The results and financial position of all the Group operations that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated
into the presentation currency as follows:
i) assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
ii) income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless the average is not a reasonable
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated 
at the date of transactions); and
iii) all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity from the transition date.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowings and other
currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders’ funds. When a foreign operation is sold, such
exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation 
and translated at the closing rate.
Segmental information
Primary segmental information reflects the Group’s management structure. The Board of Directors considers that there is no secondary segment 
by which Kesa is managed.
A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products and services, which is subject to risk and rewards
that are different from those of other segments. 
The principal activity of the Group is the retail of electrical goods and furniture, which is managed through the following business segments:
•
Darty – France
•
BUT – France
•
Comet – UK
•
Others (comprising business units of less than 10 per cent of the Group’s overall business) 
Reported segment results represent the retail profit of each segment. Unallocated items comprise corporate head office expenses and Group
funding costs. 
Segment assets and liabilities represent the balance sheet carrying values held at the end of the year.
Segment assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill, trade and other receivables, inventories, prepayments and accrued income. 
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, accruals, deferred income and post-employment benefit obligations. 
Unallocated liabilities include loan and finance lease liabilities as well as interest and tax related prepaid income, accrued expenses and provisions.
Unalloacted assets include centrally held cash and other liquid assets and financial assets, as well as interest and tax related prepaid expenses and
accrued income.
48 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 1 Accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment (tangible fixed assets)
Land and buildings comprise mainly retail outlets, warehouses and offices.
All tangible fixed assets are stated at historic cost.
Subsequent costs are included in an asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate. Only when it is probable that
future economic benefits associated with an asset will flow to the Group, the cost of the asset can be measured reliably, the asset’s useful life
exceeds one full accounting period and costs exceed £1,000 (or equivalent) are these costs included in the carrying amount. All other repairs 
and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The Group selects its depreciation rates carefully and reviews them regularly to take account of any changes in circumstances. When setting 
useful economic lives, the principal factor the Group takes into account is the length of time during which the assets are expected to be used 
within the business.
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less estimated residual 
value over their estimated useful lives, and the depreciation periods of the principal categories are as follows:
Freehold buildings 20 years
Long leasehold 20 years or lease term if shorter
Short leasehold over the remaining period of the lease
Tenants’ fixtures and improvements between five and 20 years
Computers and electronic equipment between two and four years
Motorcars and commercial vehicles between two and five years
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated
recoverable amount. Estimated recoverable amounts are reviewed at least annually.
Gains and losses on disposals outside the Group are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are included in the 
income statement.
Intangible assets
a) Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired
subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions
of associates is included in the carrying value of investments in associates. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less
impairment losses. Goodwill impairment losses cannot be reversed. Gains and losses on the disposal of an operation include the carrying amount
of goodwill relating to the operation sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. Each of those cash-generating units represents a separate
autonomous unit within the Group, where the management of the unit has independent control and responsibility for managing the cash flow 
of that unit.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 49 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
1 Accounting policies continued
b) Other intangibles
Trademarks and licences are shown at historic cost. Trademarks and licences have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated
amortisation. 
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software controlled by the Group, and where it is probable that 
they will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets. Other costs are recognised as an
expense as incurred. Direct costs include the software development, employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of other intangibles over their estimated useful lives of between 
two to six years.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful economic life consist of payments made in advance in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises.
These are not amortised, but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
An indefinite useful life is deemed appropriate for these assets as their value does not diminish systematically over time and they can normally be re-sold.
General impairment of assets
Assets having an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation
are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicated that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable, or that
the asset’s use may not generate an economic benefit greater than their carrying value. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which
the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and
value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash
flows. The discount rate is applied based upon the Group's weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated
with the relevant business.
Financial instruments (UK GAAP accounting policies applicable up to 31 January 2005)
Financial assets are recognised on the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Discounts and premia are charged or credited 
to the income statement over the life of the asset or liability to which they relate.
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for using hedge accounting to the extent that they are held to hedge a financial cash flow, asset or
liability. Outstanding contracts used to hedge against cash flows, which themselves will be accounted for in the profits and losses of a future period,
are not recognised, or are deferred when they mature, and are carried forward against corresponding gains and losses when they occur.
When a financial instrument ceases to be a hedge either as a result of the underlying asset or liability being extinguished, or because a future event
is no longer likely to occur, the instrument will thereafter be marked to its fair value in the financial statements.
Income and expenditure arising on financial instruments held for hedging purposes is recgonised on an accrual basis and credited or charged 
to the income statement in the financial period in which it arises.
Issue costs on debt are capitalised and amortised over the life of the debt.
Financial instruments (IFRS accounting policies applicable after 1 February 2005)
Investments
The Group classifies its investments in the following categories: 
•
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss;
•
loans and receivables; 
•
held-to-maturity investments; and 
•
available for sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired. Management determines the classification of its investments 
at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
50 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 1 Accounting policies continued
a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
This category has two sub-categories: 
•
financial assets held for trading; and 
•
those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term, or if so designated by management.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are either held for trading, or are expected to be realised within 12 months of the
balance sheet date.
b) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They arise
when the Group supplies money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable. They are included in current
assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. These are classified as non-current assets. Loans and
receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
c) Held-to-maturity investments
Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Group’s
management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are carried 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
d) Available for sale financial assets
Available for sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories. 
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Available for sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried at fair value. 
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available for sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available for sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement 
as gains and losses from investment securities. 
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade-date – the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. 
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss. 
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group 
has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are included 
in the income statement in the period in which they arise. 
The fair values of financial assets, including quoted investments, are based on current bid prices. If the market for a financial asset is not active, 
the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques such as the use of recent arm’s-length transactions, reference to other instruments
that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, and option pricing models refined to reflect the investment’s specific circumstances.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. 
In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is
considered in determining whether the securities are impaired. If any such evidence exists for available for sale financial assets, the cumulative 
loss – measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset 
previously recognised in profit or loss – is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses recognised in the
income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 51 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
1 Accounting policies continued
Derivatives
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair
value. All derivatives are categorised as investments held for trading (a sub-category of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss) unless
they are designated as cash flow hedges. As such they are valued at each balance sheet date and variances in value are charged in full to the
income statement. It is Group policy that we do not enter into derivatives that are not intended for the purpose of economic cash flow hedging.
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are tested for their hedge effectiveness on a regular periodic basis. Should these derivatives fail 
the requirements of this test they are immediately reclassified as investments held for trading and treated accordingly. To the extent that these
derivatives are demonstrated to be an effective hedge, movements in value are accumulated in equity reserves and are recycled against the benefit
or charge made to the income statement when the hedged transaction is settled. To the extent that these derivatives are ineffective as a hedge,
any variance in value is charged directly to the income statement.
The Group has strict treasury guidelines on derivatives and hedging policy. The Group holds two types of derivative instrument as hedges to
manage the financial risk profile of the Group and to limit the Group’s economic exposure to non-functional currency and interest rate volatility;
1) Currency derivatives in the form of forward exchange contracts between US dollars and functional currency are taken out to build a pool 
of forward contracts, which match the Group’s future US dollar currency liability on committed orders for the purchase of product. 
2) Interest rate swaps converting a variable-rate interest liability into a fixed-rate liability covering a significant proportion of the Group’s variable-
rate term borrowings.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk
management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge
inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes 
in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets (such as publicly traded derivatives, and trading and available for sale securities) 
is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current 
bid price; the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current ask price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over the counter derivatives) is determined by using
valuation techniques. The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance
sheet date. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows. The fair value of forward
foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The fair value
of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is
available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the weighted average method. The value of inventory
includes the purchase price and transport costs to our warehouses and retail stores.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses. 
Costs of inventories include the transfer from equity of any gains/losses on qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases of products.
A provision for impairment of inventories is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover the cost 
of inventory when sold.
Cost of product sales represents the value of stock sold when recognised in revenue.
52 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 1 Accounting policies continued
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and in the event that a trade receivable is only recoverable more than 12 months after 
the balance sheet date then it is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. 
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all 
amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount 
and the present value of estimated future cash flow, discounted at the effective interest rate. The amount of the movement in provision is
recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities
of three months or less, and bank overdrafts for which a right of set off exists. Other bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current
liabilities on the balance sheet.
Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. Incremental
costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options, or for the acquisition of a business, are included in the cost of acquisition as part
of the purchase consideration.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost; any
difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period 
of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months
after the balance sheet date.
Income tax
Income tax on the profit and loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except 
to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current income tax is the expected income tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, 
and adjustments to income tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred income tax is provided in full using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not
deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit and differences relating 
to investments in subsidiaries and associates, to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax is
determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply 
when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary
differences can be utilised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 53 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
1 Accounting policies continued
Employee benefits
a) Pension obligations
Group companies operate various pension schemes, which are supplemental to contributions paid to mandatory state funded schemes. 
Company-sponsored schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds, as determined 
by periodic actuarial calculations or local legislation. The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for past service costs which have not yet vested. 
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of 
the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate 
bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms 
of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately outside the
income statement in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining 
in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the 
vesting period.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory,
contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are
recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash 
refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
b) Share-based compensation
The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The total amount expensed over the vesting period is determined by
reference to the fair value of the shares granted. It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, 
and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
c) Other long-term employee benefits
Some Group companies provide long-term employment benefits to employees. The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the
employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period. The expected costs of these benefits are
accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
d) Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable if employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary
redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either terminating 
the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan, without possibility of withdrawal or providing termination benefits as a
result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted
to present value.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is more likely than not that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably estimated. Provisions are discounted where the
time value of money is considered material.
Restructuring provisions, comprising of lease termination penalties and employee termination payments, are only recognised when plans are
sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken on or before the balance
sheet date.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
54 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 1 Accounting policies continued
Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods and services, net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales
within the Group. Revenue is recognised as follows:
a) Sales of goods – retail
Sales of goods are recognised at the point of sale of a product to the customer or upon delivery to the customer, which ever is the later. Retail
sales are usually in cash or by card. 
Certain companies within the Group sell products with a right of return. Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the value 
of such returns at the time of sale.
b) Sales of services
Sales of services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference to completion of the specific transaction
assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided. 
The Group sells extended warranty contracts. Where the Group has responsibility for fulfilling obligations under these contracts, the Group
recognises the corresponding revenue over the period for which cover is provided, excluding any free period of manufacturer’s warranty. 
Where the Group sells an extended warranty contract and a third-party insurance company has responsibility for contractual obligations,
commission revenue for the insured warranty contract is recognised at the time of sale. Where part of the obligation under these contracts 
is reinsured by the Group, the revenue relating to the reinsurance is recognised over the period for which reinsurance is provided, excluding 
any period of manufacturer’s warranty.
c) Royalty and franchise revenue
Royalty and franchise revenue is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements and is included
within other income.
Interest
Interest income and expense is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method. 
Leases
Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group or any of its subsidiaries are classified 
as finance leases. 
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of minimum lease
payments. Assets capitalised as property, plant and equipment are amortised in accordance with Group depreciation policy. Payments under such
leases are charged against the recognised liability and interest costs are charged to the income statement over the full period of the finance lease
on a systematic basis.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments
made under operating leases (net of any financial incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis
over the full period of the lease.
Charges made in respect of operating leases of property are adjusted from time to time to reflect the impact of market rent reviews throughout 
the life of the lease.
Dividends
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the
dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 55 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
1 Accounting policies continued
Contingent assets and liabilities
Contingent assets and liabilities arise from conditions or situations, the outcome of which depends on future events. They are disclosed in 
note 38 of the accounts.
Events occurring after the balance sheet date
The values of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are adjusted if there is evidence that subsequent adjusting events warrant 
a modification of these values. These adjustments are made up to the date of approval of the accounts by the Board of Directors. Other 
non-adjusting events are disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
Financial risk management
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed. The Board establishes the Group’s financial policies and the 
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) establishes objectives in line with these policies. The Finance Director’s Committee and the Treasury Committee,
under the supervision of the Group Finance Director (GFD), are then responsible for setting financial strategies, which are executed by the central
and operating company treasury teams. Approved treasury management guidelines define and classify risks and also determine, by category of
transaction, specific approval, limit and monitoring procedures.
In the course of its business, the Group is exposed to financial market risks, credit risk, settlement risk and liquidity risk. In accordance with the
aforementioned policies, the Group only enters into derivative transactions related to operating and/or financial assets or liabilities or anticipated
future transactions. The Group does not enter into trading derivative transactions without underlying assets or liabilities. Financial market risks are
essentially caused by exposures to foreign currencies and interest rates. Foreign currency transaction risk arises because affiliated companies
sometimes undertake transactions in foreign currencies such as the purchase of products. Translation exposure arises from the consolidation 
of the Group accounts into sterling. Interest rate risk comprises the interest price risk that results from borrowing at variable and fixed rates and 
the interest cash flow risk that results from borrowing.
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its obligations. The Group is exposed to credit risks on financial instruments such 
as liquid assets, derivative assets and its trade receivable portfolios. Credit risk is managed by investing liquid assets and acquiring derivatives 
with high credit quality financial institutions in accordance with the Group’s treasury management guidelines. The Group is not exposed to
concentrations of credit risk on its liquid assets as these are spread over several financial institutions. As a result of its strong cash flow, the 
Group does not expect any refinancing issues as current loans agreements expire.
Affiliated companies lend their excess cash at bank to Group finance companies to be invested centrally. The Treasury Committee reviews 
and decides the currency and interest rate framework of the Group’s intragroup loans portfolio on a monthly basis.
Principal rates of exchange
Euro Czech kr
Average rate – year ended 31 January 2006 1.4645 43.5553
Closing rate – 31 January 2006 1.4638 42.3003
Average rate – year ended 31 January 2005 1.4735 47.1433
Closing rate – 31 January 2005 1.4420 43.0247 
56 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 2 Group operating profit
Year ended Year ended 
31 January 31 January
2006 2005
£m £m
Revenue 4,100.0 3,958.8
Cost of sales (2,876.8) (2,735.4)
Gross profit 1,223.2 1,223.4
Selling expenses (891.8) (875.5)
Administrative expenses (211.9) (203.9)
Other income 32.3 37.7
Group operating profit 151.8 181.7
Share of post tax profit in joint venture and associates 8.1 9.8
Total operating profit 159.9 191.5
The Demerger Award Plan charge and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are included within adminstrative expenses.
3 Segmental analysis
France France UK
Darty BUT Comet Other Unallocated Group
Year ended 31 January 2006 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 1,597.4 578.0 1,529.8 394.8 – 4,100.0
Retail profit/(loss) 109.9 34.2 38.3 (5.4) (12.1) 164.9
Share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation (0.4) (1.8) – – – (2.2)
Demerger Award Plan charge (0.6) (0.2) (0.3) (0.2) (0.5) (1.8)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.8) (0.1) (0.1) – – (1.0)
Operating profit/(loss) 108.1 32.1 37.9 (5.6) (12.6) 159.9
Interest payable and similar charges (24.4)
Interest receivable 7.8
Net interest (16.6)
Profit before tax 143.3
Taxation (48.6)
Profit for the financial year 94.7
The share of operating profits of the joint venture and associates included within the retail profit for Darty and BUT are £5.1m and £5.2m
respectively. The share of post-tax profits of the joint venture and associates included within the operating profit for Darty and BUT are £4.7m and
£3.4m respectively.
France France UK
Darty BUT Comet Other Unallocated Group
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Segmental assets 600.0 537.0 390.1 184.2 239.7 1,951.0
Segmental liabilities (513.0) (128.7) (476.3) (109.2) (393.6) (1,620.8)
Investments in equity accounted joint venture and associates of £11.9m and £27.2m are included within the segment assets of Darty and BUT
respectively.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 57 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
3 Segmental analysis continued
France France UK
Darty BUT Comet Other Unallocated Group
Year ended 31 January 2006 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Other segment items
Capital expenditure 
Property, plant and equipment 30.6 21.5 26.8 18.9 – 97.8
Intangible assets 2.2 1.2 – 1.5 – 4.9
Depreciation (note 11) (25.0) (16.8) (23.2) (8.8) (2.4) (76.2)
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 10) (1.5) (0.6) – (0.2) (0.1) (2.4)
Impairment losses – plant, property and equipment and 
intangible fixed assets – (1.2) – (0.1) – (1.3)
Reversal of impairment losses – plant, property and equipment 
and intangible fixed assets – 0.8 0.3 – – 1.1
France France UK
Darty BUT Comet Other Unallocated Group
Year ended 31 January 2005 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 1,536.4 548.6 1,538.1 335.7 – 3,958.8
Retail profit/(loss) 118.5 41.5 48.7 2.7 (11.5) 199.9
Share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation (0.8) (1.8) – – – (2.6)
Demerger Award Plan charge (1.6) (0.3) (0.9) (0.6) (1.4) (4.8)
(Loss)/profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1.1) (0.2) 0.4 – (0.1) (1.0)
Operating profit/(loss) 115.0 39.2 48.2 2.1 (13.0) 191.5
Interest payable and similar charges (24.1)
Interest receivable 10.5
Net interest (13.6)
Profit before tax 177.9
Taxation (60.7)
Profit for the financial year 117.2
The share of operating profits of the joint venture and associates included within the retail profit for Darty and BUT are £7.4m and £5.0m
respectively. The share of post-tax profits of the joint venture and associates included within the operating profit for Darty and BUT are £6.6m and
£3.2m respectively.
France France UK
Darty BUT Comet Other Unallocated Group
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Segmental assets 590.0 543.1 383.1 147.0 369.9 2,033.1
Segmental liabilities (497.6) (142.3) (480.8) (76.5) (534.8) (1,732.0)
Investment in equity accounted joint venture  and associates of £11.5m and £25.6m are included within the segment assets of Darty and BUT respectively.
58 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 3 Segmental analysis continued
France France UK
Darty BUT Comet Other Unallocated Group
Year ended 31 January 2006 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Other segment items
Capital expenditure
Property, plant and equipment 36.4 26.0 22.0 8.4 0.1 92.9
Intangible assets 2.4 0.1 – 1.3 – 3.8
Depreciation (note 11) (22.8) (16.8) (22.9) (7.2) (2.4) (72.1)
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 10) (1.0) (0.6) (0.1) (0.1) (0.7) (2.5)
Impairment losses – plant, property and equipment and 
intangible fixed assets – (2.6) (0.4) (0.1) – (3.1)
Reversal of impairment losses – plant, property and equipment
and intangible fixed assets – – 0.4 – – 0.4
At 31 January 2006 and 31 January 2005, the Group was organised into four business segments, as follows:
– Darty
– BUT 
– Comet 
– Other (includes BCC, NVB, Datart, Darty Italy and Darty Switzerland) 
Segment revenues by origin are not materially different to segment revenues by destination.
Unallocated items within operating profit comprise corporate expenses.
Segment assets include available for sale and equity accounted investments, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, stocks,
debtors, other current assets and cash that is not held centrally. Unallocated assets include centrally held cash and other liquid assets and financial
assets, as well as interest and tax related prepaid expenses and accrued income.
Segment liabilities include operating liabilities such as accounts payable, overdrafts that are not held centrally, prepaid income, accrued expenses
and provisions, excluding those relating to interest and taxes. 
Unallocated liabilities include loan and finance lease liabilities as well as interest and tax related prepaid income, accrued expenses and provisions.
Capital expenditure includes additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed assets, including additions resulting from acquisitions
through business combinations.
The Directors do not consider there to be a secondary segment by which the Group is managed.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 59 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
4 Interest payable and similar charges
Year ended Year ended
31 January 31 January
2006 2005
£m £m
Interest payable on bank borrowings 18.8 22.1
Interest payable on finance leases 0.4 0.2
Interest on pension schemes 3.0 1.8
Write-off of loan arrangement fees 2.1 –
Foreign exchange losses 0.1 –
Total interest payable and similar charges 24.4 24.1
5 Interest receivable
Year ended Year ended
31 January 31 January
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank and other interest receivable 7.8 9.3
Foreign exchange gains – 1.2
Total interest receivable 7.8 10.5
The foreign exchange gains arise on the re-translation of short-term deposits denominated in a currency other than the operation’s functional
currency.
6 Profit before taxation
Year ended Year ended
31 January 31 January
2006 2005
Note £m £m
The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit
Staff costs 34 584.3 571.4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment:
– Owned assets 11 75.6 71.3
– Assets under finance leases 11 0.6 0.8
Amortisation of intangibles 10 2.4 2.5
Impairment of goodwill 10 – 1.7
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 11 1.3 1.4
Reversal of impairment on property, plant and equipment 11 (1.1) (0.4)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (including write offs) 2.0 1.9
Other operating lease rentals payable
– Plant and machinery 25.2 22.6
– Property 144.5 132.8
Income from the sub-lease of property (4.8) (4.7)
Inventories
– Cost of inventories written off 14 23.0 22.1
Impairment of trade receivables 1.5 0.7
60 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 6 Profit before taxation continued
Services provided by the Group’s auditor and network firms
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidaries) obtained the following services from the Group’s auditor at costs as detailed below:
Year ended Year ended
31 January 31 January
2006 2005
£m £m
Statutory audit services 1.6 1.4
Other assurance services 0.3 – 
Other advisory services 0.2 – 
Total services 2.1 1.4
Fees paid to other auditors were £0.4m (2005: £0.3m) in respect of audit services.
7 Taxation
Year ended Year ended
31 January 31 January
2006 2005
£m £m
Analysis of charge in year
UK corporation tax
Current tax on profits for the year 4.9 12.7
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.9) (1.0)
4.0 11.7
Foreign tax
Current tax on profits for the year 41.9 50.0
Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.2 0.5
42.1 50.5
Deferred tax 2.5 (1.5)
Total taxation 48.6 60.7
The tax charge relates entirely to continuing operations.
Tax on items charged to equity:
Current tax charge on foreign exchange gains 0.7 – 
Current tax charge on share schemes 0.1 (0.8)
Deferred tax charge on share schemes 0.6 (0.7)
Deferred tax charge on cash flow hedges in reserves 1.2 – 
Deferred tax (credit) on available for sale investments (0.9) – 
Deferred tax (credit) on actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations (4.4) (5.6)
Adjustments in respect of IAS 39 at 1 February 2005 – 0.9
(2.7) (6.2)
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 61 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
7 Taxation continued
Year ended Year ended
31 January 31 January
2006 2005
£m £m
Factors affecting tax charges for the year
The tax for the year is higher (2005: higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax
in the UK (30 per cent). The differences are explained below:
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 143.3 177.9
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by rate of corporation tax in 
the UK of 30 per cent (2005: 30 per cent) 43.0 53.4
Effects of:
Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 5.5 8.0
Adjustments in respect of joint ventures and associates (1.5) (1.8)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.1 1.1
Losses not recognised as deferred tax asset 0.5 0.4
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior years (1.0) (0.4)
Total tax charge 48.6 60.7
Tax charge per Group income statement 48.6 60.7
Share of joint venture and associate taxation 2.2 2.6
Adjusted tax charge 50.8 63.3
Profit before tax per Group income statement 143.3 177.9
Share of joint venture and associate taxation 2.2 2.6
Adjusted profit before tax 145.5 180.5
Effective tax rate 34.9% 35.1%
8 Dividends
Year ended Year ended
31 January 31 January
2006 2005
£m £m
Final paid 2005: 8.25 pence (2004: 7.5 pence) per share 43.7 39.8
Interim paid 2005: 2.95 pence (2004: 2.75 pence) per share 15.6 14.6
59.3 54.4
In addition, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 January 2006 of 9.15 pence per share which 
will absorb an estimated £48.5m of shareholders’ funds. It will be paid on 14 July 2006 to shareholders who are on the register of members 
on 16 June 2006, subject to shareholder approval.
62 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 9 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to shareholders by 529.5m shares (2005: 529.6m), being the weighted
average number of ordinary shares in issue.
There is no difference between diluted and basic earnings per share. Supplementary adjusted earnings per share figures are presented. These exclude
the effects of the Demerger Award Plan charge and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
Year ended 31 January 2006 Year ended 31 January 2005
Per share Per share
Earnings amount Earnings amount
£m pence £m pence
Basic earnings per share
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 94.7 17.9 117.2 22.1
Adjustments
Demerger Award Plan charge 1.8 0.3 4.8 0.9
Loss on disposal of plant, property and equipment 1.0 0.2 1.0 0.2
Tax effect of adjustments (0.9) (0.2) (1.6) (0.3)
Basic – adjusted earnings per share 96.6 18.2 121.4 22.9
10  Intangible assets
Other
Goodwill Software intangibles Total
As at 31 January 2006 £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 February 2005 199.4 12.2 10.2 221.8
Transfers (1.0) – 1.0 – 
Additions – separately acquired 0.1 1.4 – 1.5
Additions – internally generated – 3.4 – 3.4
Disposals – – (0.1) (0.1)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (2.7) (1.0) (0.1) (3.8)
At 31 January 2006 195.8 16.0 11.0 222.8
Aggregate amortisation and impairment
At 1 February 2005 16.8 2.9 1.1 20.8
Charge for year – 1.5 0.9 2.4
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (1.1) (0.1) – (1.2)
At 31 January 2006 15.7 4.3 2.0 22.0
Net book value
– internally generated – 8.5 – 8.5
– other 180.1 3.2 9.0 192.3
Total at 31 January 2006 180.1 11.7 9.0 200.8
At 31 January 2005 182.6 9.3 9.1 201.0
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 63 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
10  Intangible assets continued
Amortisation charges in the year were included in the income statement as follows: selling expenses £0.4m, administrative expenses £2.0m. 
Other
Goodwill Software intangibles Total
As at 31 January 2005 £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 February 2004 195.5 8.5 7.3 211.3
Transfers – 2.9 – 2.9
Additions – separately acquired 1.2 – 1.0 2.2
Additions – internally generated – 0.3 1.3 1.6
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.7 0.6 0.5 3.8
At 31 January 2005 199.4 12.3 10.1 221.8
Aggregate amortisation and impairment
At 1 February 2004 14.4 0.3 1.0 15.7
Charge for year – 2.4 0.1 2.5
Impairment 1.7 – – 1.7
Effects of foreign exchange rate changes 0.7 0.2 – 0.9
At 31 January 2005 16.8 2.9 1.1 20.8
Net book value
– internally generated – 6.4 – 6.4
– other 182.6 2.9 9.1 194.6
Total at 31 January 2005 182.6 9.3 9.1 201.0
Amortisation charges in the year were included in the income statement as follows: selling expenses £0.7m, administrative expenses £1.8m. 
Goodwill
Goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units and amounts tested for impairment based on their value in use. The carrying amount 
of goodwill by business segments are as follows:
France France UK Group
Darty BUT Comet Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 31 January 2006 1.2 166.4 – 12.5 180.1
At 31 January 2005 1.2 168.8 – 12.6 182.6
Included within the BUT goodwill is £138.9m (2005: £142.9m) that arose on the acquisition of BUT in 1998. The goodwill is allocated to the BUT
segment for reporting purposes.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculation for the BUT goodwill were:
– future operating cash flows for the BUT business were derived using management’s latest three-year estimates to 2008/09. A terminal value
was calculated based on the forecast to 2008/09.
– a long-term growth rate of 3 per cent was assumed for the BUT turnover which represents the expected growth rate in the French furniture
market in line with current economic forecasts.
– a post-tax discount factor of 8.5 per cent which represents the Group’s weighted average cost of capital was used to discount the future 
cash flows.
64 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 10  Intangible assets continued
Whilst management are confident that their assumptions are appropriate, it is possible that there would be an impairment were there to be a
change in certain key assumptions. The carrying value of BUT is £399.2m, including £138.9m of goodwill and the recoverable amount, as
measured by a value-in-use calculation was £411.9m. If the values of the key assumptions were to move by the following amounts, then 
value in use would equal recoverable amount. All changes are assumed to happen in isolation:
a) If long-term growth rate fell 19 basis points from 2009/10 through to perpetuity, then value in use would equal recoverable amount.
b) If the discount factor increased by 17 basis points, then the carrying amount would equal the recoverable amount.
c) If forecast operating profit was to be 3.3 per cent lower in 2008/09 through to perpetuity, then the carrying amount would be equal to the
recoverable amount.
For other goodwill, value in use calculations have been performed using growth rates and discount factors considered appropriate for the relevant
cash-generating units.
Goodwill impairment of £0.8m was included in the IFRS transition balance sheet at 31 January 2004. A further £1.7m was charged in the year to
31 January 2005. No impairment has been charged in the income statement for the year to 31 January 2006. All impairment amounts recognised
resulted from adverse trading conditions within the relevant cash generating units.
Other intangibles
Other intangibles largely represent amounts paid in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises. The value in use of these intangibles assets
has been calculated using growth rates and discount factors considered appropriate for the relevant cash-generating units. The carrying amount 
of the other intangibles with indefinitie useful lives is analysed by business segment as follows:
France France UK
Darty BUT Comet Other Group
£m £m £m £m £m
At 31 January 2006 6.5 2.4 – 0.1 9.0
At 31 January 2005 6.6 2.4 – 0.1 9.1
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 65 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
11  Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures, Assets in the
Land and fittings and course of
buildings equipment construction Total
Cost £m £m £m £m
At 1 February 2005 305.5 545.4 6.6 857.5
Reclassifications 4.0 1.0 (5.0) – 
Additions 18.6 79.1 0.1 97.8
Disposals (6.4) (35.8) – (42.2)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (4.7) (4.2) (0.1) (9.0)
At 31 January 2006 317.0 585.5 1.6 904.1
Accumulated of depreciation
At 1 February 2005 40.4 294.6 – 335.0
Reclassifications 2.8 (2.8) – –
Impairment – 1.3 – 1.3
Reversal of impairment (0.3) (0.8) – (1.1)
Charge for year 10.1 66.1 – 76.2
Disposals (3.5) (31.5) – (35.0)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (0.2) (2.9) – (3.1)
At 31 January 2006 49.3 324.0 – 373.3
Net book value
At 31 January 2006 267.7 261.5 1.6 530.8
At 31 January 2005 265.1 250.8 6.6 522.5
The cost of fixtures, fittings and equipment includes £5.0m (2005: £4.6m) in respect of assets held under finance leases. The related accumulated
depreciation at the end of the year was £4.1m (2005: £3.5m).
The cost of land and buildings includes £0.3m (2005: £0.3m) in respect of assets held under finance leases. The related accumulated depreciation
at the end of the year was £0.2m (2005: £0.2m).
The net book value of land and buildings includes £4.9m in relation to long leaseholds (2005: £9.6m) and £0.1m in relation to short leaseholds
(2005: £0.1m).
66 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 11  Property, plant and equipment continued
Fixtures, Assets in the
Land and fittings and course of
buildings equipment construction Total
As at 31 January 2005 £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 February 2004 292.7 488.6 7.1 788.4
Reclassifications 0.2 2.8 (3.0) – 
Transfers to intangible assets – – (2.9) (2.9)
Additions 16.8 70.8 5.3 92.9
Disposals (9.0) (23.6) – (32.6)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 4.8 6.8 0.1 11.7
At 31 January 2005 305.5 545.4 6.6 857.5
Accumulated of depreciation
At 1 February 2004 31.2 252.2 – 283.4
Impairment 0.5 0.9 – 1.4
Reversal of impairment (0.4) – – (0.4)
Charge for year 10.8 61.3 – 72.1
Disposals (3.2) (21.0) – (24.2)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.5 1.2 – 2.7
At 31 January 2005 40.4 294.6 – 335.0
Net book value
At 31 January 2005 265.1 250.8 6.6 522.5
Store impairment
Asset impairment reviews are carried out whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
In respect of the Group’s stores, impairment testing is performed at the individual store level, based on value in use calculations.
Store impairment of £3.4m was included in the balance sheet at 31 January 2004. In the year to 31 January 2005, a further £1.4m of store
impairment was charged and £0.4m of impairment in respect of previous years was reversed. In the year to 31 January 2006 store impairment of
£1.3m was charged and £1.1m of impairment in respect of previous years was reversed.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 67 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
12 Investments – non current
Investments Investments 
in joint venture in associates Total
£m £m £m
Net assets
At 1 February 2005 1.4 35.7 37.1
Adjustment in respect of IAS 39 – (2.0) (2.0)
Revised at 1 February 2005 1.4 33.7 35.1
Share of retained profits in year 3.8 4.3 8.1
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – (0.7) (0.7)
Dividends received (3.4) – (3.4)
At 31 January 2006 1.8 37.3 39.1
Total Group interest 
As at 31 January 2006 1.8 37.3 39.1
As at 31 January 2005 1.4 35.7 37.1
Investments Investments 
in joint venture in associates Total
£m £m £m
Net assets
At 1 February 2004 5.0 27.4 32.4
Additions – 3.1 3.1
Share of retained profits in year 5.0 4.8 9.8
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – 0.4 0.4
Dividends received (8.6) – (8.6)
At 31 January 2005 1.4 35.7 37.1
In relation to the Group’s interest in joint venture and associates, the income and expenses were as follows:
Joint venture Associates
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Income 17.3 17.6 35.7 37.7
Expense (13.5) (12.6) (29.2) (30.3)
Profit before interest and tax 3.8 5.0 6.5 7.4
Interest – – – –
Tax – – (2.2) (2.6)
Share of post-tax results 3.8 5.0 4.3 4.8
68 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 12  Investments – non current continued
In relation to the Group's interest in the joint venture, the assets and liabilities are shown below:
Joint venture Associates
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Current assets 29.4 15.4 350.8 353.3
Current liabilities (27.6) (14.0) (313.5) (317.6)
Net assets 1.8 1.4 37.3 35.7
The joint venture has no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed. There are no significant capital commitments within the joint
venture.
The Group’s investment in the joint venture, Darty Orange S.A., relates to a company incorporated in France in which the Group has joint control.
The Group’s investments in associated undertakings relate to the Group’s 50 per cent holding in Menafinance S.A. (formerly Crealfi S.A.), 
a company incorporated in France that provides consumer credit services, and the Group’s 49.0 per cent holding in Fidem S.A., a company
incorporated in France that administers store credit.
Other investments – current
2006 2005 
£m £m 
Other investments 80.5 95.6
Other investments include deposits and investments, comprising deposits with banks which mature after more than three months from the date of
inception.
13  Available for sale investments
£m
As at 1 February 2005 –
Transfer from other investments 5.4
Adjustments in respect of IAS 39 13.9
As at 1 February 2005 revised 19.3
Additions 0.1
Disposals (0.1)
Exchange differences (0.3)
Net revaluation surplus transferred to equity 1.0
At 31 January 2006 20.0
Non-current 20.0
Listed securities:
Equity securities – Eurozone 19.1
Unlisted securities:
Unlisted securities – Eurozone 0.9
Total securities 20.0
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 69 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
13  Available for sale investments continued
Comparative information
Other investments
The Group took advantage of the exemption contained within IFRS 1 and did not adopt the requirements of IAS 32 “Financial instruments:
disclosures and presentation” and IAS 39 “Financial instruments: recognition and measurement” in the year ended 31 January 2005. These
accounting standards were adopted from 1 February 2005. The comparative information shown below is based on the UK GAAP disclosure
requirements and is shown at cost rather than fair value as above.
£m
As at 1 February 2004 5.4
Disposals (0.1)
Exchange differences 0.1
At 31 January 2005 5.4
Listed securities:
Equity securities – Eurozone 4.5
Unlisted securities:
Unlisted securities – Eurozone 0.9
Total securities 5.4
Market value of listed investments 18.0
Investments listed overseas primarily relates to the Group’s holding in Go Sport S.A. (sports leisurewear and equipment retailer), a company listed
and registered in France. The Group does not exercise any significant influence over the operations of Go Sport S.A. and hence reports its interest
as an investment at cost.
Price risk
The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk on investments held by the Group and classified on the consolidated balance sheet as available
for sale at fair value through profit or loss. 
14 Inventories
2006 2005
£m £m
Finished goods for resale 616.7 601.0
During the year, £23.0m (2005: £22.1m) of inventories were written off and charged to the income statement. £52.1m (2005: £47.1m) of inventory
is pledged as collateral for liabilities.
70 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 15  Trade and other receivables
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade receivables 153.9 161.3
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (9.7) (10.8)
Net trade receivables 144.2 150.5
Amounts owed by joint venture and associates 2.2 2.1
Other receivables 68.1 66.3
Prepayments and accrued income 30.0 23.4
Total trade and other receivables 244.5 242.3
16  Other receivables 
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Other receivables 9.7 11.2
Total other receivables 9.7 11.2
17  Cash and cash equivalents
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 62.6 60.6
Short-term bank deposit and investments 97.0 215.0
Total 159.6 275.6
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprised the following at 31 January:
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand` 62.6 60.6
Bank overdrafts (53.8) (90.7)
Short-term bank deposit and investments 97.0 215.0
Total cash and cash equivalents 105.8 184.9
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits held at 31 January 2006 was 4.1 per cent (31 January 2005: 4.7 per cent) and these deposits
had an average maturity of three days.
Of the total deposits and investments, £82.5m (2005: £82.5m) is pledged as part of underlying insurance arrangements to meet expected future
costs arising from the provision of extended warranty cover.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 71 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
18  Trade and other payables – current
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade payables 311.2 260.1
Other tax and social security payable 129.4 136.1
Other payables 105.0 106.7
Accruals 173.7 175.2
Deferred income 96.3 90.7
Obligations under finance leases 0.9 0.6
Total trade and other payables – current 816.5 769.4
19 Income tax liabilities
2006 2005
£m £m
Income tax liabilities 11.9 16.3
20  Financial liabilities – borrowings
2006 2005
£m £m
Current
Bank loans 2.8 45.1
Bank overdrafts 53.8 90.7
Total current 56.6 135.8
Non-current
Bank loans 347.0 442.0
Total non-current 347.0 442.0
Bank loans and overdrafts are denominated in a number of currencies and have interest rates based upon LIBOR and EURIBOR.
The Group refinanced its borrowing arrangements in July 2005. £472.6m (c689m) drawn down on the previous borrowing facility was repaid by
drawing down on a new five-year facility.
Within bank loans and overdrafts, an amount of £9.3m (2005: £3.5m) is secured over property, stock and other assets.
72 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 20  Financial liabilities – borrowings continued
The exposure of the Group to interest rate changes when borrowings reprice is as follows:
Within One to Afer Total 
one year five years five years 2006
£m £m £m £m
At 31 January 2006
Total borrowings 399.5 3.2* 0.9* 403.6
399.5 3.2 0.9 403.6
At 31 January 2006, the Group had in place £341.6m of floating to fixed interest rate swaps that were closed out in February 2006. These are
shown as a current derivative financial liability.
Within One to After Total 
one year five years five years 2005
£m £m £m £m
At 31 January 2005
Total borrowings 571.9 4.3* 1.6* 577.8
Effect of interest rate swaps (original expiry date 30 January 2007) (346.7) 346.7 – –
225.2 351.0 1.6 577.8
* Borowings for which the rates were fixed for at least one year but for which the fixed rate will expire either before or after five years.
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows:
2006 2005
%%
Bank loans 3.2 3.9
The carrying amount of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
2006 2005
£m £m
Pound sterling 49.9 87.3
Euro 353.7 490.5
403.6 577.8
21  Other non-current payables
2006 2005
£m £m
Obligations under finance leases 1.9 3.5
Accruals 19.9 19.9
Deferred income 198.2 196.8
Other payables 18.7 18.8
Total other non-current payables 238.7 239.0
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 73 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
22  Financial instruments
Group
The Group took advantage of the exemption contained within IFRS 1 and did not adopt the requirements of IAS 32 “Financial instruments:
disclosure and presentation” and IAS 39 “Financial instruments: recognition and measurement” in the year ended 31 January 2005. These
accounting standards were adopted from 1 February 2005. The comparative information shown below is based on the FRS 13 “Derivatives 
and other financial instruments: disclosures” required under UK GAAP. 
Numerical financial instrument disclosures are set out below, together with an explanation of the Group’s financial instrument risk management
objectives, policies and strategies.
Treasury policy
Kesa Group treasury manages liquidity and exposure to funding, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks. The Group treasury uses a
combination of derivative and conventional financial instruments to manage these underlying financial risks. Treasury operations are conducted
within a framework of Board-approved policies and guidelines, which are recommended and monitored by the Treasury Committee. These
guidelines include bank exposure limits and hedge cover levels for each of the key areas of treasury risk. The Board and Treasury Committee
receive monthly reports of the activities of Group treasury.
The main elements of treasury activity to manage relevant financial risks are outlined below:
Currency risk
The Group publishes its financial statements in sterling and conducts business in several foreign currencies. As a result, it is subject to foreign
currency exchange risk due to exchange movements affecting the Group’s sterling transaction costs, and the translation of results and underlying
net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The Group hedges a substantial proportion of its exposure to fluctuations on the translation into sterling of its foreign currency net assets by holding
net borrowings in foreign currencies, primarily the Euro. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net borrowings held in currencies other
than the functional currency of the entity are recognised in the income statement.
The Group adopts a centralised approach to foreign exchange risk management. No foreign exchange transaction may be undertaken 
without the permission of Group treasury, which is responsible for all hedging transactions. Any foreign exchange transaction must be 
demonstrably linked to an underlying exposure and the hedge must be continually monitored through the life of the transaction to ensure 
it remains effective and appropriate.
The treasury policy requires that all transactional foreign exchange risk must be hedged, up to 12 months forward, using forward exchange
contracts. The gain or loss on the hedge is recognised at the same time as the underlying transaction.
Interest rate risk
The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk on its primary credit facility and manages this exposure using interest rates swaps. The treasury
policy requires that at least 50 per cent, but no more than 100 per cent of borrowings in the Group must be fixed.
Credit risk
Several major financial institutions are counterparties to the interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and deposits transacted by the Group.
These transactions are only entered into with counterparties with a long-term credit rating of A or better. The treasury department monitors its credit
exposure to its counterparties on a monthly basis, together with their credit ratings.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented
by their carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
74 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 22  Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and short-term committed facilities that are designed to ensure the Group has sufficient
available funds for operations and planned expenditure.
Net fair values of derivative financial instruments
The net fair values of derivative financial instruments and designated cash flow hedges at the balance sheet date were:
Assets Liabilities
At 31 January 2006 £m £m
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hedge – (0.8)
Forward foreign currency contracts – cash flow hedge – (0.1)
Foreign currency swap – (0.1)
Embedded derivatives – (0.1)
Options over shares in Group undertakings 1.4 (1.8)
1.4 (2.9)
Current portion 1.4 (2.9)
Options over shares in Group undertakings
The fair value of options over shares in Group undertakings have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest
rates and by applying year-end exchange rates. The fair values of these financial assets and liabilities have not changed since 1 February 2005, 
and hence there is no charge/credit in the income statement during the year in relation to these options.
Hedges
Cash flow hedges
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge expected future purchases in US dollars for which the Group has firm commitments.
The contracts typically cover periods of less than six months. The forward currency contracts are being used to hedge the foreign currency risk of
the firm commitments. Where cash flow hedges on forward foreign currency contracts are assessed to be effective, the movement in the fair value
is taken to the hedging reserve within equity. The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated by marking the contracts to market
using prevailing forward exchange rates. At 31 January 2006, a net unrealised loss of £0.1m with a related deferred tax asset was included within
equity in respect of these contracts. At 31 January 2006, the value of future US dollar purchases hedged was $44.7m.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 75 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
22  Financial instruments continued
Interest rate swaps
The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 January 2006 was c500m. At 31 January 2006, the fixed
interest rate on the swaps was 3.15 per cent and floating rates were 2.54 per cent, and they expire in October 2007. The fair value of interest rate
swaps is calculated by discounting the future cash flows at prevailing market rates.
Where the hedge on the interest rate swap is assessed to be effective, the movement in the fair value is taken to the hedging reserve within equity.
At 31 January, a net unrealised loss of £0.8m with a related deferred tax asset of £0.2m was included within equity in respect of the interest rate
swap. In February 2006, the swaps were closed out and an amount of £0.8m (before tax) was reversed from equity and charged to the income
statement within interest payable. c300m of floating to fixed interest rate swaps were subsequently taken out in February 2006 with a fixed interest
rate of 3.16 per cent and an expiry date of February 2009.
Maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities as at 31 January 2006 is as follows:
Within one One to two Two to three Three to four Four to five More than
year years years years years five years Total 
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate
Current asset investments 78.7 – – – – – 78.7
Bank loans (1.6) (1.3) (0.6) (0.7) (0.9) (0.8) (5.9)
Finance leases (0.9) (0.5) (0.5) (0.3) (0.2) (0.4) (2.8)
Interest rate swaps (0.8) – – – – – (0.8)
Floating rate
Cash 62.6 – – – – – 62.6
Current asset investments 98.8 – – – – – 98.8
Bank overdrafts (53.8) – – – – – (53.8)
Bank loans (1.2) (1.0) (0.4) (0.4) (341.0) (0.1) (344.1)
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial instruments classified as
fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Current asset investments are made for varying periods of up to 12 months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn
interest at the respective short-term LIBOR or EURIBOR deposit rates. Of the total current asset investments of £177.5m, £80.5m are included
within other current investments and £97.5m within cash and cash equivalents.
Currency exposures
The Group seeks to mitigate the effect of the currency exposures arising from its net investments overseas by borrowing as far as possible in the
same currencies as the operating currencies of its operating units. The tables below show the extent to which Group companies have monetary
assets and liabilities in currencies other than their functional currency. Financial assets and liabilities denominated in the same functional currency as
the entity have been excluded from the tables.
76 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 22  Financial instruments continued
Post-hedging
Functional currency of entity
Net foreign currency financial
asset/(liability) – principal currency
Euro US $ Total
£m £m £m
Sterling 3.0 12.0 15.0
Euro – 0.9 0.9
CzK 0.1 – 0.1
Total 3.1 12.9 16.0
The amounts shown in the table above are after taking into account the Group’s forward foreign currency contracts, such that any financial asset or
liability that is hedged by a forward foreign currency contract is excluded from the table.
Pre-hedging
Functional currency of entity
Net foreign currency financial
asset/(liability) – principal currency
Euro US $ Total
£m £m £m
Sterling 3.0 (3.9) (0.9)
Euro – 0.3 0.3
CzK 0.1 – 0.1
Total 3.1 (3.6) (0.5)
The amounts shown in the table above are before taking into account the Group’s forward foreign currency contracts, and all foreign currency
financial assets and liabilities are included within the table.
Fair value of non-current borrowings
2006
Book value Fair value
£m £m
Long-term borrowings (note 20) (347.0) (347.3)
Fair value of other non-current financial assets and liabilities
Primary financial instruments held to finance the Group’s operations:
Financial assets:
Available for sale investments (note 13) 20.0 20.0
Other receivables (note 16) 9.7 9.7
Financial liabilities:
Other payables (note 21) (238.7) (238.7)
Provisions (note 23) (0.5) (0.5)
The carrying amounts of current assets and liabilities approximate to fair value.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 77 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
22  Financial instruments continued
Borrowing facilities
The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 January in respect of which all conditions precedent had been
met at that date:
Floating rate Fixed rate 2006 Total
£m £m £m
Expiring within one year 204.9 – 204.9
204.9 – 204.9
The facilities are subject to review at various dates. The Group has an unconditional option to extend the undrawn facility to July 2010.
Obligations under finance leases:
2006 2005
£m £m
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows
Not later than one year 1.1 1.1
Later than one year but not more than five 1.7 2.8
More than five years 0.5 0.8
Future finance charges on finance leases (0.5) (0.6)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 2.8 4.1
The effective interest rate on debt during the year was 3.2 per cent (2005: 3.9 per cent). The effective interest rate on finance leases during the year
was 10.0 per cent (2005: 10.9 per cent).
At 1 February 2004, the transition date to IFRS, an amount of £1.4m was reclassified from operating leases to finance leases with a corresponding
increase in property, plant and equipment and finance lease obligations.
Comparative information – year ended 31 January 2005
The comparative information shown below is based on FRS 13 “Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures” required under UK GAAP.
78 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 22  Financial instruments continued
Interest rate and currency profile of gross financial assets
Fixed-rate assets Non-interest bearing
Weighted Weighted
average average time
interest rate for which Weighted
Floating-rate Fixed-rate on fixed-rate rate is Non-interest- average time
Total assets assets assets assets fixed bearing assets until maturity
£m £m £m % Years £m Years
At 31 January 2005
Sterling 253.6 104.0 137.8 4.7 – 11.8 –
Euro 131.0 74.4 – – – 56.6 –
Other 3.2 2.7 – – – 0.5 –
Gross assets 387.8 181.1 137.8 4.7 – 68.9 –
Of which:
Fixed asset investments 5.4
Debtors due after more than one year 11.2 
Current asset investments 310.6 
Cash at bank and in hand 60.6
387.8
The floating-rate financial assets have interest rates based on LIBOR and EURIBOR, fixed for periods of up to 12 months. Short-term debtors and
creditors have been excluded from the above analysis.
Interest rate and currency profile of gross financial liabilities
Fixed-rate liabilities Non-interest bearing
Weighted Weighted
average average time
interest rate for which Weighted
Floating-rate Fixed-rate on fixed-rate rate is Non-interest- average time
Total liabilities liabilities liabilities fixed bearing liabilities until maturity
£m £m £m % Years £m Years
At 31 January 2005
Sterling 104.2 – 0.3 10.9 – 103.9 –
Euro 501.4 142.6 353.9 3.9 2.7 4.9 –
Other – – – –– – –
Gross liabilities 605.6 142.6 354.2 3.9 2.7 108.8 –
Of which: 
Bank loans and overdrafts due within one year –
(excluding capitalised loan issue costs of £0.7m) 136.5
Obligations under finance leases less than one year 0.6
External funding due after more than one year –
(excluding capitalised loan issue costs of £1.8m) 443.8
Obligations under finance leases more than one year 3.5
Other accruals due after more than one year 19.9
Onerous property contracts 1.3
605.6
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 79 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
22  Financial instruments continued
The floating-rate financial liabilities have interest rates based upon LIBOR and EURIBOR, fixed for periods of up to 12 months. Short-term debtors
and creditors have been excluded from the above analysis.
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity of the Group’s gross financial liabilities is as follows:
2005
£m
Within one year 137.1
Between one and two years 89.8
Between two and five years 377.1
After five years 1.6
605.6
Borrowing facilities
At 31 January 2005, the Group had borrowing facilities amounting to £693.5m of which £173.4m were undrawn. The maturity of the undrawn
facility falls between two and five years.
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
Set out below is a year-end comparison of fair and book values of all the Group’s significant financial instruments by category. Where available,
market values have been used to determine fair values. Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash
flows at prevailing interest and exchange rates.
2005
Book value Fair value
£m £m
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations
Fixed-asset investments 5.4 18.9
Long-term borrowings (442.0) (442.3)
(436.6) (423.4)
Derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate and currency profile
Interest rate swaps – (4.8)
Forward foreign currency contracts – (0.2)
– (5.0)
There are no material differences between the book and fair values of the Group’s other financial assets and liabilities.
80 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 22  Financial instruments continued
Hedges
Unrecognised gains and losses on instruments used for hedging and those recognised in the period ended 31 January 2005 are as follows:
Gains Losses Net total
£m £m £m
Total unrecognised gains at beginning of year 1.7 – 1.7
Gains recognised in the year relating to prior year (1.1) – (1.1)
Gains not recognised in the year relating to prior years 0.6 – 0.6
Reclassification between gains and losses (0.6) 0.6 –
Losses not recognised in the year relating to current year – (5.6) (5.6)
Total unrecognised gains at end of year – (5.0) (5.0)
Of which:
Due to be recognised within one year – (0.2) (0.2)
Due to be recognised after one year – (4.8) (4.8)
– (5.0) (5.0)
23  Provisions
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 February 2005 1.3 2.2
Utilised during the year (0.2) (0.9)
At 31 January 2006 1.1 1.3
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
Current 0.6 0.5
Non-current 0.5 0.8
Total 1.1 1.3
Provisions relate to onerous property contracts. The Group has provided against future liabilities for all properties sublet at a shortfall and long-term
idle properties. The provision is based on the value of future cash outflows relating to rent, rates and service charges.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 81 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
24  Deferred tax
Group
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using tax rates applicable to the country in which they originate.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets to the extent
they are regarded as recoverable in the forseeable future.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings. As the earnings are continually
reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12) during
the period are shown below. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an
intention to settle the balances net:
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated
capital Fair value 
allowances adjustments Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 February 2005 (34.9) – (6.4) (41.3)
Adjustments in respect of IAS 39 – (2.2) – (2.2)
At 1 February 2005 revised (34.9) (2.2) (6.4) (43.5)
Income statement (charge)/credit 0.8 – (2.6) (1.8)
Tax credited/(charged) to equity – 0.9 (0.3) 0.6
Exchange adjustments 0.4 – 0.1 0.5
At 31 January 2006 (33.7) (1.3) (9.2) (44.2)
Deferred tax assets
Fair value 
adjustments Tax losses Pensions Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 February 2005 – 2.2 32.0 17.0 51.2
Adjustments in respect of IAS 39 3.0 – – – 3.0
At 1 February 2005 revised 3.0 2.2 32.0 17.0 54.2
Income statement (charge)/credit – 1.0 2.0 (3.7) (0.7)
Tax (charged)/credited to equity (1.2) – 4.4 (0.3) 2.9
Exchange adjustments – – (0.2) 0.2 – 
At 31 January 2006 1.8 3.2 38.2 13.2 56.4
82 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 24  Deferred tax continued
The deferred tax assets are not fully available for offset against the deferred tax liabilities, and this gives rise to the following amounts disclosed in
the balance sheet:
2006 2005
£m £m
Deferred tax assets as above 56.4 51.2
Offset against deferred tax liabilities (17.8) (16.5)
Deferred tax assets 38.6 34.7
Deferred tax liabilities as above (44.2) (41.3)
Reduced by deferred tax assets 17.8 16.5
Deferred tax liabilities (26.4) (24.8)
The deferred tax asset recoverable after more than one year is £56.4m (2005: £51.2m) and the deferred tax liability due after more than one year 
is £44.2m (2005: £41.3m).
As at 31 January 2006, the Group had foreign tax losses amounting to approximately £20.0m (2005: £10.0m) on which a deferred tax asset of
£3.2m (2005: £2.2m) has been recognised. There is uncertainty over the recoverability of the remaining losses, as it is not probable that there will
be sufficient taxable profits in the foreseeable future.
25  Called up share capital
2006 2005
Number of Number of
ordinary ordinary
shares shares
m £m m £m
Authorised 
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 1,000 250.0 1,000 250.0
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 529.6 132.4 529.6 132.4
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 83 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
26  Retained earnings
Retained earnings
£m
At 1 February 2005 (584.5)
Adjustment for first time adoption of IAS 39 (5.3)
Restated balance at 1 February 2005 (589.8)
Profit for the year 94.2
Dividends (59.3)
Employee share schemes 0.3
Investment in ESOP shares (0.5)
Net actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations (10.2)
At 31 January 2006 (565.3)
Retained earnings
Year ended 31 January 2005 £m
At 1 February 2004 (634.2)
Profit for the year 115.7
Dividends (54.4)
Employee share schemes 0.5
Net actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations (12.1)
At 31 January 2005 (584.5)
27  Other reserves
Available
for sale Total
Demerger Translation investments Hedging other
reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 February 2005 741.8 (0.5) – – 741.3
Adjustment for first time adoption of IAS 39 – – 11.7 (3.5) 8.2
Restated balance at 1 February 2005 741.8 (0.5) 11.7 (3.5) 749.5
Exchange differences – (2.5) – – (2.5)
Available for sale assets – fair value gains net of tax – – 2.3 – 2.3
– recycled and reported in net profit – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Cash flow hedges – fair value gains net of tax – – – 2.8 2.8
– recycled and reported in net profit – – – – – 
At 31 January 2006 741.8 (3.0) 13.7 (0.7) 751.8
84 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 27  Other reserves continued
Total
Demerger Translation other
reserve reserve reserves
Year ended 31 January 2005 £m £m £m
Group
At 1 February 2004 741.8 – 741.8
Exchange differences – (0.5) (0.5)
At 31 January 2005 741.8 (0.5) 741.3
The demerger reserve represents a reserve created on demerger and is non-distributable.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations on consolidation are included within the Translation
reserve. Cumulative translation differences on foreign operations are deemed to be zero at the transition date of 1 February 2004. Any gains and
losses recognised in the consolidation income statement on subsequent disposal of foreign operations will therefore exclude translation differences
arising prior to the transition date.
The available for sale investments reserve include movements, net of deferred tax, in the fair value of available for sale investments. On disposal of
the investment, the amount taken through the reserve is recycled out to the income statement.
The movement in the fair value of cash flow hedges, net of deferred tax, which are deemed to be effective is taken through the Hedging reserve. 
On expiry of the cash flow hedge, the amount in the hedge reserve is recycled out. If a hedge is deemed ineffective, the amount in the Hedging
reserve is immediately recycled out to the income statement.
28 Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity
2006 2005
£m £m
Profit attributable to shareholders 94.2 115.7
Dividends (59.3) (54.4)
Exchange differences (2.5) (0.5)
Employee share schemes 0.3 0.5
Available for sale assets – fair value gains net of tax 2.3 – 
– recycled and reported in net profit (0.3) – 
Cash flow hedges – fair value gains net of tax 2.8 – 
– recycled and reported in net profit – – 
Investment in ESOP shares (0.5) – 
Net actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations (10.2) (12.1)
Opening shareholders’ equity before adjustment for IAS 39 289.2 240.0
Adjustment for first time adoption of IAS 39 2.9 – 
Closing shareholders’ equity 318.9 289.2
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 85 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
29  Minority interest
2006 2005
£m £m
At beginning of the year 11.9 10.9
Acquisitions (0.2) – 
Profit for the year 0.5 1.5
Dividend paid (0.9) – 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – (0.5)
At end of the year 11.3 11.9
30  Cash flow from operating activities
2006 2005
£m £m
Profit after tax 94.7 117.2
Adjustments for: 
Tax 50.8 63.3
Depreciation and amortisation 78.6 74.6
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 1.3 1.4
Reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment (1.1) (0.4)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (including write offs) 2.0 1.9
Impairment of goodwill – 1.7
Interest income (7.8) (10.5)
Interest expense 24.4 24.1
Share of results of joint venture before taxation (3.8) (5.0)
Share of results of associates before taxation (6.5) (7.4)
Changes in working capital: 
Increase in inventories (20.6) (22.3)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (3.8) 24.4
Increase in payables 51.5 8.2
Net cash inflow from operating activities 259.7 271.2
Tax includes joint venture and associates tax of £2.2m (2005: £2.6m).
86 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 31  Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 
Transfers
and other 
At 31 January Exchange non-cash At 1 February
2006 Cash flow difference movements 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 62.6 3.6 (1.6) – 60.6
Overdrafts (53.8) 36.6 0.3 – (90.7)
Short-term deposits and investments 97.0 (115.9) (2.1) – 215.0
105.8 (75.7) (3.4) – 184.9
Borrowings falling due within one year (2.8) 41.5 0.8 – (45.1)
Borrowings falling due after one year (347.0) 88.4 6.6 – (442.0)
Finance leases (2.8) 1.7 0.1 (0.5) (4.1)
(352.6) 131.6 7.5 (0.5) (491.2)
Other current investments 80.5 (14.1) (1.0) – 95.6
Total (166.3) 41.8 3.1 (0.5) (210.7)
Transfers
and other 
At 31 January Exchange non-cash At 1 February
2005 Cash flow difference movements 2004
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 60.6 (3.2) 1.0 – 62.8
Overdrafts (90.7) (11.1) (0.2) 21.1 (100.5)
Short-term deposits and investments 215.0 26.4 4.6 – 184.0
184.9 12.1 5.4 21.1 146.3
Borrowings falling due within one year (45.1) 1.9 (0.8) (21.1) (25.1)
Borrowings falling due after one year (442.0) 44.0 (5.7) – (480.3)
Finance leases (4.1) 1.4 – (0.3) (5.2)
(491.2) 47.3 (6.5) (21.4) (510.6)
Other current investments 95.6 2.8 2.0 – 90.8
Total (210.7) 62.2 0.9 (0.3) (273.5)
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 87 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
32 Reconciliation of cash flow to movement in net debt
2006 2005
£m £m
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from cash and cash equivalents (75.7) 12.1
Cash outflow from increase in borrowings and lease financing 131.6 47.3
Cash (outflow)/inflow from decrease in other current investments (14.1) 2.8
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 41.8 62.2
Translation differences 3.1 0.9
New finance leases (0.5) (0.3)
Movement in net debt in the year 44.4 62.8
Net debt at start of year (210.7) (273.5)
Net debt at end of year (166.3) (210.7)
33  Acquisitions
The book value of assets acquired approximated to fair value. A financial summary of these transactions is as follows:
Fair value to the Group
2006 2005
Subsidiaries TotalAssociatesSubsidiaries Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment – – – 1.1 1.1
Inventory 0.3 0.3 – 1.2 1.2
Trade and other receivables – – 3.1 0.2 3.3
Trade and other payables – – – (2.3) (2.3)
Total fair value of net assets acquired 0.3 0.3 3.1 0.2 3.3
Goodwill arising
2006 2005
Subsidiaries Total Associates Subsidiaries Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration 0.4 0.4 1.4 1.4 2.8
Net assets acquired (0.3) (0.3) (3.1) (0.2) (3.3)
Goodwill 0.1 0.1 (1.7) 1.2 (0.5)
88 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 34  Employees and Directors
2006 2005
£m £m
Staff costs for the Group during the year
Wages and salaries 448.2 436.5
Social security costs 120.0 116.6
Other pension costs 19.1 18.2
Total staff costs 587.3 571.4
2006 2005
Number Number
Average monthly number of people (including Executive Directors) employed
Stores 18,960 18,248
Distribution 7,438 7,368
Administration 2,779 2,700
Total average headcount 29,177 28,316
2006 2005
£m £m
Executive Directors
Salaries and taxable benefits 0.8 0.8
Bonuses 0.1 0.4
Pension contributions 0.1 0.1
Share-based payments 0.7 0.6
Non-Executive Directors
Fees 0.3 0.3
Total 2.0 2.2
2006 2005
£m £m
Key management compensation
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 4.3 4.4
Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.5
Share-based payments 2.0 2.3
Total 6.8 7.2
Key management includes the Board of Directors and members of the Kesa Executive Committee.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 89 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
35  Share-based payments
At present the Group has four share award plans:
1 The Demerger Award Plan
2 The Kesa Group Incentive Compensation Plan
3 The Long-Term Incentive Plan
4 Kesa Share Incentive Plan
Details of the significant share award plans are shown below.
1 The Demerger Award Plan
The Demerger Award Plan (DAP) was desgined to ensure executives’ interests were aligned with those of shareholders, and to reflect the lost
opportunity to participate in the 2002 and 2003 Kingfisher Option Awards. In addition, executives would face a financial penalty if they left the
Group in the three-year period following the demerger.
The awards vest in three equal instalments. One half of the award is subject to the total shareholder return (TSR) performance criteria. TSR is 
a measure of performance based on share price and dividends. To achieve the hurdle, the TSR must outperform the FTSE 250. The remaining 
50 per cent is not subject to performance criteria. The TSR is measured from the date of grant to the appropriate exercise date.
The rights granted to executives under the terms of the DAP are as follows:
Kesa shares
2006 2005
Number Number
Outstanding at 1 February 2005/2004 3,557,894 5,634,973
Granted during year – –
Forfeited during year (904,599) (215,449)
Exercised during year (860,612) (1,861,630)
Expired during year – –
Outstanding at 31 January 2006/2005 1,792,683 3,557,894
The fair value of shares granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
Grant date 28 July 2003
Share price at grant date £2.075
Exercise price £0.00
Number of employees 142
Number of shares in scheme 5,634,973
Vesting period (years) 3 years
Option life (years) 3.5 years
Expected life (years) 3 years
The shares within the DAP are nil cost options or free shares.
90 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 35  Share-based payments continued
2 Kesa Group Incentive Compensation Plan
The awards granted pursuant to the Kesa Group Incentive Compensation Plan replaced awards made under various Kingfisher incentive plans.
Awards provide a cash element (representing a deferred bonus) and a matching award in respect of a combination of Kingfisher shares and Kesa
shares having a value equal to the shares under award under the relevant Kingfisher incentive plan (allowing for the effect of the demerger and the
Kingfisher share consolidation). 
The value of the awards is based on the respective closing share prices of Kingfisher and Kesa shares following the announcement of their full-year
results for the years ending 31 January 2004, 2005 and 2006. Participants would then be receive their share and cash entitlement on 1 April 2004,
2005 and 2006 respectively. For the year ended 31 January 2005, the awards were based on the closing price of Kingfisher shares on 17 March
2005, which was 295.5 pence per share and the Kesa share price on 23 March 2005, which was 299 pence per share.
The rights to Kesa and Kingfisher shares granted to executives under the terms of this plan are as follows:
Kesa shares Kingfisher shares
2006 2005 2006 2005
Number Number Number Number
Outstanding at 1 February 2005/2004 61,025 87,024 273,515 387,259
Granted during year – – – –
Forfeited during year ––––
Exercised during year (36,001) (25,999) (164,035) (113,744)
Expired during year ––––
Outstanding at 31 January 2006/2005 25,024 61,025 109,480 273,515
Award date 1 April 2003 1 April 2002 1 April 2003 1 April 2002
Exercise price £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00
Number of employees 5 14 5 14
Number of shares in scheme 25,024 61,025 109,480 273,515
Vesting date 1 April 2006 1 April 2005 1 April 2006 1 April 2005
Vesting period – 2002 scheme (years) – 0.2 years – 0.2 years
Expected life – 2002 scheme (years) – 0.2 years – 0.2 years
Vesting period – 2003 scheme (years) 0.2 years 1.2 years 0.2 years 1.2 years
Expected life – 2003 scheme (years) 0.2 years 1.2 years 0.2 years 1.2 years
Deferred bonus outstanding at 31 January 2006/2005 (£m) 0.6 1.7
The shares within the KIP are nil cost options or free shares.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 91 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
35  Share-based payments continued
3 Long-Term Incentive Plan
The Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) was approved at the Annual General Meeting in May 2004, and the nil cost options were granted in May
2005. The LTIP consists of two elements:
The first element is the grant of a matching award of shares. Following determination of the bonus for 2004/05, the Group calculated the number of
investment shares that participants would receive by dividing half of the bonus post a notional tax rate (for French employees, half of bonus before
tax was used) by the share price on 23 March 2005 (£2.99). Participants were then granted a maximum matching award of shares on a ratio of 
1:1 based on the gross value of the investment shares received. The number of matching shares that vest will depend on Kesa’s TSR performance
compared to the TSR performance of the companies in the FTSE 250 measured over the four-year period from grant date. If Kesa’s TSR
performance is at the mid point of the FTSE 250, then 25 per cent of the matching shares will vest. For 100 per cent of the matching shares 
to vest, Kesa’s TSR performance must be in the top quarter of the companies in the FTSE 250, and there is a sliding scale between this and 
the mid point.
The second element is a Performance Share Plan (“PSP”), which only applies to senior employees who are part of the LTIP. There is a base 
award equal to 30 per cent of the eligible executive’s basic salary, and the award would normally be made irrespective of any achievement of Group
or operating company bonus targets or overall Group financial performance. The PSP is intended to both build a shareholding and reward individual
performance as opposed to corporate performance. An eligible executive may also receive up to a further 20 per cent based on each individual’s
personal performance and contribution to the Group rather than on any specific financial metrics. All awards under the PSP are subject to the same
TSR performance hurdle as that applying to the vesting of the matching shares under the bonus scheme set out above.
The fair value of shares within the scheme were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model. The fair value of shares granted and
the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
Grant date 22 May 2005
Share price at grant date £2.70
Exercise price £0.00
Number of employees 21
Number of shares in scheme 500,307
Vesting period (years) 4 years
Expected volatility 22%
Option life (years) N/A
Expected life (years) 4 years
Risk-free rate 4.34%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 4%
Fair value of shares £1.31
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility since 7 July 2003, when Kesa demerged and listed. The expected life is the average expected
period to exercise. The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
92 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 35  Share-based payments continued
3 Long-Term Incentive Plan continued
A reconciliaiton of option movements over the year to 31 January 2006 is shown below:
2006
Weighted
average
exercise price
Number £
Outstanding at 1 February 2005 ––
Granted during year 500,307 –
Forfeited during year ––
Exercised during year ––
Expired during year ––
Outstanding at 31 January 2006 500,307 –
Exercisable at 31 January 2006 ––
2006
Range of Weighted Weighted average remaining life
exercise average Number of 
prices exercise price shares Expected Contractual
– – 500,307 3.3 years 3.3 years
The shares within the LTIP are nil cost options or free shares.
Approval will be sought at the forthcoming AGM to amend the LTIP and PSP. The first grants were made under these plans in May 2005 (relating 
to performances for the year ended 31 January 2005), but there was a low take up, and the Remuneration Committee felt that the original objectives
and intentions behind the schemes were not being met. Details of these proposed changes are shown in the “Report on Directors’ remuneration
and related matters”. Based on management’s latest forecasts and assumptions, an amount has been included in the income statement and
balance sheet representing the revised LTIP and PSP for the performance year ending 31 January 2006.
The total charge for the year relating to all of the above employee share-based payment plans, all of which are equity settled schemes, was £2.5m
(2005: £4.9m). After deferred tax, the total charge was £1.6m (2005: £3.2m).
The associated employers’ social security accrual at 31 January 2006 is £1.3m (2005: £1.6m)
Kesa Employee Share Trust
The Group operates an employee share trust, the Kesa Employee Share Trust (the Trust), that owns 92,876 ordinary shares of 25 pence in Kesa
Electicals plc at 31 January 2006 (2005: nil), acquired at an average cost of £2.70 and included in the balance sheet within retained earnings at 
a cost of £0.3m (2005: £nil). The shares are used to satisfy LTIP share option exercises, and the purchases are funded by cash contributions from
participating companies. Dividends receivable during the year have been waived. The administration expenses of the Trust are borne by the Trust.
Shares will be allocated by the Trust when relevant options under the scheme are excercised. The market value of the shares at 31 January 2006
was £0.2m (2005: £nil).
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 93 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
35  Share-based payments continued
3 Long-Term Incentive Plan continued
Kesa Share Incentive Plan
The Group also operates an employee share plan, the Kesa Share Incentive Plan (the Plan), that owns 92,870 ordinary shares of 25 pence in Kesa
Electricals plc at 31 January 2006 (2005: nil) acquired at an average cost of £2.58 and included in the balance sheet within retained earnings at a
cost of £0.2m (2005: £nil). The shares are used to satisfy Kesa Share Incentive Plan option exercises, and the purchases are funded by cash
contributions from participating companies. The administration expenses of the Plan are borne by the Plan. Shares will be allocated by the Plan
after four years when the relevant options under the scheme can be exercised. The market value of the shares at 31 January was £0.2m (2005:
£nil).
36  Pension commitments
In France, the main pension benefits are provided through the state system. The Group is also required to pay lump sums (“retirement indemnities”)
to employees when they retire from service. In addition, the Group provides a supplementary funded, defined benefit plan (“Supplementary Pension
Plan”) for its top executives.
In the UK, the Group operates a defined benefit scheme (the “Comet Pension Scheme”), which was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2004. 
All employees who do not participate in the Comet Pension Scheme are offered access to a Group defined contribution scheme.
Pension costs for defined contribution schemes are as follows:
2006 2005
UK France Other Total UK France Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Defined contribution schemes 0.7 – 1.0 1.7 0.7 – 0.8 1.5
A qualified, independent actuary has updated the actuarial valuations of the Group’s defined benefit schemes in the UK and France as at 
31 January 2006. The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were:
2006 2005
UK France UK France
%% %%
Discount rate 4.6 3.5 – 4.0 5.2 4.5 – 4.75
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 4.75 2.5 4.6 2.5 – 3.0
Rate of pension increases 2.8 – 2.7 –
Price inflation 3.0 2.0 2.9 2.0
Expected return on plan assets:
– Insurance policies – 4.5 – 5.0
– Equities 7.1 7.0 7.6 7.5
– Bonds 4.25 4.0 4.9 4.25
– Cash 4.5 3.0 4.8 3.0
– Real estate 7.1 5.0 7.6 5.5
– Other 7.1 3.0 7.6 3.0
94 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 36  Pension commitments continued
The expected returns on plan assets are based on market expectations at the beginning of the year for returns over the entire life of the benefit
obligation. Expected yields on fixed-interest investments are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet date. Expected returns on
equity and real estate investments reflect long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets.
For the UK scheme, the Group has used PA92 tables with mortality projected to 2005 for pensioners and to 2015 for non-pensioners. For the
French schemes, the Group has used TPRV93 tables for pensioners and INSEE TD9901 tables for non-pensioners. 
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows:
2006 2005
UK France Total UK France Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligations 280.6 39.4 320.0 227.1 40.0 267.1
Fair value of plan assets (185.9) (15.3) (201.2) (146.0) (14.5) (160.5)
Unrecognised prior service costs – 0.9 0.9 – (3.2) (3.2)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 94.7 25.0 119.7 81.1 22.3 103.4
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows:
2006 2005
UK France UK France
%% %%
Equities 42 15 76 15
Bonds 39 61 18 61
Cash 1 1 3 1
Insurance policies – 19 – 19
Real estate 13 3– 3
Other 5 1 31
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2006 2005
UK France Total UK France Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Current service cost 12.7 2.2 14.9 12.7 2.0 14.7
Interest cost 12.0 1.7 13.7 10.5 1.4 11.9
Expected return on plan assets (10.0) (0.7) (10.7) (9.3) (0.8) (10.1)
Amortisation of unrecognised prior service cost – (0.5) (0.5) – 0.2 0.2
Total included within staff costs (note 34) 14.7 2.7 17.4 13.9 2.8 16.7
Of the total charge, £1.8m (2005: £2.0m), £9.7m (2005: £9.2m) and £4.6m (2005: £5.2m) were included in cost of sales, administrative expenses
and selling expenses respectively. Scheme administration expenses have been netted off against the expected return on plan assets.
A salary sacrifice scheme was introduced in respect of the UK plan on 1 July 2005.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 95 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
36  Pension commitments continued
Analysis of the movement in the defined benefit obligation during the year.
2006 2005
UK France Total UK France Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit obligation at start of year 227.1 40.0 267.1 184.7 31.8 216.5
Current service cost 12.7 2.2 14.9 12.7 2.0 14.7
Unrecognised prior service cost – (4.6) (4.6) – 0.2 0.2
Interest cost 12.0 1.7 13.7 10.5 1.4 11.9
Contributions by employees 1.5 – 1.5 3.0 – 3.0
Benefits paid (4.4) (0.5) (4.9) (3.2) (1.9) (5.1)
Actuarial loss recognised in the SORIE 31.7 1.2 32.9 19.4 5.9 25.3
Currency translation movement – (0.6) (0.6) – 0.6 0.6
Defined benefit obligation at end of year 280.6 39.4 320.0 227.1 40.0 267.1
Analysis of the movement in plan assets during the year.
2006 2005
UK France Total UK France Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of plan assets at start of year 146.0 14.5 160.5 120.9 15.0 135.9
Expected return on plan assets 10.0 0.7 10.7 9.3 0.8 10.1
Contributions by employer 14.6 0.7 15.3 8.2 0.6 8.8
Contributions by employees 1.5 – 1.5 3.0 – 3.0
Benefits paid (4.4) (0.5) (4.9) (3.2) (1.9) (5.1)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the SORIE 18.2 0.1 18.3 7.8 (0.2) 7.6
Currency translation movement – (0.2) (0.2) – 0.2 0.2
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 185.9 15.3 201.2 146.0 14.5 160.5
Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet liability during the year.
2006 2005
UK France Total UK France Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Liability at start of year 81.1 22.3 103.4 63.8 13.6 77.4
Total expense as above 14.7 2.7 17.4 13.9 2.8 16.7
Contributions paid (14.6) (0.7) (15.3) (8.2) (0.6) (8.8)
Actuarial loss recognised in the SORIE 13.5 1.1 14.6 11.6 6.1 17.7
Currency translation movement – (0.4) (0.4) – 0.4 0.4
Liability at end of year 94.7 25.0 119.7 81.1 22.3 103.4
96 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 36  Pension commitments continued
Analysis of the balance sheet liability between funded and unfunded plans.
2006 2005
UK France Total UK France Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of funded obligations 280.6 34.9 315.5 227.1 36.0 263.1
Fair value of plan assets (185.9) (15.3) (201.2) (146.0) (14.5) (160.5)
Present value of unfunded obligations – 4.5 4.5 – 4.0 4.0
Unrecognised past service costs – 0.9 0.9 – (3.2) (3.2)
Net liability 94.7 25.0 119.7 81.1 2.3 103.4
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity.
2006 2005
UK France Total UK France Total
£m£m£m£m£m£m
At beginning of year 11.6 6.1 17.7 – – – 
Net actuarial losses recognised in the year 13.5 1.1 14.6 11.6 6.1 17.7
At end of year 25.1 7.2 32.3 11.6 6.1 17.7
The actual returns on plan assets were:
2006 2005
UK France Total UK France Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
28.2 0.8 29.0 17.1 0.6 17.7
History of experience gains and losses.
2006 2005
UK France Total UK France Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Experience gains/(losses) arising on scheme assets:
Amount 18.2 0.1 18.3 7.8 (0.2) 7.6
Percentage of scheme assets 10% 1% 9% 5% 1% 5%
Experience gains/(losses) arising on defined benefit obligation:
Amount (8.9) (2.4) (11.3) 1.8 4.8 6.6
Percentage of the present value of defined benefit obligation 3% 6% 4% 1% 12% 2%
Present value of scheme liabilities 280.6 39.4 320.0 227.1 40.0 267.1
Fair value of scheme assets 185.9 15.3 201.2 146.0 14.5 160.5
Deficit (94.7) (24.1) (118.8) (81.1) (25.5) (106.6)
The contribution expected to be paid during the financial year ended 31 January 2007 amounts to £14.1m for the UK and £0.1m for France.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 97 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
37  Operating lease commitments
2006 2005
Vehicles, Vehicles,
plant & plant &
Property equipment Property equipment
£m £m £m £m
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring:
Within one year 6.0 2.5 6.7 2.8
Later than one year and less than five years 109.4 46.8 81.5 38.7
After five years 1,131.2 3.8 1,138.8 3.7
Total 1,246.6 53.1 1,227.0 45.2
The Group leases various stores, head offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have various terms,
escalation changes and renewal rights. The Group also leases vehicles, plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
Sublease commitments – minimum lease receipts
2006 2005
Property Property
£m £m
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring:
Within one year 0.2 0.3
Later than one year and less than five years 2.0 4.3
After five years 22.2 22.5
Total 24.4 27.1
The Group sub-leases unutilised stores and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have various terms,
escalation clauses and renewal rights.
38  Contingent liabilities
The Directors are not aware of any material contingent liabilities other than the following:
Avantage S.A., an electrical applicances retailer, has brought a claim against Darty on the basis that the difficulties it has encountered in establishing
commercial relationships with suppliers are as a result of alleged cartels between retailers, including Darty and suppliers of electricals goods. The
potential value and timing of any liability arising from this dispute is currently uncertain.
98 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 39  Capital and other financial commitments
2006 2005
£m £m
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for:
Group
– property, plant and equipment 5.8 11.3
– intangible assets 0.1 – 
Total 5.9 11.3
40  Related party transactions
Transactions carried out with related parties in the normal course of business are summarised below.
Joint venture and associates
The Group has several joint venture and associated undertaking relationships. The nature of the transactions between the Group and these
companies and the total values of the transactions is summarised below:
2006 2005
£m £m
Dividends receivable 3.4 8.6
The year-end balance with joint ventures and associated undertakings are:
Amounts owed from joint venture and associated undertakings 2.2 2.1
The value of transactions during the year with related parties is:
2006 2005
£m £m
Value of transactions with associated undertakings 241.8 235.3
Commission received from joint venture 22.8 26.3
The associated undertakings provide credit facilities to customers on product sales. The joint venture pays commission to Group companies arising
from the sale of mobile phones.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 99 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
40  Related party transactions continued
Other related party transactions
2006 2005
£m £m
Rent payments 0.8 0.6
Other payments for services 0.7 0.7
Services provided by related parties principally comprise of administrative, accounting, information technology and human resources services.
Rent payments include £0.2m (2005: £0.2m) paid to members of key management (as defined in note 34), and £0.6m (2005: £0.4m) paid to
Directors of subsidiary undertakings, who are not part of key management. In addition, £0.7m (2005: £0.7m) was paid to Directors of subsidiary
undertakings for other services provided during the year.
The Company, through its subsidiary BUT, owned 49 per cent of two subsidiaries, FIGAP and SPEM (the “businesses”) with the outstanding 
51 per cent of both businesses indirectly owned by one of the Directors of subsidiary undertakings who is not part of key management. 
As of 31 October 2005, FIGAP and SPEM merged, with FIGAP remaining as the surviving entity. BUT owned 49 per cent of the merged entity and
51 per cent was indirectly owned by the Director. By a contract dated 21 November 2005 BUT acquired an additional 3 per cent of FIGAP from
companies controlled by the Director, taking its ownership to 52 per cent for an aggregate consideration of £0.1m.
A refundable up front payment of £1.1m was also made for an option agreement giving BUT the right in 2009 to call for the remaining 48 per cent
of FIGAP and this Director the right to put his interest to BUT. The £1.1m is refundable in the event that no option is exercised and is offsettable
against the proceeds realisable at the time of exercise.
41  Principal subsidaries, joint ventures and associates
Country of Percentage owned and Description of
Company incorporation voting rights share classes owned Main activity
Principal subsidaries
Etablissements Darty et Fils S.A.S. France 99.7% Ordinary shares Retailing
Comet Group plc England and Wales 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing
BUT S.A. France 99.7% Ordinary shares Retailing
Datart Investments S.A. Luxembourg 60.0% Ordinary shares Holding company
BCC Holding Amstelveen B.V. Netherlands 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing
New Vanden Borre S.A. Belgium 99.7% Ordinary shares Retailing
The Directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. Principal subsidiary
undertakings are shown above. A full list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures will be annexed to the Company’s next annual
return.
100 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 42  Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS 
Reconciliation of net assets under UK GAAP to IFRS 
Year ended Year ended
31 January 31 January
2005 2004
£m £m
Equity reported under UK GAAP 383.0 323.2
Pensions and benefits (98.2) (74.5)
Goodwill 4.7 0.7
Property and leases (28.1) (24.9)
Dividends 43.7 39.8
Deferred tax 9.8 0.8
Other (13.8) (14.2)
Equity reported under IFRS excluding IAS 39 301.1 250.9
IAS 39 adjustment to other reserves 8.2 – 
IAS 39 adjustment to retained earnings (5.3) – 
Total IAS 39 adjustments 2.9 –
Equity reported under IFRS including IAS 39 304.0 250.9
Reconciliation of retail profit
Year ended
31 January
2005
£m
Retail profit reported under UK GAAP 206.7
Pensions and benefits (3.5)
Goodwill  (0.5)
Property and leases (1.3)
Other (1.5)
Retail profit reported under IFRS 199.9
Reconciliation of profit after tax
Year ended
31 January
2005
£m
Profit after tax reported under UK GAAP 118.6
Pensions and benefits (5.4)
Goodwill 3.2
Property and leases (1.3)
Other (0.2)
Deferred tax 2.3
Profit after tax reported under IFRS 117.2
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 101 Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
42  Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued
Cashflow
These are no material changes to the cashflow statement under IFRS.
Other information
As described in note 1, the implementation of IFRS brings with it an evolving interpretation of accounting standards. Therefore, certain adjustments
have been incorporated into the 31 January 2004 and 31 January 2005 balance sheets that alter the net assets and profit figures previously
reported in the 2005 Interim Report.
Explanation of reconciling items between UK GAAP and IFRS
An explanation of the impact of the principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRS that apply to the Group’s consolidated financial statements 
is set out below.
Retirement benefit obligations
Under UK GAAP, the Group adopted the transitional disclosure requirements of FRS 17 and disclosed its pension obligations. Under IAS 19, the
Group’s net pension deficit has been booked on the balance sheet. There are certain differences in the accounting for pensions between IAS 19
and FRS 17. The main differences are:
•
Pension assets are valued at bid value under IAS 19, whereas a mid-market valuation is used under FRS 17.
•
Under FRS 17 pension balances are presented net of deferred tax. Under IFRS, these balances are grossed up.
a) Other employee benefits
Under IAS 19, other long-term employee benefits, including long-term service awards, have been provided for on the balance sheet at 
their fair value. Furthermore as a result of additional guidance in IAS 19, additional holiday pay accruals have been recorded at fair value 
in certain circumstances.
b) Goodwill
Under UK GAAP , positive and negative goodwill was amortised over its expected useful economic life of 20 years. Under IFRS, goodwill is not
amortised but tested annually for impairment (including at the transition date) and negative goodwill is recognised in the income statement in the
period in which it arises.
c) Property and leases
Lease incentives
Under UK GAAP, lease incentives received from lessors or paid to lessees are capitalised and spread over the shorter of the period to the first
break clause or the length of the lease. Under IAS 17, lease incentives received and paid are deferred and spread over the length of the lease. 
Lease classification
Under UK GAAP and IFRS, leases are classified as either finance or operating leases. As a result of further guidance published in IAS 17, some
leases that were classified as operating leases under UK GAAP have been reclassified as finance leases under IFRS.
Lease premiums
Under UK GAAP , lease premiums paid to lessors on taking out a leasehold interest are capitalised and recorded as part of property, plant and
equipment. Under IAS 17, these premiums are included within prepayments.
102 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 42  Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued
Store impairment
Under UK GAAP impairment testing of property, plant and equipment was performed at the income generating unit level, which was generally at an
operating company level. Under IAS 36, impairment testing is performed at the lowest cash generating unit level, which is generally at an individual
store or group of stores level.
d) Dividends
Under UK GAAP, equity dividends were recognised in the period to which they related. Under IFRS, final equity dividends are recognised only when
approved by the shareholders and interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
e) Deferred tax
IAS 12 requires a deferred tax provision to be recognised for all taxable temporary differences between the tax bases and the associated carrying
amounts for assets and liabilities. In accordance with IAS 12, provision has been made for deferred tax on owned assets where the asset base for
local taxation purposes differs from the net book value under Group accounting policies. This was not permitted under UK GAAP unless there was
a binding commitment to sell the asset.
Under IFRS, deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are presented separately as non-current assets and non-current liabilities on the
balance sheet. 
f) IAS 39 adjustment
As described in note 1, the following IAS 39 adjustments are relevant for the 31 January 2005 balance sheet:
Interest rate swaps
Under UK GAAP, only accrued interest under interest rate swaps was recognised on the balance sheet. Under IAS 39, the fair value of interest rate
swaps is recognised on the balance sheet. The interest rate swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges, and the movement in fair value
from one period to another is taken to the hedging reserve and will cumulatively net out to zero when the swaps term out.
Forward foreign exchange contracts
Under UK GAAP, forward foreign exchange contracts were generally only recognised on settlement. Under IAS 39, the fair value of all forward
foreign exchange contracts is recognised. The forward foreign exchange contracts are designated as cash flow hedges, and the movement 
in fair value from one period to another is taken to the hedging reserve if the hedge is effective. On expiry of the forward contract, the amount 
in the hedge reserve is recycled out and recorded against the value of stock. If a hedge is deemed ineffective, the amount in the hedge reserve 
is immediately recycled out to the income statement.
Available for sale financial assets
Under UK GAAP, available for sale assets were recorded at cost less any diminution in value. Under IAS 39, these financial assets are recorded 
at fair value and are marked to market, with the movement in fair value going through equity. On disposal of the asset, the amount taken through
equity is recycled out to the income statement.
Options
Call or put options to buy shares from minority shareholders in subsidiary undertakings have been recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value.
The movement in the fair value of an option between each period end is taken to the income statement.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 103 104 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
Notes to the Group financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
42  Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued
Embedded derivatives
Under UK GAAP, embedded derivatives were not recognised. Under IAS 39, the fair value of embedded derivatives not closely related to their host
contracts is recognised.
g) Other
Other adjustments principally comprise:
Intangible assets
Under UK GAAP, computer software costs that are not attributable to specific computer hardware were capitalised as property, plant and
equipment. Under IFRS, these costs are capitalised as intangible assets. 
Under UK GAAP, intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination were subsumed within goodwill. Under IFRS, intangible assets
acquired as part of a business combination are recognised separately when their fair values can be measured reliably. 
Under UK GAAP, all intangible assets had to be amortised over a period not exceeding 20 years. Under IFRS, intangible assets with an indefinite
useful economic life are not amortised, but are tested annually for impairment, including at the transition date. 
Stock
As a result of further guidance published in IAS 2, the valuation of stock includes transportation costs from warehouses to stores, but excludes 
any storage costs. Independent auditors’ report to the shareholders of Kesa Electricals plc 
(UK GAAP)
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 105
We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Kesa
Electricals plc for the year ended 31 January 2006 which comprise the
balance sheet and the related notes. These parent Company financial
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set 
out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’
remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of 
Kesa Electricals plc for the year ended 31 January 2006
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, the
Directors’ remuneration report and the parent Company financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice) are set out in the statement of Directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements
and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report,
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s
shareholders as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the
Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or 
to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent
Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you if,
in our opinion, the Directors’ report is not consistent with the parent
Company financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper
accounting records, if we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by 
law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not
disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider
whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial
statements. The other information comprises only the Group trading
philosophy, the financial highlights, the Group at a glance, the Chairman’s
statement, the Chief Executive’s review, corporate social responsibility, 
the financial review, Directors and advisers, the Directors’ report, the
corporate governance statement, the unaudited part of the Directors’
remuneration report and the statement of Directors’ responsibilities. 
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent
Company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to 
any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. 
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant 
to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be
audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent
Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies
are appropriate to the company’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide 
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent
Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement,
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation 
of information in the parent Company financial statements and the part
of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
•
the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view,
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 January
2006; and
•
the parent Company financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
22 March 2006 106 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
31 January 
31 January 2005 
2006 (Restated)
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets 2 0.2 0.2
Investments 3 137.4 137.1
Total fixed assets 137.6 137.3
Current assets 
Debtors due within one year 4 33.2 25.6
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (27.1) (28.0)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 6.1 (2.4)
Net assets 143.7 134.9
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 6 132.4 132.4
Profit and loss account 7 11.3 2.5
Equity shareholders’ funds 8 143.7 134.9
Kesa Electricals plc has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
The notes on pages 107 to 111 form part of these financial statements
Approved by the Board of Directors on 22 March 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
Jean-Noël Labroue Director Simon Herrick Director
Company balance sheet
As at 31 January 2006 1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial information set out on pages 106 to 111 comprises the financial statements of Kesa Electricals plc for the year ended 31 January
2006 prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
The financial statements of the Company are prepared under United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (UK GAAP) using 
the historical cost convention and are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards in the 
United Kingdom. 
New accounting policies
The Accounting Standards Board (ASB) issued Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 20 “Share-Based Payments” in April 2004. The issue of a 
grant over the Company’s options to its subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions by the Company in its subsidiaries. An additional
investment in subsidiaries results with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity. The additional capital contribution is based 
on the fair value of the grant issued allocated over the underlying grant’s vesting period. 
The ASB issued FRS 21 “Events after the balance sheet date” in May 2004. This standard replaced Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 17
“Accounting for post-balance-sheet events” and the main effect of this change is to prohibit the recording of a provision for a proposed dividend
where the dividend is declared after the balance sheet date. FRS 21 is applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
Therefore final dividends are now only recognised in the profit and loss account when shareholders have approved such amounts and interim
dividends are only recognised when paid.
During the year the Company also adopted FRS 23 “The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates”, FRS 25 “Financial Instruments:
Disclosure and Presentation”, FRS 26 “Financial Instruments: Measurement”, and FRS 28 “Corresponding Amounts”. The adoption of these
standards has not had a significant impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The following summarises the key principles applied by the Directors in preparing the financial statements.
Investments
In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiary undertakings are shown at cost adjusted for capital contributions relating to share-based
payments.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are included in the balance sheet at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment. Depreciation 
of tangible fixed assets is charged to reflect a reduction from book value to estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of the asset 
to the Company.
Tangible fixed assets comprise fixtures, fittings and equipment. These are depreciated over their estimated useful economic life of five years on a
straight-line basis.
Employee share schemes
The cost of awards to employees that take the form of shares or rights to shares are recognised over the period of the employee’s related
performance. Where there are no performance criteria, the cost is recognised when the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The cost of awards is measured as the fair value of the award at grant date less employee contributions.
Dividends
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group financial statements in the period in which the
dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 107
Notes to the Company financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 Notes to the Company financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006
108 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
1 Accounting policies continued
Leases
Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Company are classified as finance leases. 
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of minimum 
lease payments. Assets capitalised as tangible fixed assets are depreciated over their useful economic lives. Payments under such leases are
charged against the recognised liability and interest costs are charged to the profit and loss account over the full period of the finance lease on 
a systematic basis.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments
made under operating leases (net of any financial incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line
basis over the shorter of the lease term or period to break clause.
Charges made in respect of operating leases of property are adjusted from time to time to reflect the impact of market rent reviews throughout 
the life of the lease.
Retirement benefits
In accordance with FRS 17, the Company accounts for its contributions to the Comet Pension Scheme on a defined contribution scheme basis.
This is because the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme covers the Company and a number of its subsidiaries and cannot be split
between each subsidiary on a consistent and reasonable basis. 
The Company has therefore taken advantage of the multi-employer exemption allowed by paragraph 9(b) of FRS 17. The pension rights of the
Company are dealt with through a self-administered scheme, the assets of which are held independently of the Company’s finances. The scheme 
is a defined benefit scheme that is funded partly by contributions from members and partly by contributions from the Company and its subsidiaries
at rates advised by independent professional qualified actuaries. 
Auditors’ remuneration
During the year the Company paid audit fees and expenses to the Group’s auditor of £0.7m (2005: £0.3m) comprising £0.4m related to statutory
audit (2005: £0.3m) and £0.3m related to other assurance services (2005: nil).
2 Tangible fixed assets
Fixtures, fittings 
and equipment
£m
Cost and net book value
At 31 January 2006 0.2
At 31 January 2005 0.2 3 Investments
Shares in 
subsidary 
undertakings
£m
Cost and net book value
At 1 February 2004 (as previously reported) 132.4
Prior-year adjustment (adoption of FRS 20) 3.4
At 1 February 2004 (restated) 135.8
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 5.0
Repayment of capital contribution relating to share-based payments (3.7)
At 31 January 2005 (restated) 137.1
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 2.2
Repayment of capital contribution relating to share-based payments (1.9)
At 31 January 2006 137.4
4 Debtors due within one year 
2005
2006 (Restated)
£m £m
Owed by subsidiary undertakings 29.1 20.3
Other debtors 0.7 – 
Prepayments 0.2 0.4
Group relief receivable from subsidiary undertakings 3.2 4.9
Total debtors due within one year 33.2 25.6
5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2005
2006 (Restated)
£m £m
Owed to subsidiary undertakings 25.3 26.4
Other creditors – 0.2
Accruals 1.8 1.4
Total creditors due within one year 27.1 28.0
6 Share capital 
Number Number
of ordinary of ordinary
shares 2006 shares 2005
m £m m £m
Authorised 
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 1,000 250.0 1,000 250.0
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 529.6 132.4 529.6 132.4
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 109 110 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
7 Reserves 
Profit and loss 
account
£m
At 1 February 2005 2.5
Profit for the year 68.7
Dividends (59.3)
Investment in ESOP shares (0.5)
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 2.2
Exercise of subsidiary undertaking options relating to share-based payments (2.3)
At 31 January 2006 11.3
Profit and loss  
account
£m
At 1 February 2004 (as previously reported) 13.1
Prior-year adjustment (adoption of FRS 21 – see note 1) 39.8
Prior-year adjustment (adoption of FRS 20 – see note 1) 3.4
At 1 February 2004 (restated) 56.3
Profit for the year 0.8
Dividends (54.4)
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 5.0
Exercise of subsidiary undertaking options relating to share-based payments (5.2)
At 31 January 2005 (restated) 2.5
8 Statement of changes in shareholders' funds 
2006 2005
£m £m
Profit attributable to shareholders 68.7 0.8
Dividends (59.3) (54.4)
Net capital contribution relating to share-based payments (0.1) (0.2)
Investment in ESOP shares (0.5) –
Opening shareholders’ funds (as previously reported) 134.9 145.5
Prior-year adjustment (adoption of FRS 21 – see note 1) – 39.8
Prior-year adjustment (adoption of FRS 20 – see note 1) – 3.4
Opening shareholders’ funds (restated) 134.9 188.7
Closing shareholders’ funds (restated) 143.7 134.9
Notes to the Company financial statements
for the financial year ended 31 January 2006 9 Operating lease commitments
2006 2005
Land and Land and
buildings buildings
£m £m
Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring:
After five years 0.1 0.1
Total 0.1 0.1
10  Employees
2006 2005
£m £m
Staff costs for the year
Wages and salaries 2.0 2.1
Social security costs 0.2 0.3
Other pension costs 0.1 0.1
Total staff costs 2.3 2.5
Average monthly number of administration staff employed during the year, including Directors, was 19 (2005: 18).
For details of remuneration of Directors employed by the Company, refer to the report on Directors’ remuneration and related matters on page 29.
11  Dividends
Year ended Year ended
31 January 31 January
2006 2005
£m £m
Final paid 2005: 8.25p (2004: 7.5p) per share 43.7 39.8
Interim paid 2005: 2.95p (2004: 2.75p) per share 15.6 14.6
59.3 54.4
In addition, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 January 2006 of 9.15 pence per share which 
will absorb an estimated £48.5m of shareholders’ funds. It will be paid on 14 July 2006 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 
16 June 2006, subject to shareholder approval.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06 111 112 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
Registrar and Transfer Office
All enquiries relating to shareholdings should be addressed to the
Company’s Registrar, as follows :
By Mail: Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 7NH
By phone: +44 (0)870 702 0000
By email: web.queries@computershare.co.uk 
Please indicate that you are a shareholder of Kesa Electricals plc
Dividend mandates
If you wish Dividends to be paid directly into your Bank Account
through the Bankers Automated Clearing System (BACS), you should
contact the Registrars for a Dividend Mandate Form.
Electronic shareholder communications
We have entered into an arrangement with our Registrars whereby
shareholders are able to elect to receive shareholder communications
from the Company electronically, rather than in paper format via the
postal system.
We actively encourage shareholders to register now for our electronic
communications service through the eShareholderTM campaign being
run by ComputersharePepper. When you register for electronic
communications, we will dedicate a tree on your behalf in a UK area
selected for reforestation. This service enables you to save paper,
contribute to a better environment and reduce harmful carbon dioxide
emissions which impact climate change.
In order to receive shareholder communications such as notices of
shareholder meetings and annual report and accounts electronically
rather than by post, you should register your details via the Investor
Centre/information and services page of the Kesa Electricals plc
website www.kesaelectricals.com.
Shareholder information
Share dealing service
We are offering an internet and telephone share dealing services for
shareholders (in certain jurisdictions) in conjunction with
Computershare, our Registrars.
Internet dealing:
•
Commission is 0.5 per cent, subject to a minimum charge of
£15.00. Stamp duty at 0.5 per cent is payable on purchases.
•
Up to 90 day limit orders available on shares.
•
Service is available to place orders out of market hours.
•
Log onto www.computershare.com/dealing/uk.
Telephone dealing:
•
Commission is 1 per cent, subject to a minimum charge of £15.00.
Stamp duty at 0.5 per cent is payable on purchases.
•
The share price at which you deal will be confirmed to you whilst
you are still on the telephone.
•
Service is available from 8am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday excluding
bank holidays.
•
Call +44 (0)870 703 0084.
No forms will need to be completed in advance and the settlement
period is 10 business days after your trade has been dealt in the
market, for both internet and telephone share dealing. Further
information and copies of the terms and conditions of both these
services can be obtained by calling +44 (0)870 703 0119.
Gifting shares to your family or to charity 
To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please
ask the Registrars for a Gift Transfer Form. If you only have a small
number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, 
you may wish to consider donating them to ShareGift, the share
donation charity (registered charity number 1052686). The relevant
share transfer form may be obtained from the Registrars. Further
information about the scheme is available from the ShareGift Internet
Site www.ShareGift.org. Designed and produced by 85four
Principal photography by Bob Wheeler
Printed in England by St Ives Westerham Press, environmentally accredited printers, ISO 14001 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005/06
Kesa Electricals plc
Registered address
22/24 Ely Place
London EC1N 6TE
+44 (0)20 7269 1400
Registered in England
Company number: 04232413
For information visit
www.kesaelectricals.com
