 Darty plc Annual report 2013/14
Annual report 2013/14 CONTENTS
Overview
01  Group at a glance
02  Highlights
03  Chairman’s statement
Strategic report
04  Our markets
05  Strategy
06  Our business model and strategy
07  Chief executive’s review
14 Operating review
18  Financial review
21 Principal risks 
23  Corporate responsibility
Directors’ report
30 Board of Directors
32 Directors’ report
Corporate governance
36  Corporate governance
43  Report on Directors’ remuneration  
 and related matters
57 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Financial statements and notes (IFRS)
58  Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Darty plc
61 Group income statement
62  Group statement of comprehensive income
63   Group statement of changes in equity
64 Group balance sheet
65 Group cash flow statement
66  Notes to the Group financial statements
Darty plc (UK GAAP)
120   Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Darty plc
122 Company balance sheet
123   Notes to the Company 
financial statements
Other information
131 Shareholder information
132 Group five-year summary
Certain statements made in this report are forward 
looking statements. Such statements are based on 
current expectations and are subject to a number of 
risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results 
to differ materially from any expected future results in 
forward looking statements. Unless otherwise required 
by applicable laws, regulations or accounting standards, 
Darty plc does not undertake any obligation to update or 
revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result 
of new information, future developments or otherwise. Darty France
Revenue  
(€m)
Like-for-like  
growth
Retail profit  
(€m) 
No of stores Selling space  
sqm (000s)
Web sales  
(% of total sales)
€2,717.7 2.8% 76.1 224 313.6 14.1
Vanden Borre and BCC
Revenue  
(€m)
Like-for-like  
growth
Retail profit  
(€m)
No of stores Selling space  
sqm (000s)
Web sales  
(% of total sales)
€686.7 (1.2)% 9.3 117 129.9 11.1
Datart
Revenue  
(€m)
Like-for-like  
growth
Retail profit  
(€m) 
No of stores Selling space  
sqm (000s)
Web sales  
(% of total sales)
€175.0 (1.9)% (1.0) 43 41.0 17.0
GROUP A T A GLANCE
OVERVIEW
The Darty Group is a multi-channel electrical retailer trading from  
over 380 stores and websites. 
We sell a full range of electrical products from major home and small domestic appliances  
to all the latest vision and multimedia products. This is supported by our leading customer 
service offer in-store, online, for home delivery and after-sales.
We operate as Darty and Mistergooddeal in France, Vanden Borre in Belgium, BCC in the 
Netherlands and Datart in the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
Summary
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   01 for the 12 months ended 30 April 2014
OVERVIEW
HIGHLIGHTS
Very good progress in delivering our strategic plan – 
“Nouvelle Confiance”
• 
Good results from the “4Ds” plan:
• 
Positive like-for-like sales and significant market 
share gains in France and Belgium; 
• 
Continued growth of web-generated sales, up 
nearly 10 per cent to over 13 per cent of total 
product sales; and
• 
€50 million cost reduction programme 
substantially completed with benefits to be 
delivered in full by the end of 2014/15.
• 
Steps taken to deliver medium-term target to build 
market share and profitability over the next three 
years by:
• 
expanding the Darty portfolio into smaller 
catchment areas with a new franchise model. 
The first four stores opened in H2;
• 
increasing our web penetration and extending 
the “low price/pay-as-you-go services” offer 
through the acquisition of leading French 
website Mistergooddeal.com; and
• 
doubling the number of stores with the 
kitchen offer.
• 
Eliminating losses in our non-core markets  
with the managed closure of Spain and the  
sale of our business in Turkey. 
Financial summary for the 12 months ended  
30 April 2014
1
Group 2013/14 2012/13
Revenue €3,579.4 m €3,558,9 m
LfL sales up 1.7% down 0.8%
Retail profit
2
€73.4 m €66.0 m
Adjusted PBT
3
€60.0 m €56.5 m
Adjusted EPS 6.4 cents 7.2 cents
Net debt €185.2 m €150.6 m
Total dividend 3.5 cents 3.5 cents
1 Constant exchange rate of 1 Euro = Czech Kr 26.5792, Turkish Lira 2.7506
2  Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and 
associates’ interest and taxation, the movement in options and related charges over 
non-controlling interests, gain on disposal of available for sale investments, exceptional 
items and profit on disposal of business operations
3  Excludes the share of joint venture and associates’ interest and taxation, the movement 
in options and related charges over non-controlling interests, gain on disposal of 
available for sale investments, exceptional items, profit on disposal of business 
operations and net interest on pension schemes.
Group retail profit increased by over  
11 per cent to €73.4 million with an 
improvement in all reported segments.
02   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 OVERVIEW
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
Over the past 12 months we have 
made very good progress with our 
“Nouvelle Confiance” strategy to 
improve shareholder value.
After eliminating significant losses in 
our non-core market of Italy towards 
the end of the last financial year, we 
made very good progress this year with 
the completion of the managed closure 
of Spain and the sale of our business in 
Turkey. We have one further non-core 
business, Datart in the Czech Republic 
and Slovakia, for which we expect to 
resolve the future of our shareholding 
in the near future.
We are strengthening and growing our 
leadership position in our core markets 
in France, Belgium and the Netherlands, 
and this has been confirmed by 
significant share gains during the year. 
It is early days but Group retail profit  
is improving and you will read later in 
this report that we now have a clear 
strategy for the core businesses, 
particularly our main operations in 
France, and our plans are on track to 
deliver greater efficiency and reduced 
costs across the Group. 
During the year we completed a 
refinancing of the Group’s debt 
facilities to secure long-term funding 
to support our future growth plans.
I said last year that one of our tasks 
would be the final element of our 
“Nouvelle Confiance” strategy – to 
develop new growth opportunities 
within core markets. We have identified, 
and started to implement, programmes to:
• 
expand the Darty portfolio into 
smaller catchment areas with the 
new franchise model;
• 
extend the low price/pay-as-you-go 
services offer through the 
Mistergooddeal.com channel; and
• 
double the number of stores in 
France with the kitchen offer.
Looking to the coming financial year, 
market conditions are expected to 
remain challenging, but we are well 
placed to deliver our growth ambitions 
for Darty France to build our market 
share and restore retail profitability 
over the medium term. 
In summary, “Nouvelle Confiance”  
is creating a business that is better 
for our shareholders, employees, 
customers and suppliers and we are 
confident that our plans will deliver 
an improvement in earnings over  
the medium term. The Board have 
recommended a final dividend  
of 2.625 cents.
Finally, key to our achievements  
is the dedication and hard work of  
all our staff, and I would personally  
like to thank them all for the valuable 
contribution they make to our success.
Alan Parker CBE
Chairman
We have a clear strategy for growth and have made very good progress 
in implementing our plans to improve shareholder value.
Alan Parker CBE, Chairman
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   03 OUR MARKETS
STRATEGIC REPORT
In the electricals market there are 
three main product categories; white 
goods, brown goods and grey goods. 
White goods comprise major (“MDA”) 
and small (“SDA”) domestic appliances. 
MDA includes products such as washing 
machines, fridges and dish washers, 
while SDA includes kitchen and health 
and beauty appliances such as kettles, 
irons, coffee machines and hair dryers. 
Brown goods are primarily vision and 
audio products, which include 
televisions and MP3, DVD and Blu-ray 
players, and grey goods comprise  
all multimedia and communication 
products such as tablets, laptops  
and smartphones.
Over the year to 30 April 2014, we saw 
a decline in the size of the total retail 
electricals market at each of our  
core markets.
In France, the market contracted by  
an estimated 2 per cent, mainly due to 
continued weak vision sales following 
the digital switchover. The white goods 
market was broadly flat, but with  
some growth in SDA, and sales of 
communication products significantly 
increased due to the rising demand for 
smartphones. The multimedia category 
saw a decline.
The market in Belgium was estimated 
to have fallen by over 3 per cent, 
largely due to a very weak vision 
market that was only partly offset by 
growth in SDA and communication.
The Dutch market was down around  
2 per cent with declines in most major 
product categories, particularly vision. 
The only category that saw an increase 
over the period was communication.
Customer demand for a multi-channel 
offer continued to grow over the year. 
Web-generated sales now represent  
19 per cent of the French market,  
8 per cent of the Belgian market and  
23 per cent of the Dutch market.
We estimate the Darty Group is the 
third largest electricals retailer in 
Europe by sales. As of 30 April 2014, 
we continue to hold leading positions  
in our core markets, including France 
where we are the market leader, with  
a 14.4 per cent share. In Belgium we 
hold 10.7 per cent share of the market 
and 5.2 per cent in the The Netherlands.
In France, our primary market, Darty is 
the most widely recognised electricals 
retail brand. According to the TNS 
Sofres brand image survey conducted 
in 2013, 92 per cent of French 
consumers were aware of the Darty 
brand, and 82 per cent recognised the 
Darty France “Contrat de Confiance” 
service promise. In a further consumer 
survey conducted by TNS Sofres,  
Darty France was identified by consumers 
as the number one for product choice, 
customer service, technical 
competency and communication.
We believe that our leading brand 
position in France, and in our other core 
markets, results from a combination of 
factors, including our reputation for 
quality and convenience, the range  
and diversity of our products and our 
extensive network of stores situated in 
high traffic areas and leading websites. 
Our strong brand recognition and the 
fact that consumers associate our 
brand with choice, service and price 
competitiveness are key drivers of 
consumer interest in our products, 
visits to our stores and websites and 
our ability to generate high sales 
volumes and attractive margins. Our 
strong brand recognition also provides 
us with a solid platform to further 
expand both our product and service 
offering and our network of stores  
and websites.
6
9
12
15
Market share %
France
Market size €17.5 billion
2011/12 2012/13 2013/14
13.2
13.4
14.4
4
6
8
10
12
Market share %
Belgium
Market size €3.8 billion
2011/12 2012/13 2013/14
9.4
9.9
10.7
2
3
4
5
6
Market share %
Netherlands
Market size €5.9 billion
2011/12 2012/13 2013/14
5.2
5.5
5.2
Market data source: GfK
04   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGY
In December 2012, following an 
in-depth internal review of our 
business, we launched our “Nouvelle 
Confiance” strategic plan, the principal 
components of which were to:
• 
identify and eliminate losses at our 
non-core businesses
• 
refocus on core markets with new 
commercial initiatives
• 
create value from our market 
leadership and efficiency savings
• 
develop future growth opportunities. 
Implementation of “Nouvelle 
Confiance“ involved identifying our 
core businesses based on four key 
conditions for success: a fundamentally 
sound market with solid growth 
prospects, demand for a high service 
proposition that resonates with 
consumers, relevant local market 
shares and multi-channel capabilities, 
and a clear path to future profit  
growth opportunities. 
We concluded upon review of our then 
existing businesses, that our operations 
in Italy, Spain, Turkey, the Czech 
Republic and Slovakia were non-core 
businesses. Following the completion  
of the disposal of Darty Italy to DPS 
Group s.r.l. toward the end of the prior 
financial year, we completed a managed 
closure of Darty Spain in June 2013, 
and the asset sale of Darty Turkey to 
Bimeks, a specialist electrical retailer 
in Turkey, in April 2014.
In order to create value from our 
leadership position in our core markets, 
drive greater efficiency and reduce 
costs, we developed a four-point plan 
(“4Ds“), focusing on our principal 
business in France to:
 Drive trading by delivering  
on our promise to customers
 Digitalise Darty by further 
enhancing our multi-channel 
offer and leading websites 
 Develop our brand by improving 
our product and market-leading 
service offerings as well as 
expanding our customer base
 Deliver cost efficiency by 
implementing cost savings
2012/13  
Launched our “Nouvelle 
Confiance” strategic plan and 
refocused on core markets 
with new commercial 
initiatives. 
 
2013/14  
Built on our market leadership 
to create greater value and 
continued to make significant 
efficiency savings. 
 
2014/15  
Further develop the growth 
opportunities at Darty France 
and continue to review 
options for Datart. 
 
• 
expanding the Darty portfolio into 
smaller catchment areas with a new 
franchise model
• 
extending our low price/pay-as-you-
go services offer through the 
Mistergooddeal.com channel, and
• 
a programme to double the 
number of stores in France with 
the kitchen offer.
GROWTH 
OPPORTUNITIES
1
2
3
4
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   05 STRATEGIC REPORT
WHO WE ARE
OUR BUSINESS MODEL AND STRA TEGY
We are the number one electricals retailer in France, the number two electricals retailer in Belgium and a leading 
player in the Netherlands, our core markets. We operate under some of the most highly established brands in 
our sector. We display, sell, distribute and provide after-sales support for a wide range of electrical products and 
associated accessories and services, from major home and small domestic appliances to the latest vision and 
audio and telecommunication and multimedia products. We market and distribute our products through our 
network of over 380 stores and our leading websites and mobile applications.
Business model Strategy 2013/14 progress Future opportunities KPIs
To be the market-
leading electrical 
retailing brand in 
our core markets in 
France, Belgium and 
the Netherlands
Identify and eliminate 
losses in non-core 
businesses and 
strengthen leadership 
positions in core 
markets
Expand our 
customer base
Closure of Darty Spain
Sale of Darty Turkey
Launched franchise model
Acquired Mistergooddeal.com
Continue to review options 
for Datart in the Czech 
Republic and Slovakia
Expand the number of 
franchise stores
Leverage Mistergooddeal.com 
for the price entry market
Retail 
profit €m
Number of 
franchise 
stores
To provide leading 
offer before, during 
and after-sales
Drive trading by 
delivering on our 
promise to customers
Improved in-store merchandising
New product displays
Premium paid-for delivery service offer
Trialled dedicated service desks for  
in-store repair
First ever sales held in July and January
On a “service included” basis, favourable 
comparison against all store retailers and 
almost all pure web players
Introduced new credit offer
Roll-out successful dedicated 
service desks
Continue to assess 
opportunities for extended 
service offers
Continue to build on the  
new marketing campaign 
LFL sales
Market 
share
To provide our 
customers with  
fully integrated 
multi-channel 
platforms comprising 
stores, websites and 
mobile applications
Digitalise Darty by 
further enhancing 
our multi-channel 
offer and leading 
websites
Promotion of store product availability 
on websites and mobile applications
Roll-out of “Click and collect” lockers
Trials to equip staff with tablets
Interactive information terminals introduced 
to larger stores
Continue to exploit 
opportunities from  
new technology
Roll-out use of tablets 
for staff
Roll-out interactive terminals 
Internet 
sales 
growth
Web-
generated 
sales
To provide our 
customers with an 
extensive offer of all 
electrical products, 
accessories and 
associated services 
across major brands, 
own-label and 
licensed ranges
Develop our brand  
by improving our 
product and 
market-leading 
service offering
Improved sourcing through one central team
Developed exclusive, own-label and licensed 
ranges
Concentrated on being “first to market” 
for new products
Extended kitchen offer 
Further roll-out of the 
kitchens offer
Continue to expand  
on new ranges 
Number 
of kitchen 
offers
To ensure we have 
cost-effective 
operations to deliver 
growing profitability
Deliver cost 
efficiencies by 
implementing 
cost-saving  
initiatives
Centralised head office functions
Rationalisation of regional structure
Social plan completed
Sold shareholding in Go Sport
Disposal of non-core freehold properties
Productivity improvements
Continued balance 
sheet management
Retail 
profit 
margin
A more detailed description of progress made during the year ended 30 April 2014 and our opportunities for growth can be 
found in the Chief Executive’s review on pages 7 to 13. The table of financial KPIs can be found on page 20.
06   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 I am very pleased with the good progress we 
have made with our “4Ds” programme – to Drive 
trading, Digitalise Darty, Develop our brand and 
Deliver cost efficiency. I am also encouraged by 
the early results of our initiatives for future 
growth – the launch of our franchise business, 
the acquisition of Mistergooddeal.com and 
expanding our kitchen offer.
Régis Schultz
Chief Executive
The “4Ds”
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Through the implementation of our “4Ds” programme, principally in 
France, we have seen overall market share gains, delivered positive 
like-for-like sales growth and improved our profit performance for  
the first time in three years.
The “4Ds”
Drive trading
During 2013, Darty held its first ever 
sale in the summer and we were 
pleased by our customers’ response. 
We also introduced a “Darty Days” 
campaign, where customers 
accumulated points through their 
expenditure to redeem discounts on 
future purchases. A number of VIP 
private shopping evenings were held  
in late November/early December. A 
further sale was held in January 2014, 
which, on the first day, generated a 
revenue increase of nearly one third, 
both in-store and online, compared to 
the same day last year, with Darty.com 
receiving nearly one million visits.
We have further built on our price 
promise by introducing a wider range 
of entry-price products, including  
a kitchen offer at €1,990 and “Les 
Immédiats”, a selected range of large 
products available to take direct from 
the store. These initiatives have 
delivered a positive impact on price 
image and store traffic.
We have launched a number of 
product-specific initiatives through the 
year, such as a voucher campaign on 
white goods post-Christmas before the 
January sale; interest-free credit offers 
on large appliances and kitchens and, 
more recently, a “Green Selection”, 
providing money-off vouchers on the 
trade-in of an old appliance against 
a new purchase.
1 STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Our price competitiveness remains 
strong and, on a “service included” 
basis, we compare favourably against 
all store-based retailers and pure  
web players.
All these activities have arrested the 
footfall decline trend, up 1 per cent year 
on year, and improved the conversion 
ratio in stores by 20 basis points, 
helping to drive positive like-for-like 
sales of 2.8 per cent.
Digitalise Darty
We have a strong track record as  
a successful multi-channel retailer, 
consistently growing profitable 
web-generated sales. Multi-channel 
customers are growing steadily;  
they visit our stores and website  
more often; spend more with us; and 
buy from more categories of products 
than single-channel customers.
We are exploiting this opportunity 
further with greater use of technology 
to connect our website, stores, sales 
staff, delivery and after-sales teams. 
We have introduced award-winning 
“click and collect” lockers, which  
are currently being trialled in seven 
high-traffic stores. Customers are able 
to order and pay online and are issued 
with a web-generated collection code 
that enables them to collect their 
purchases from lockers positioned  
at the front of a store. This helps to 
increase store traffic and enables  
faster order fulfilment at lower cost.
During the year we saw an increase 
in visits to the website of over 8 
per cent, improved conversion ratio  
by ten basis points and an increase 
in the number of web orders collected  
in-store. We also increased our market 
share of overall web sales by 20 basis 
points to 10.6 per cent.
We have introduced award-winning “click and 
collect” lockers which are being trialled in seven 
high-traffic stores.
2
08   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 Franchise stores
Darty is the market leader in France, with 70 per cent  
of consumers within a 30-minute drive time to a store.  
The remaining 30 per cent represent an opportunity  
to further exploit the existing infrastructure of our multi-
channel offer. Typically, these consumers will reside in 
smaller catchment areas, usually below 100,000 inhabitants, 
where it is uneconomic to open a typical Darty store.  
To address these smaller catchment areas we have 
established a franchise operation.
Following refurbishment investment by the franchisee  
the first store opened in early March 2014 in Challans,  
a 700 sqm store in a town of circa 20,000 inhabitants.  
A further three stores were opened in the year at Lannion, 
Bergerac and Montceau.
Franchise stores 
The potential over a four-year  
period is around 100 to 150 stores  
with an average store revenue  
of at least €3 million and retail  
contribution in line with the  
core business.
Initial trading is very encouraging.  
At the end of May we had opened  
a further four stores and expect to  
have a total of 30 stores open by  
the end of the current financial year.
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   09 STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Free Wi-Fi was introduced to a number 
of stores, and sales staff are being 
equipped with tablets that enable them 
to demonstrate extended ranges and 
services in real time to customers.  
It also allows the sales staff to show 
how our prices and services compare  
to our competitors. Fourteen stores 
were equipped by the end of the 
financial year and this will be rolled-out 
to around half the store portfolio by  
the end of the new financial year.
Develop our brand
We have been defending margins 
through better sourcing and growing 
our service revenues. Following action 
taken during the year, we now have 
one sourcing team for France that  
is building better partnerships with 
suppliers and greater frequency of 
co-branding with leading manufacturers. 
We continue to develop exclusive, 
own-label and licensed products where 
the margins can be significantly higher. 
As market leader we have increasing 
success and support from leading 
manufacturers in gaining access to 
exclusive products, with particular 
emphasis on being “first to market”  
for new products, as demonstrated by 
our leading position in the new vision 
technologies, OLED and Ultra HD.
We launched initiatives during the year 
to better integrate our market-leading 
services offer including a new extended 
warranties pricing structure. For 
example, these included a voucher 
scheme offered on selected product 
purchases to be redeemed against  
one of our service offers, such as  
TV installation.
We have introduced the first dedicated 
service desks for in-store repair and 
assistance of all multimedia products, 
“Atelier Darty”, into 15 stores, further 
strengthening Darty’s service image 
and helping to drive footfall. Initial 
customer response has been very 
favourable, with more immediate 
problem resolution for the majority  
of cases, so avoiding the need to send 
the product to a central service  
centre. The service also provides  
the opportunity to offer additional 
services and accessories.
During the year we introduced a wider choice of 
self-service product ranges. We also launched 
dedicated service desks “Atelier Darty” for in-store 
repair and assistance of all multimedia products.
3
10   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 Integration
We have already made a start on the 
integration of Mistergooddeal.com with  
the collection of orders generated from its 
website already possible in some Darty stores.
We expect this to be a profitable channel 
by year two of ownership.
Mistergooddeal.com
Given its full service offer, Darty France has been less successful in 
taking market share and trading profitably in the entry price end of  
the market. Its market share in the first price quartile is lower than  
its overall market share for a particular product category.
To increase our share of the growing market for an entry price offer, 
we acquired Mistergooddeal.com on 31 March 2014. Mistergooddeal.com 
is a leading French electricals website, generating around €120 million 
revenue, predominantly in white goods at the price entry end of the 
market, with no service included. We have retained the brand name 
and will extend the product offer. Darty’s existing service infrastructure 
is being used to offer Mistergooddeal.com customers additional 
services on a pay-as-you-go basis, typically home delivery and 
extended warranties. Kitchens 
The introduction of the Kitchen offer will 
be in a further 11 stores by the end of the 
current financial year and we intend to 
double the number of stores by 2016/17.
Kitchens
Our kitchens business at Darty France is 
an example of our ability to develop the 
brand further, to move into a new product 
area, build a relevant market position and 
drive profitability. The kitchen offer is now 
in 55 stores, generating over €80 million 
of revenue and has already taken around  
5 per cent of the installed kitchen market 
in France and helped generate additional 
sales of high-end white goods. As a result 
of densifying merchandising in other 
product categories, we are now able to 
install the kitchen offer in smaller stores  
in the portfolio. We have reduced the 
implementation cost, and cost to serve, 
and launched more focused marketing 
campaigns including an entry price and 
interest-free credit offer.
12   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Building on our service image, we are now trialling 
a new initiative “Le Bouton”.
A new marketing campaign with a more 
contemporary look and feel was launched  
in October 2013.
A new marketing campaign was 
launched in October 2013, with a new 
look and feel highlighting individual 
elements of the Darty offer. Results 
show that our customers have responded 
well to the campaign and that it gives 
Darty a more contemporary image.  
It has also increased purchasing 
intention rate.
Building on our service image, we  
are now trialling a new initiative,  
“Le Bouton”. This provides priority 
access to Darty’s market-leading 
service support, 24 hours a day, seven 
days a week, via a button that contacts 
Darty’s service department. A service 
assistant then immediately contacts 
the customer to discuss the problem 
and then assistance is provided via 
phone or home visit if necessary. The 
service is available for all electrical 
products. For those not originally 
bought from Darty, or out of warranty, 
there will be a charge for any repairs 
required. The service will be available 
for a small monthly subscription when 
launched nationally in October 2014.
delivered in the second half of the year 
and the remaining €20 million will be 
realised in 2014/15, totalling the €50 
million one year ahead of schedule. 
Our freehold property underpins the 
operating and credit strength of the 
Group, supporting good relationships 
with our suppliers and finance 
providers. It also provides flexibility 
to adapt our store portfolio as the 
business evolves, but it requires active 
management to ensure maximum value 
to the Group. Following over €15 million 
of proceeds in 2012/13 we realised 
further proceeds of €29 million this 
year. During the period we also sold  
our small shareholding in French sports 
retailer, Go Sport, for €2.7 million.
Régis Schultz
Chief Executive
4
The quality of our service offer 
was again confirmed with the recent 
award from IREF for overall customer 
satisfaction.
Deliver cost efficiency
Throughout the Group, we had targeted 
annualised gross cost savings of 
€50 million by 2015/16, from delivering 
a more efficient operating model, 
continuing to adapt our cost structure 
and leveraging synergies between  
our operating companies. Building  
on progress made in 2012/13, when  
the first €20 million cost savings were 
achieved, the majority of cost actions 
this financial year were to rationalise 
the Group and Darty France head office 
functions, including sourcing, and the 
merger of regions from five to three  
in France to deliver an expected 
€30 million of savings. To accelerate 
the cost savings, a social plan was 
implemented in France in the first half 
of this year and is on track to be 
completed as planned. As a consequence, 
cost savings of €10 million were 
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   13 STRATEGIC REPORT
OPERA TING REVIEW
Darty France
At Darty France total revenue was up 
1.1 per cent, 2.8 per cent on a like-for-
like basis, ahead of a market estimated 
to have declined by 2 per cent. At  
a product category level, growth was 
seen in white goods, which benefited 
from weather-related purchases of 
refrigeration and air conditioning 
products in July 2013; multimedia  
from continued, but slowing, growth in 
tablets; and, in particular , communications 
from very strong sales of smartphones. 
Vision volumes initially remained weak, 
but saw an improving trend throughout 
the year, aided by strong sales of new 
Ultra HD/4K and OLED screens, 
demonstrating the quality of our offer 
and our sales colleagues, until the final 
quarter where we saw some weakness 
ahead of the expected World Cup-
driven demand in the first quarter  
of the new financial year.
Our plans to drive trading had a 
positive impact on footfall during the 
period. We launched our “Darty Days” 
campaign, where customers could 
accumulate points through their  
level of expenditure and specifically 
promoted products to redeem 
discounts on purchases during the 
second quarter. Darty also held its  
first ever sales in July and January  
and we were pleased by the customer 
response and traffic generated. 
Additional targeted campaigns were 
run throughout the year on specific 
product categories.
Web-generated sales continued to 
outperform the market, growing 
8.9 per cent to 14.1 per cent of total 
product sales. Darty.com is consistently 
one of the top 15 most visited websites 
in France. During the period, it won a 
FEVAD award for best technical product 
website and was recently ranked the 
second fastest for users (JDN/Fasterize).
Gross margin was down 90 basis points 
for the period, in line with expectations, 
resulting from the impact of strong 
growth of lower margin smartphones 
and tablets in the mix and ongoing 
price pressure in challenging and 
promotional markets.
Total costs reduced by €19 million,  
over 2 per cent, reflecting in part 
reduced depreciation following the new 
Darty Telecom agreement. Underlying 
costs were down around 1 per cent,  
more than offsetting inflation and 
increased volume.
Retail profit was €76.1 million compared 
to €74.2 million in the prior year. 
During the period three new stores 
were opened, two were extended  
and eight stores were closed, including 
the three loss-making stores in 
Luxembourg that were sold to a local 
trade buyer. Four stores were relocated, 
including a store at Beaugrenelle, Paris 
where all the latest merchandising, 
digitalisation and service initiatives 
were introduced in October 2013. A 
further three stores were refurbished. 
The first four franchise stores were 
opened towards the end of the year, 
with around 30 expected to be open  
by the end of 2014/15.
We are pleased with the good progress we have made over the financial 
year, particularly in arresting the recent decline in the Group’s overall 
profitability and starting to improve profitability in our core markets.
The latest merchandising and digitalisation were 
introduced in our flag ship store at Beaugrenelle, 
Paris.
We are a successful multi-channel retailer, 
consistently growing profitable web-generated sales.
Multi-channel customers visit our stores and  
website more often than single channel customers.
14   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 As part of our programme to digitalise 
Darty, we introduced free Wi-Fi to a 
number of stores. Sales staff are 
being equipped with tablets that 
enable them to demonstrate extended 
ranges and services in real time to 
customers. It also allows sales staff to 
show how our prices and services 
compare to our competitors.
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   15 OPERA TING REVIEW
STRATEGIC REPORT
We have been defending margins through better 
sourcing and we now have one centralised 
sourcing team.
Actions taken at BCC to reduce costs are estimated 
to have a €6 million annualised benefit in 2014/15.
For 2014/15, the store portfolio is 
expected to remain broadly unchanged 
with five new stores, four closures, five 
relocations, three refurbishments and 
three rightsizings.
For more detail on the initiatives 
implemented at Darty France, please 
refer to the “4Ds” on pages 7 to 13  
of this report.
BCC and Vanden Borre
At Vanden Borre in Belgium and BCC  
in the Netherlands, total revenue fell  
by 0.3 per cent and by 1.2 per cent on  
a like-for-like basis. Vanden Borre, with 
its strong service position, delivered 
another good performance, taking 
significant share across nearly all 
product categories in a market 
estimated to be down by over  
3 per cent. BCC lost some market share 
against a strong performance last year 
in what remains a highly promotional 
market, estimated to be down by  
2 per cent. Overall, web-generated 
sales continued to grow strongly, up 
over 24 per cent to over 11 per cent of 
total product sales.
Strong growth of lower margin 
communications products in the sales 
mix had a negative impact on gross 
margin in both markets, which was 
overall down 30 basis points. In  
the Netherlands, BCC saw an improving 
trend on annualising the move to free 
delivery, with gross margin slightly up 
for the full financial year.
Total costs were down over 2  
per cent, reflecting a small increase  
at Vanden Borre as the business 
continues to grow, more than offset  
by cost savings and a reduced 
depreciation charge at BCC following 
asset impairments in the prior year. 
Actions were also taken in the period  
to reduce costs at BCC, with initial 
benefits seen from reducing headcount 
and combining warehouses. These 
actions are estimated to have a €6 million 
annualised benefit in 2014/15. 
Retail profit improved to €9.3 million 
compared to €7.5 million in the prior 
year , from continued strong profitability 
at Vanden Borre and a small loss 
reduction at BCC. 
16   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 At Datart revenue grew by 0.5 per cent in local 
currency and the retail loss fell from €3.7 million  
to €1.0 million.
Vanden Borre delivered another good performance 
taking significant share across nearly all product 
categories in the market.
We held our first ever sale in the summer 
and were very pleased with the response 
from our customers. We also introduced  
a “Darty Days” campaign where customers 
accumulated points through their 
expenditure to redeem discounts on  
future purchases.
During the period five stores were 
refurbished and one closed at Vanden 
Borre and two stores were opened, one 
relocated and one store closed at BCC. 
During 2014/15, one new store will be 
opened at Vanden Borre, plus two 
extensions and three refurbishments. 
One store will close at BCC.
Datart
At Datart in the Czech Republic and 
Slovakia, revenue grew by 0.5 per  
cent in constant currency and fell by  
1.9 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
Gross margin was up 150 basis points 
for the period, and with total costs flat 
the retail loss fell from €3.7 million to 
€1.0 million.
During the period four stores were 
refurbished.
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   17 FINANCIAL REVIEW
STRATEGIC REPORT
Revenue and retail profit
Group revenue at €3,579.4 million, was 
up 0.5 per cent on a reported basis and 
0.8 per cent in constant currency. On a 
like-for-like basis Group revenue was up 
1.7 per cent, with a strong improvement 
in the second and third quarter trading 
periods. We saw significant growth in 
smartphones and tablets, small domestic 
appliances saw some growth and large 
white goods were stable. Vision volumes 
initially remained weak, but saw an 
improving trend throughout the year 
until the final quarter where we saw 
some weakness ahead of the expected 
World Cup-driven demand in the first 
quarter of the new financial year . We 
continued to grow web-generated sales 
successfully with growth of 9.6 per cent, 
now representing 13.6 per cent of total 
product sales.
Gross margin declined by 60 basis 
points for the period, in line with our 
expectations. This reflected ongoing 
product category margin pressure in 
challenging and promotional market 
conditions and strong performance 
of lower margin multimedia and 
communications products in the 
sales mix.
We saw an improvement in retail profit in all our segments for the first 
time in three years.
Dominic Platt, Finance Director
T otal operating costs were down  
€25 million, over 2 per cent, reflecting  
in part asset impairments across the 
Group in the prior year and reduced 
depreciation as a result of the new Darty 
T elecom agreement. Underlying costs 
were down around 1 per cent before these 
benefits with our cost-savings programme 
in France more than offsetting inflation 
and increased volume.
Group retail profit increased to  
€73.4 million compared to €66.0 
million for the same period last year, 
with an improvement in all reported 
segments. Head office costs reduced 
from €12.0 million to €11.0 million.
Net finance costs
The net finance costs were €13.4 million 
(2013: €9.5 million) excluding IAS 19 
pension interest of €4.0 million (2013: 
€4.6 million). The increase reflects the 
costs under our new financing 
arrangement, which is expected to 
increase net finance costs to around 
€21 million for 2014/15.
Adjusted profit before tax
The adjusted profit before tax was 
€60.0 million (2013: €56.5 million).
Exceptional items
During the period a social plan was 
launched in France to accelerate the 
delivery of our €50 million cost-savings 
programme. Exceptional costs of €26.0 
million were incurred to rationalise the 
head office and sourcing functions plus 
the reduction in the number of regions 
from five to three. The costs relate to 
redundancies (€16.5 million), onerous 
lease costs (€3.2 million) and other 
costs and asset write offs (€6.3 million).
In addition, €3.1 million exceptional 
costs were incurred in the Netherlands, 
principally redundancy costs as we 
restructure the business, and onerous 
lease provisions as a result of 
warehouse consolidation.
Cash costs of these exceptional items 
and the cash costs for exceptional 
restructuring items booked last year 
totalled €23.4 million, with a further  
€7 million cash costs expected in 2014/15. 
The total cash costs for our restructuring 
plans under Nouvelle Confiance were 
€36 million at the end of 2013/14.
Profit before tax
As a result of the exceptional charges 
of €29.4 million detailed above 
(2013: €64.3 million), the reported 
profit before tax from continuing 
operations was €25.3 million (2013: 
€4.0 million).
Taxation
The effective tax rate for the 
Continuing Group on adjusted profit 
before exceptional items, including the 
share of joint venture and associates’ 
tax was 45.2 per cent (2013: 31.0 per 
cent). This rate, which is sensitive to 
changes in geographical mix of profits 
and losses takes into account changes 
to French corporation tax legislation 
made during the year. Based on  
a total charge of €15.8 million (2013:  
€3.7 million) the total tax rate is  
62.4 per cent (2013: 92.5 per cent)  
on unadjusted profits, reflecting that 
tax relief is not recognised on all 
exceptional and other non-retail profit 
items. The effective tax rate for the 
Continuing Group on adjusted profit 
before exceptional items, including the 
18   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 share of joint venture and associates’ 
tax is expected to fall to around the  
mid 30s per cent in 2014/15.
Profit for the period
The profit for the period from 
continuing operations was €9.5 million 
(2013: profit €0.3 million).
Earnings per share
Continuing basic earnings per share  
was 2.4 cents (2013: 0.7 cents). Total 
losses per share was 0.7 cents (2013: 
19.8 cents). Adjusted earnings per share, 
excluding the IAS 19 net interest on 
pension schemes, was 6.4 cents 
(2013: 7 .2 cents).
Cash flow
Net cash outflow was €39.5 million 
(2013: €20.6 million), with a cash inflow 
of €20.9 million (2013: €23.6 million) 
related to continuing operations offset 
by a cash outflow of €60.4 million (2013: 
€44.2 million) related to the discontinued 
businesses, which have principally been 
impacted by the closure of Darty Spain 
and the pre-disposal losses and impact 
of the Darty Turkey disposal this year .
The net cash inflow from continuing 
operations of €20.9 million reflects 
cash flow from the continuing business 
of €50.1 million, less cash interest of 
€22.8 million including €13.6 million of 
fees related to the refinancing, a cash 
tax inflow of €1.6 million resulting from 
payment phasing in France, dividends 
to shareholders of €18.0 million and 
other items, mainly related to disposals 
and acquisitions, which show an inflow 
of €10.0 million. Free cash flow from 
continuing operations of €50.1 million 
reflects free cash flow
4
 of €85.4 million 
(2013: €43.6 million) less €23.4 million 
(2013: €18.1 million) of exceptional cash 
4  free cash flow defined as cash generated from continuing  
operations less net capex plus dividends received from  
joint ventures.
€m 2013/14 2012/13
EBITDA 119.7 127.5
Working capital/other (14.8) (38.5)
Dividends from joint venture 11.0 2.5
Capital expenditure (30.5) (47.9)
Free cash flow 85.4 43.6
Exceptional costs (23.4) (18.1)
UK pension recovery plan payments (11.9) (16.6)
Cash flow from continuing operations 50.1 8.9
Other (acquisition and disposals) 10.0 39.1
Interest and tax (21.2) (12.2)
Dividends paid to shareholders (18.0) (12.2)
Net cash flow from continuing operations 20.9 23.6
Net cash flow from discontinued operations (60.4) (44.2)
Net cash flow (39.5) (20.6)
costs related principally to the 
reorganisation in France and  
€11.9 million of payments related to  
the UK pension recovery plan. The  
free cash flow of €85.4 million includes 
dividends received from joint ventures 
of €11.0 million (2013: €2.5 million) and 
net capital expenditure of €30.5 million 
(2013: €47.9 million) after proceeds 
from disposal of property, plant and 
equipment of €29.7 million (2013: 
€15.7 million). 
Net debt
The Group successfully completed  
its refinancing on 28 February 2014, 
comprising €250 million Senior 
Notes due 2021 and a new five-year 
committed multi-currency revolving 
credit facility of €225 million, replacing 
the €455 million revolving credit facility 
due to mature in December 2015.
Closing net debt was €185.2 million 
compared to €150.6 million on 30 April 
2013. In addition to the €250 million 
Senior Notes, as at 30 April 2014,  
€20 million of the Group’s €225 million 
revolving credit facility was drawn 
down (30 April 2013: €220 million 
drawn down on the previous  
€455 million revolving credit facility).
Retirement benefit obligations
The IAS 19 (revised) net pension  
liability increased from €84.8 million  
to €104.6 million, split €60.1 million  
(30 April 2013: €40.4 million) in the  
UK and €44.5 million (30 April 2013:  
€44.4 million) in France. The increase 
in the UK was largely due to updated 
mortality rates as part of the triennial 
valuation. In order to make good the 
£73 million funding deficit, a schedule 
of contributions has been agreed with 
the trustees as part of the recent 
triennial valuation to continue to pay 
£10 million per annum until 2019.
Balance sheet
Following the disposal and closure of 
discontinued operations from 2012 
onwards including Comet, Darty Italy, 
Darty Spain and Darty Turkey and 
exceptional items from recent 
restructuring we have reported net 
liabilities. At 30 April 2014, net liabilities 
totalled €316.2 million. Under our 
accounting policies, freehold property  
is carried at cost. Our freehold property 
portfolio in France, representing in the 
main around one third of the store 
portfolio, has a carrying value of 
€112 million, compared with a market 
valuation of approximately €380 million. 
In addition, we carry no internally 
generated goodwill for our market-
leading brands.
Dividends
The Board is recommending an 
unchanged final dividend of 2.625 
cents per share. The final dividend date 
will be 10 September 2014, the record 
date will be 12 September 2014 and the 
payment date will be 3 October 2014.
Discontinued operations
Darty Spain has been reclassified as 
a discontinued operation following 
the managed closure of the business 
with all stores closing by the end of 
June 2013. Darty Turkey has been 
reclassified as a discontinued operation 
following the asset sale agreement 
signed on 22 January 2014. Losses  
for the year from the discontinued 
operations were €16.4 million. The 
prior year comparatives have been 
restated accordingly.
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   19 FINANCIAL REVIEW
STRATEGIC REPORT
Definition/source Performance
SALES:
Total revenue growth
2014: 0.5% 2013: (2.6%)
Like-for-like sales growth
Like-for-like sales are calculated based on stores that have been open for 
a full year and the first full four weeks of trading have passed. Stores where 
retail space has been added or where a complete format redesign (including 
addition of mezzanine floor) has taken place, which involves material capital 
expenditure are excluded from like-for-like sales calculations. Sales through 
internet sites are included.
2014: 1.7% 2013: (0.8%)
Internet sales growth
Percentage increase in web-generated sales.
2014: 9.6% 2013: 10.8%
Multi-channel sales
Web-generated sales as a percentage of total product sales.
2014: 13.6% 2013: 13.3%
PROFITABILITY:
Retail profit 
Retail profit represents Continuing Group total operating profit before the 
share of joint venture and associates’ interest and taxation, movement in 
options and related charges over non-controlling interests, impairment of 
available-for-sale financial assets, exceptional costs and amortisation and 
impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets.
2014: €73.4m 2013: €66.0m
Retail profit margin
Retail profit as a percentage of total revenue.
2014: 2.1% 2013: 1.9%
Adjusted earnings per share 
Excludes the effects of movement in options and related charges over 
non-controlling interests, realised losses on available-for-sale financial assets, 
exceptional costs, exceptional finance costs, tax effects of exceptional items, 
discontinued operations and amortisation of acquisition-related intangible 
assets.
2014: 6.4 cents 2013: 7.2 cents
CASH FLOW:
Free retail cash flow
Free cash flow defined as cash generated from operations and net sale  
of business operations and subsidiary less net capital expenditure  
and investments.
2014: €(11.3)m 2013: €1.2m
NON-FINANCIAL:
Market share
Share of the total electricals market in each country (source: GfK).
France
2013: 13.4%
2014: 14.4%
Belgium
2013: 9.9%
2014: 10.9%
Netherlands
2013: 5.5%
2014: 5.3%
Franchise stores
Number of Darty Franchisee stores in France.
2014: 4 2013: nil
Kitchens
Number of Darty stores with a kitchen offer.
2014: 55 2013: 48
The Group manages its performance using these key performance indicators in place at a Group and business level.
Prior year KPIs have been restated for the new Continuing Group to ensure like-for-like comparison.
The Group also has a set of non-financial KPIs; details of these are set out in the Corporate responsibility report on page 29.
Dominic Platt
Finance Director
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
20   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 PRINCIP AL RISKS
STRATEGIC REPORT
The taking of risk is an inherent part of doing business and the skill in business is to manage risk effectively. 
The Board and senior management have invested time to identify and assess the key risks facing the business 
and actively manage those risks. Risk management is performed from both a top-down and a bottom-up 
perspective, ensuring that strategic and operational risks are appropriately addressed.
The principal risks and uncertainties to delivering our strategy are set out below together with an illustration 
of what actions are being taken to mitigate the effect of those risks on the business and its customers.
Risk Actions taken Actions to be taken
Legislative and regulatory risks
The Group’s operations are subject to extensive 
regulatory requirements, particularly in relation 
to its buying and selling products and after-sales 
services, its advertising, marketing and sales 
practices, its employment and pensions policies 
and planning and environmental issues. Changes 
in laws and regulations and their enforcement 
may adversely impact the Group’s operations in 
terms of costs, changes to business practices, 
and restrictions on activities. The Group’s 
businesses may also be adversely affected by 
changes in tax laws.
 
Potential changes to legislation and regulatory 
requirements are monitored with the help of 
external advisers, and the business model and 
processes have been adapted to seek to 
minimise the impact of these changes. 
Have sought to ensure governmental and regulatory 
bodies understand the impact of proposed 
legislation on both the business and its customers.
We have also implemented packages for our 
customers, providing them with a wider range  
of services, not only repair services but also 
assistance in usage such as our Pack Serenity 
multimedia assistance service.
Briefing sessions for key executives 
on the likely impact of legislative 
and regulatory change so there is 
sufficient time to develop action 
plans to mitigate any adverse effects.
Continue to ensure legislators and 
regulators are aware of the 
potential impact of their actions.
Develop additional service 
packages for our customers, such 
as “Le Bouton”.
Economic environment
The economic environment can influence the 
level of consumer expenditure on electrical 
goods in a number of ways. It can also affect the 
level of promotional activity in the market, which 
impacts prices and margins. Other economic 
factors that may adversely affect sales include 
interest rates, government economic policy and 
levels of personal debt.
Deteriorating market conditions could adversely 
impact profitability and cash generation, and 
delay the delivery of growth in our core businesses.
 
The implementation of the “4Ds” strategy has 
improved store footfall. Launched initiatives 
such as Darty Days and “Les Immediats” to 
improve trading. Piloted digital stores.
Offset some of the adverse effects by trading 
across a number of categories, as well as 
introducing new channels such as franchising.
Acquired Mistergoodeal.com to help address the 
increased demand for lower quartile products.
By taking corporate action, the losses incurred in 
Italy, Spain and Turkey have been eliminated. 
We have completed a refinancing of the Group’s 
debt facilities to secure long-term funding to 
support our future growth plans.
Continued roll-out of the 4Ds strategy.
Review of store portfolio with a view 
to relocating poorly located stores.
Continued roll-out of the 
franchising initiative.
Full integration and expansion of 
Mistergoodeal.com.
Seek solutions to ensure all 
businesses are profitable.
Organisational and business change 
There are a large number of initiatives across 
the Group following the strategic review that 
could disrupt the business as they are being 
implemented. The implementation of all of the 
initiatives may be delayed or hindered by a 
complex regulatory environment and project 
management issues.
 
Implemented improved change and project 
management processes and appointed a 
dedicated Project Management Officer. 
Programme to coach staff in PM 
skills to be implemented. Undertake 
an improvement in prioritising 
initiatives.
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   21 Risk Actions taken Actions to be taken
Information technology
A number of IT projects are planned to replace 
large legacy applications built for individual 
operating companies. If not properly planned 
and implemented, there could be significant 
interruption to the business and additional costs 
could arise.
The reliance on IT systems means the business 
can be severely adversely impacted if they fail.
The increased use of online payments and credit 
card payments has increased the risk of the loss 
of personal data.
IT Project Committee established.
Plan put in place to remove old applications.
Tested recovery plans across our business.
Reviewed robustness of current protections for 
customer personal data.
Enhance change management to 
prepare staff and processes for 
organisation and systems changes.
Improved plans to improve 
emergency and disaster recovery 
plans.
Continued monitoring and, where 
necessary, altering systems and 
protections to meet changing threats.
Profit margins
The level of profit margin in electrical retailing  
is significantly less than that of many other 
retailers and is largely determined by the 
market, consumer demand, manufacturer supply, 
competition and government regulations.
 
Protected margins, as far as possible, through 
buying arrangements and by maintaining an 
efficient sourcing operation.
 
Cost structures have been actively managed in 
order to mitigate the impact of product margin 
erosion.
Continued development of 
additional OEM, exclusive and 
licensed products.
Cost mitigation plans will continue 
to be implemented.
Reputational risks 
The Group’s success is dependent, in part, upon the 
strength of the Group’s brands and their reputation. 
The Group operates in an industry where integrity, 
customer trust and confidence are important and 
any adverse publicity concerning corporate behaviour , 
policies and strategies could damage that customer 
trust and damage the Group’s reputation and brands.
 
A number of internal controls and processes 
have been put in place to try and limit the 
number and harmful effect of such incidents.
Regular reviews of the likely 
threats to reputation, together with 
monitoring of the media including 
social media.
Pension scheme liabilities
Following the sale of Comet, the UK defined benefit 
scheme for Comet employees was retained by the 
Group. There is a smaller defined benefit scheme in 
France for senior Darty employees. Both schemes 
are currently in deficit. These deficits are volatile  
as a result of changes in the assumptions regarding 
life expectancy, discount rates (based on gilt yields 
and company covenant), inflation and future salary 
increases, risks regarding the value of investments 
and the returns derived from such investments. 
Adverse movements in these assumptions could 
increase the deficit, increasing the funding 
requirement to the schemes from the Group.
 
A number of deficit mitigation measures have 
been undertaken, and will be taken in the future, 
to reduce both the size of the deficit and its 
volatility.
New triennial valuation agreed in the UK.
Continue to examine strategies and 
additional opportunities to mitigate 
the deficit.
PRINCIP AL RISKS
STRATEGIC REPORT
22   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 STRATEGIC REPORT
CORPORA TE RESPONSIBILITY
It has long been our belief that good 
CR practice makes sound financial 
sense. However, a “one size fits all” 
approach is not appropriate because  
of the different sizes and maturities of 
our businesses. Therefore the majority 
of our activities are locally driven, 
reflecting customer demands and 
market sensitivities. However, there  
is a CR team comprising senior 
managers from each of the businesses. 
Chaired by the Company Secretary,  
the team meets to share best practices 
and develop practical performance 
measures that can be adopted  
across the Group.
Our initiatives fall into four  
key areas:
Environment
Improving the Group’s use of energy, 
the impact of our transport fleet and 
our use of bulk materials such as paper 
and packaging, by minimising waste, 
increasing energy efficiency and 
reducing our consumption of materials.
Supply chain
Improving labour, environmental and 
social practices in the Group’s supply 
chain as well as ensuring that our 
suppliers and business partners are 
made aware of our requirements and 
take all reasonable steps to ensure  
they are met.
People
Providing a working environment that 
is conducive to the recruitment and 
retention of the widest possible range 
of talented staff; and offering them a 
safe and healthy place of work – we aim 
to be recognised as a good employer 
seeking to reward people fairly and to 
provide equality of opportunity, 
personal development and training.
Communities
Working for our customers and  
local communities, contributing to 
community activities in the areas we 
serve; and supporting and encouraging 
staff fundraising for appropriate 
charitable organisations.
Environment
As an electrical retailer we have a 
relatively low direct environmental 
impact, but we still seek to minimise 
the environmental impact of all our 
operations throughout the Group.  
We also want to ensure that neither our 
products nor our operations adversely 
affect the health of our customers, our 
employees or the community at large.
As one of Europe’s market leaders  
in large white goods, we specialise in 
offering our customers specific advice 
on the energy efficiency of our ranges. 
This enables them to make informed 
buying decisions in terms of power  
and water consumption. We also offer 
practical advice in-store and on the 
web on how to use the products in the 
most efficient way and we help dispose 
of them at end of life.
This programme is tailored to each of 
our markets and is currently in its most 
advanced stages of implementation at 
Darty in France and has been, in part, 
adopted across all the Group. We were 
one of the first retailers to test the 
energy efficiency of all televisions, DVD 
players and computers that we sell and 
then promote the better performing 
products. Darty France devotes two 
pages in its monthly magazine “Darty 
et Vous”, to environmental matters and 
has a dedicated section on its website, 
www.darty.com, on environmental 
matters. Since September 2012, 
practical advice is given to customers 
to help them calculate their energy  
and water consumption on over 1,000 
products including refrigerators, 
washing machines, dishwashers and 
TVs. This was extended to tumble 
dryers and wine coolers during 2013. 
A major Group strength, with our 
significant home delivery network,  
is our ability to facilitate the recycling 
As a specialist electrical retailer Darty is well placed to manage an 
effective approach to corporate responsibility (CR) that is compatible 
with profitable growth and enhances brand equity.
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   23 of large white goods, helped by our 
efficient “reverse logistics” capability. 
The ongoing rapid development of  
new technology creates increasing  
high levels of hazardous electronic  
and electrical waste, which is the 
background for the WEEE Directive.  
Its aim is to minimise the impact of 
electrical and electronic equipment  
on the environment when those 
products eventually become waste.  
In order to sell products within the  
EU manufacturers must demonstrate 
compliance with the regulations. This 
means that electrical retailers must 
offer take back facilities to cover all 
categories including smaller appliances 
such as kettles and microwaves.
The newer A++ brands use up to 44  
per cent less energy than products sold  
10 years ago. While hand washing the 
dishes can use up to 50 litres of water, 
a modern dishwasher uses just 13 litres, 
and some models use just 6 litres.
Darty France offers to take away two 
items for recycling free of charge if it 
makes a home delivery for large white 
goods. The collected items are sorted  
in 72 collection sites where they are 
dismantled. In 2012, Darty France 
collected 40,034 tonnes of product  
for recycling, the equivalent of over 
1.26 million appliances. These were 
recycled into 20,000 tonnes of scrap 
metal, 6,200 tonnes of plastic and 
3,100 tonnes of glass and similar items 
and saved 26,000 tonnes of CO
2 
emissions, and achieved a similar 
performance in 2013.
All the stores in Darty France have 
dedicated recycling bins with separate 
compartments for mobile phones,  
small appliances, batteries, and ink 
cartridges. In 2012, Darty France 
collected 27 tonnes of batteries, and  
7 tonnes of ink cartridges. To promote 
the recycling of small appliances, Darty 
is now offering a €5 voucher for every 
such appliance brought back to store, 
which in April 2013 led to 16,000 
appliances being returned.
Vanden Borre in Belgium recycles  
55 per cent of the products it collects 
when making a home delivery. Datart, 
in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, 
recycled more than 717 tonnes of 
product and, with the introduction  
of better sorting at source, recycled  
82 tonnes of plastic and expanded 
polystyrene, and 104 tonnes of paper. 
BCC received an eco-certificate for its 
sustainability performance in the field 
of waste management, reducing the 
impact of its waste on the environment 
by 46 per cent by reducing and 
separating waste.
We believe that together this makes  
us one of the leading recyclers of MDA 
products in Europe, and is something 
that sets us apart from many pure web 
players in particular.
We also aim to reduce the amount of 
packaging we use and ensure that it 
can be recycled. We collect all waste 
packaging when delivering a household 
appliance unless the customer requests 
otherwise. At Darty France, Vanden 
Borre and BCC we have specialised 
equipment that compresses all 
polystyrene packaging collected from 
customers’ homes for recycling or 
re-use as garden furniture. At most  
of our operating companies, packaging 
waste is also collected from the 
warehouses and after-sales service 
centres; annually we recycle over 
40,000 tonnes of packaging waste.
We report our emissions data using an 
operational control approach to define 
our organisational boundary, which 
Vanden Borre in Belgium recycles 55 per cent  
of the products it collects.
All the stores in Darty France have dedicated recycling bins with separate compartments for mobile 
phones, small appliances, batteries and ink cartridges.
STRATEGIC REPORT
CORPORA TE RESPONSIBILITY
24   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 meets the definitional requirements  
of the regulations in respect of those 
emissions for which we are responsible. 
We have reported on all material 
emission sources that we deem 
ourselves to be responsible for. These 
sources align with our operational 
control and financial control boundaries. 
We do not have responsibility for any 
emission sources that are beyond the 
boundary of our operational control. 
For example, business travel, other 
than by car (including commercial 
flights), are not within our operational 
control and therefore are not 
considered our responsibility.
Supply chain
Our customers expect us to have 
procedures in place to ensure that the 
products we sell have been ethically 
produced and handled from the 
beginning right through to the end of 
the supply chain. Many of our electrical 
products are sourced through major 
international brands who  
have their own strong ethical and 
environmental policies in place. We  
do not have significant operations or 
retail outlets in countries that present  
a material risk from bribery or 
corruption, poor labour standards  
or restrict civil or political rights. 
However, some of our suppliers do. 
Over the past year there has been 
continued external attention and 
debate on the role of business and 
human rights. We welcome this focus 
as respect, fairness and integrity are an 
important part of the responsible way 
we run our business. We are committed 
to doing things the right way and this is 
reflected in our values and our Code of 
Conduct, which is available on our 
website. A respect for human rights is 
implicit in our employment practices 
and are within the high standards we 
expect from our suppliers. We continue 
to be guided by the International 
T able 1. Assessment results including transmission and distribution losses
Global GHG emissions data for Reporting Year 1 January 2013 – 31 December 2013
Emissions from: Tonnes of CO 2e
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities (GHG Protocol Scope 1) 63,771
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use  
(GHG Protocol Scope 2)
20,775
Transmission and distribution losses from electricity  
(GHG Protocol Scope 3)
1,156
Total 85,702
Intensity metric: tonnes CO2e/thousand EUR revenue (€) 24.03
T able 2. Assessment results excluding transmission and distribution losses
Global GHG emissions data for Reporting Year 1 January 2013 – 31 December 2013
Emissions from: Tonnes of CO 2e
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities (GHG Protocol Scope 1) 63,771
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use  
(GHG Protocol Scope 2)
20,775
Total 84,546
Intensity metric: tonnes CO2e/thousand EUR revenue (€) 23.71
Methodology
We have reported on all of the emission sources 
required under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013. 
These sources fall within our consolidated financial 
statement. We do not have responsibility for any 
emission sources that are not included in our 
consolidated statement.
The method we have used to calculate GHG 
emissions is the GHG Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised 
edition), together with the latest emission factors 
from recognised public sources including, but not 
limited to, Defra, the International Energy Agency, 
the US Energy Information Administration, the US 
Environmental Protection Agency and the 
Intergovernmental panel on Climate Change.
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   25 Labour Organization (ILO) core 
conventions and the recommendation 
of Professor John Ruggie, the UN 
Special Representative for human 
rights. In some areas, such as the 
elimination of child labour, our direct 
influence can be limited and in these 
situations our focus on partnerships  
is of critical importance. 
We also work with our suppliers to  
help them reduce their impact on  
the environment and to manage the 
challenges of sustainable growth.  
The Group sources its own-label 
products principally from factories 
based in China that are committed  
to improving workers’ welfare and 
reducing environmental impact. 
We have audit procedures that we  
have benchmarked against leading 
international test houses, which are 
designed to ensure proper environmental 
standards, are adhered to by our 
own-label suppliers in our factories  
and additionally to monitor the  
quality of our products.
We have an experienced quality team 
based in China that carries out factory 
audits every two years over the 149 
factories we use in South-East Asia to 
ensure that they meet the strict social, 
environmental and supply chain 
standards we require. In 2013, we 
undertook 90 factory audits. In 
addition, the team also carried out 
3,000 random inspections of goods  
in 2013 before shipments were made  
to ensure that quality standards were 
being maintained. Products that have 
been listed for more than 18 months 
are fully re-evaluated, and all new OEM 
products have full CE certification  
from accredited European laboratories. 
Suppliers who fail our standards  
are delisted.
In addition, as a further environmental 
measure we are consciously trying  
to minimise the emissions from our 
transport operations. We continue  
to modify our logistics operation to 
achieve a more efficient use of the 
transport fleet and many of our 
operating companies make use of 
satellite navigation systems to improve 
their delivery schedules. This not only 
reduces the distance the vans and 
lorries travel but also provides our 
customers with more predictable 
arrival times. The Group is constantly 
exploring new initiatives that make 
good CR sense while benefiting the 
businesses. At Darty France they have 
introduced enhanced driver training, 
with the aim of reducing fuel 
consumption and CO
2 emissions by 
some 15 per cent. Further savings have 
come from the introduction of new 
delivery vehicles with Euro 5 engines 
and “Stop and Start” technology. 
Increased use of call centres and 
development of a database on repairs 
that provides first level resolution  
has led to less vehicle journeys to 
customers’ homes, not only improving 
our customer service, but also reducing 
our CO
2 emissions.
People
As a specialist retailer committed  
to the best customer service, one of 
our key differentiators and strengths  
is our people. We have over 15,600 
employees across Europe and Asia and 
we want them all to have satisfying and 
rewarding careers within the Group. By 
respecting and valuing our employees 
we engage their talents and abilities  
to the fullest extent. We also realise 
that a well-trained workforce is a key 
differentiator and we therefore put 
great emphasis on our training 
programmes to improve store staff 
product knowledge. Darty France has 
online modules for staff training and  
is looking to expand them further to 
cover home delivery and after-sales 
service. A programme to refurbish staff 
break rooms and ensure there is access 
to a PC for training and personal use 
has been completed in France. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
CORPORA TE RESPONSIBILITY
Audits
Experienced quality team
Production consistency
90 factory audits during the year
Ethical quality
Subcontracting risk
Inspection
During production
Final random
Sample verification
New OEM full CE certification
3,000 random visits
26   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 We now have platforms across the 
whole Group for our employees’ 
opinions to be heard and we value  
their input on how the business is  
being run. The first ever employee 
survey for all the companies in the 
Group was undertaken in 2012 and  
all our employees will now regularly 
participate in an employee survey.  
Our communication channels include 
regular workers’ councils where issues 
are discussed with representatives 
from across the organisation. We also 
have many other forums for discussion 
that allow management to take a wide 
range of viewpoints into account. We 
promote the health, safety and welfare 
of both colleagues and customers 
across all our sites and we monitor  
and report to our Director of Risk 
Management and Audit on these issues. 
We have established a written set of 
Operating Principles and a Code of 
Conduct that outlines the ethical 
standards we expect from all 
employees of companies within the 
Group. This includes both permanent 
and contract staff and any external 
consultants or suppliers we retain.
Diversity
The table below provides a breakdown 
of the gender of Directors and 
employees as at 30 April 2014.
Our people are instrumental to our 
success; we respect and value the 
individuality and diversity that every 
employee brings to the business.  
We base our relationship with our 
employees on respect for the dignity 
of the individual and seek to create  
a positive, open working environment 
wherever we operate. As at 30 April 
2014, 66.4 per cent of our workforce 
were male and 33.6 per cent female. 
In terms of the Group’s Board of 
Directors, there were 10 Directors,  
eight of whom were male and two 
were female (see pages 30 and 31 
to view biographies of the members  
of the Board).
As a specialist electrical retailer we are committed 
to the best customer service.
One of our key differentiators and strengths is  
our people.
We put great emphasis on our training programmes 
to improve store staff product knowledge.
Male Female
Company Directors* 8 2
Other senior managers** 3 1
All employees*** 7,329 3,712
* Company Directors consists of the Company’s Board, as detailed on pages 30 and 31.
**  Other senior managers is as defined in The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 
2013, and includes: i) persons responsible in France for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the company, 
or a strategically significant part of the company, other than Company Directors; and ii) any other Directors of under-
takings included in the consolidated accounts.
*** In France
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   27 Communities
As a Group, we are committed to 
working with the many communities  
we are represented in. We work in 
partnership with outside organisations 
to address a number of long-standing 
social issues and we support a range of 
different charities on a regional basis.
Darty France has a long-standing 
reputation for helping the 
disadvantaged. Through the ENVIE 
programme (Enterprise Nouvelle 
Versl’Insertion par L’Economie)  
over 6,000 previously long-term 
unemployed have been trained in the 
repair of electrical products. During a 
two-year programme, trainees practise 
on end-of-life products collected from 
customers. Once repaired, these are 
then sold from ENVIE stores at heavily 
discounted prices. Darty France annually 
donates €60,000 to Telemaque, which 
promotes access to jobs for less 
advantaged youths, and encourages 
Darty employers to become tutors.
Vanden Borre and Darty France raise 
funds for charities through the sale  
of toy models of their after-sales 
service vans. 
Datart in the Czech Republic and 
Slovakia has planted a “forest of trees” 
to replace those lost in storms and has 
been working closely with insurers to 
help those affected by the 2010 floods. 
Datart works with a number of charities 
by providing them with various items  
of electrical equipment, including  
24 televisions for a hospice.
STRATEGIC REPORT
CORPORA TE RESPONSIBILITY
Training 
We have over 15,600 employees 
across Europe and Asia and we  
want them all to have satisfying and 
rewarding careers within the Group.
Darty France has online modules for 
staff training and is looking to expand 
them further to cover home delivery 
and after-sales service.
28   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 Performance criteria
1  The number of days spent on  
staff training 
As a specialist electrical retailer, it is 
important that we create a working 
environment that is conducive to the 
recruitment and retention of talented 
staff who have excellent customer 
service skills and product knowledge.
2  The number of accidents or injuries 
to staff 
The provision of a safe and healthy 
place of work for our staff is a primary 
concern and key responsibility.
3  The percentage of energy efficient 
A-rated products sold 
Energy label ratings on fridge 
freezers help our customers choose 
more efficient models. A-rated 
products use the least amount of 
energy thereby benefiting both our 
customers and the environment.
4  The number of tonnes of packaging 
waste collected and recycled 
Through our distribution channels 
and warehouses we can efficiently 
collect our own and customers’  
waste for recycling.
Continuing Group 12 months to 
30 April 2014
12 months to 
30 April 2013
12 months to 
30 April 2012
Staff training 27,429 30,673 38,586
Accidents/injuries 965 1,191 1,161
A-rated products 
sold
98.3% 96.4% 95.1%
Package waste 
recycled (tonnes)
43,632 43,119 42,795
Through our distribution channels and warehouses 
we can efficiently collect waste for recycling.
Energy label ratings on fridge freezers help customers choose more efficient models and the percentage 
of A-rated products sold is one of our key performance indicators.
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   29 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
1. Alan Parker CBE (67)  
Chairman  
Alan Parker was appointed as Chairman  
on 8 August 2012, having previously been  
a Non-Executive Director since 1 October 
2010. Previously he was Chief Executive of 
Whitbread plc and retired from Whitbread  
in November 2010, having joined Whitbread 
in 1992 as Managing Director of Whitbread 
Hotel Company. Prior to this he worked for 
Bass and in 1985 was Managing Director  
of Crest Hotels Europe, based in Frankfurt, 
and in 1987 became Senior Vice-President  
of Holiday Inn Europe, Middle East and 
Africa, based in Brussels.
Alan was appointed Non-Executive 
Chairman of Mothercare plc in 2011 and is  
a Non-Executive Director of Burger King 
World Wide inc. Alan graduated from the 
University of Surrey with a BSc in Hotel  
& Catering Management, where he is now  
a visiting Professor. In 2012 Alan was 
appointed as President and Chairman  
of the British Hospitality Association.
2. Régis Schultz (45)  
Chief Executive 
Régis Schultz was appointed as Chief 
Executive on 23 April 2013. He joined from 
BUT, the French furniture and electrical 
retailer, where he had been Chief Executive 
since 2008. During his time at BUT Régis  
led a major renewal of the product offer and 
store formats, delivering both market share 
and profit improvement in a difficult trading 
environment. Prior to BUT he held a number 
of senior positions at Kingfisher plc, 
including Chief Operating Officer for B&Q. 
He holds an MSc in Management, from the 
Dauphine University, Paris.
3. Dominic Platt (44) 
Finance Director 
Dominic Platt was appointed Finance 
Director of Kesa Electricals on 4 January 
2010. Between 4 January 2013 and 23 April 
2013 he was acting Chief Executive. Dominic 
joined Cable and Wireless in 1991 and held 
increasingly senior roles including Manager 
of Corporate Finance, CFO Japan and Asia, 
Group Director of Internal Audit and from 
2005 Group Financial Controller. He is a 
member of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants and graduated 
from Cambridge University with an Honours 
degree in Classics.
1 2
4
6
8
10
3
5
7
9
30   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 4. Pascal Bazin (57) 
Non-Executive Director 
Pascal Bazin was appointed as a Non-
Executive Director on 15 October 2012. He  
is a Non-Executive Director of Belvedere  
SA and a private company and was most 
recently Chief Executive of Avis plc where 
he oversaw a very successful turnaround  
of the business. He left at the end of 2011 
following the sale of the business to Avis 
Budget Group Inc. Previously President 
of Avis France, he managed the recovery of 
the French business, regaining its market-
leading position. Prior to this he spent 
some 16 years at Yves Rocher in a variety 
of international and technology roles, and 
was at PPR for five years. Pascal is a 
Graduate of the Ecole Polytechnique, Paris.
5. Carlo D’ Asaro Biondo (49) 
Non-Executive Director 
Carlo D’Asaro Biondo was appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director on 30 October 2012. 
He is also President Southern and Eastern 
Europe, Middle East and Africa Operations  
for Google and has previously served as Chief 
Executive of AOL Europe and International 
Managing Director of the media group, 
Lagardère. He is also a Non-Executive 
Director of Mantuan International SA. 
He has a Doctorate in Economics from 
the Universita La Sapienza in Rome.
6. Eric Knight (55) 
Non-Executive Director 
Eric Knight was appointed as a Non-Executive 
Director on 22 February 2013. He is the 
founder and CEO of Knight Vinke Asset 
Management. He has over 25 years of 
corporate finance and investment experience. 
Eric Knight has a BA (Hons) degree in 
Economics from Cambridge University and  
an MSc in Management degree from the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s  
Sloan School of Management.
7 . Michel Léonard (63) 
Senior Independent Director 
Michel Léonard was appointed Senior 
Independent Director on 8 August 2012, 
having been a Non-Executive Director since  
8 February 2010. He is also Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. Michel joined the 
Bongrain Group in 1985 as General Manager. 
He then moved on to become Chairman of 
the Management Board of Bongrain Europe 
until 2000 and then lastly in 2000 became 
Chairman of the Management Board of 
Bongrain Group until 2003. From 2003-2009 
he was Chairman of the Lactalis Group 
Management Board. Michel is a graduate  
of HEC School of Management, Paris.
8. Antoine Metzger (60) 
Non-Executive Director 
Antoine Metzger was appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director on 15 October 2012. 
He retired as Deputy Chief Executive at 
Vivarte, the French fashion retailer in March 
2013, having previously served as Secretary 
General since joining in 2000. Prior to this 
he had various finance, planning and legal 
roles at Rank Xerox, and was CFO at La 
Redoute and Redcats. Antoine is a graduate 
of the HEC School of Management, Paris.
9. Alison Reed (57) 
Non-Executive Director 
Alison Reed was appointed as a Non-
Executive Director on 8 February 2012 and 
is Chairman of the Audit Committee. Alison 
is a Non-Executive Director and Deputy 
Chairman of British Airways Plc, she is also 
a Non-Executive Director and Chairman  
of the Audit Committee at DRS Data and 
Research plc. Her previous experience 
includes 21 years with Marks & Spencer plc, 
ultimately as Chief Financial Officer; Chief 
Financial Officer of Standard Life plc with 
responsibility for the flotation and a 
Non-Executive Director of HSBC Bank plc.
10. Agnès T ouraine (59) 
Non-Executive Director 
Agnès Touraine was appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director on 30 October 2012. 
She is also the President of Act III Consultants, 
having previously served as Chief Executive 
of Vivendi Universal Publishing and Games, 
Hachette Consumer Group after having 
started her career at McKinsey. She is also 
a Non-Executive Director of Neopost SA and 
Belgacom SA and is President of the Institut 
Français des Administrateurs. She has held 
Non-Executive Director positions at ITV plc, 
Cable and Wireless plc and Lastminute.com. 
Agnès Touraine has an MBA from Columbia 
University, a law degree from la Sorbonne 
University and graduated from Science 
Po Paris.
Simon Enoch
Secretary
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Stockbrokers
UBS
Solicitors
Slaughter and May
Registered office
22-24 Ely Place 
London EC1N 6TE
Registrars and transfer office
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
Audit Committee
Alison Reed (Chairman) 
Antoine Metzger 
Agnès Touraine
Remuneration Committee
Michel Léonard (Chairman) 
Alan Parker CBE  
Pascal Bazin
Nomination Committee
Alan Parker CBE (Chairman) 
Michel Léonard 
Régis Schultz 
Dominic Platt 
Alison Reed 
Pascal Bazin 
Carlo D’Asaro Biondo 
Eric Knight 
Antoine Metzger 
Agnès Touraine
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   31 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors present their Annual report together with the audited 
financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2014.
Principal activities 
The Group is a multi-channel electrical 
retailer that operates through the 
following operating segments: Darty 
France, Belgium (Vanden Borre) and  
the Netherlands (BCC), and the Czech 
Republic and Slovakia (Datart). The 
operations of Darty Turkey, were sold 
on 31 March 2014 and it is now treated 
as a discontinued operation. Darty 
Spain ceased trading in June 2013.
Business model
Our business model revolves around 
our strategy outlined in the Strategic 
report on pages 4 to 29, focusing on 
restoring profitability and establishing 
the foundations for long-term success 
and rebuilding shareholder value for 
Darty, Vanden Borre and BCC. 
Strategic report
In accordance with the new 
requirements introduced by The 
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic  
Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013, which became 
effective on 1 October 2013, the 
Directors have included certain 
information required for disclosure  
in other sections of the Annual report. 
These sections include the Chairman’s 
statement, Chief Executive’s review, 
Operating review, Financial review, 
Corporate responsibility report, 
Corporate governance report, 
Directors’ remuneration report and  
the Group financial statements and 
should be read in conjunction with  
this report and this information is, 
accordingly, incorporated into this 
report by reference.
A review of the development and 
performance of the Group during  
the year, its position at the year end, 
and the outlook and its strategy are 
given in the Chairman’s statement on 
page 3, the Chief Executive’s review  
on pages 7 to 13, the Financial  
review on pages 18 to 20 and the  
Operating review on pages 14 to 17.
The Company has chosen, in 
accordance with the Companies Act 
2006 section 414C(11), to include the 
disclosure of likely future developments 
in the Strategic report on pages 4  
to 29. Information on environmental 
matters and disclosures relating to 
diversity, gender and human rights  
are contained in the Corporate 
responsibility report on pages 23 to 29. 
The key performance indicators (“KPIs”) 
and the Principal risks and uncertainties 
contained therein, are incorporated 
into this report by reference. 
Definitions of the KPIs and the Group’s 
performance against them are given  
on pages 20 and 29. The Principal risks 
and uncertainties are set out on pages 
21 and 22. Details of the Company’s 
policy on addressing such risks, along 
with information on the Darty Risk 
Management Framework can be found 
in the Corporate governance report  
on pages 36 to 42.
Profit and dividends
Group revenue was €3,579.4 million 
(2013: €3,558.9 million), with Group 
retail profit of €73.4 million (2013: 
€66.0 million). The profit before  
tax was €25.3 million (2013:  
loss €4.0 million).
An interim dividend of 0.875 cents 
per share was paid to the ordinary 
shareholders of the Company on  
2 April 2014 and, on 19 June 2014,  
the Directors recommended the 
payment of a final dividend of  
2.625 cents (2013: 2.625 cents),  
giving a total dividend for the year  
of 3.5 cents (2013: 3.5 cents).  
The final dividend, once approved,  
will be paid to those persons on the 
Register of Members at the close  
of business on 12 September 2014,  
and the payment date will be 
3 October 2014. 
Directors
The names and biographical details of 
the Directors holding office at the date 
of this report are shown on pages  
30 and 31. Particulars of Directors’ 
emoluments and their interests in the 
shares of the Group and its subsidiaries 
are shown in the Report on Directors’ 
remuneration and related matters on 
pages 43 to 56. There were no changes 
in the Directors’ interests in shares 
between the end of the financial year 
and 19 June 2014.
Alain Grisay was an Independent 
Non-Executive Director from  
23 September 2013 until his death  
in January 2014.
32   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 At the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting and in accordance with 
Principle B7.1 of the UK Governance 
Code all of the Directors will be retiring 
and the following, being eligible, are 
offering themselves for re-election:
Alan Parker
Régis Schultz
Dominic Platt
Pascal Bazin
Carlo D’Asaro Biondo
Eric Knight
Michel Léonard
Antoine Metzger
Alison Reed
Agnès Touraine
Details of the terms of appointment  
of all the Directors can be found in the 
Report on Directors’ remuneration and 
related matters on pages 43 to 56.  
The Board strongly supports their 
re-election and recommends that 
shareholders vote in favour of the 
resolutions proposing their re-election.
Details of all the Executive Directors’ 
service contracts are set out in the 
Report on Directors’ remuneration  
and related matters on pages 43 to 56. 
None of the Non-Executive Directors 
has a service contract.
Throughout the financial year,  
the Group has maintained liability 
insurance for its Directors and Officers 
against the costs of defending 
themselves in civil proceedings taken 
against them in that capacity and in 
respect of damages resulting from the 
unsuccessful defence of any proceedings. 
To the extent permitted by UK law, the 
Group has also provided an indemnity 
for its Directors and Officers. Neither 
the insurance nor the indemnity 
provides any cover where the Director 
has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Share capital and control
At 30 April 2014 there were 529,553,216 
ordinary shares of 30 cents each in 
issue together with rights under the 
Group’s Long Term Incentive Plans for 
4,864,320 ordinary shares of 30 cents. 
It is intended to satisfy these rights 
through market purchase, rather than 
issuing new shares. 
Further details of the share capital  
are given in note 27 to the financial 
statements.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled 
to attend and speak at general meetings 
of the Company, to appoint one or more 
proxies and, if they are corporations, 
corporate representatives to attend 
general meetings and to exercise 
voting rights. Holders of ordinary 
shares may receive a dividend and on 
liquidation may share in the assets of 
the Company. Holders of ordinary 
shares are entitled to receive the 
Company’s annual report and accounts. 
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, 
holders of ordinary shares may 
requisition a general meeting of the 
Company or the proposal of resolutions 
at Annual General Meetings.
Voting rights
On a show of hands at a general 
meeting of the Company, every holder 
of ordinary shares present in person  
or by proxy and entitled to vote has 
one vote and on a poll every member 
present in person or by proxy and 
entitled to vote has one vote for every 
ordinary share held. None of the 
ordinary shares carries any special 
rights with regard to control of the 
Company. Electronic and paper proxy 
appointments and voting instructions 
must be received by the Group’s 
registrars not later than (i) 48 hours 
before a meeting or adjourned 
meeting, or (ii) 24 hours before a poll  
is taken, if the poll is not taken on  
the same day as the meeting or 
adjourned meeting.
Restrictions on transfer of shares
There are some restrictions on the 
transfer of shares in the Company, 
which may from time to time be 
imposed by laws and regulations (for 
example insider trading laws). Pursuant 
to the Group’s Code of Conduct, the 
Directors and senior executives of the 
Group require approval to deal in the 
Company’s shares. Furthermore, where 
a person with at least a 0.25 per cent 
interest in a class of shares has been 
served with a disclosure notice and has 
failed to provide the Company with 
information concerning interests in 
those shares, the Articles of 
Association (“the Articles”) provide 
that the Company may refuse to 
register a transfer of those shares.
The Group is not aware of any 
agreements between shareholders  
that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of shares or on voting rights.
The Company’s Articles of Association 
give the Board the power to appoint 
Directors, but also require Directors  
to retire and submit themselves for 
election at the first Annual General 
Meeting following their appointment.  
A Director who retires in this way is 
eligible for election but is not taken 
into account when deciding how many 
Directors should retire by rotation at 
the Annual General Meeting. The 
Articles themselves may be amended 
by special resolution of the shareholders. 
Pursuant to the Articles, at every 
Annual General Meeting any Director 
who (i) has been appointed by the 
Board since the last Annual General 
Meeting, (ii) who held office at the time 
of the two preceding Annual General 
Meetings and who did not retire at 
either of them, or (iii) who has held 
office with the Company, other than 
employment or executive office, for  
a continuous period of nine years or 
more at the date of the Meeting, shall 
retire from office and may offer himself 
for re-appointment by the members. 
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   33 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
From time to time a Director may retire 
and offer himself for re-appointment by 
the shareholders to ensure orderly 
succession. 
Notwithstanding the Articles, in 
accordance with Principle B7.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2012, all 
Directors offer themselves for re-
election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board of Directors is responsible 
for the management of the business  
of the Group and may exercise all the 
powers of the Group subject to the 
provisions of the Company’s 
Memorandum of Association and the 
Articles. The Articles contain specific 
provisions and restrictions regarding 
the Group’s power to borrow money. 
Powers relating to the issuing and 
buying back of shares are also included 
in the Articles and shareholders are 
asked to renew such authorities each 
year at the Annual General Meeting.  
A copy of the Articles is available on 
request from the Company Secretary. 
There are a number of agreements  
that take effect, alter or terminate 
upon a change of control of the Group 
following a takeover , such as commercial 
contracts, the Group bank agreements, 
and employees’ share plans. None of 
these are deemed to be significant in 
terms of their potential impact on the 
business of the Group as a whole.
Significant contracts
There are no persons with whom  
the Group has contractual or other 
arrangements that are essential to  
the business of the Group.
Purchase of own shares
At the Annual General Meeting of the 
Company held on 12 September 2013, 
authority was given for the Company  
to purchase, in the market, up to 
52,955,321 ordinary shares of 30 cents 
each. The Company did not use this 
authority to make any purchases of its 
own shares during the period. At the 
Annual General Meeting to be held on  
11 September 2014, shareholders will  
be asked to give a similar authority.
Substantial shareholding
As at 18 June 2014, the following 
interests of more than 3 per cent  
in the issued share capital of the 
Company had been notified under Rule 
5 of the Financial Services Authorities’ 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules: 
Name Number  
of ordinary 
shares
Percentage
of issued
share capital
Knight Vinke 132,605,624 25.04
Schroders plc 76,878,301 14.52
UBS Global
Asset  
Management
52,038,134 9.83
Standard Life 
Investments 
Limited
31,102,334 5.87
Chase 
Nominees 
Limited A/C 
TMBC1
25,208,851 4.76
Chase Group 
Nominees Inc
25,270,400 4.77
BlackRock, Inc 24,900,633 4.70
Crédit 
Agricole 
Group
20,720,666 3.91
Annual General Meeting
The 11th Annual General Meeting of  
the Company will be held at 11.00 am  
on Thursday, 11 September 2014 at  
The Crowne Plaza, 19 New Bridge 
Street, London EC4V 6DB.
Corporate responsibility and diversity
The Group has an Operating Principles 
handbook which contains a Code of 
Conduct that sets out the standards  
of behaviour expected in the Group  
and of all who work for the Group, in 
their relationships with employees, 
customers, suppliers, business 
partners, the community (including  
the environment), government and  
all other stakeholders in the business. 
Employment policies
At 30 April 2014, the average number 
of employees working for the Group in 
Europe and Asia was 14,297. The Group 
consists of a number of businesses 
operating in different countries.  
While employment practices may  
vary between these businesses, the 
Group is, nevertheless, committed  
to ensuring that:
• 
 all employees receive fair and equal 
treatment irrespective of gender , 
ethnic origin, age, nationality, marital 
status, religion, sexuality or disability
• 
 the working environment is 
conducive to achievement and free 
from harassment and intimidation
• 
 disabled persons, whether registered 
or not, have equal opportunities when 
applying for vacancies, with due regard 
to their aptitudes and abilities. In 
addition to complying with legislative 
requirements, procedures ensure that 
disabled employees are fairly treated 
and that their training and career 
development needs are carefully 
managed
• 
 the assessment of training needs 
and the provision of appropriate 
training is delivered to its employees. 
34   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 Health and safety
Group companies have a responsibility 
to ensure that all reasonable precautions 
are taken to provide and maintain 
working conditions, for employees and 
visitors alike, which are safe, healthy 
and in compliance with statutory 
requirements and appropriate codes  
of practice. 
The Group’s companies pursue the 
objective of minimising the instances  
of occupational accidents and illnesses. 
Examples of this are to be seen in the 
employment of health and safety 
advisers and in the establishment of 
detailed policies and statements of 
intent and training programmes for 
employees. The Company Secretary 
has the responsibility to ensure that 
the Board is presented with a review 
detailing how the Group overall 
complies with the statutory requirements 
and appropriate codes of practice.
Employee involvement
Group companies actively consult their 
staff on matters of concern to them in 
the context of their employment. In 
Europe, where the largest number of 
employees are, there is a formal 
consultation process through workers’ 
councils. Consultation also takes place 
through joint consultation committees.
Information on matters of concern  
to employees including the financial 
and economic factors affecting the 
performance of the Group is also 
disseminated through conferences, 
meetings, publications and  
electronic media.
More information on corporate 
responsibility including greenhouse  
gas emissions is set out on page 25. 
Corporate governance
The Group’s statement on corporate 
governance can be found in the 
Corporate governance report on pages 
36 to 42. The Corporate governance 
report forms part of this Directors’ 
report and is incorporated into it by 
way of cross reference.
Directors’ disclosure of information 
to auditors
The Directors believe that there is no 
relevant audit information of which the 
auditors are unaware and each Director 
has taken all steps that they ought to 
have taken as a Director to make 
themself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the 
auditors are aware of that information.
Going concern
The Directors have performed  
a review of revenue and profit 
forecasts, expected cash flows, 
available borrowing facilities and 
expected compliance with related 
covenants. This has provided 
reasonable expectation that the  
Darty Group has adequate resources  
to continue in operational existence  
for the next financial year and the 
foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors continue  
to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
Fair , balanced and understandable
The Board received an early draft of 
the Annual report and accounts as a 
whole and discussed the tone, balance 
and language of the document, taking 
into account the recent changes in the 
UK Corporate Governance code and  
the need for consistency between the 
narrative sections and the financial 
statements. The Board received  
the work undertaken by the Audit 
Committee including the auditors’ 
review. The Board’s statement on the 
report is outlined on page 40.
Auditors
Resolutions concerning the  
re-appointment of the auditors and 
authorising the Directors to set their 
remuneration will be proposed at the 
Annual General Meeting. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have 
been the Company’s auditors since it 
listed on the London Stock Exchange in 
July 2003. Following its annual review, 
the Audit Committee considers that  
the relationship with the auditors is 
working well and remains satisfied with 
their effectiveness. Accordingly, it has 
not considered it necessary to date to 
require the firm to tender for the audit 
work. The external auditors are required 
to rotate the audit partners responsible 
for the Group and subsidiary audits 
every five years and the current lead 
audit partner has been in place since 
September 2012. There are no 
contractual obligations restricting the 
Company’s choice of external auditors.
By Order of the Board
Simon Enoch
Secretary
18 June 2014
Registered Office:
22-24 Ely Place
London 
EC1N 6TE
 
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE
The Financial Conduct Authority 
(“FCA”) requires listed companies  
to disclose, in relation to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2012  
(“the Code”), how they have applied  
its principles and whether they have 
complied with its provisions throughout 
the accounting year.
The Board of Darty plc supports the 
principles of corporate governance 
advocated by the Code and the Board 
believes that it complies in full with  
the terms of the Code. 
Directors
The Board consists of a Chairman,  
a Chief Executive plus one further 
Executive Director and seven Non-
Executive Directors. There is a clear 
division of responsibilities between  
the Chairman and Chief Executive.
All the Non-Executive Directors except 
for Eric Knight are considered by the 
Board to be independent in character 
and judgement and there are no 
relationships or circumstances which 
could affect, or appear to affect,  
a Director’s judgement save that  
Eric Knight is not considered to be 
independent by virtue of his being the 
founder and CEO of Knight Vinke Asset 
Management which hold 25.04 per  
cent of the Company’s shares. Michel 
Léonard is the Senior Independent 
Director. Alison Reed, an independent 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee, is a qualified 
accountant. She is considered to have 
recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board is aware of the other 
commitments of its Directors and is 
satisfied that these do not conflict  
with their duties as Non-Executive 
Directors of the Company. The 
Executive Directors do not hold  
any Non-Executive Directorships  
in other companies.
The Non-Executive Directors are 
appointed for specified terms and the 
details of their respective appointments 
are set out in the Report on Directors’ 
remuneration and related matters on 
page 51. Copies of their respective 
letters of appointment or contracts  
are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office and will 
also be available for inspection at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
All Directors are subject to re-election 
by shareholders at the first opportunity 
after their appointment and thereafter 
in accordance with Article 82 of the 
Company’s Articles of Association.  
The Directors are following the best 
practice requirements of Principle B7.1 
of the Code and all will be retiring at 
the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting, and are offering themselves 
for re-election. 
The Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors meet as a group without  
the Executive Directors present. The 
Non-Executive Directors meet in the 
absence of the Chairman if there are 
any concerns, which the Chairman has 
failed to resolve, or to consider his 
performance or terms of appointment. 
The role of the Chairman is to ensure 
that the Board has full and timely 
access to all relevant information.  
The Chairman leads the Board and 
represents the Board to the Chief 
Executive as necessary between  
Board meetings.
The duties of the Board and its 
committees are set out clearly in 
formal terms of reference, copies  
of which are available from  
www.dartygroup.com. These are reviewed 
regularly, stating the items specifically 
reserved for decisions by the Board. 
The Board establishes overall Group 
strategy, including new activities and 
withdrawal from existing activities.  
It approves the Group’s commercial 
strategy and the operating budget  
and monitors divisional performance 
through the receipt of monthly  
reports and management accounts. 
The process for the approval of 
acquisitions/divestments for the most 
part is a matter reserved for the Board 
save that it delegates to the Chief 
Executive the responsibility for such 
activities up to a specified level of 
authority. Similarly, there are authority 
levels covering capital expenditure, 
which can be exercised by the Chief 
Executive. Beyond these levels of 
authority, projects are referred  
to the Board for approval. 
Other matters reserved to the  
Board include:
• 
 overview of financial control, audit 
and risk management
• 
remuneration:
• 
 the Group’s framework of 
executive remuneration  
and its cost in the light of 
recommendations made by the 
Remuneration Committee
• 
 the remuneration of the  
Non-Executive Directors
• 
 senior management succession 
plans and the overall direction of 
management development
• 
pension schemes
• 
corporate responsibility
• 
 the appointment or removal of the 
Company Secretary. 
36   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 The Board is supplied in a timely 
manner with information in a form  
and of a quality appropriate to enable  
it to discharge its duties. This includes 
monthly management accounts 
irrespective of whether or not a Board 
meeting is scheduled. There is also a 
procedure under which Directors, in 
furtherance of their duties, are able to 
take independent professional advice,  
if necessary, at the Company’s expense. 
The Company Secretary is responsible 
for ensuring that Board procedures are 
followed and all Directors have access 
to his advice and services.
The Directors receive training as part 
of their induction from the Company’s 
legal advisers on the duties and 
responsibilities of being Directors of a 
publicly limited company. The training 
needs of the Directors are periodically 
discussed at Board meetings and 
briefings are given by the Company 
Secretary on various elements of 
corporate governance, regulatory 
compliance and best practice.
In previous years the Board has 
conducted its own evaluation exercise. 
Following the significant changes in  
the Board over the past 12 months,  
the Board engaged an independent 
professional organisation to undertake 
an evaluation process in September 
2013. The areas to be covered include 
the role of the Executive and Non-
Executive Directors and the Board/
Board committees, preparation for  
and the performance at meetings,  
the effectiveness of the Board/Board 
committees, leadership and culture and 
corporate governance. The results will 
be considered by the Board. 
The Senior Independent Director, Michel 
Léonard also met with the Non-
Executive Directors in the absence of 
the Chairman, to assess the Chairman’s 
effectiveness. Details of the Chairman’s 
professional commitments are included 
in his biography on page 30. 
During the year ended 30 April 2014 
the Board met 7 times. This is felt 
adequate to enable effective running  
of the Company. The attendance record 
of individual Directors at Board and 
Committee meetings is detailed below.
The Board has established a number  
of committees, including Audit, 
Remuneration, Nomination and 
Disclosure Committees:
(a) Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of three 
Non-Executive Directors, considered  
by the Board to be independent. They 
are Alison Reed (Chairman), Antoine 
Metzger and Agnès Touraine. The 
Committee has at least one member, 
Alison Reed, who possesses recent and 
relevant financial experience. It can be 
seen from the Directors’ biographical 
details, appearing on pages 30 and 31, 
that the members of the Committee 
bring to it a wide range of experience 
from positions at the highest level, both 
in the UK and France. 
The Committee met six times in 
2013/14. Both the external auditors and 
the Director of Risk Management and 
Audit were present at the meetings 
and, in addition, the Committee met the 
external auditors without management 
present. The Director of Risk 
Management and Audit has the right 
to request a meeting without other 
management present, and he regularly 
meets the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee without management being 
present. The Chief Executive and the 
Finance Director attend meetings  
as appropriate. 
The Chairman of the Audit Committee 
reports the outcome of meetings to  
the Board and the Board receives the 
minutes of all Audit Committee meetings.
Board 
meetings
Audit
meetings
Remuneration
meetings
Nomination
meetings
Alan Parker 7 N/A 7 1
Régis Schultz 7 5 0 0
Dominic Platt 7 6 0 1
Pascal Bazin 7 N/A 7 1
Carlo D’Asaro Biondo 4 N/A N/A 0
Eric Knight 7 N/A N/A 1
Michel Léonard 7 N/A 7 1
Antoine Metzger 7 6 N/A 1
Alison Reed 7 6 N/A 1
Agnès Touraine 7 6 N/A 1
In the year, there were seven Board meetings, six Audit Committee 
meetings, seven Remuneration Committee meetings and one Nomination 
Committee meeting.
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE
The main role and responsibilities are 
set out in written terms of reference 
which encompass those recommended 
by the Combined Code, i.e.:
• 
 to monitor the integrity of the 
financial statements of the 
Company, reviewing significant 
financial reporting issues and 
judgements contained therein
• 
 to review the financial reports  
for publication and to ensure 
compliance with all accounting 
policies and standards
• 
 to review the Company’s  
compliance with legal and  
regulatory requirements
• 
 to review the Company’s internal 
financial control and risk 
management systems and to review 
risk exposures and steps taken to 
monitor and control them
• 
 to monitor and review the 
effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal audit function
• 
 to make recommendations to the 
Board in relation to the appointment 
of the external auditors and to 
approve the remuneration and terms 
of engagement of the external auditors
• 
 to monitor and review the external 
auditors’ independence, objectivity 
and effectiveness, taking into 
account UK professional and 
regulatory requirements
• 
 to monitor the operation of formal 
complaints procedures, including 
whistle-blowing
• 
 to satisfy itself that the Company’s 
code of conduct is being enforced
• 
 the removal and appointment of the 
Group Director of Risk Management 
and Internal Audit
These responsibilities have been 
discharged in the following manner  
in the past financial year:
• 
at its meetings in May, June and 
November the focus was the review 
of the published financial results, the 
Annual report and other published 
financial information. The Committee 
considered the appropriateness  
of the Group’s accounting policies, 
critical accounting estimates and 
key judgements
• 
a report from the Director of 
Audit and Risk Management was 
presented and discussed at each of 
the six meetings, which highlighted 
any significant risk and control 
issues. In addition, at the May 2013 
meeting, the Director of Audit and 
Risk Management submitted the 
internal audit plans for the coming 
year which were discussed and 
approved
• 
 the external auditors presented  
their full-year audit plan at the 
March 2014 meeting, and there  
was a detailed review of the external 
auditors’ performance at the 
September 2013 meeting, as well  
as a presentation of the half-year 
audit plan
• 
 presentations were made to the 
Committee on the subject of risk,  
its identification, management  
and control. The Committee also 
received and discussed specific risk 
presentations on key business areas
• 
 as a matter of routine, the 
Committee was presented with 
information on material litigation 
involving Group companies.
As noted above, one of the duties  
of the Audit Committee is to make 
recommendations to the Board in 
relation to the appointment of the 
external auditors. The Committee, in 
assessing whether to recommend the 
auditors for re-appointment, takes  
a number of factors into account.  
These include:
• 
audit scope, planning and the quality 
of reports provided to the Audit 
Committee and the Board and the 
quality of advice given
• 
the level of understanding 
demonstrated of the Group’s 
business and industry
• 
the objectivity of the auditors’ views 
on the controls around the Group 
and their ability to co-ordinate a 
global audit working to tight 
deadlines, and
• 
monitoring of non-audit services. 
The Committee has put in place 
safeguards to ensure that the 
independence of the audit is not 
compromised and the auditors are 
restricted in their ability to perform any 
non-audit activities. Arrangements are 
in place for the auditors to report to 
the Committee on actions they take  
to comply with the professional and 
regulatory requirements and best 
practice designed to ensure their 
independence from the Company. 
(b) Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee consists 
exclusively of Non-Executive Directors 
considered by the Board to be 
independent: Michel Léonard 
(Chairman) Alan Parker and Pascal 
Bazin. The Committee’s responsibilities 
include setting remuneration policy, 
ensuring that the remuneration and 
terms of service of the Executive 
Directors are appropriate and that 
Directors are fairly rewarded for  
their individual contribution to the 
Company’s overall performance. 
38   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 It also ensures that the allocation  
of shares under the Group’s share 
schemes are on a fair and equitable 
basis and in accordance with agreed 
performance criteria. The application 
of corporate governance principles in 
relation to Directors’ remuneration is 
described in the Report on Directors’ 
remuneration and related matters on 
pages 43 to 49. 
(c) Nomination Committee
The members of the Nomination 
Committee are Alan Parker (Chairman), 
Pascal Bazin, Carlo D’Asaro Biondo,  
Eric Knight, Antoine Metzger, Michel 
Léonard, Dominic Platt, Alison Reed, 
Régis Schultz and Agnès Touraine. 
The Committee is chaired by the 
Senior Independent Director on any 
matter concerning the Chairmanship 
of the Company.
The Nomination Committee has  
written terms of reference covering the 
authority delegated to it by the Board. 
These include the following duties:
• 
 to review regularly the Board 
performance, including structure, 
size, composition and diversity and 
make recommendations to the Board 
with regard to any adjustments that 
are deemed necessary
• 
 Board appointments and removals 
are matters reserved for the Board. 
It is the responsibility of the 
Nomination Committee to identify 
and nominate candidates for the 
approval of the Board, to fill Board 
vacancies as and when they arise 
and to review succession plans  
for both Board and senior  
executive positions
• 
 setting policy for granting of service 
agreements (including mitigation 
policy).
(d) Disclosure Committee
The members of the Disclosure 
Committee are Dominic Platt (Chairman), 
Régis Schultz and Alan Parker. The 
Committee’s responsibilities include  
the establishment and maintenance  
of disclosures controls and processes 
for the appropriateness of disclosures 
made by the Group and for compliance 
with the Group’s share trading rules.
Share capital and control
The disclosures required under DTR 
7.2.6 are to be found on page 34  
of the Directors’ report.
Relations with shareholders
The Company recognises the 
importance of communicating with  
its shareholders and does this through  
its Annual and Interim reports and at 
the Annual General Meeting. Although 
it does not have precise rules covering 
meetings with institutional shareholders, 
it is always ready to enter into a 
dialogue with investors, and meetings 
take place frequently. 
The Board believes that good 
communication with shareholders  
is important. The Chairman has  
had a number of meetings with the 
Company’s institutional Investors, and 
there are programmes for the Chief 
Executive and Finance Director to meet 
the Company’s institutional investors  
in the UK and Europe and presentations 
are made on the operating and financial 
performance of the Group and its 
longer-term strategy. Roadshows are 
held in the UK and Europe immediately 
after the presentation of the full-year 
and interim results. If it is not possible 
to arrange face-to-face meetings, 
meetings are held by telephone 
conference. The presentations made  
to representatives of the investment 
community following the announcement 
of the full-year and interim results are 
available online at www.dartygroup.com 
as is a web cast of the result’s 
presentations.
The Non-Executive Directors are  
given regular updates as to the views 
of institutional shareholders and the 
Senior Independent Director, Michel 
Léonard, is available to meet 
institutional shareholders should  
there be unresolved matters that 
shareholders believe should be  
brought to his attention.
The principal communication with 
private investors is through the Annual 
report, the half-year management 
statements and the Annual General 
Meeting. A presentation is made at the 
Annual General Meeting to facilitate 
greater awareness of the Group’s 
activities. Shareholders are given the 
opportunity to ask questions of the 
Board and the Chairman of each Board 
committee at the meeting and meet 
the Directors informally after the 
meeting. Separate resolutions are 
proposed for each item of business and 
the “for”, “against” and “abstention” 
proxy votes cast in respect of each 
resolution proposed at the meeting  
are counted and announced after the 
shareholders present have voted on 
each resolution. Notice of the Annual 
General Meeting is posted to 
shareholders with the Annual report  
at least 20 working days before the 
date of the Annual General Meeting. 
Financial and other information 
including the terms of reference  
for the Board and Board committees 
are available from the Company’s 
registered office and are also  
available on the Company’s website  
www.dartygroup.com. 
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE
Accountability, risk management  
and internal control
It is a requirement of the Code that  
the Board should present a balanced 
and understandable assessment of  
the Company’s position and prospects.  
In this context, reference should be 
made to the Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities on page 57, which 
includes a statement of compliance 
with the Code regarding the Group’s 
status as a going concern, and to the 
Report of the auditors on page 58, 
which includes a statement by the 
auditors about their reporting 
responsibilities.
The Board recognises that its 
responsibility to present a balanced 
and understandable assessment 
extends to interim and other price-
sensitive public reports and reports  
to regulators as well as information 
required to be presented by law. 
The Group has a thorough assurance 
process in place in respect of the 
preparation, verification and approval 
of periodic financial reports. This 
process includes:
Qualified, professional employees
 The involvement of qualified, 
professional employees with an 
appropriate level of experience  
(both in Group finance and  
throughout the business).
Comprehensive review
 Comprehensive review and, where 
appropriate, challenge by key internal 
Group functions.
Transparent process
 A transparent process to ensure  
full disclosure of information to the 
external auditors. Engagement of  
a professional and experienced firm  
of external auditors.
Oversight
 Oversight by the Group’s Audit 
Committee, involving (among  
other duties):
• 
 a detailed review of key financial 
reporting judgements which have 
been discussed by management
• 
 review and, where appropriate, 
challenge on matters including:
• 
 the consistency of, and any changes 
to, significant accounting policies 
and practices during the year
• 
 significant adjustments resulting 
from an external audit
• 
 the going concern assumption, 
and
• 
 the Company’s statement in 
internal control systems, prior  
to endorsement by the Board.
In addition to the above process, and 
the review by the Audit Committee  
as to the preparation, internal 
verification and approval process for 
the Annual report and accounts, the 
Committee has the opportunity to 
direct questions to the Chief Executive 
on the overall messages and tone of  
his review and the Annual report.  
The Committee has also considered 
other information regarding the 
Group’s performance presented to the 
Board during the period. After debate 
and consideration of all the relevant 
information the Committee felt able  
to provide comfort to the Board that 
the Annual report and accounts, taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Significant issues reporting 
After discussion with both management 
and the external auditors, the Audit 
Committee determined that the key 
risks of misstatement of the Group’s 
financial statements related to:
Carrying value of leasehold  
properties in France
The Audit Committee considered the 
carrying value of leasehold properties  
in France in light of their size and the 
trading performance of the business in 
recent years. The Committee reviewed 
the store by store impairment analysis 
prepared by management and the 
trading forecasts supporting the 
assessment and concluded that these 
assets were held at an appropriate value.
Inventory
Inventory represents a significant 
balance on the balance sheet and is 
made up of assets that can be subject 
to technological obsolescence. The 
Audit Committee considered the 
provisioning levels against stock and 
the methodology used to assess these 
provisions and concluded that stock was 
stated appropriately in the accounts.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for 
the Group’s system of internal control 
and for reviewing its effectiveness and 
confirms that such a review has taken 
place throughout the year ended  
30 April 2014 and up to the date of this 
report, as set out on pages 41 and 42. 
Such a system is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure  
to achieve business objectives and  
can provide reasonable, but not 
absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. The Board has 
reviewed the effectiveness of the key 
procedures that have been established 
to provide internal control.
40   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 In line with publication of guidance  
for Directors on internal control in the 
Combined Code, the Board confirms 
that there is an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing 
the significant risks faced by the Group. 
These include those relating to social, 
environmental and ethical matters.  
The process is reviewed by the Audit 
Committee, which reports its findings 
for consideration by the Board, and is 
in accordance with the Code and the 
Turnbull Committee guidance.
The four key procedures operated 
throughout the year:
1 Risk assessment:
• 
   the Group sets out its objectives 
clearly as part of its medium-term 
planning process. These objectives 
are then incorporated as part of the 
budgeting and planning cycle and 
are supported by the use of both 
financial and non-financial key 
performance indicators
• 
  the operating companies make 
presentations on risk whose  
reports are incorporated in the  
Risk assessment reviewed by the 
Group Audit Committee, which 
reports to the Group Board on  
the risks and any weaknesses  
facing the businesses
• 
  the detailed assessment of strategic 
risks is delegated to the Chief 
Executive. This review is carried  
out as part of the annual budgeting 
and the monthly reporting and 
reforecasting cycles
• 
  the Audit Committee has delegated 
responsibility for considering 
operational, financial and 
compliance risks on a regular basis 
and receives reports on the controls 
over these risks. This includes risks 
arising from social, environmental 
and ethical matters.
2   Control environment and  
control activities:
• 
  the Group consists of a number  
of operating companies, each  
with its own management and 
control structures
• 
  the Group has established 
procedures for delegated authority, 
which ensure that decisions that 
are significant, either because of 
the value or the impact on other 
parts of the Group, are taken at  
an appropriate level
• 
  the Group has implemented 
appropriate strategies to deal with 
each significant risk that has been 
identified. These strategies include 
not only internal controls but  
also other approaches such as 
insurance, joint ventures and 
treasury activities
• 
  the operating companies work 
within a framework of policies  
and procedures laid down in 
organisation and authority manuals, 
and personnel are required to 
comply with these procedures. 
Policies and procedures cover key 
issues such as authorisation levels, 
segregation of duties, compliance 
with legislation and physical  
and data security. The Group  
has also established a whistle-
blowing policy.
3 Information and communication:
• 
  the Group has a comprehensive 
system of budgetary control 
including monthly performance 
reviews for each major business 
and division. These reviews are at  
a detailed level within the operating 
companies and at a higher level for 
the Group Board
• 
  on a monthly basis, the achievement 
of business objectives, both financial 
and non-financial, is assessed  
using a range of key performance 
indicators. These indicators are 
reviewed to ensure that they  
remain relevant and reliable
• 
  there are clear procedures in the 
major operating companies for 
employees to report suspected 
improprieties.
4 Monitoring:
The effective application of internal 
control within the Group is monitored 
by the Audit Committee, Chief 
Executive (and business heads of  
the other operating companies as 
appropriate), and Internal Audit and 
Risk Management.
The Audit Committee, which in respect 
of the Group:
• 
 monitors the integrity of the 
financial statements and any formal 
announcements relating to the 
financial performance
• 
 reviews internal financial controls 
and systems, and other internal 
control and risk management 
systems through reports from the 
internal and external auditors on  
any material control weaknesses
• 
reviews risk management processes
• 
 monitors and reviews the 
effectiveness of the internal  
audit function and the function’s 
work plans.
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE
The Chief Executive and, where 
appropriate, the business heads of  
the other operating companies, who:
• 
 maintain systems that continually 
identify and evaluate significant 
risks resulting from their strategies 
and that apply to their areas of the 
business
• 
 review and monitor the 
effectiveness of internal control 
systems through an operating 
company Audit Committee and 
reports from internal and external 
audit functions
• 
 have responsibility for identification 
and evaluation of significant risks to 
their business area, together with 
the design of mitigating controls
• 
 report on any control weaknesses or 
breakdowns that could be material 
to the Group
• 
 certify with the Finance Director for 
the operating company that all 
necessary information has been 
provided to the auditors.
The Internal Audit and Risk 
Management function, which:
• 
 works with the operating companies 
to develop, improve and embed risk 
management tools and processes 
into their business operations
• 
 oversees the operation of the 
individual operating business’  
Audit Committee
• 
 ensures that business risks are 
identified, managed and regularly 
reviewed at all levels of the Group 
and that Directors are periodically 
appraised of the key risks in 
accordance with the Turnbull 
guidance
• 
 provides the Board and the Group 
Audit Committee with assurance  
on the control environment across 
the Group
• 
 ensures that the operating 
companies have appropriate 
organisation and processes to  
carry out regular reviews of their 
internal controls
• 
 monitors adherence to the Group’s 
key policies and principles.
While management at each operating 
business has responsibility for the 
identification and evaluation of 
significant risks applicable to their 
business and any mitigating actions to 
be taken, Group executive management 
reviews, identifies and evaluates the 
risks that are significant at Group  
level as well as the mitigating actions 
against those risks. These are then 
considered by the Board. The type of 
risks identified include strategic risk, 
external factors (such as the 
competitive environment and 
regulations) change management 
programmes, health and safety, 
retention of key management and 
macro market risks. The internal audit 
plans are designed to address the 
controls and actions in relation to  
each business’s significant identified 
risks. Where appropriate the risk 
management process will include  
the use of insurance.
The Directors can confirm that they 
review the effectiveness of this system 
of internal control, and that it accords 
with the guidance of the Turnbull 
Committee on internal control. 
The Board’s review of the system  
of internal controls has not identified 
any significant failings or weaknesses, 
and therefore no remedial actions  
are required.
42   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERA TION  
AND RELA TED MA TTERS
Dear shareholder
Introduction
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased  
to present the Directors’ remuneration 
report for the year ended 30 April 2014. 
This year’s remuneration report is the 
first Darty has produced under the new 
disclosure regulations. You will see 
that, following this introductory 
statement, there is a policy report 
(subject to a binding shareholder  
vote at the 2014 AGM), followed by our 
annual report on remuneration (subject 
to an advisory vote). I hope that the 
new layout of the remuneration report 
is clear and transparent and that we 
can rely on your support for our 
remuneration policy and its 
implementation during the year.
Context for executive remuneration
In my letter last year, I explained that 
the Group had completed a major 
strategic review and a number of 
changes were made to the remuneration 
arrangements to ensure alignment  
with the strategy of the business and 
the interests of shareholders. This 
included determining the remuneration 
arrangements for our new CEO and the 
departure terms for our previous CEO.
This year has primarily been focused 
on implementing the changes made 
last year and our remuneration 
principles remain unchanged. The 
intention of the principles, which have 
been used to guide the content of the 
new policy report, is to ensure that 
remuneration arrangements are 
aligned to and support the delivery  
of the Group’s business strategy  
to turn the business around and  
return to growth in order to create 
value for shareholders.
Darty’s aim is to attract and retain  
a high calibre of person as appropriate 
to the specific role. This central aim 
remains the same whether we are 
talking about senior executives or 
colleagues wherever they work in  
our business. 
Major decisions on and changes to 
Directors’ remuneration during the year
As stated above, this year has primarily 
been a year of implementing the 
changes agreed last year. The 
operation of the bonus remains 
unchanged, with 50 per cent of any 
bonus earned now being deferred for 
a period of three years. The CEO’s 
salary was increased by 1.5 per cent, 
in line with inflation.
Changes to the operation of the L TIP
We regularly review the operation of 
our incentive arrangements and during 
the year we reviewed the LTIP. As  
a result we have made some changes 
to both simplify the way in which the 
plan is operated and further align  
the interests of executives with the 
long-term interests of shareholders.
We reviewed the performance 
measures under the plan and were 
satisfied that EPS and free cash flow 
remain the most appropriate measures 
of long-term performance. The 
combination focuses executives on real 
profit growth, which is strongly aligned 
to shareholder value creation and 
ensures the Company has the cash 
available to pursue opportunities  
that enhance shareholder value.
However, it was decided to simplify the 
way in which these are measured. For 
awards made in 2014, performance will 
be assessed at the end of the three-
year performance period against 
stretching three-year growth targets 
set at the start of the performance 
period. This is a change from previous 
awards where performance was assessed 
against annual targets and a proportion 
of the award could be banked subject 
to a three-year underpin. 
In addition, we have extended the time 
horizon of awards. While performance 
will still be measured over a three-year 
period, awards will be subject to an 
additional two-year holding period and 
will vest five years after the initial 
award is made as opposed to vesting 
50 per cent after three years and  
50 per cent after four years. This 
change will be phased in with half of 
the awards made in 2014 being subject  
to a one-year additional holding period 
and the other half the full two-year 
holding period.
The changes outlined above are 
consistent with the current plan rules 
and therefore formal shareholder 
approval is not being sought for  
these changes.
Further details are provided in the 
policy report and annual report on 
remuneration. We look forward to 
receiving your support at our 
forthcoming AGM.
Michel Léonard
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
18 June 2014
The report complies with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006 and 
Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-
sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 
2013. The report has been prepared  
in line with the recommendations of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and the requirements of the UKLA 
Listing Rules.
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   43 Remuneration policy report 
This section of the report sets out the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, which 
shareholders will be asked to approve at the 2014 AGM on 11 September 2014. The Committee intends that the policy will 
come into effect on this date, if approved by shareholders, and be effective for three years.
The table below summarises the main components of Darty’s proposed remuneration policy.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERA TION  
AND RELA TED MA TTERS
Element Purpose and link  
to strategy
Operation (including maximum levels) Framework used to assess 
performance and provision for the 
recovery of sums paid
Base salary  
and fees
To provide an 
appropriate level of 
fixed cash income to 
attract and retain 
executives who can 
deliver the 
Company’s strategy
Salaries and fees are normally reviewed annually, with 
changes effective from 1 May
Salary and fee levels are set taking into account a number 
of relevant factors which include:
• the scale and responsibility of the role
• the skills and experience of the individual
• salary increases awarded across the Group as a whole 
•  competitive practice in companies of a similar  
size and complexity
To avoid setting expectations of Executive Directors and 
other employees, no maximum salary or fee is set under 
the remuneration policy. However, any increase will 
normally be broadly in line with increases awarded across 
the Group as a whole
Higher increases may be made in certain circumstances, 
which may include:
•  an increase in the size or scope of the role or 
responsibilities
• an increase in the size or complexity of the Group 
•  an increase to reflect the individual’s development and 
performance in role
Not applicable, although performance 
in role will be taken into account in 
determining any salary increases
Benefits To provide a 
competitive fixed 
remuneration 
package to attract 
and retain executives 
who can deliver the 
Company’s strategy
Executive Directors may receive benefits including but not 
limited to: a company car (or cash equivalent), travel 
allowance, private medical and dental insurance, travel 
accident policy, life assurance and long-term disability 
benefit dependent upon the locations in which the 
executives are employed and provide services
No other benefits are currently provided. However, where 
appropriate other benefits may be provided to take 
account of individual circumstances, such as but not 
limited to: international allowances, relocation expense, 
housing allowance and education support
Not applicable
Provision 
for 
retirement
To provide executives 
with a competitive 
fixed remuneration 
package to attract 
and retain executives 
who can deliver the 
Company’s strategy
The Company may make a payment into a defined 
contribution pension plan and/or make a cash allowance 
payment set as a percentage of salary which will not 
exceed 20 per cent of salary
Not applicable
44   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 Element Purpose and link  
to strategy
Operation (including maximum levels) Framework used to assess 
performance and provision for the 
recovery of sums paid
Annual 
Bonus Plan
To reward the 
delivery of the 
business strategy  
on an annual basis
Rewards annual 
performance
against key financial 
and individual 
objectives which  
are directly linked 
to the Group’s 
strategic plan
Maximum bonus opportunity of 150 per cent of annual 
salary plus fee. Current opportunities are 125 per cent of 
salary and fees for the Chief Executive and 100 per cent  
of salary for the Finance Director
Performance is measured over a single financial year with 
payout levels determined by the Committee following the 
year end
Half of any bonus earned will be paid in cash
The remaining half will be compulsorily deferred for three 
years and the value received after three years will reflect 
the change in the value of Darty plc shares over that 
period
The Committee may adjust the bonus payout, either up or 
down, should the formulaic outcome be considered not to 
reflect underlying business performance
Bonuses are based on a combination 
of stretching annual financial 
performance measures and role 
specific strategic objectives, with the 
majority of the bonus assessed against 
the financial performance metrics
For target performance up to 65 per 
cent of the maximum bonus may be 
paid
Deferred bonuses are subject to malus 
and may be reduced at the discretion 
of the Committee in the event of 
material misstatement of financial 
results, reputational damage to the 
Group, or gross misconduct of the 
individual
LTIP To reward the 
delivery of the 
Company’s strategy 
over the longer term
Rewards strong 
business 
performance and 
sustained increase  
in shareholder value
Supports retention 
and promotes share 
ownership
The current maximum face value of annual awards is 
100 per cent of annual salary plus fee. The plan rules 
provide for awards of up to 150 per cent of annual salary 
plus fee to be made in exceptional circumstances
Awards are made on an annual basis either in the form of 
nil-cost options or conditional shares with performance 
assessed over a period of at least three years. Following 
the end of the performance period awards will be required 
to be held for up to an additional two-year period before 
they are released to executives
For awards made in 2014, 50 per cent of the award will be 
released one year after the end of the performance period 
and 50 per cent two years after the end of the 
performance period
For awards made in 2013 and prior years before the 
adoption of this policy, awards will vest 50 per cent after 
three years and 50 per cent after four years
The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic LTIP 
outcomes to improve the alignment of pay with value 
creation for shareholders to ensure the outcome is a fair 
reflection of the performance of the Company
Vesting of the LTIP is subject to 
continued employment and the 
achievement of stretching earnings 
per share (EPS) and free cash flow 
growth targets at the end of a 
three-year performance period
None of the award will vest if the 
minimum performance threshold is 
not reached
For threshold performance up to 
25 per cent of the award will vest. 
The vesting level will increase on a 
sliding scale from this threshold to 
100 per cent vesting for stretch levels 
of performance 
Further details, including the 
performance targets attached to the 
LTIP award made each year, will be 
disclosed in the annual report on 
remuneration
LTIP awards are subject to malus and 
may be reduced at the discretion of 
the Committee in the event of material 
misstatement of financial results, 
reputational damage to the Group,  
or gross misconduct of the individual
Shareholding 
requirement
To provide alignment 
between Executive 
Directors and 
shareholders
The Chief Executive must build up and hold a minimum 
shareholding of 150 per cent of salary and the Finance 
Director 100 per cent of base salary. Executives have up to 
five years from the date of their appointment to the Board 
to build up their shareholding
Not applicable
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERA TION  
AND RELA TED MA TTERS
Legacy plans
Upon his appointment, the CEO was granted a one-off share award to compensate him for remuneration foregone at his 
previous employer. Details of this award are provided below:
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation (including maximum levels) Framework used to assess performance 
and provision for the recovery of sums paid
One-off 
share 
award
To compensate for 
remuneration foregone  
at previous employer
One-off award of shares with a face value 
of 100 per cent of salary which will vest on 
19 June 2016 subject to the achievement of 
performance conditions
The award is subject to the following 
absolute share price performance targets 
to be achieved based on the average of the 
28 day trading price immediate prior to  
19 June 2016:
• 
70p = 30 per cent of award vesting
• 150p = 100 per cent of award vesting
Notes to the policy table
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting
The performance metrics that are used to assess performance under the annual bonus are selected by the Remuneration 
Committee each year to incentivise the delivery of financial performance and key role specific strategic objectives. Profit is 
typically used as the measure of financial performance as this key underlying measure of financial success for the business 
on an annual basis. 
The Committee regularly reviews the LTIP performance measures to ensure they are aligned with the Company’s long-term 
strategy and shareholders’ interests. The current measures of EPS growth and FCF have been selected as EPS growth 
focuses executives on real profit growth, which is strongly aligned with value creation and FCF focuses on ensuring the 
Company has the cash available to pursue opportunities that enhance shareholder value.
Targets for both the annual bonus and LTIP are reviewed annually against a number of internal and external reference points. 
They are set on a sliding scale at levels the Committee considers to be appropriately stretching for the level of award delivered.
Remuneration policy for employees 
The remuneration policy for Executive Directors in general is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other 
employees as not all employees participate in an annual bonus plan and LTIP awards are only made to the most senior 
individuals in the Group.
However, the process or reviewing salaries and Directors’ fees is applied on a consistent basis across the Group and the key 
principles of providing remuneration that is appropriate to attract, retain, motivate and reward employees to deliver the 
Group’s strategic plan without paying more than is necessary applies to all employees as well as Executive Directors.
Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors
The charts below show how the composition of Executive Directors’ remuneration packages as set out in the policy table may 
vary based on the following three performance scenarios:
Performance scenario Basis of valuation
Minimum performance (below threshold) Fixed pay only – base salary, Directors’ fee, benefits and pension 
Target performance Fixed pay, plus bonus at target performance and 25 per cent vesting 
under the LTIP
Maximum performance (all performance conditions met) Fixed pay, plus maximum bonus and full vesting under the LTIP
46   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts and their appointment may be terminated at any 
time without compensation. Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of three years and their appointments 
are reviewed at the end of each three-year term.
Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below:
 
Component and objective Approach
Fees
To attract and retain Non-Executive 
Directors of the highest calibre with 
broad commercial experience 
relevant to the Company
The Board determines the fees paid to Non-Executive Directors under a policy that seeks to 
recognise the time commitment, responsibility and technical skills required to make a valuable 
contribution to an effective Board
The fees paid are reviewed on an annual basis and set at a level to attract individuals with the 
necessary experience and ability to make a significant contribution to the Group’s activities, while 
also reflecting the time commitment and responsibility of the role. Each Non-Executive Director is 
also entitled to reimbursement of necessary travel and other expenses
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any share scheme or annual bonus scheme and are 
not eligible to join the Group’s pension schemes
The current fee levels for the Non-Executive Directors is as follows:
• Chairman = £200,000 per annum
• Non-Executive Director base fee = £40,500 per annum
• Additional fee for Audit Committee Chairman = £6,250 per annum
• Additional fee for Remuneration Committee Chairman = £6,250 per annum
In exceptional circumstances where Non-Executive Directors are required to commit a significant 
amount of time above their normal duties additional fees may be paid
0
€1,000,000
€1,500,000
€2,000,000
€2,500,000
Maximum Target
Chief Finance Ofﬁcer
Minimum Maximum Target
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Minimum
■ LTIs
■ Annual bonus
■ Fixed
100% 52% 34% 100% 60% 39%
37%
37%
28%
30%
11%
29%
12%
31%
Notes:
1 Fixed remuneration comprises 
 of base salary, beneﬁts and 
 pension contributions
2 At target performance it is 
 assumed that 80 per cent of 
 salary is earned for the Chief 
 Executive and 60 per cent 
 of salary for the Finance Director
3 At target performance it is 
 assumed that 25 per cent 
 of the maximum LTI award vests
4 Excludes the beneﬁt of the 
 one-off phantom share award
 with a face value of £500,000
€500,000
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERA TION  
AND RELA TED MA TTERS
Recruitment policy
When determining the remuneration 
package for a new Executive Director, 
the Committee will take into account  
all relevant factors based on the 
circumstances at that time. This may 
include factors such as the calibre of 
the individual, market practice in the 
candidate’s current location or locations 
and scope of the role to which they are 
being appointed.
Typically, the package will be aligned 
with the Company’s remuneration 
policy set out above. However, should 
there be a commercial rationale for 
doing so the Remuneration Committee 
has the discretion to include any other 
remuneration elements that are not 
included in the ongoing remuneration 
policy, subject to the overall limit on 
variable remuneration set out below. 
The Committee does not intend  
to use this discretion to make  
non-performance-related incentive 
payments and is always mindful of the 
need to pay no more than is necessary. 
To help facilitate the appointment  
of an individual the Remuneration 
Committee may need to make awards 
to “buyout” an external candidate’s 
remuneration arrangements, which  
are forfeited as a result of leaving their 
previous employer or appointment. In 
doing so, the Committee will take into 
account all relevant factors, which may 
include: the form and time horizon of 
awards, any performance conditions 
attaching to the awards and the 
likelihood of awards vesting. The 
Committee will typically seek to buyout 
awards on a comparable basis to those 
which have been forfeited with the 
intention that the value awarded would 
be no higher than the expected value 
of the forfeited arrangements. 
The maximum level of variable 
remuneration that may be granted to a 
new Executive Director on appointment 
(excluding any “buyout” of forfeited 
awards discussed above) will be 300 
per cent of salary as set out in the policy 
table for current Executive Directors.
Where an individual is promoted to  
an Executive Director position from 
within the Company, remuneration 
commitments made prior to the 
appointment as Director will continue 
on their original terms, provided  
such commitment was not made in 
contemplation of such individual being 
appointed as an Executive Director. 
The remuneration package for a newly 
appointed Non-Executive Director 
would be in line with the structure  
set out in the policy table for  
Non-Executive Directors.
Service contracts and exit  
payment policy
The current CEO has a service contract 
and a letter of appointment under 
which employment can be terminated 
either by the CEO or the Company 
giving 12 months’ notice. The current 
CFO has a service contract under which 
employment can be terminated by the 
Company giving 12 months’ notice or 
the CFO six months’ notice. For any 
new Executive Directors the Board’s 
policy is for service contracts to have  
a 12-month notice period for both the 
Company and the executive. 
The Company may elect to terminate 
Executive Directors’ service contracts 
by making payments in lieu of notice 
that will not exceed 12 months’  
salary and benefits, which can also 
include, but not limited to, pension, 
outplacement, settlement agreement, 
non-complete agreements and legal 
fees. The Company may at its discretion 
reduce the payment to take into account 
the receipt of a lump sum and mitigation.
Unless an executive is terminated  
for cause, a payment may be made in 
respect of their bonus opportunity on  
a pro-rated basis, taking into account 
employment law in non-UK jurisdictions 
where relevant to the individual, the 
proportion of the financial year for 
which they were employed and subject 
to the performance achieved.
48   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 Reason for cessation of employment Default treatment
Termination for cause Awards lapse upon cessation of employment
“Good leaver” which includes: death, 
ill-health, injury, disability or any 
other reason as determined by the 
Committee
If an individual leaves during the performance period awards the level of award to be received will 
be determined at the end of the performance period subject to the achievement of the 
performance conditions and pro-rated for time served. Awards will then be released at the normal 
release date
If an individual leaves after the end of the performance period but before the release date the level 
of award determined at the end of the performance period will be released at the normal release date
In the case of death, the Committee may deem the performance period to end at an earlier date 
and awards released immediately
Change of control Awards will vest upon the change of control subject to performance at that time and pro-rated for 
time served unless the Committee determines otherwise
The table below provides a summary of how awards under the LTIP are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the 
final treatment remaining subject to the Committee’s discretion as provided under the rules of the plan:
Statement of consideration  
of shareholder views
The Remuneration Committee considers 
shareholder feedback received in relation 
to the Annual General Meeting each 
year and guidance from shareholder 
representative bodies more generally. 
This feedback, plus any additional 
feedback received from time to time, is 
then considered as part of the Company’s 
annual review of remuneration.
Consideration of conditions 
elsewhere in the Company
The Committee does not consult with 
employees specifically on executive 
remuneration policy. However, when 
reviewing or amending remuneration 
arrangements the Committee considers 
pay practices across the Company, 
including the salary increases applying 
across the rest of the business in the 
relevant market. The Committee also 
takes into account the impact on the 
behaviour of employees more widely 
and the views of all relevant stakeholders.
Payments in relation to existing 
remuneration arrangements
The Remuneration Committee reserves 
the right to make any remuneration 
payments and payments for loss of 
office (including exercising any 
discretions available to it in connection 
with such payments) notwithstanding 
that they are not in line with the policy 
set out above where the terms of the 
payment were agreed:
• 
before the policy came into effect or 
• 
 at a time when the relevant 
individual was not a Director of the 
Company and, in the opinion of the 
Committee, the payment was not in 
consideration for the individual 
becoming a Director of the Company. 
For these purposes “payments” 
includes the Committee satisfying 
awards of variable remuneration and,  
in relation to an award over shares,  
the terms of the payment are “agreed” 
at the time the award is granted.
Annual report on remuneration
Role and operation of the 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee  
decides both the structure and level  
of Executive Directors’ pay and the 
remuneration of the Chairman.  
The remuneration of Non-Executive 
Directors is a matter reserved for the 
Chairman and the Executive Directors 
and no Director is involved in setting 
their own remuneration. The full  
terms of reference can be found  
on the Company’s website  
www.dartygroup.com.
The following Directors were members 
of the Committee during the year:
• 
Alan Parker
• 
Michel Léonard (Chairman)
• 
Pascal Bazin
Remuneration decisions are made on 
the advice of or proposals prepared by 
the Remuneration Committee and the 
Company. The Chief Executive is invited 
to attend meetings of the Committee 
when appropriate. 
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERA TION  
AND RELA TED MA TTERS
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee. In addition, in making its decisions, the Committee has had 
access to the relevant external advisers appointed by the Remuneration Committee and the Company. 
Deloitte LLP was formally appointed by the Remuneration Committee as its independent external adviser in September 2012. 
Deloitte LLP has not provided any other services to the Company in financial year 2014. The total fees paid to Deloitte in 
respect of services to the Committee were €80,818. Deloitte are a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group 
and are signatories to the Code of Conduct in relation to Executive Remuneration Consulting in the UK. The Remuneration 
Committee, following its annual review, is satisfied that Deloitte LLP has been independent and objective when providing 
their advice during the year.
Total remuneration (audited)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration earned by each Executive Director during the year to  
30 April 2014 and for the prior year:
Executive Salary and fees (€) Taxable benefits (€) Bonus (€) LTIP (€) Pension 
contributions 
(€)
Total (€)
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Régis Schultz 594,248 13,898 29,344 0 694,732 0 0 0 59,425 0 1,377,7 49 13,898
Dominic Platt 519,095* 510,489* 27,417 24,887 285,102 162,440 0 0 0 61,147 831,614 758,963
* These amounts includes a salary supplement in 2014 of €90,643 in lieu of a pension contribution, and €34,324 in 2013.
Base salary and Directors’ fee
As Chief Executive, Régis Schultz received a base salary and fees totalling £500,000 for the year. Dominic Platt received 
a base salary of £360,500. Régis Schultz salary was increased by 1.5% from 1 May 2014 to £507,500.
Taxable benefits
The Executive Directors received taxable benefits during the period, including a car allowance, private medical insurance and 
life insurance.
Provision for retirement
The Company made payments of 20 per cent of salary (capped at £60,000 for the CEO) to the executives during the year. 
Payments are made into a defined contribution plan up to £50,000 with any additional amount paid as a cash supplement. 
As Dominic Platt has reached his lifetime allowance, he received a cash supplement of 20 per cent of salary.
Annual bonus in respect of 2013/2014 performance
The bonus for financial year 2014 was based on profit before tax, and role-specific strategic objectives that are closely 
aligned to the achievement of the corporate plan as set out in the table below. There was also an underpin of a minimum 
accepted level of return on capital employed and free cash flow which were met.
Summary of bonus earned
Measure CEO CFO
Weighting Payout level Weighting Payout level
Adjusted PBT 60% 75% 40% 40%
Cash flow – – – –
Key strategic measures* 40% 39.2% 60% 35%
Total 100% 114.2% 100% 75%
*   Key strategic targets were set for each executive bespoke to their roles. These included cost reduction measures, targets relating to the sale of certain businesses and customer 
satisfaction scores
50   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 Deferral of bonus
Half of the bonus earned will be deferred for three years and the value that will be received will reflect the change in the 
value of Darty plc shares in three years’ time. 
Disclosure of targets
The achievement against each of the performance measures for financial year 2014 has been disclosed. However, the 
Remuneration Committee considers that the targets set are commercially sensitive and if disclosed could damage the 
Company’s commercial interests, particularly in view of the highly competitive nature of the retail sector. The actual targets 
have therefore not been disclosed in reliance on the exemption under the regulations. The Remuneration Committee does  
not expect to disclose this information at a later date.
LTIP
The LTIP awards made in June 2011 did not vest as the performance targets were not met. 
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors
The table below sets out in a single figure the total remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors for the financial year:
Director 12 months to 30 April 2014 12 months to 30 April 2013
Alan Parker €237,699 €197,734
Pascal Bazin €48,134 €27,241
Carlo D’Asario Biondo €48,134 €25,123
Alain Grisay* €17,573 0
Eric Knight €48,134 €9,287
Michel Léonard €55,562 €54,338
Antoine Metzger €48,134 €27,241
Alison Reed €55,562 €54,338
Agnès Touraine €48,134 €25,123
* Mr Grisay was appointed as a Director on 23 September 2013 and died on 31 January 2014
LTIP awards made in financial year 2014 (audited)
LTIP awards were made in September 2013 to both Executive Directors. Awards were made in the form of conditional shares, 
subject to performance over three consecutive financial years. Awards will vest 50 per cent three years following the date of 
grant and 50 per cent four years following the date of grant.
Director Award date Face value 1  
(% salary)*
Number of shares Performance  
period ends
Vesting date
Régis Schulz 17.09.2013 (100%) 666,666 30.04.16 50% on 16.09.2016
50% on 16.09.2017
Dominic Platt 17.09.2013 (65%) 316,333 30.04.16 50% on 16.09.2016
50% on 16.09.2017
* Based on the market price on the date of award of 75p.
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERA TION  
AND RELA TED MA TTERS
The awards are subject to performance measures and targets over three consecutive financial years starting in the year in 
which the grant date falls as set out below:
Measure Weighting Year 1 targets Year 2 targets Year 3 targets
EPS 70% Min = 4.8 cents
Max = 4.8 cents
Min = 5.3 cents
Max = 6.2 cents
Min = 5.8 cents
Max = 8.1 cents
Free cash flow 30% Min = €69.3m Min = €77.5m Min = €88.2m 
For achieving the minimum target 0 per cent of the awards will vest, with straight-line vesting between the minimum and 
maximum performance targets.
The awards are also subject to a cumulative underpin, whereby the cumulative EPS and free cash flow over the three years 
must be at least the cumulative value of the minimum performance targets (i.e. 15.9 cents and €235 million).
Payments to past Directors (audited)
There were no payments made to past Directors during the year.
Payments for loss of office (audited)
There were no payments for loss of office during the year. In the prior year, a termination payment of €1,284,832 was paid  
to the former CEO, Thierry Falque-Pierrotin.
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited)
Outstanding interests under share schemes
The table below provides details of Directors’ interests in outstanding share awards: 
Name Date of 
grant
At start of 
year
Granted 
during the 
year
Vested 
during the 
year
Lapsed 
during the 
year
At end of 
the year
Vesting date Lapse date
Dominic Platt 24/06/2011 57,867 – – 57,867 0 24/06/2014 21/12/2014
24/06/2012 322,067 – 0 161,033 161,034 24/06/2015 21/12/2015
17 /09/2013 0 316,333 0 0 316,333 50% – 
16/09/2016
50% – 
16/09/2017
50% – 
16/03/2017 
50% – 
16/03/2018
Régis Schultz 19/06/2013 0 *775,193 0 0 775,193 19/06/2016 19/12/2016
17 /09/2013 0 666,666 0 0 666,666 50% – 
16/09/2016
50% – 
16/09/2017
50% – 
16/03/2017 
50% –
16/03/2018 
* One-off share award
As part of the terms of his appointment, the Chief Executive received a one-off phantom share award equivalent  
to 100 per cent of his total salary and fees (i.e. a face value of £500,000) in recognition of remuneration foregone  
as a result of leaving his previous employer.
52   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 This award vests after a period of three years, subject to the achievement of the following share price targets and continued 
employment:
Share price target % of award vesting
70p 30%
150p 100%
The award will vest on a straight-line basis between 70p and 150p.
Notes
Awards made in June 2011
First year award Target Actual Conditional vesting
EPS growth 12.7 cents per share 6.2 cents per share 0%
FCF €116.7m €58.1m 0%
Second year award Target Actual Conditional vesting
EPS growth 18.4 cents per share 2.5 cents per share 0%
FCF €138.5m €39.4m 0%
Third year award Target Actual Conditional vesting
EPS growth 24.0 cents per share 6.4 cents per share 0%
FCF €171.0m €85.4m 0%
Awards made in June 2012
First year award Target Actual Conditional vesting
EPS growth 7.4 cents per share 2.5 cents per share 0%
FCF €85.9m €39.4m 0%
Second year award Target Actual Conditional vesting
EPS growth 12.2 cents per share 6.4 cents per share 0%
FCF €114.0m €85.4m 0%
Awards made in September 2013
First year award Target Actual Conditional vesting
EPS growth 4.8 cents per share 6.4 cents per share Yes
FCF €69.3m €85.4m Yes
Shareholding guidelines
Shareholding guidelines are in place that encourage Executive Directors to build up a holding in Darty plc shares based on a 
percentage of base salary over a period of five years. The table below provides details of these guidelines and executives’ 
current holdings in respect of the guidelines.
Director Guideline % of salary held at 30 April 2014
Régis Schultz 150% of salary 30.4%
Dominic Platt 100% of salary 4.0%
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERA TION  
AND RELA TED MA TTERS
Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of the Directors, which include holdings by their spouses or other related parties, together with 
non-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company, are shown in the table below. 
Director 30 April 2014 30 April 2013
Régis Schultz 339,000 –
Dominic Platt 30,000 30,000
Alan Parker 459,000 120,000
Pascal Bazin 25,000 –
Carlo D’Asaro Biondo 25,000 –
Eric Knight* 132,605,624 132,605,624
Michel Léonard 30,000 30,000
Antoine Metzger 25,000 –
Alison Reed 20,000 20,000
Agnès Touraine 40,000 15,000
*  Mr Knight’s shares are held by virtue of his being the founder and CEO of Knight Vinke Asset Management, which exercises the voting rights of shares for its clients. Mr Knight is himself  
a client and holds 103,400 shares within the overall numbers disclosed.
Review of past performance
Historical TSR performance 
The following performance graph shows the Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) for Darty versus the FTSE 350 General 
Retailer Index for the period 30 April 2009 to 30 April 2014. The Committee believes that the FTSE 350 General Retailer 
Index is an objective comparator group for measuring the Company’s total shareholder return and provides a transparent 
and accessible method of gauging performance.
Apr 09 Apr 10 Apr 11 Apr 12 Apr 13 Apr 14
0
50
100
150
200
250
TSR
(rebased to 100)
FTSE 350 General Retailers
Darty
54   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 CEO single figure of remuneration
The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the CEO over the same five-year period. The total remuneration 
figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards that vested based on performance in those years. The annual bonus and 
LTIP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Thierry 
Falque-
Pierrotin
Thierry 
Falque-
Pierrotin
Thierry 
Falque-
Pierrotin
Thierry 
Falque-
Pierrotin
Dominic 
Platt*
Régis 
Schultz**
Régis 
Schultz
Single total figure €2,381,978 €1,468,774 €1,936,906 €770,489 €277,627 €13,898 €1,377,749
Annual bonus (%) 95% 15% 0% 0% 57% 0% 91%
LTIP vesting (%) – – 100% 0% 0% 0% 0%
*  Single figure represents payments made in respect of the four-month period in which Dominic Platt was acting CEO. It is based on salary paid during this period and the total value of 
benefits, pension and bonus paid in respect of the year on a pro-rated basis
**Single figure represents payments made while CEO during the year from 23 April 2013 to 30 April 2013
Percentage change in remuneration for the CEO in comparison to other employees
The table below shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and bonus earned between 30 April 2013 and 30 April 2014 
for the CEO compared to the average percentage change of all French employees as this population represents the majority 
of the workforce.
Salary Benefits Bonus
CEO 1.50% 0% N/A
All employee average 1.43% 0% (4)%
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below shows the total pay for all employees compared to other key financial indicators.
2013 €m 2014 €m % Change
Total employee expenditure 614.0 606.4 (1.2)
Shareholder distributions (dividends and share buy backs) 18.0 18.0 0
Shareholder voting
At the AGM in September 2013, the Directors’ remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders:
Number of 
votes cast
% of votes 
cast
Votes for 396,515,447 90.81%
Votes against 40,140,359 9.19%
Total votes cast (excluding withheld votes) 436,655,806 100.00%
Votes withheld 43,325
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERA TION  
AND RELA TED MA TTERS
Remuneration policy for financial year 2015
The following provides details of how the remuneration policy will be implemented in financial year 2015.
Base salary and fees
Executive Directors’ base salaries and fees were increased with effect from 1 May 2014 as follows:
Current 2013 % change
Régis Schultz £507,500 £500,000 1.5
Dominic Platt £360,500 £360,500 0
Taxable benefits, pension and bonus
These will be paid in line with the remuneration policy.
LTIP awards
Awards will be made in line with the remuneration policy for the LTIP. The proposed performance measures and targets for 
awards to be made in September 2014 are detailed below:
Measure Weighting Threshold vesting  
(25% of the award)
Maximum vesting  
(100% of the award)
EPS 70% 10% growth p.a. 30% growth p.a.
Free cash flow 30% 10% growth p.a. 30% growth p.a.
Performance will be assessed over three financial years but awards will not be released to participants until 50 per cent four 
years following the date of grant and 50 per cent five years following the date of grant.
It should be noted that the stretch of these targets has been set in the context of the Company being in a turnaround phase 
and will be reviewed next year.
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
For 2014 these will be as set out in the policy report.
56   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14 Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for 
preparing the Annual report, the 
Directors’ remuneration report and  
the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have prepared the Group 
financial statements in accordance  
with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union, and the parent 
company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice 
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards 
and applicable law). In preparing the 
Group financial statements, the 
Directors have also elected to comply 
with IFRSs, issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 
Under company law the Directors must 
not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Group and the Company 
and of the profit of the Group for that 
period. In preparing these financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
• 
 select suitable accounting policies 
and then apply them consistently
• 
 make judgements and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent
• 
 state whether IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union and IFRSs 
issued by IASB and applicable UK 
Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained 
in the Group and parent company 
financial statements respectively
• 
 prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for 
keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at 
any time the financial position of the 
Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial 
statements and the Directors’ 
remuneration report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group financial statements, Article 
4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and the Group and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for  
the maintenance and integrity of  
the Company’s website. Legislation  
in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
 
Each of the Directors, whose names 
and functions are listed in the Directors 
and advisers section, pages 30 and 31 
confirm that, to the best of  
their knowledge:
• 
 the Group financial statements, 
which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group, and
• 
 the Directors’ report contained on 
page 32 to page 35 includes a fair 
review of the development and 
performance of the business and the 
position of the Group, together with 
a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that it faces.
In accordance with Section 418, 
Directors’ reports shall include a 
statement, in the case of each Director 
in office at the date the Directors’ 
report is approved, that:
(a)  so far as the Director is aware,  
there is no relevant audit information 
of which the Company’s auditors  
are unaware; and
(b)  they have taken all the steps  
that they ought to have taken  
as a Director in order to make 
themself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.
The Directors consider that the  
Annual report and accounts, taken  
as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ST A TEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
 DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   57 58   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
Report on the Group financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion the financial statements, defined below:
• 
give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs 
as at 30 April 2014 and of its loss and cash flows for the 
year then ended;
• 
have been properly prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union; and
• 
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements 
of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the 
remainder of this report.
What we have audited
The Group financial statements (the “financial statements”), 
which are prepared by Darty plc, comprise:
• 
the Group balance sheet as at 30 April 2014;
• 
the Group income statement and statement of 
comprehensive income for the year then ended;
• 
the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended;
• 
the Group statement of changes in equity for the year 
then ended; and
• 
the notes to the financial statements, which include a 
summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union.
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & 
Ireland)”). An audit involves obtaining evidence about the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error . This includes an assessment of:
• 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed;
• 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates 
made by the Directors; and
• 
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and  
to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach
Materiality
We set certain thresholds for materiality. These helped  
us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both 
individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined 
materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to 
be €4.1m. This represents approximately 5 per cent of a three 
year average of retail profit for continuing operations. We 
believe that underlying retail profit is the most appropriate 
measure of recurring Group performance and that a three 
year average is appropriate given the fluctuations in profit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to 
them misstatements identified during our audit above €0.2m 
as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, 
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of the audit
The Group is structured along three reportable segments, 
being Darty France, Belgium and the Netherlands, and Other 
businesses. These reportable segments contain four main 
reporting units, and the Group financial statements are a 
consolidation of these four reporting units, discontinued 
reporting units, and non-trading head office entities.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we 
determined the type of work that needed to be performed  
at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, 
or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC 
network firms operating under our instruction. Where the 
work was performed by component auditors, we determined 
the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work 
at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained  
as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements 
as a whole.
Accordingly, of the Group’s four main reporting units, we 
identified two which, in our view, required an audit of their 
complete financial information, either due to their size or 
their risk characteristics. Specific audit procedures on certain 
balances and transactions were performed at the other two 
reporting units. This, together with additional procedures 
performed at the Group level, gave us the evidence we 
needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements  
as a whole.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF DARTY PLC  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   59
Areas of particular audit focus
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made  
a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect  
of significant accounting estimates that involved making 
assumptions and considering future events that are 
inherently uncertain. We primarily focused our work in  
these areas by assessing the Directors’ judgements against 
available evidence, forming our own judgements, and 
evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using 
sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we 
considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us  
to draw conclusions. We obtained audit evidence through 
testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures 
or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required 
particular focus in the current year . This is not a complete list 
of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit. We 
discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee. 
Their report on those matters that they considered to be 
significant issues in relation to the financial statements is  
set out on page 40.
Area of focus
How the scope of our audit 
addressed the area of focus
Risk of management 
override of internal 
controls
ISAs (UK & Ireland) 
require that we 
consider this risk.
We assessed the overall control 
environment of the Group, including 
the arrangements for staff to “whistle-
blow” inappropriate actions, and 
interviewed senior management and 
the Group’s internal audit function.
We examined the significant 
accounting estimates and 
judgements relevant to the financial 
statements for evidence of bias by 
the Directors that may represent  
a risk of material misstatement due  
to fraud.
We also tested journal entries to 
determine the rationale for manual 
adjustments and checked supporting 
documentation.
Risk of fraud in 
revenue recognition
ISAs (UK & Ireland) 
presume there is a 
risk of fraud in 
revenue recognition. 
We focused on the 
risk that revenue may 
have been overstated 
to meet financial 
targets.
Our testing of revenue transactions 
focused on assessing whether a sale 
had occurred and been recorded in 
the correct period.
In particular, we evaluated whether 
revenue was recorded in accordance 
with the Group policies and for new 
promotions and incentives and 
discussed the accounting treatment 
with management.
Area of focus
How the scope of our audit 
addressed the area of focus
Impairment of 
leasehold carrying 
values in France
The carrying values  
of assets related to 
leasehold property in 
France are considered 
a significant risk 
principally due to  
their magnitude,  
and the continued 
difficult economic 
environment in 
France.
We assessed the impairment models 
prepared by management and 
challenged the underlying forecasts, 
and obtained and evaluated evidence 
for the key assumptions, including 
long-term discount rate and long-
term growth rates.
We also considered if the models 
used were appropriate and tested the 
calculations within them.
Inventory valuation
Inventory remains the 
largest asset on the 
balance sheet and its 
valuation due to the 
risk of obsolescence 
is a key area of focus.
We performed detailed testing of 
inventory valuations and provisions, 
including testing of net realisable 
value (by comparing, on a sample 
basis, the expected sales revenue 
from inventory items to their cost).
Also, we attended inventory counts 
at which we inspected the nature and 
condition of inventory for potential 
obsolescence.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the 
Directors’ statement, set out on page 35, in relation  
to going concern. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review.
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have 
concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial 
statements using the going concern basis of accounting. The 
going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate 
resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors 
intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the 
financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we 
have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern 
basis is appropriate.
However , because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. 60   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
Opinions on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• 
the information given in the strategic report and the 
Directors’ report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with  
the financial statements; and
• 
the information given in the corporate governance 
statement set out on pages 36 to 42 with respect to 
internal control and risk management systems and  
about share capital structures is consistent with the 
financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit. We have no 
exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report  
to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no 
exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has 
not been prepared by the Company. We have no exceptions  
to report arising from this responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part  
of the corporate governance statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”). We have nothing 
to report having performed our review.
On page 57 of the Annual report, as required by the Code 
Provision C.1.1, the Directors state that they consider the 
Annual report taken as a whole to be fair , balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
members to assess the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy. On page 40, as required by C.3.8 of the Code, 
the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it 
considered in relation to the financial statements, and how 
they were addressed. Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• 
the statement given by the Directors is materially 
inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in 
the course of performing our audit; or
• 
the section of the Annual report describing the work of 
the Audit Committee does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility.
Other information in the Annual report
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion, information in the Annual report is:
• 
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or
• 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired  
in the course of performing our audit; or
• 
is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility.
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities 
statement set out on page 57 , the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards  
for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for 
and only for the Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other 
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown 
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Company financial 
statements of Darty plc for the year ended 30 April 2014 and 
on the information in the Directors’ remuneration report that 
is described as having been audited.
John Ellis (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
18 June 2014
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF DARTY PLC  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   61
 Note 
2014 
 
€m
2013  
restated
€m 
Revenue 3 3,579.4 3,558.9
Group operating profit 3 40.3 14.3
Share of post tax profit in joint venture and associates 15 2.4 3.8
Total operating profit 42.7 18.1
Analysed as:
Retail profit
(a)
4 73.4 66.0
Share of joint venture and associates’ interest and taxation 15 (0.8) (0.7)
Movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests 2 (3.2) 9.7
Gain on disposal of available for sale investments 3 2.7 – 
Exceptional items 12 (29.4) (64.3)
Profit on disposal of business operation 12 – 7.4
Total operating profit 3 42.7 18.1
Finance costs 5 (17.4) (14.1)
Profit before income tax 25.3 4.0
Taxation 7 (15.8) (3.7)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 9.5 0.3
Loss for the year from discontinued operations 10 (16.4) (108.2)
Loss for the year (6.9) (107.9)
Loss attributable to:
– Owners of the parent (3.7) (104.7)
– Non-controlling interests (3.2) (3.2)
(6.9) (107.9)
Earnings/(losses) per share – basic and diluted (cents)
Continuing operations 2.4 0.7
Discontinued operations (3.1) (20.5)
Total losses per share 9 (0.7) (19.8)
Notes
a) Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and associates’ interest and taxation, movement in options and related charges over non-controlling 
interests, gain on disposal of available for sale investments, exceptional items and profit on disposal of business operations.
b)  Restated following the sale of the Spain and Turkey operations, now classified as discontinued operations, and the adoption of IAS 19 revised on retirement benefits.
c)  The notes on pages 66 to 119 form part of these financial statements.
for the year ended 30 April 2014
GROUP INCOME ST A TEMENT
(b) 62   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
Note 
2014
  
€m
2013  
restated
€m
Profit for the financial year – continuing operations 4 9.5 0.3
Loss for the financial year – discontinued operations (16.4) (108.2)
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurements of post employment benefit obligations 32 (25.3) (28.5)
Tax on other comprehensive (expense)/income (1.1) 4.0
(26.4) (24.5)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Exchange differences (2.3) 0.7
Fair value gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges (0.3) 0.2
Tax on other comprehensive income/(expense) 0.1 –
(2.5) 0.9
Other comprehensive expense for the year (28.9) (23.6)
Total comprehensive expense for the year (35.8) (131.5)
Attributable to:
– Owners of the parent (34.8) (128.4)
– Non-controlling Interests (1.0) (3.1)
Total comprehensive expense for the year (35.8) (131.5)
Notes
a)  Restated following the sale of the Spain and Turkey operations, now classified as discontinued operations, and the adoption of IAS 19 revised on retirement benefits. 
b)  The notes on pages 66 to 119 form part of these financial statements.
GROUP ST A TEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 30 April 2014
(a)  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   63
Share  
capital  
€m
Demerger and 
other reserves 
€m 
Translation 
reserve  
€m
Accumulated 
losses  
€m
Total 
 shareholders’ 
deficit  
€m
Non- 
controlling 
interests  
€m
Total  
deficit 
€m
At 1 May 2013 158.9 971.8 18.7 (1,401.3) (251.9) (10.9) (262.8)
Profit for the period from continuing operations – – – 12.7 12.7 (3.2) 9.5
Loss for the period from discontinued operations –  –  – (16.4) (16.4) – (16.4)
Other comprehensive income/(expense)     
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurements of post employment benefit obligations – –  – (25.3) (25.3) – (25.3)
Tax on other comprehensive expense –  –  – (1.1) (1.1) – (1.1)
– – – (26.4) (26.4) – (26.4)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to  
profit or loss:
Exchange differences – – (4.5) – (4.5) 2.2 (2.3)
Fair value losses on cash flow hedges – (0.3) – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Tax on other comprehensive income/(expense)  – 0.1 – – 0.1 – 0.1
– (0.2) (4.5) – (4.7) 2.2 (2.5)
Total comprehensive expense for the period – (0.2) (4.5) (30.1) (34.8) (1.0) (35.8)
Transactions with owners:
Dividends (note 8) –  –  – (18.0) (18.0) – (18.0)
Employee share schemes – – – 0.4 0.4 – 0.4
Re-purchase of non-controlling interest –  – – (2.3) (2.3) 2.3 – 
At 30 April 2014 158.9 971.6 14.2 (1,451.3) (306.6) (9.6) (316.2)
Share  
capital  
€m
Demerger and 
other reserves 
€m 
Translation 
reserve  
€m
Accumulated 
losses  
€m
Total 
 shareholders’ 
deficit  
€m
Non-controlling 
interests  
€m
Total 
deficit  
restated 
€m
At 1 May 2012 158.9 971.6 18.1 (1,258.8) (110.2) (6.8) (117.0)
Prior year adjustment in respect of IAS 19 amendment – – – (1.7) (1.7) – (1.7)
At 1 May 2012 restated 158.9 971.6 18.1 (1,260.5) (111.9) (6.8) (118.7)
Profit for the period from continuing operations – – – 3.5 3.5 (3.2) 0.3
Loss for the period from discontinued operations – –  – (108.2) (108.2) – (108.2)
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Remeasurements of post employment benefit obligations – –  – (28.5) (28.5) – (28.5)
Tax on other comprehensive income –  –  – 4.0 4.0 – 4.0
– – – (24.5) (24.5) – (24.5)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to 
profit or loss:
Exchange differences –  – 0.6 – 0.6 0.1 0.7
Fair value gains on cash flow hedges – 0.2 –  – 0.2 – 0.2
Tax on other comprehensive income/(expense) –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
– 0.2 0.6 – 0.8 0.1 0.9
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the period – 0.2 0.6 (129.2) (128.4) (3.1) (131.5)
Transactions with owners:
Dividends (note 8) –  –  – (11.2) (11.2) (1.0) (12.2)
Employee share schemes –  –  – (0.4) (0.4) – (0.4)
At 30 April 2013 158.9 971.8 18.7 (1,401.3) (251.9) (10.9) (262.8)
Notes
a)  Restated following the sale of the Spain and Turkey operations, now classified as discontinued operations, and the adoption of IAS 19 revised on retirement benefits.
b) The demerger reserve represents a reserve created on demerger and is non-distributable. Other reserves comprise a reserve arising from the first time adoption of IAS 39 in February 
2006, a redenomination reserve created upon the redenomination of ordinary shares in September 2010 and the hedging reserve comprising the fair value movements on forward 
foreign exchange contracts.
c)  The notes on pages 66 to 119 form part of these financial statements.
for the year ended 30 April 2014
GROUP ST A TEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
(a) 64   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
Note 
2014
 
€m
2013
restated
€m
2012
restated  
€m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 13 64.3 62.8 87.2
Property, plant and equipment 14 343.9 369.0 421.8
Investments 15 15.3 23.9 22.6
Other receivables 19 11.2 15.3 17.3
Deferred income tax assets 26 0.3 1.4 2.3
Total non-current assets 435.0 472.4 551.2
Current assets
Inventories 17 474.2 477.9 526.9
Trade and other receivables 18 221.5 197.2 189.5
Income tax receivable 4.2 15.4 22.1
Cash and cash equivalents 20 75.5 68.0 99.4
Assets of disposal group held for sale 11 –  – 60.3
Total current assets 775.4 758.5 898.2
Total assets 1,210.4 1,230.9 1,449.4
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Borrowings 22 (1.5) (0.3) (6.6)
Income tax liabilities (8.3) (4.0) (3.5)
Trade and other payables 21 (890.5) (887.5) (905.3)
Derivative financial instruments 24 (0.3) – (0.3)
Provisions 25 (3.7) (14.6) (4.3)
Liabilities of disposal group held for sale 11 –  – (34.9)
Total current liabilities (904.3) (906.4) (954.9)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 22 (259.2) (218.3) (217.3)
Other payables 23 (227.1) (241.8) (271.6)
Deferred income tax liabilities 26 (30.0) (41.8) (52.1)
Retirement benefits 32 (104.6) (84.8) (72.2)
Provisions 25 (1.4) (0.6) –
Total non-current liabilities (622.3) (587.3) (613.2)
Total liabilities (1,526.6) (1,493.7) (1,568.1)
Net liabilities (316.2) (262.8) (118.7)
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 27 158.9 158.9 158.9
Other reserves 985.8 990.5 989.7
Accumulated losses (1,451.3) (1,401.3) (1,260.5)
Total shareholders’ deficit (306.6) (251.9) (111.9)
Non-controlling interests (9.6) (10.9) (6.8)
Total equity (316.2) (262.8) (118.7)
Note
a) The notes on pages 66 to 119 form part of these financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 61 to 119 were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 June 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Régis Schultz Director  Dominic Platt Director
Company registration number: 4232413
as at 30 April 2014
GROUP BALANCE SHEET
(a) (a)  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   65
Note 
2014 
€m
2013  
€m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 28 8.3 20.0
Interest paid (22.8) (9.1)
Tax paid 1.6 (3.1)
Net cash flows from/(used in) operating activities (12.9) 7.8
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 35 5.4 –
Sale of discontinued operations, including cash and overdrafts disposed 10 2.6 (4.4)
Sale of business operation, including cash and overdrafts disposed 1.9 39.1
Sale of available for sale investments 2.7 –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 14 (48.5) (46.5)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 29.7 15.7
Purchase of intangible assets 13 (13.4) (22.7)
Interest received – 0.1
Dividends received from associates/joint ventures 15 11.0 2.5
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities (8.6) (16.2)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from borrowings 390.0 –
Repayments of borrowings (340.0) (7.7)
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 (18.0) (11.2)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – (1.0)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities 32.0 (19.9)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 10.5 (28.3)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at start of year 29 67.7 98.5
Effects of exchange rate changes 29 (4.2) (2.5)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 20 74.0 67.7
Note
a) The notes on pages 66 to 119 form part of these financial statements.
for the year ended 30 April 2014
GROUP CASH FLOW ST A TEMENT 66   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
1 Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. 
These policies have been consistently applied in the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The principal entities included in the consolidated financial statement are shown in note 37 . The financial information set out 
on pages 61 to 119 comprises the consolidated financial statements of Darty plc for the year ended 30 April 2014 prepared in 
accordance with the accounting policies set out below. Darty plc (the Company) is incorporated in Great Britain and registered 
in England and Wales. Its registered office is 22-24 Ely Place, London EC1N 6TE.
Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) interpretations as adopted by the 
European Union (EU) and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The 
consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of 
foreign currency swaps, forward foreign currency contracts, available for sale financial assets, financial assets and financial 
liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or loss and also on a going concern basis.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It 
also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies. The areas 
involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the 
financial statements, are disclosed in this note.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint 
ventures and associated undertakings. All significant consolidated subsidiary companies have a 30 April accounting year end.
Consolidation
a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all operations over which the Group has the power to control the financial and operating policies generally 
accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. The existence and effect of potential voting rights 
that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity. 
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from 
the date that control ceases. 
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations. The cost of an acquisition is 
measured as the fair value of the settlement including assets, equity instruments and liabilities incurred or assumed at the 
date of exchange. Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent 
liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of 
the extent of any non-controlling interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the 
identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of 
the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement. The Group recognises any non-
controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquistion basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s 
proportionate share of the recognised amounts of acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group. For purchases 
from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying 
value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also 
recorded in equity.
Inter-company transactions including income, expenses, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group 
companies are eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of 
the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the 
policies adopted by the Group.
b) Associates and joint ventures
Associates are all operations over which the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control. Joint 
ventures are all operations over which the Group exercises joint control with partners.   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   67
1 Accounting policies continued
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method. Under the equity method, the 
investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investor’s share 
of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition. The Group’s investment in associates and joint ventures 
includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition.
The Group’s share of its associate’s and joint venture’s post acquisition profits or losses are recognised in the income statement, 
its share of post acquisition valuation movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment and its share  
of post acquisition movements in reserves are recognised in reserves. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate or  
a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the 
Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate  
or joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the 
Group’s interest in the associates and joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of associates and joint ventures have been changed 
where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Foreign currency translation
a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s undertakings are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the undertaking operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated financial 
statements are presented in euros, which is the majority of the subsidiaries’ functional currency and the Group’s 
presentational currency.
b) Transaction and balances 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of 
the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented in 
the income statement within finance income or costs. All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the income 
statement within operating profit, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net 
investment hedges.
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in foreign currency classified as available for sale are analysed 
between translation differences resulting from changes in the amortised cost of the security, and other changes in the 
carrying amount of the security. Translation differences are recognised in profit or loss, and other changes in carrying amount 
are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss 
are recognised in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss. Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets 
such as equities classified as available for sale are included in the fair value reserve in other comprehensive income.
c) Group companies
The results and financial position of all the Group operations that have a functional currency different from the presentation 
currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
i) Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
ii) Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates; and
iii) Resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity. 
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and of 
borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments are taken to equity. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
When a foreign operation is sold, exchange differences are recycled to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale. 68   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
1 Accounting policies continued
Use of adjusted measures
Darty plc believes that retail profit, adjusted profit before tax, earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and 
amortisation (“EBITDA”) and adjusted earnings per share provide additional useful information on underlying trends and 
business performance to shareholders. Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and 
associates’ interest and taxation, movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests, gain on disposal  
of available for sale investments, profit on disposal of business operations and exceptional items. Adjusted profit before tax 
represents retail profit less finance costs excluding net interest on pension schemes.
A reconciliation from retail profit to GAAP measurement of profit is provided in the Group Income statement. A reconciliation 
from EBITDA to GAAP measurement of profit is provided in note 4. A reconciliation of adjusted earnings per share to basic 
earnings per share is provided in note 9, “Earnings per share”. These measures are used by the Group for internal 
performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees. The terms retail profit and EBITDA are not 
defined by IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies.  
They are not intended to be a substitute for , or superior to, GAAP measurements of profit.
Exceptional items
The Group defines exceptional items as those non-recurring items which by their nature or size would distort the 
comparability of the Group’s result from year to year . Exceptional costs mainly relate to costs associated with a material 
restructuring, i.e. termination payments, onerous lease charges, asset impairments and other write-offs.
Segmental information
The Group bases its internal reporting systems on certain reportable segments. These segments are used by the chief 
operating decision-maker , identified as the Group Chief Executive, for assessing performance and allocating resources.
The reportable segments are as follows:
• 
France (Darty and Mistergooddeal)
• 
Belgium and the Netherlands (Vanden Borre and BCC)
• 
Other businesses: Czech Republic and Slovakia (Datart)
Sales between segments are carried out at arm’s length.
Intangible assets
a) Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of consideration over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable 
assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities and fair value of non-controlling interests of the acquired subsidiary or associate at the 
date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of 
associates is included in the carrying value of investments in associates and is tested for impairment as part of the overall 
balance. Separately recognised goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate a potential impairment and carried at cost less impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are 
not reversed. Gains and losses on the disposal of an operation include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the 
operation sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (“CGUs”) for the purpose of impairment testing. Each of those CGUs represents 
a separate autonomous unit within the Group, where the management of the unit has independent control and responsibility 
for managing the cash flow of that unit. In practice these are deemed to be each retail chain of stores acquired.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   69
1 Accounting policies continued
b) Other intangible assets
Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
i) Software
Software costs are costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products 
controlled by the Group. Where it is probable that they will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year , they 
are recognised as intangible assets. Costs that do not meet the recognition criteria are expensed as incurred. Development 
costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the 
Group are recognised as intangible assets when the following criteria are met. 
• 
It is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it will be available for use;
• 
Management intends to complete the software product and use or sell it;
• 
There is an ability to use or sell the software product;
• 
It can be demonstrated how the software product will generate probable future economic benefits;
• 
Adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the software product 
are available; and
• 
The expenditure attributable to the software product during its development can be reliably measured.
Direct costs include the software development, employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads. Acquired 
computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific 
software. These costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives (two to five years).
ii) Leasehold rights 
Amounts paid in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises or a right to trade from a site are recognised as intangible 
assets. The value in use of these items is calculated using growth rates and discount factors considered appropriate for the 
relevant CGUs. These costs are amortised to their residual value (value in use) over their estimated useful lives (15 to 20 years) 
on a straight-line basis. If the value in use calculated is greater than carrying value no amortisation charge is recognised.
Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings comprise mainly retail outlets, warehouses and offices. Fixtures, fittings and equipment comprise tenants’ 
fixtures and improvements, computers and electronic equipment and motor cars and commercial vehicles. All property, plant 
and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Historical cost includes expenditure 
that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Assets in the course of construction represent the cost of purchasing, constructing and installing property, plant and 
equipment ahead of their productive use. They are not depreciated until they are brought into use and transferred to an 
appropriate and permanent category of property, plant and equipment on completion of construction, unless there are 
circumstances indicating an impairment of the asset, where provision is made immediately. 
Subsequent costs are included in an asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate. These costs 
are included in the carrying amounts only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with an asset will flow 
to the Group, the cost of the asset can be measured reliably, the asset’s useful life exceeds one full accounting period and 
costs exceed €1,000 (or equivalent). All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the 
financial period in which they are incurred. 70   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
1 Accounting policies continued
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less 
estimated residual value over their estimated useful lives. The depreciation periods of the principal categories are as follows:
Freehold buildings   20 years to residual value 
Long leasehold buildings   20 years or remaining lease term if shorter 
Short leasehold buildings   over the remaining period of the lease 
Tenants’ fixtures and improvements  between five and 20 years 
Computers and electronic equipment  between two and four years 
Motor cars and commercial vehicles  between two and five years
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. An asset’s 
carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its 
estimated recoverable amount. When properties are sold the difference between the sale proceeds and net book value is 
recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for 
impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, or that the asset’s use may not generate an 
economic benefit greater than their carrying value. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s 
carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to 
sell and value in use. 
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are Grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable 
cash flows (as CGUs). For property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, other than goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be 
each trading store. The discount rate applied is based upon the Group’s weighted average cost of capital with appropriate 
adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
Any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it occurs. Non-financial assets other than 
goodwill that have suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.  
Where an impairment loss, other than an impairment loss on goodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change in the original 
estimate, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount.
Financial instruments
Financial assets
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, 
and available for sale. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management 
determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss held for trading: a financial asset is classified in this category if acquired 
principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are categorised as held for trading unless they are 
designated as hedges and the hedge is effective for accounting purposes. Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition: these include financial assets that 
are not held for trading purposes, which may be sold, managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis in 
accordance with the Company’s investment and risk strategy.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets through the income 
statement are included in finance costs/income in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
b) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. These 
are classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise “trade and other receivables” and “cash and 
cash equivalents” in the balance sheet. They are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   71
1 Accounting policies continued
c) Available for sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any  
of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment 
within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of 
financial assets is impaired. 
Financial liabilities
a) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss held for trading: a financial liability is classified in this category if 
acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless 
they are designated as hedges, and the hedge is effective for accounting purposes. Liabilities in this category are classified  
as current liabilities.
Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition: these include financial liabilities 
that are not held for trading purposes, which may be sold, are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair basis in 
accordance with the Company’s investment and risk strategy.
b) Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of attributable transaction costs. Subsequent 
to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption 
value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at their fair value at each balance sheet date. All derivatives are categorised as investments held for trading (a 
sub-category of financial assets at fair value through the income statement) unless they are designated as cash flow hedges. 
As such they are valued at each balance sheet date and variances in value are charged in full to the income statement. 
Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are tested for their hedge effectiveness on a periodic basis. Should these 
derivatives fail the requirements of this test they are immediately reclassified as investments held for trading and treated 
accordingly. To the extent that these derivatives are demonstrated to be an effective hedge, movements in value are 
accumulated in equity reserves (net of deferred tax) and are recycled against the benefit or charge made to the income 
statement when the hedged transaction is settled. To the extent that these derivatives are ineffective as a hedge, any variance 
in value is charged directly to the income statement.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction outline the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged 
items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also 
documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in 
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets (such as publicly traded derivatives and available for sale 
securities) is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. The quoted market price used for financial assets held 
by the Group is the current bid price; the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example over the counter derivatives) is 
determined using valuation techniques. The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on 
market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the weighted average method. 
The value of inventory includes the purchase price and transport costs to warehouses and retail stores including applicable 
trade discounts, rebates and other subsidies. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course 
of business, less costs estimated to realise the sale of relevant inventory. Provisions have been made, if necessary, for slow 
moving, obsolete and defective inventories. 72   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
1 Accounting policies continued
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. 
When a trade receivable is uncollectible it is written off to the income statement. Subsequent recoveries of amounts 
previously written off are credited against “selling expenses” in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments 
with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts for which a right of set off exists. Bank overdrafts are 
shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet, but included within cash and cash equivalents for the 
purpose of the cash flow statement.
Share capital
The Group only has one class of shares, ordinary shares, which are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the 
proceeds. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options, or for the acquisition of a business,  
are included in the cost of acquisition as part of the purchase consideration.
Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method where appropriate. Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the 
ordinary course of business from suppliers. They are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within 12 months  
of the balance sheet date.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at 
amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the 
income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. For liabilities at amortised cost, the 
carrying value approximates to fair value as the impact of discounting using market interest rates at the end of the reporting 
period is insignificant.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability 
for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Current and deferred income tax
Current income tax is the expected income tax payable on the taxable income for the year . The current income tax charge is 
calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the 
Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax 
returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where 
appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of 
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred income tax is provided on 
temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except for deferred income tax liability where the 
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor 
taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax 
liability is settled. Recognition of deferred income tax assets takes into account IAS 12 recognition criteria using the Group’s 
judgement on the probability of future taxable profits being available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   73
1 Accounting policies continued
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the 
same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the 
balances on a net basis.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, 
respectively.
Employee benefits
a) Retirement benefits
The Group operates retirement benefit arrangements most notably in the UK and France, which are supplemental to 
contributions paid to mandatory state funded schemes. Company sponsored schemes are generally funded through payments 
to insurance companies or trustee administered funds, as determined by periodic actuarial calculations or local legislation. 
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is a retirement benefit under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The 
Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay  
all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a retirement 
benefit that is not a defined contribution plan. Typically, defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an 
employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary.
For defined benefit plans the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at 
the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent 
actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in 
the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related 
retirement benefit liability.
Remeasurements arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately  
in the statement of comprehensive income. Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.  
Scheme expenses relating to the legacy UK pension scheme have been charged to the income statement as part of the  
net interest cost.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on 
a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been 
paid. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised 
as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
b) Share based compensation
The Group operates equity settled, share based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in 
exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is 
determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions 
(for example, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the 
number of options that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of 
options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income 
statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
c) Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable if employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee 
accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is 
demonstrably committed either to terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan, 
without possibility of withdrawal, or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary 
redundancy. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value. 74   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
1 Accounting policies continued
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more 
likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are measured at the present 
value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage 
of time is recognised as interest expense. Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
If the Group has a contract that is onerous the present obligation under the contract is recognised and measured as a 
provision. The provision is the lower of the cost of exiting the contract and the cost of fulfilling the obligation.
A warranty provision estimates the future costs of warranty repairs that will be carried out on products already sold. This 
provision looks forward to periods over which the warranties will expire, and is calculated on a consistent basis year on year .
Restructuring provisions, comprising lease termination penalties and employee termination payments, are only recognised 
when plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been 
undertaken on or before the balance sheet date. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
A provision is recognised when there is a present constructive obligation to meet the costs of restructure. This arises when 
there is a detailed formal plan for the restructuring, identifying at least the business or part of the business concerned, 
principal locations affected and the location, function and approximate number of employees to be compensated for 
terminating their services.
Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services, net of value 
added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic 
benefits will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Group’s activities as described below. 
The amount of revenue is not considered to be reliably measurable until all contingencies relating to the sale have been 
resolved. The Group bases its estimates on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer , the type of 
transaction and the specifics of each arrangement.
Revenues from sales of goods are recognised at the point of sale of a product to the customer or upon delivery to the 
customer , whichever is later . Retail sales are usually settled in cash or by credit or payment card.
Certain companies within the Group sell products with a right of return. Accumulated experience is used to estimate and 
provide for the value of such returns at the time of sale.
A franchisee will pay Darty an upfront fee to establish the necessary links (which are mainly IT related) to the Darty 
infrastructure. These fees are accounted for when the store opens. On an ongoing basis, the franchisee will pay a licence fee 
for the use of the brand which is accrued as the rights are used. In addition, the franchisee will purchase inventories and 
compensate Darty for related logistics costs and after-sales service cover for each product sale. Inventory sales are 
recognised when the title passes net of the anticipated cost of services for each product sold.
Revenues from services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference to 
completion of the specific transaction assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total 
services to be provided. Royalty and franchise revenue is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance  
of the relevant agreements.
The Group sells extended warranty and service contracts. Where the Group has responsibility for fulfilling obligations under 
these contracts, the Group recognises the corresponding revenue over the period for which cover is provided, excluding any 
free period of manufacturer’s warranty. Direct costs associated with the sale of the warranty are also deferred and charged 
over the period for which the cover is provided.   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   75
1 Accounting policies continued
Where the Group sells an extended warranty or service contract and a third-party insurance company has responsibility for 
contractual obligations, commission revenue for the insured warranty contract is recognised at the time of sale. Where part of 
the obligation under these contracts is re-insured by the Group, the revenue relating to the re-insurance is recognised over 
the period for which re-insurance is provided, excluding any period of manufacturer’s warranty.
If an extended warranty is sold by a franchisee, Darty will provide all after-sales support and so bear the risk and reward 
relating to that warranty. As with other extended warranty sales, the corresponding revenue and the direct extended warranty 
selling cost (i.e. the franchisee commission) is spread over the period of risk.
Finance income and costs
Finance income and costs are recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as 
operating leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any financial incentives received from the lessor) are charged 
to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the full period of the lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into a lease are deferred and spread on a straight-line basis over the 
life of the lease unless another systematic basis is representative of the time pattern of the lessee’s benefit from the use of 
the leased asset.
Lease premiums payable are recorded as a prepayment in the balance sheet and amortised on a straight-line basis over the 
life of the lease unless another systematic basis is representative of the time pattern of the lessee’s benefit from the use of 
the leased asset.
Charges made in respect of operating leases of property are adjusted from time to time to reflect the impact of market rent 
reviews. In particular , in France, Belgium and Holland, there is an annual indexation linked to local price inflation. This is agreed 
annually and costs are adjusted when agreed and accrued from that date.
Dividends
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is certain.
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the 
period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised in the period 
they are paid.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Assets and businesses are classified as held for sale, and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to 
sell, if their carrying amount will be recovered or settled principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing 
use. A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of business that 
has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Effect of new standards, amendments and interpretations
a) New and amended standards adopted by the Group
The following standards have been adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after  
1 May 2013 and have a material impact on the Group:
– Amendment to IAS 1, “Financial statement presentation” regarding other comprehensive income. The main change resulting 
from these amendments is a requirement for entities to Group items presented in “other comprehensive income” (OCI) on the 
basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently (reclassification adjustments).
– IAS 19, “Employee benefits” was revised in June 2011. The changes in the Group’s accounting policies have been as follows:  
to immediately recognise all past service costs; and to replace interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net 
interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability. See note 32 for the impact 
on the financial statements. 76   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
1 Accounting policies continued
– IFRS 13, “Fair value measurement”, aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of 
fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs. The requirements, 
which are largely aligned between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on 
how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards within IFRSs.
b) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning 
after 1 May 2013, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these are expected 
to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use  
of certain critical estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the 
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may ultimately differ 
from those estimates.
a) Estimated impairment of assets
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in 
this note. In addition, other asset impairment reviews are carried out whenever performance or changes in circumstances 
indicate that an impairment may be required. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units (CGU) have been determined 
based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates which include cash flow forecasts for each 
CGU and discount rates based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks 
associated with the relevant business. Please refer to the intangible assets note and the property, plant and equipment note 
for details of the key assumptions used in these impairment reviews.
b) Retirement benefits
The Group operates retirement benefit arrangements most notably in the UK and France. Any net deficit or surplus arising on 
defined benefit plans is shown on the balance sheet. The amount recorded is the difference between plan assets and liabilities 
at the balance sheet date. Plan assets are based on market value at that date. Plan liabilities are based on actuarial estimates 
of the present value of future pension or other benefits that will be payable to members. The most sensitive assumptions 
involved in calculating the expected liabilities are mortality rates, price inflation and the discount rate used to calculate the 
present value of the liabilities. The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate 
over the rate of inflation.
c) Taxation
Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes. There are a number of complex tax 
transactions which result in tax exposures across the Group. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based 
on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the 
amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period  
in which such determination is made.
d) Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of average cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct purchase cost and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition, both types of cost being 
measured using a weighted average cost formula. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less costs estimated to realise the sale of relevant stock. Net realisable value includes, where necessary, 
provisions for slow moving and damaged inventory. The provision represents the difference between the cost of stock and its 
estimated net realisable value, based on ageing. Calculation of these provisions requires judgements to be made which include 
forecast consumer demand, the promotional, competitive and economic environment and inventory loss trends.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   77
1 Accounting policies continued
Principal rates of exchange
GBP Czech krown Turkish lira
Average rate – year ended 30 April 2014 0.8414 26.5792 2.7506
Closing rate – 30 April 2014 0.8219 27.4550 2.9295
Average rate – year ended 30 April 2013 0.8177 25.3412 2.3139
Closing rate – 30 April 2013 0.8477 25.7865 2.3604
Average rate – year ended 30 April 2012 0.8581 24.8029 2.3987
Closing rate – 30 April 2012 0.8150 24.9830 2.3338
2 Financial risk management
Treasury policy
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed. The Board establishes the Group’s financial 
policies and the Chief Executive Officer establishes objectives in line with these policies. The Treasury Committee, under the 
supervision of the Finance Director , is then responsible for setting financial strategies, which are executed by the Central and 
Operating Company Treasury teams. Approved treasury policy defines and classifies risks and also determines, by category of 
transaction, specific approval, limit and monitoring procedures.
In the course of its business the Group is exposed to financial market risks, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Foreign exchange risk arises from a proportion of commercial transactions undertaken in currencies other than the functional 
currency, from financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency and on the 
Group’s investments in foreign operations.
Management has set up a policy to require Group companies to manage their foreign exchange risk against their functional 
currency. To manage their foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and 
liabilities, entities in the Group use forward and foreign exchange swap contracts, transacted through Group treasury. Foreign 
exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency 
that is not the entity’s functional currency. Foreign currency swaps are held for trading. Underlying assets or liabilities are 
held for all currency swaps that the Group entered into.
Financial market risks are essentially caused by exposures to foreign currencies and interest rates. Foreign exchange risk 
arises because affiliated companies sometimes undertake transactions in foreign currencies such as the purchase of products. 
Translation exposure arises from the consolidation of the Group financial statements into euros. Cash flow and fair value 
interest rate risk comprises the fair value interest rate risk that results from borrowing at fixed rates and the cash flow 
interest rate risk that results from borrowing at variable rates.
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its obligations. The Group is exposed to credit risks on financial 
instruments such as liquid assets, derivative assets and its trade receivable portfolios. Credit risk is managed by investing in 
liquid assets and acquiring derivatives with high credit quality financial institutions in accordance with the Group’s treasury 
policy. The Group is not exposed to concentrations of credit risk on its liquid assets as these are spread over several financial 
institutions. The Group does not expect any refinancing issues as current loan agreements expire. Concentrations of credit 
risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base being large and unrelated. Due to this, the 
Directors believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the provision for impairment of receivables.
Subsidiary companies lend their excess cash at bank to Group finance companies to be invested centrally. The Treasury 
Committee reviews and decides the currency and interest rate framework of the Group’s intragroup loans portfolio on a 
regular basis.
Group treasury manages liquidity and exposure to funding, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks. It uses a combination 
of derivative and conventional financial instruments to manage these underlying financial risks. Treasury operations are 
conducted within a framework of Board-approved policies and guidelines which are recommended and monitored by the 
Treasury Committee. These guidelines include bank exposure limits and hedge cover levels for each of the key areas of 
treasury risk. The Board and Treasury Committee receive regular reports of the activities of Group treasury. 78   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
2 Financial risk management continued
Capital management
The principal sources of capital to fund the Group’s operations are equity, a non-convertible bond, bank borrowings and 
operating leases on properties. Group policy is to borrow centrally to meet funding requirements; funds are then lent or 
contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return 
capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
In considering the balance of sources of finance, the Group seeks to maintain financing from equity, debt and property leases 
relative to earnings and cash flows at levels consistent, over time, with similar companies in the industry.
Market risk
1) Foreign exchange risk
The Group publishes its financial statements in euros and conducts business in several foreign currencies. It is therefore 
subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange movements affecting the Group’s transaction costs and the 
translation of results and underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The Group hedges a substantial proportion of its exposure to fluctuations on the translation into euros of its foreign currency 
net assets by minimising the net assets held in non-euro currencies. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net 
assets held in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
The Group adopts a centralised approach to foreign exchange risk management. Permission of Group treasury is required 
before a foreign exchange transaction may be undertaken. Any foreign exchange transaction must be demonstrably linked  
to an underlying exposure and the hedge is monitored through the life of the transaction to ensure it remains effective  
and appropriate.
Treasury policy requires that all transactional foreign exchange risk relating to committed transactions must be hedged.  
The gain or loss on the hedge is recognised at the same time as the underlying transaction.
2) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
If interest rates on euro-denominated borrowings had been 10 basis points higher during the year with all other variables  
held constant, finance costs to 30 April 2014 would have been €0.3m (30 April 2013: €0.3m) higher . If interest rates on euro-
denominated borrowings had been 100 basis points higher during the year with all other variables held constant, finance costs 
to 30 April 2014 would have been €2.9m (30 April 2013: €3.0m) higher .
Credit risk
Interest rate swap, foreign exchange and deposit transactions are only entered into with counterparties with a short-term 
credit rating of A1 or better . Group treasury monitors the credit exposure of the Group to its counterparties and the credit 
ratings of those counterparties on a monthly basis.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. Exposures are managed through Group treasury policy 
which limits the value that can be placed with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss. The maximum credit 
risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through 
an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. The Group maintains committed 
bank facilities of sufficient maturity to ensure that it has sufficient available funds for operations and planned expenditure.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   79
2 Financial risk management continued
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities and net settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity 
groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed  
in the table are the contractual principal repayments. Balances equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting  
is not significant.
2014
Within  
one year  
€m
Between one 
and two years  
€m
Between two 
and five years  
€m
Over  
five years  
€m
Trade and other payables 771.4 2.0 – 0.4
Borrowings 1.5 – 15.6 243.6
2013
Within  
one year  
€m
Between one 
and two years  
€m
Between two 
and five years  
€m
Over  
five years  
€m
Trade and other payables 762.8 2.1 –  – 
Borrowings 0.3 – 218.3 – 
The table below analyses the Group’s derivative financial instruments, which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant 
maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date. The amounts 
disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying 
balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
2014
Within  
one year  
€m
Between one 
and two years  
€m
Between two 
and five years  
€m
Over  
five years  
€m
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges 
Outflow (26.7) –  –  – 
Inflow 26.5 – –  – 
Foreign currency swap – held for trading
Outflow (2.7) –  –  – 
Inflow 2.4 – –  – 
2013
Within  
one year  
€m
Between one 
and two years  
€m
Between two 
and five years  
€m
Over  
five years  
€m
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges 
Outflow (20.1) – – –
Inflow 19.9 – – –
Foreign currency swap – held for trading
Outflow (4.0) – – –
Inflow 3.9 – – –
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year . Interest on financial 
instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
The Group has given certain covenants to lenders in connection with its bank loans. The covenants are of a financial nature 
and relate mainly to maintaining a certain level of net debt and interest cover compared to earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation and maintaining a ratio of earnings before depreciation and rent to rent and interest.  
During the year ending 30 April 2014, the Group is in compliance with its covenants. 80   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
2 Financial risk management continued
Fair value estimation
Financial instruments are measured in the balance sheet at fair value, this requires disclosure of fair value measurements by 
level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:
• 
Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).
• 
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, 
as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).
• 
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.  
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer , broker , industry 
group, pricing service or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions  
on an arm’s length basis. The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price. These 
instruments are included in level 1. Equity instruments included in level 1 comprised primarily the Group’s holding in Go Sport 
S.A. (sports leisurewear and equipment retailer), a company listed and registered in France which is classified as available for 
sale. During the year the Group disposed of its holdings in Go Sport S.A.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over the counter derivatives) is 
determined by using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is 
available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument 
are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include:
• 
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments (level 1),
• 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on 
observable yield curves (level 2), 
• 
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet 
date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value (level 2), and 
• 
Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial 
instruments (level 3).
Options over shares in Group undertakings — at fair value through profit and loss
Put and call options that were held by Darty plc over the non-controlling share capital of Kesa Turkey Limited and Datart 
Investments S.A. were recognised at fair value through profit and loss, in accordance with IAS 39.
During the prior year , Darty plc entered into a revised shareholder agreement with the owners of the non-controlling interest 
in Datart Investments S.A. This removed the put and call option over the non-controlling share capital of Datart Investments 
S.A. The liability in respect of this was therefore released in the Darty plc financial statements.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   81
2 Financial risk management continued
The net income statement benefit relating to options over non-controlling interests is shown in the table below:
There were no level 3 financial instruments in the current year , the following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments 
in the prior year:
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Opening balance – (11.5)
Put and call option valuation gains – recognised in the income statement – 1.6
Cancellation of put and call option – recognised in the income statement – 9.9
Closing balance – –
Gains in options over non-controlling interests – 11.5
These fair values were determined using discounted cash flow analysis. The carrying value of the liabilities was held in trade 
and other payables.    
In Turkey, the existing option entered into in September 2009 contained a minimum price for the non-controlling shareholding 
and accordingly this minimum price had been spread evenly up to the contracted exercise date in December 2015. As a result 
of the disposal of Darty Turkey, the liability has crystallised and was fully accrued at 30 April 2014. 
The net income statement benefit relating to options over non-controlling interests is shown in the table below:  
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Gains in options over non-controlling interests – 11.5
Put and call option long-term incentive charge – recognised in the income statement (3.2) (1.8)
Movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests (3.2) 9.7
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 30 April 2014  
2014
Level 1  
€m
Level 2  
€m
Level 3  
€m
Total  
€m
Forward foreign currency contracts – cash flow hedges – (0.3) – (0.3)
Total assets/(liabilities) – (0.3) – (0.3)
2013
Level 1  
€m
Level 2  
€m
Level 3  
€m
Total  
€m
Forward foreign currency contracts – cash flow hedges – – – –
Trade liabilities – – – – 82   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
2 Financial risk management continued
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
The following financial assets are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements. 
2014
Gross amounts
of recognised
financial 
assets
€m
Gross amounts
of financial 
liabilities set off 
in the balance 
sheet
€m
Net amounts
of financial 
assets 
presented in 
the balance 
sheet
€m
Cash at bank and in hand 4.3 (4.3) – 
Trade receivables 43.9 (42.4) 1.5
48.2 (46.7) 1.5
2013
Cash at bank and in hand 1.0 (1.0) – 
Trade receivables 40.0 (33.5) 6.5
41.0 (34.5) 6.5
The following financial liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements.
2014
Gross amounts
of recognised
financial 
liabilities
€m
Gross amounts
of financial 
assets set off in 
the balance 
sheet
€m
Net amounts
of financial 
liabilities 
presented in 
the balance 
sheet
€m
Bank overdrafts 4.3 (4.3) – 
Trade payables 225.0 (42.4) 182.6
229.3 (46.7) 182.6
2013
Bank overdrafts 1.0 (1.0) – 
Trade payables 200.7 (33.5) 167.2
201.7 (34.5) 167.2
     DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   83
3 Continuing Group operating profit
2014
  
€m
2013 
restated
€m
Analysis by function:
Revenue 3,579.4 3,558.9
Cost of sales (2,404.7) (2,368.6)
Distribution costs (169.3) (173.3)
Selling expenses (780.5) (782.1)
Administrative expenses (159.2) (178.6)
Other income 4.5 5.2
Movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests (3.2) 9.7
Gain on disposal of available for sale investments 2.7 – 
Exceptional items (29.4) (64.3)
Profit on disposal of business operation (note 12) – 7.4
Group operating profit 40.3 14.3
Share of post tax profit in joint venture and associates 2.4 3.8
Total operating profit 42.7 18.1
Group total revenue includes revenue from services in the year ended 30 April 2014 of €246.2m (2013: €27 4.8m). Such 
revenues predominantly comprise those relating to customer support agreements, delivery and installation, product repairs, 
product support and subscription based services such as, in the prior year , Darty Telecom. This figure also includes royalties 
received totalling €9.7m (2013: €2.0m)
The new commercial agreement for Darty Telecom completed on 24 July 2012, from which date subscription based revenues 
were replaced with new revenues determined on a cost plus based customer service agreement and brand royalty income.  
All such revenues have been included within service revenue.
The gain on disposal of available for sale investment arose from the sale of Go Sport S.A. (note 2).
Other income is from the sub-leasing of property.
4 Segmental analysis
The Group bases its internal reporting systems on certain reportable segments. These segments are used by the chief 
operating decision-maker , identified as the Chief Executive, for assessing performance and allocating resources.
The reportable segments, all of which derive their revenue primarily from the retail of electrical goods, are as follows:
• 
France (Darty and Mistergooddeal)
• 
Belgium and the Netherlands (Vanden Borre and BCC)
• 
Other businesses: Czech Republic and Slovakia (Datart)
On 1 March 2013, the sale of the Group’s Italian operations was completed, with an effective date of 28 February 2013.  
In accordance with IFRS 5 the business was treated as a discontinued operation in the 30 April 2013 Annual report and the 
results of Darty Italy were excluded from the results of the Continuing Group.
Darty Spain was classified as a discontinued operation on 30 June 2013, following the closure of its stores, and its results have 
been excluded from the Continuing Group.
Darty Turkey was classified as a discontinued operation on 22 January 2014, following the signature of a sale and purchase 
agreement with Bimeks, an electrical retailer in Turkey. Its results have been excluded from the Continuing Group. 84   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
4 Segmental analysis continued 
Unallocated costs comprise head office costs in the UK and France.
Sales between segments are carried out at arm’s length. There is no material difference between revenue by origin and 
destination.
2014
  
France  
€m 
Belgium  
and the 
Netherlands  
€m
Other 
businesses  
€m
Unallocated  
€m
Continuing 
Group  
€m
Revenue 2,717.7 686.7 175.0 – 3,579.4
EBITDA* 112.6 14.5 2.0 (9.4) 119.7
Depreciation and amortisation (44.8) (5.3) (3.0) (1.4) (54.5)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets including write-offs 8.3 0.1 – (0.2) 8.2
Retail profit/(loss) 76.1 9.3 (1.0) (11.0) 73.4
Share of joint venture and associates’ interest and taxation (0.8) –  – – (0.8)
Movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests –  –  – (3.2) (3.2)
Gain on disposal of available for sale investments 2.7 –  – – 2.7
Exceptional loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment including 
write-offs (3.6) – – – (3.6)
Exceptional items (22.4) (3.1) – (0.3) (25.8)
Operating profit/(loss) 52.0 6.2 (1.0) (14.5) 42.7
Finance costs (17.4)
Finance costs – net (17.4)
Profit before income tax 25.3
Income tax expense (15.8)
Profit for the year 9.5
* EBITDA is defined as retail profit before depreciation and amortisation and profit/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including write-offs
The share of operating profits of the joint venture and associates included within the retail profit for France is €3.2m.  
The share of post tax profits of the joint venture and associates included within the operating profit of France is €2.4m.
EBITDA is net of impairment charges totalling €3.1m split by segment as follows: France €3.0m, Other businesses €0.1m.
  
France  
€m 
Belgium  
and the 
Netherlands  
€m
Other 
businesses  
€m
Unallocated  
€m
Continuing 
Group  
€m
Segmental total assets 937.5 167.7 42.3 69.1 1,216.6
Segmental liabilities (956.0) (122.5) (35.5) (420.5) (1,534.5)
Segmental capital expenditure 49.8 8.7 1.5 – 60.0
Segmental property lease rental costs 61.6 24.2 7.4 3.0 96.2
Investments in equity accounted joint venture and associates of €15.3m are included within the segment assets of France.
Segment assets include available for sale and equity accounted investments, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible 
assets, inventories, receivables, other current assets and cash that is not held centrally. Unallocated assets include centrally 
held cash and other liquid assets and financial assets, as well as interest and tax related prepaid expenses and accrued income.
Segment liabilities include operating liabilities such as accounts payable, overdrafts that are not held centrally, prepaid income, 
accrued expenses and provisions, excluding those relating to interest and taxes that are held centrally. Unallocated liabilities 
include loan and finance lease liabilities as well as interest and tax related prepaid income, accrued expenses and provisions.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   85
4 Segmental analysis continued
2013 restated
(a)
  
France  
€m 
Belgium  
and the 
Netherlands  
€m
Other 
businesses  
€m
Unallocated  
€m
Continuing 
Group  
€m
Revenue 2,686.8 688.6 183.5 – 3,558.9
EBITDA* 118.4 19.5 (0.2) (10.2) 127.5
Depreciation and amortisation (53.5) (12.0) (3.5) (1.8) (70.8)
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
including write-offs 9.3 –  –  – 9.3
Retail profit/(loss) 74.2 7.5 (3.7) (12.0) 66.0
Share of joint venture and associates’ interest and taxation (0.7) –  –  – (0.7)
Movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests –  –  – 9.7 9.7
Exceptional items (31.6) (23.3) – (9.4) (64.3)
Profit on disposal of business operation 7.4 –  –  – 7.4
Operating profit/(loss) 49.3 (15.8) (3.7) (11.7) 18.1
Finance costs (14.1)
Finance costs – net (14.1)
Profit before income tax 4.0
Income tax expense (3.7)
Profit for the year 0.3
a) Restated following the sale of the Spain and Turkey operations, now classified as discontinued operations, and the adoption of IAS 19 revised on retirement benefits.
* EBITDA is defined as retail profit before depreciation and amortisation and profit/(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including write-offs.
The share of operating profits of the joint venture and associates included within the retail profit for France is €4.5m.  
The share of post tax profits of the joint venture and associates included within the operating profit of France is €3.8m.
EBITDA is net of impairment charges totalling €4.1m all of which are included in the France segment.
  
France  
€m 
Belgium  
and the 
Netherlands  
€m
Other 
businesses  
€m
Unallocated  
€m
Continuing 
Group  
€m
Segmental total assets 865.3 168.9 47.9 106.4 1,188.5
Segmental liabilities (875.8) (126.2) (36.8) (373.8) (1,412.6)
Segmental capital expenditure 52.1 8.0 2.7 0.5 63.3
Segmental property lease rental costs 58.9 24.4 7.7 4.2 95.2
Investments in equity accounted joint venture and associates of €23.9m are included within the segment assets of France.
Segment assets include available for sale and equity accounted investments, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, 
intangible assets, inventories, receivables, other current assets and cash that is not held centrally. Unallocated assets include 
centrally held cash and other liquid assets and financial assets, as well as interest and tax related prepaid expenses and 
accrued income.
Segment liabilities include operating liabilities such as accounts payable, overdrafts that are not held centrally, prepaid 
income, accrued expenses and provisions, excluding those relating to interest and taxes that are held centrally. Unallocated 
liabilities include loan and finance lease liabilities as well as interest and tax related prepaid income, accrued expenses 
and provisions.   86   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
5 Continuing Group finance costs
2014
  
€m
2013
restated  
€m
Interest payable on borrowings 10.6 6.5
Loan commitment fees and the amortisation of loan and bond arrangement fees 2.5 3.0
Net interest on pension schemes 4.0 4.6
Foreign exchange losses 0.3 – 
Finance costs 17.4 14.1
Foreign exchange gains and losses arise on the retranslation of short-term deposits and loans denominated in a currency 
other than the operation’s functional currency.
6 Continuing Group (loss)/profit before income tax
Note
2014
  
€m
2013 
restated 
€m
Analysis of costs by nature
(Loss)/profit before income tax for Continuing Group is stated after the following charges/(credits):
Staff costs 30 606.4 614.0
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 45.4 49.9
Amortisation of intangibles 9.1 20.9
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 3.5 24.2
Reversal of impairment on property, plant and equipment (0.2) – 
Impairment of intangible assets – 22.7
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including write-offs (4.6) (9.3)
Operating lease rentals payable 106.2 105.6
Income from the sub-lease of property (4.5) (5.2)
Cost of inventories written off 29.4 15.0
Reversal of written off inventory (11.1) (6.2)
Impairment of trade receivables (included within selling expenses) 4.6 2.8
Cost of inventories recognised as expense and included in cost of sales 2,418.6 2,234.9
Foreign exchange gains (0.8) (0.6)
Services provided by the Company’s auditors and its associates
During the year the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Company’s auditors as 
detailed below:
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of parent company and consolidated 
financial statements 0.5 0.5
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services:
– The audit of Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.8 1.0
– Tax advisory services 0.1 0.1
– Other non-audit services 1.0 1.2
Total auditors’ remuneration 2.4 2.8
The other services relate mainly to the transaction services work supporting the disposal of non-core operations and the 
assurance work associated with the refinancing.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   87
7 Continuing Group income tax expense
2014
  
€m
2013
restated  
€m
Analysis of charge in year
UK corporation tax
Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.2 (0.3)
0.2 (0.3)
Foreign tax
Current tax on profits for the year 23.6 9.3
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.2) 0.3
23.4 9.6
Deferred tax (note 26)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (8.3) (6.5)
Change in tax rate (0.2) – 
Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.7 0.9
(7.8) (5.6)
Total income tax expense 15.8 3.7
Tax on items charged to equity:
Deferred income tax charge on cash flow hedges in reserves (0.1) –
Deferred income tax (credit) on actuarial gains/(losses) on retirement benefit obligations 1.1 (4.0)
Total tax on items (credited)/charged to equity 1.0 (4.0)
Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The tax for the year is higher (2013: higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax. The differences are explained below:
Profit on ordinary activities before income tax 25.3 4.0
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23% (2013: 24%) 5.8 1.0
Effects of:
Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 5.1 2.7
Adjustments in respect of joint venture and associates (0.6) (0.5)
Expenses not deductible/(not taxable) (0.2) 0.6
Other permanent differences (5.8) (9.2)
Exceptional items not deductible/(taxable) (0.2) 0.6
Losses not recognised as deferred tax asset (unrelieved tax losses) 11.2 7.6
Change in corporation tax rates (0.2) – 
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior years 0.7 0.9
Total income tax expense 15.8 3.7 88   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
7 Continuing Group income tax expense continued
Losses not recognised as a deferred tax asset for the current year principally include tax losses arising in BCC, Datart and UK 
head office companies (2013: BCC, Datart and UK head office companies).
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Profit before tax per Group income statement 25.3 4.0
Share of joint venture and associates taxation 0.8 0.7
Adjusted profit before tax 26.1 4.7
Non-retail profit items 33.9 51.8
Adjusted profit before tax on continuing operations 60.0 56.5
Income tax expense per Group income statement 15.8 3.7
Share of joint venture and associates’ taxation 0.8 0.7
Adjusted income tax expense 16.6 4.4
Tax on non retail profit items 10.5 13.1
Adjusted income tax expense on continuing operations 27.1 17.5
Adjusted effective tax rate 45.2 31.0
Non-retail profit items is the sum of total operating profit less retail profit excluding share of joint venture and associates’ 
taxation plus net interest on pensions.
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 23 per cent to 21 per cent with effect from 1 April 2014. Although 
the effective tax rate is 22.8 per cent the Company’s profits for this accounting period are taxed at 23 per cent as the 
difference between rates is not considered material, at €0.1m difference to adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates.  
A further 1 per cent decrease in the tax rate from 1 April 2015 to 20 per cent is expected. 
The effect of the changes announced in the Finance Act 2013 will have no impact on the Group’s deferred tax liability in the 
current year or in future years. This is due to management’s expectation that future UK taxable profits are unlikely, with a 
consequence that there are no deferred tax assets/liabilities recognised in the UK tax group at the balance sheet date.
Management have assessed the potential tax risks, which takes into account ongoing tax audits under way around the Group, 
and have made provision accordingly.
8 Dividends
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Final paid 2013: 2.625 cents (2012: 1.25 cents) per share 13.4 6.6
Interim paid 2014: 0.875 cents (2013: 0.875 cents) per share 4.6 4.6
18.0 11.2
An interim dividend of 0.875 cents was paid to the ordinary shareholders of the Company on 2 April 2014. In addition, the 
Board will also recommend, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the payment of a final dividend of 2.625 cents, 
payable on 3 October 2014, in relation to the year ending 30 April 2014.
The final dividend, once approved, will be paid to those persons on the Register of Members at the close of business  
on 10 September 2014.
% %  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   89
9 Earnings/(losses) per share
Basic losses per share is calculated by dividing the losses attributable to shareholders by 527 .5m shares (30 April 2013, 
527 .5m), being the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue.
There is no difference between diluted and basic losses per share because all incentive schemes are share awards and there 
are no dilutive share options. Supplementary adjusted earnings per share figures are presented. These exclude the effects of 
discontinued operations, movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests, gain on disposal of available 
for sale investments, exceptional items, profit on disposal of business operation, net interest on pension schemes and tax 
effects of exceptional items.
2014 2013 (restated)
(Losses)/
earnings  
€m
Per share 
amount  
cents
(Losses)/
earnings  
€m
Per share 
amount  
cents
Basic losses per share
Losses attributable to owners of the parent (3.7) (0.7) (104.7) (19.8)
Discontinued operations attributable to owners of the parent 13.8 2.7 103.4 19.5
Continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 10.1 2.0 (1.3) (0.3)
Adjustments
Movement in options and related charges over non-controlling interests 3.2 0.6 (9.7) (1.8)
Gain on disposal of available for sale investments (2.7) (0.5) – –
Exceptional items 29.4 5.5 64.3 12.2
Profit on disposal of business operation –  – (7.4) (1.4)
Net interest on pension schemes 4.0 0.8 4.6 0.9
Tax effect of exceptional items (10.5) (2.0) (12.5) (2.4)
Adjusted earnings per share 33.5 6.4 38.0 7.2
10 Discontinued operations
Darty Spain was classified as a discontinued operation on 30 June 2013, following the closure of its stores, and its results have 
been excluded from the Continuing Group.
Darty Turkey was classified as a discontinued operation on 22 January 2014, following the signature of a sale and purchase 
agreement with Bimeks, an electrical retailer in Turkey. Its results have been excluded from the Continuing Group. 
Cash flows from Darty Spain
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
Operating activities (41.0) (9.1)
Investing activites – (3.9)
Cash flows relating to performance of business (41.0) (13.0)
Darty Turkey was classified as a discontinued operation on 22 January 2014, following the signature of a sale and purchase 
agreement with Bimeks, an electrical retailer in Turkey.
Darty Turkey
2014 
€m
Net cash consideration 8.3
Less: Net assets disposed (4.7)
Net profit/(loss) on disposal 3.6 90   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
10 Discontinued operations continued
Cash flows from Darty Turkey
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
Operating activities (13.5) (2.3)
Investing activites (1.7) (1.3)
Cash flows relating to performance of business (15.2) (3.6)
Net cash consideration/(outflow) during the year 1.4 –
Total cash flow (13.8) (3.6)
Cash flows from investing activities relate to interest received and capital expenditure.
Results from Darty Italy, Darty Spain and Darty Turkey      
The results from Darty Italy, Darty Spain and Darty Turkey, classified as discontinued operations in the consolidated income 
statement, are derived below.      
2014
  
€m
2013
restated  
€m 
Revenue 101.6 327.1
Cost of sales (86.1) (258.6)
Distribution costs (2.5) (10.9)
Selling expenses (21.2) (78.0)
Administrative expenses (6.5) (19.6)
Exceptional costs (4.6) (57.6)
Finance costs (0.8) (0.7)
Finance income 0.1 0.1
Loss before income tax (20.0) (98.2)
Taxation relating to performance of business – 0.5
Loss after taxation relating to performance of business (20.0) (97.7)
Net profit/(loss) on disposal 3.6 (10.5)
Total loss for the year from discontinued operations (16.4) (108.2)
Staff costs included in the results from Darty Italy, Darty Spain and Darty Turkey were €8.3m (2013: €41.0m).
Following the closure of the Spanish operations, the closure costs particularly for lease exit costs proved to be lower than 
accrued resulting in a €2.9m exceptional credit. As part of the closure of its head office, in the year to 30 April 2014 Darty 
Turkey has incurred and accrued reorganisation costs totalling €5.9m. These costs mainly relate to termination payments  
of which the majority will be paid in 2014/15.     
Cash flows from Darty Italy, Darty Spain and Darty Turkey
2014 
€m
2013 
€m
Operating activities (61.3) (34.2)
Investing activites (1.7) (5.6)
Cash flows relating to performance of business (63.0) (39.8)
Net cash consideration/(outflow) during the year 2.6 (4.4)
Total cash flow (60.4) (44.2)  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   91
10 Discontinued operations continued
Discontinued operations in the prior year – Darty Italy
On 1 March 2013 the sale of the Group’s Italian operations was completed, with an effective date of 28 February 2013.  
In accordance with IFRS 5 the business was treated as a discontinued operation in the 30 April 2013 Annual report and  
the results of Darty Italy were excluded from the results of the Continuing Group.
€m
Cash consideration 4.3
Working capital and other adjustments relating to the transaction (2.5)
Darty Investment into DPS Group s.r.l., subsequently fully impaired (3.0)
Net cash consideration (1.2)
Less: net assets disposed (7.4)
Loss on disposal (8.6)
Transaction costs and other (1.9)
Net loss on disposal (10.5)
Cash flows from Darty Italy
2014  
€m
2013 
€m 
Operating activities (6.8) (22.8)
Investing activites – (0.4)
Cash flows relating to performance of business (6.8) (23.2)
Net cash consideration/(outflow) during the year 1.2 (4.4)
Total cash flow (5.6) (27.6)
11 Assets and liabilities held for sale
Assets of disposal group classified as held for sale 
2014  
€m
2013 
€m
2012  
€m
Property, plant and equipment – – 9.6
Trade and other receivables – – 40.9
Intangible assets – – 9.6
Cash and cash equivalents – – 0.1
Other current assets – – 0.1
Total – – 60.3
Liabilities of disposal group classified as held for sale
2014  
€m
2013 
€m
2012 
€m
Trade and other payables – – 34.6
Bank overdrafts – – 0.3
Total – – 34.9
The assets and liabilities held for sale relate to Darty Telecom, which was disposed in July 2012. 92   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
12 Exceptional items
2014
  
€m
2013
restated  
€m
Darty France
Impairment of intangible assets – (19.3)
Restructuring costs (26.0) (12.3)
(26.0) (31.6)
Belgium and the Netherlands
Impairment of intangible assets – (2.6)
Impairment of property, plant and equipment – (20.8)
Restructuring costs (3.1) 0.1
(3.1) (23.3)
Unallocated
Exceptional costs (0.3) (9.4)
(0.3) (9.4)
Exceptional items in operating loss (29.4) (64.3)
Tax effect of exceptional items 10.5 12.5
Exceptional loss for the period (18.9) (51.8)
Exceptional costs primarily relate to the reorganisation under way in France to simplify regional and back office structures 
across France and the Group totalling €26.0m. The costs mainly relate to termination costs (€16.5m) arising as a result of the 
reorganisation as well as onerous lease costs (€3.2m) and sundry other costs and asset write-offs (€6.3m).
In addition, there are €3.1m of reorganisation costs mainly arising in the Netherlands relating to termination costs (€2.1m),  
an onerous lease arising as a result of a logistics restructure (€0.8m) and other costs (€0.2m).
In addition, €0.3m of exceptional costs related to the strategic review were incurred in the head office.
The total (pre-tax) exceptional costs (€29.4m) can be split as follows: cost of sales (€nil), distribution costs (€0.9m), selling 
expenses (€0.9m) and administrative expenses (€27 .6m).
The cash outflow on exceptional items during the year (for the Continuing Group) was €23.4m (2013: €18.1m).
In the prior year , there were €19.2m of reorganisation costs associated with the programme to streamline costs across France 
and the Group (France €11.0m and Group – unallocated €8.2m). In addition, France incurred exceptional intangible asset 
impairments of €19.3m.
Given the performance and market outlook in the Netherlands, asset impairments totalling €23.4m were incurred in the prior 
year , offset by the reversal of an unused restructuring provision of €0.1m.
As a result of Comet going into administration, an exceptional cost of €2.1m was incurred in the prior year comprising a charge 
of €1.3m in France arising from a write-down of receivables and €0.8m in head office (unallocated) relating to other losses and 
costs. Finally, exceptional costs and fees totalling €0.4m were incurred last year relating to the strategic review.
In the prior year , Darty France entered into a new commercial agreement with Bouygues Telecom (“Bouygues”). As part of this 
agreement, Bouygues acquired 99.9 per cent of Darty Telecom for an enterprise value of €40.0m, subject to adjustments 
relating to inter-company debt and working capital. The transaction resulted in net cash proceeds of €33.1m and a pre-tax 
profit on disposal of €7 .4m. As part of the cash settlement, the Group transferred obligations relating to a €6.0m balance  
on an overdraft facility which resulted in a reported statutory cash inflow of €39.1m.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   93
13 Intangible assets
Goodwill  
€m
Software  
€m
Other 
intangibles  
€m
Total  
€m
Cost
At 1 May 2013 166.4 163.6 35.8 365.8
Reclassifications – 0.1 (0.1) –
Additions – separately acquired – 4.7 0.3 5.0
Additions – internally generated – 8.4 – 8.4
Acquisition of subsidiary (note 35) – 0.7 – 0.7
Disposals (5.0) (7.5) (1.9) (14.4)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – (0.3) (0.4) (0.7)
As at 30 April 2014 161.4 169.7 33.7 364.8
Accumulated amortisation and impairment 
At 1 May 2013 146.2 132.6 24.2 303.0
Charge for year – 9.0 0.3 9.3
Disposals (3.8) (5.2) (2.1) (11.1)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – (0.4) (0.3) (0.7)
As at 30 April 2014 142.4 136.0 22.1 300.5
– internally generated – 20.5 – 20.5
– other 19.0 13.2 11.6 43.8
As at 30 April 2014 19.0 33.7 11.6 64.3
Amortisation charges in the year were included in the income statement as follows: cost of sales €nil, selling expenses €0.8m 
and administrative expenses €8.5m. 
Goodwill  
€m
Software  
€m
Other 
intangibles  
€m
Total  
€m
Cost
At 1 May 2012 166.4 146.5 33.5 346.4
Reclassifications – 0.5 (0.5) – 
Additions – separately acquired – 2.1 2.8 4.9
Additions – internally generated – 17.7 0.1 17.8
Disposals  – (2.9) – (2.9)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – (0.3) (0.1) (0.4)
As at 30 April 2013 166.4 163.6 35.8 365.8
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 May 2012 145.4 91.3 22.5 259.2
Reclassifications – (0.2) 0.2 – 
Charge for year – 21.3 – 21.3
Impairment 0.8 21.5 1.5 23.8
Disposals – (1.3) – (1.3)
Effects of foreign exchange rate changes –  –  –  – 
As at 30 April 2013 146.2 132.6 24.2 303.0
Net book value
– internally generated – 14.4 – 14.4
– other 20.2 16.6 11.6 48.4
As at 30 April 2013 20.2 31.0 11.6 62.8
– internally generated – 41.9 – 41.9
– other 21.0 13.3 11.0 45.3
As at 30 April 2012 21.0 55.2 11.0 87.2 94   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
13 Intangible assets continued
Amortisation charges in the prior year were included in the income statement as follows: cost of sales €18.4m, selling 
expenses €0.7m, administrative expenses €2.2m.
Impairment charges in the year of €23.1m were included as exceptional items in the income statement. A further €0.7m of 
impairment charges were included in retail profit.
Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs) and tested annually for impairment based on value in use. Goodwill is 
tested more frequently if there are indications that it might be impaired. CGUs are independent sources of income and 
represent the lowest level within the Group at which the associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes.
The carrying amount of goodwill by business segments is as follows:
  
France  
€m
Belgium  
and the 
Netherlands  
€m
Other 
businesses  
€m
Discontinued 
operations  
€m
Group  
€m
At 30 April 2014 0.5 18.5 – – 19.0
At 30 April 2013 1.7 18.5 –  – 20.2
Goodwill impairment review
The key assumptions used for the value in use calculations are the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to 
selling prices and costs. Management have estimated the discount rate with regard to the specific risks inherent within the 
Group’s retail businesses. Discount rates used are on a pre-tax basis. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on 
past experience and have been adjusted for expected changes in future conditions. The calculations are based on future 
operating cash flows, over a five-year period, derived using management’s latest medium-term forecasts. Cash flows are 
extrapolated using estimated long-term growth rates. 
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations for France and Belgium and the Netherlands are as follows:
• 
Long-term growth rate of 2.0 per cent (2013: between 0.5 per cent and 2.0 per cent).
• 
Pre-tax discount rates of between 13.8 per cent and 14.4 per cent (2013: between 12.0 per cent and 14.8 per cent), being the 
Group’s weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
Other intangibles
Other intangibles include amounts paid in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises and acquired intangibles and 
favourable lease contracts.
The carrying amount of the other intangibles is analysed by business segment as follows:  
  
France  
€m
Belgium  
and the 
Netherlands  
€m
Other 
businesses  
€m
Discontinued 
operations  
€m
Group  
€m
At 30 April 2014 11.6 – – – 11.6
At 30 April 2013 11.5 – 0.1 – 11.6
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations for France and Belgium and the Netherlands are as follows:
• 
Long-term growth rate of 2.0 per cent (2013: between 0.5 per cent and 2.0 per cent).
• 
Pre-tax discount rates of between 13.8 per cent and 14.4 per cent (2013: between 12.0 per cent and 14.8 per cent), being the 
Group’s weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
The value in use of amounts paid in order to gain access to leasehold premises has been calculated using the above growth 
rates and discount factors considered appropriate for the relevant cash-generating units. In 2014, the value in use calculation 
resulted in an impairment charge of €nil (2013: €0.8m)  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   95
14 Property, plant and equipment
Land and 
buildings  
€m
Fixtures, 
 fittings and 
equipment  
€m
Assets in  
the course of 
construction 
€m
Total  
€m
Cost
At 1 May 2013 350.9 566.0 5.7 922.6
Reclassifications 0.7 6.3 (7.0) – 
Acquisition of subsidiary (note 35) – 1.3 – 1.3
Additions 4.1 31.1 13.3 48.5
Disposals (29.4) (86.0) – (115.4)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – (4.7) (0.1) (4.8)
As at 30 April 2014 326.3 514.0 11.9 852.2
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 May 2013 92.7 460.9 – 553.6
Impairment 3.4 0.1 – 3.5
Reversal of impairment – (0.2) – (0.2)
Charge for year 8.0 37.4 – 45.4
Disposals (9.5) (80.3) – (89.8)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – (4.2) – (4.2)
As at 30 April 2014 94.6 413.7 – 508.3
Net book value
As at 30 April 2014 231.7 100.3 11.9 343.9
Land and 
buildings  
€m
Fixtures, 
 fittings and 
equipment  
€m
Assets in  
the course of 
construction 
€m
Total  
€m
Cost
At 1 May 2012 349.4 556.7 13.7 919.8
Reclassifications – 4.5 (4.5) – 
Additions 12.3 31.5 2.7 46.5
Disposals (11.3) (25.9) (6.0) (43.2)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 (0.8) (0.2) (0.5)
At 30 April 2013 350.9 566.0 5.7 922.6
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 May 2012 87.0 411.0 – 498.0
Impairment – 40.3 – 40.3
Charge for year 9.8 42.1 – 51.9
Disposals (4.1) (31.4) – (35.5)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes – (1.1) – (1.1)
As at 30 April 2013 92.7 460.9 – 553.6
Net book value
As at 30 April 2013 258.2 105.1 5.7 369.0
Net book value
As at 30 April 2012 262.4 145.7 13.7 421.8 96   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
14 Property, plant and equipment continued
Impairments
Asset impairment reviews are carried out annually or whenever performance or changes in circumstances indicate that an 
impairment may be required.
For the purposes of impairment testing, each individual store is considered by management to be a cash-generating unit. 
Impairment testing is based on value in use calculations incorporating discount rates derived from the Group’s weighted 
average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
Impairment of €3.5m (2013: €40.3m) was charged to the income statement during the year and €0.2m (2013: €nil) of 
previously held provisions were reversed.
The key assumptions used in the impairment review are a long-term growth rate of 2.0 per cent and pre-tax discount rates  
of between 13.8 per cent and 14.4 per cent (2013: between 13.8 per cent and 14.4 per cent).
15 Investments
Joint venture  
€m
Associates  
€m
Total  
€m
At 1 May 2013 1.0 22.9 23.9
Share of retained profits in year 0.5 1.9 2.4
Dividends received (0.9) (10.1) (11.0)
As at 30 April 2014 0.6 14.7 15.3
Joint venture  
€m
Associates  
€m
Total  
€m
At 1 May 2012 1.9 20.7 22.6
Share of retained profits in year 1.6 2.2 3.8
Dividends received (2.5) – (2.5)
As at 30 April 2013 1.0 22.9 23.9
In relation to the Group’s interest in its joint venture and associates, the income and expenses were as follows:
Joint venture Associates
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Income 5.2 9.0 33.6 38.5
Expense (4.7) (7.4) (30.9) (35.6)
Profit before interest and tax 0.5 1.6 2.7 2.9
Tax –  – (0.8) (0.7)
Share of profits after tax 0.5 1.6 1.9 2.2
In relation to the Group’s interest in its joint venture and associates, the assets and liabilities are shown below:
Joint venture Associates
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Current assets 4.8 23.2 252.3 248.1
Current liabilities (4.2) (22.2) (237.6) (225.2)
Net assets 0.6 1.0 14.7 22.9  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   97
15 Investments continued
The Group’s investment in the joint venture, Darty Orange S.A., relates to a company incorporated in France in which the 
Group has joint control. The joint venture has no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed. There are no 
significant capital commitments within the joint venture. Tax payable on the profits of the joint venture is included in the tax 
charge of France. The Group owns 5,000 part social shares, this makes up 50 per cent of the total shareholding.
The Group’s investment in associated undertakings relate to the Group’s holding in Menafinance S.A., a company incorporated 
in France that provides consumer credit services. The Group owns 370,716 ordinary shares of €16.00 each. Menafinance S.A. 
has a balance sheet date of 31 December .
On 1 March 2013, as part of the disposal of the Italian operations, the Group made a 15 per cent investment in DPS Group s.r .l 
(“DPS”) through contributing all 20 stores and employees along with a cash contribution of €3.0m. Given the uncertainty over 
future returns, it was decided last year to fully impair this investment.
16 Available for sale financial assets
€m
As at 1 May 2013 and 30 April 2014 –
€m
As at 1 May 2011 8.1
Net revaluation loss transferred to equity (8.1)
Impairment transferred from equity 6.5
Impairment recognised in income statement (6.5)
As at 30 April 2012 –
Listed securities: level 1 financial instruments
Equity securities – Go Sport S.A. –
Total securities as at 30 April 2012 and 2013 –
Listed securities related to the Group’s holding in Go Sport S.A. (sports leisurewear and equipment retailer), a company listed 
and registered in France.
During the year the Group disposed of its holding in Go Sport S.A. for €2.7m. As the value of the investment had been fully 
impaired, this resulted in a profit of €2.7m.
17 Inventories
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
2012  
€m
Finished goods for resale 474.2 477.9 526.9
€169.0m (2013: €151.9m) of inventories are not yet paid for . 98   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
18 Trade and other receivables
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
2012  
€m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade receivables 128.7 113.2 106.2
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (6.9) (4.6) (3.4)
Trade receivables – net 121.8 108.6 102.8
Amounts receivable from joint venture and associates 1.5 1.5 1.5
Other receivables 63.4 52.5 48.7
Prepayments and accrued income 34.8 34.6 36.5
Total trade and other receivables 221.5 197.2 189.5
The book value of the Group’s trade and other receivables approximates to fair value due to the short-term nature of these 
receivables.
As of 30 April 2014, trade receivables of €18.5m (2013: €14.5m) are past due but not impaired. These relate to a number  
of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables  
is as follows:
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Up to three months 17.1 12.7
Three to six months 1.4 1.8
Total 18.5 14.5
As of 30 April 2014, trade receivables of €1.8m (2013: €1.0m) were aged less than six months old and provided for . The 
individually impaired receivables mainly relate to wholesalers, which are in unexpectedly difficult economic situations.  
It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered. The ageing of these receivables is as follows:
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Up to three months 1.4 0.7
Three to six months 0.4 0.3
Total 1.8 1.0
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
2012  
€m
Pounds sterling 0.7 0.3 4.6
Euros 207.4 187.1 177.1
Czech krown 6.5 9.0 7.2
Other 6.9 0.8 0.6
Total trade and other receivables 221.5 197.2 189.5  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   99
18 Trade and other receivables continued
The Group’s trade receivables are stated after provision for impairment based on management’s assessment of the 
creditworthiness of the customers. An analysis of the movement in the provision is set out below:
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
At 1 May (4.6) (3.4)
Provision from subsidiary acquired (2.0) –
Provisions for receivables impairment (4.6) (2.8)
Trade debtors written off in period 2.4 0.1
Unused amounts reversed 1.9 1.5
As at 30 April (6.9) (4.6)
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base being large  
and unrelated.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
Trade receivables are primarily purchasing rebates and credit notes relating to the major product suppliers. Approximately  
60 per cent of the rebates have a credit rating of A and around 20 per cent are B/BB.
Otherwise, trade receivables relate to sales to other customers, principally business to business customers including Darty 
Telecom service support for Bouygues Telecom and new franchisees. The majority of business customers who do not have  
a formal credit rating are long-established customers with minimal defaults in the past.
19 Other receivables
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
2012  
€m
Non-current
Other receivables 11.2 15.3 17.3
Total other receivables 11.2 15.3 17.3
The book value of the Group’s other receivables approximates to their fair value. Other receivables consist mainly  
of rental deposits.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
2012  
€m
Euros 11.0 13.0 13.4
Czech krown 0.1 0.3 0.1
Other 0.1 2.0 3.8
Total other receivables 11.2 15.3 17.3
The other receivables do not contain impaired assets. 100   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
20 Cash and cash equivalents
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
2012  
€m
Cash at bank and in hand 75.5 50.2 95.9
Short-term bank deposit  – 17.8 3.6
Less: cash included in assets held for sale –  – (0.1)
Total 75.5 68.0 99.4
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts comprise the following:
2014  
€m
2013 
€m
2012  
€m
Cash at bank and in hand 75.5 50.2 95.9
Bank overdrafts (1.5) (0.3) (1.2)
Short-term bank deposit – 17.8 3.6
Less: cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts of assets held for sale –  – 0.2
Total cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 74.0 67.7 98.5
Treasury policy includes counterparty limits of up to €30m in aggregate per core bank or permitted bank (minimum short-term 
rating A1/P1).    
21 Trade and other payables
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
2014  
€m
Trade payables 341.1 339.4 356.9
Tax and social security payable 120.2 111.1 110.4
Other payables 195.6 182.2 192.6
Accruals 114.5 130.1 113.5
Deferred income 119.1 124.7 131.9
Total trade and other payables 890.5 887.5 905.3
22 Borrowings
In February 2014, the Group issued €250m Senior Notes with a coupon of 5.875 per cent which mature on February 2021.
In February 2014, the Group signed a new committed €225m five-year revolving credit facility, which expires in February 2019. 
This replaced the Group’s existing €455m facility which was due to expire in December 2015. 
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
2012  
€m
Current
Bank loans and overdrafts 1.5 0.3 6.6
Total current 1.5 0.3 6.6
Non-current
Bank loans, overdrafts and bonds
– repayable within one year 1.5 0.3 6.6
– repayable between one and five years 15.6 218.3 217.3
– repayable after five years 243.6 –  – 
260.7 218.6 223.9
Less amount due for settlement within one year shown under current liabilities (1.5) (0.3) (6.6)
Total non-current 259.2 218.3 217.3  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   101
22 Borrowings continued
Bank loans and overdrafts are denominated in euros and have floating interest rates based upon EURIBOR. The effective 
interest rate on the revolving credit facility at the balance sheet date was 3.5 per cent (30 April 2013: 1.9 per cent).
The non-convertible bond matures in 2021 and bears a coupon of 5.875 per cent annually (30 April 2013: not applicable).
The book value of the Group’s borrowings approximates to their fair value. Borrowings are denominated in euros.
Borrowing facilities
The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 April, in respect of which all conditions 
precedent had been met.
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
2012  
€m
Expiring after more than one year but not more than five years 205.0 235.0 235.0
Borrowings by class
Current  
€m
2014 
Non-current 
€m
Current  
€m
2013 
Non-current 
€m
Current  
€m
2012 
Non-current  
€m
Bank overdrafts (1.5) – (0.3) – (0.8) – 
Bank loans – (15.6) – (218.3) (5.8) (217.3)
Issued bonds (including transaction costs) – (243.6) – – –  – 
(1.5) (259.2) (0.3) (218.3) (6.6) (217.3)
The difference between the carrying value of the issued bond and its €250m nominal value is the amount of prepaid fees 
which remain unamortised. The difference between the carrying value of the bank loans and the drawn down revolving credit 
facility is the amount of prepaid fees which remain unamortised.
23 Other payables
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
2012  
€m
Accruals 1.1 0.7 1.6
Deferred income 224.7 239.7 268.5
Other payables 1.3 1.4 1.5
Total other payables 227.1 241.8 271.6
Deferred income mainly relates to the deferred revenue recognition relating to extended warranties and service contracts. 102   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
24 Derivative financial instruments
2014 2013 2012
Assets  
€m
Liabilities  
€m
Assets  
€m
Liabilities  
€m
Assets  
€m
Liabilities  
€m
Current portion
Foreign currency swap – held for trading –  –  –  –  – (0.1)
Forward foreign currency contracts – cash flow hedges  (0.3) –  –  – (0.2)
Derivative financial instruments – current – (0.3) –  –  – (0.3)
Total derivative financial instruments – (0.3) –  –  – (0.3)
Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability. The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a 
non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or 
liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Hedges
Forward foreign currency contracts — cash flow hedges
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge expected future purchases in US dollars for which the Group has 
firm commitments. The contracts typically cover periods of less than six months. The forward currency contracts are used to 
hedge the foreign currency risk of the firm commitments. Where cash flow hedges on forward foreign currency contracts are 
assessed to be effective, the movement in the fair value is taken to the hedging reserve within equity. The fair value of  
forward foreign currency contracts is calculated by marking the contracts to market using prevailing forward exchange rates. 
At 30 April 2014 a net unrealised loss of €0.3m (30 April 2013: €nil) with a related deferred tax asset was included within 
equity in respect of these contracts. At 30 April 2014, the value of future US dollar purchases hedged was $31.8m  
(30 April 2013: $25.1m). There was no ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss arising from cash flow hedges.
25 Provisions
2014  
€m
At 1 May 15.2
Additional amounts provided in the year 4.4
Amounts used during the year (14.5)
Unused amounts reversed during the year –
At 30 April 5.1
Analysed as:
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Current 3.7 14.6
Non-current 1.4 0.6
Total 5.1 15.2
Provisions relate to onerous property contracts. The Group has provided against future liabilities for all properties sub-let  
at a shortfall and long-term idle properties. The provision is based on the value of future cash outflows relating to rent, rates 
and service charges and is expected to have been utilised by 31 December 2015.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   103
26 Deferred tax
Deferred income tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using tax rates applicable to the 
country in which they originate.
Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to 
deferred income tax assets, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised.
Following a change in UK tax legislation applicable from 1 July 2009, dividends received in the UK are no longer subject to UK 
taxation, provided certain conditions are met. Consequently no deferred income tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings 
of overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
The movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as 
permitted by IAS 12) during the period are shown below. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there 
is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
2014
Deferred income tax liabilities
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances  
€m
Other  
€m
Total  
€m
At 1 May 2013 (53.4) (6.7) (60.1)
Income statement credit/(charge) 9.7 0.8 10.5
Credited to equity – 0.1 0.1
Business combinations 1.4 – 1.4
As at 30 April 2014 (42.3) (5.8) (48.1)
Deferred income tax assets
Tax losses  
€m
Pensions  
€m
Other  
€m
Total  
€m
At 1 May 2013 3.2 15.8 0.7 19.7
Income statement credit/(charge) (3.1) 1.1 (0.7) (2.7)
Business combinations – 0.1 2.4 2.5
Tax (charged) to equity – (1.1) – (1.1)
As at 30 April 2014 0.1 15.9 2.4 18.4
2013
Deferred income tax liabilities
Fair value 
adjustments  
€m
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances  
€m
Other  
€m
Total  
€m
At 1 May 2012 – (48.0) (18.2) (66.2)
Income statement credit/(charge) – (0.8) 7.0 6.2
Reclassification – (4.6) 4.7 0.1
Transferred to current tax – – (0.2) (0.2)
As at 30 April 2013 – (53.4) (6.7) (60.1) 104   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
26 Deferred tax continued
Deferred income tax assets
Tax losses 
€m
Pensions  
€m
Other  
€m
Total  
€m
At 1 May 2012 4.1 10.6 0.8 15.5
Adjustment in respect of IAS 19 amendments restated – 0.9 – 0.9
At 1 May 2012 restated 4.1 11.5 0.8 16.4
Income statement credit/(charge) (0.9) 0.4 (0.1) (0.6)
Reclassification – (0.1) – (0.1)
Tax credited to equity – 4.0 – 4.0
As at 30 April 2013 3.2 15.8 0.7 19.7
Deferred income tax assets
“Other” deferred tax liabilities mainly relate to merger goodwill (Belgium) and IT costs (France). 
The deferred income tax assets are not fully available for offset against the deferred income tax liabilities, and this gives rise 
to the following amounts disclosed in the balance sheet:
2014
 
€m
2013
restated 
€m
2012
restated  
 €m
Deferred income tax assets as above 18.4 19.7 16.4
Offset against deferred income tax liabilities (18.1) (18.3) (14.1)
Deferred income tax assets 0.3 1.4 2.3
Deferred income tax liabilities as above (48.1) (60.1) (66.2)
Reduced by deferred income tax assets 18.1 18.3 14.1
Deferred income tax liabilities (30.0) (41.8) (52.1)
The deferred income tax asset recoverable after more than one year is €18.4m (2013: €19.7m) and the deferred income tax 
liability due after more than one year is €48.1m (2013: €60.1m).
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax 
benefit through the future taxable profits is probable. As at 30 April 2014, the Group had foreign tax losses amounting to 
approximately €43m (2013: €198m) and UK losses of approximately €204m (2013: €137m) on which a deferred income tax 
asset of €nil (2013: €3.2m) has been recognised. The Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of approximately 
€54m (2013: €87m) in respect of losses amounting to approximately €247m (2013: €335m) that can be carried forward against 
future taxable income. The tax deductibility of losses expire as follows:
2014 
€m
2013  
€m
Within five years 12 172
Within 15 years 31 26
Not expiring 204 137
247 335
With the closure of Darty Spain during the year , the Spanish tax losses and the merger goodwill credit are no longer available.
The prior years have been restated as a result of IAS 19 changes effective for accounting periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2013. This affects the deferred tax asset on pension liabilities.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   105
27 Share capital
2014 2013
Number  
m €m
Number  
m €m
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 30 cents each 529.6 158.9 529.6 158.9
Kesa Employee Share Trust
The Group operates an employee share trust, the Kesa Employee Share Trust (“the Trust”), that owns 2,093,938 (2013: 
2,093,938) ordinary shares of 30 cents in Darty plc at 30 April 2014. These were acquired at an average cost of €1.94 (2013: 
€1.94) and included in the balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of €4.1m (2013: €4.1m). The shares are used to 
satisfy share awards and the purchases are funded by cash contributions from participating companies. Dividends receivable 
on these shares during the year have been waived. The administration expenses of the Trust are borne by the Trust.  
Shares will be allocated by the Trust when relevant options under the scheme are exercised. The market value of the shares  
at 30 April 2014 was €2.6m (2013: €1.4m).
28 Cash flow from operating activities
Notes
2014
 
€m
2013
 restated 
€m
Profit before income tax from continuing operations 25.3 4.0
Adjustments for:
Interest expense 17.4 14.1
Share of post tax profit in joint venture and associates (2.4) (3.8)
Continuing Group operating profit 40.3 14.3
Discontinued operations operating loss (20.0) (97.7)
Net profit/(loss) on disposal of subsidiary 3.6 (10.5)
Depreciation and amortisation 54.7 73.2
Net impairment of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 3.3 64.1
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including write-offs (3.6) (6.4)
Profit on disposal of business operation – (7.4)
Net (profit)/loss on disposal of subsidiary (3.6) 10.5
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (1.9) 35.6
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (15.6) 0.9
Decrease in payables (48.9) (56.6)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 8.3 20.0
Net cash flow from operating activities can be summarised as follows:
Continuing operations 69.6 54.2
Discontined operations 10 (61.3) (34.2)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 8.3 20.0 106   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
29 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2014  
€m
Cash flow  
€m
Exchange  
and other 
movements 
€m
2013  
€m
Cash at bank and in hand 75.5 28.8 (3.5) 50.2
Overdrafts (1.5) (1.2) – (0.3)
Short-term deposits and investments – (17.1) (0.7) 17.8
74.0 10.5 (4.2) 67.7
Borrowings falling due within one year –  –  –  – 
Borrowings falling due after one year (259.2) (50.0) 9.1 (218.3)
Finance leases –  –  –  – 
(259.2) (50.0) 9.1 (218.3)
Total (185.2) (39.5) 4.9 (150.6)
2013  
€m
Cash flow  
€m
Exchange  
and other 
movements 
€m
2012  
€m
Cash at bank and in hand 50.2 (43.3) (2.3) 95.8
Overdrafts (0.3) 0.6 – (0.9)
Short-term deposits and investments 17.8 14.4 (0.2) 3.6
67.7 (28.3) (2.5) 98.5
Borrowings falling due within one year – 5.8 – (5.8)
Borrowings falling due after one year (218.3) 1.9 (2.9) (217.3)
Finance leases –  – 1.9 (1.9)
(218.3) 7.7 (1.0) (225.0)
Total (150.6) (20.6) (3.5) (126.5)
30 Employees and Directors
2014 
€m
2013 
 €m
Staff costs (including Executive Directors)
Wages and salaries 447.4 446.5
Social security costs 155.7 164.1
Other pension costs 3.3 3.4
Total staff costs 606.4 614.0
We have reviewed the analysis of staff costs during the year which has resulted in identifying certain relevant costs which 
were not disclosed in the year ended 30 April 2013. In order to help comparability, the comparative figures for wages and 
salaries and social security costs for 2013 above have been restated with no impact on the Group income statement, Group 
balance sheet and Group cash flow. Specifically, the comparative figure for 2013 has been increased by €37 .8m.
Included within wages and salaries is €0.4m (2013: €0.1m) in respect of share based payments.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   107
30 Employees and Directors continued
Monthly average number of people employed including Executive Directors
2014 2013
Stores 7,755 7,808
Distribution 4,907 5,007
Administration 1,635 1,628
Total 14,297 14,443
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Directors
Salaries and taxable benefits 1.7 1.8
Termination benefits – 1.3
Bonuses 1.0 0.2
Aggregate emoluments total 2.7 3.3
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 0.1 0.1
Aggregate gains arising from the exercise of share options – –
Aggregate amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes – –
Total 2.8 3.4
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Highest paid Director
Salaries and taxable benefits 0.6 0.7
Termination benefits – 1.3
Bonuses 0.7 –
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 0.1 0.1
Aggregate gains arising from the exercise of share options – – 
Aggregate amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes – –
Total 1.4 2.1
The number of Directors who exercised share options during the year can be seen on page 52 in the Directors’ remuneration 
report. A breakdown of payments to Directors can be seen on pages 50 and 51 in the Directors’ remuneration report.
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Key management compensation
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 4.4 6.1
Termination benefits – 3.3
Post employment benefits 0.3 0.5
Share based payments – 0.1
Total 4.7 10.0
Key management includes the Board of Directors and members of the Darty Executive Committee.
The appointment of a new Chief Executive in April 2013, the subsequent reduction of the executive team and the disposal of 
businesses in Spain, Italy and Turkey resulted in a substantial reduction in costs. 108   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
31 Share based payments
Share based payments
During the period covered by these financial statements, the Group has operated the following share award plan:
• Long Term Incentive Plan
Details of the significant share award plans are shown below.
a) June 2010 grant of nil cost share awards
June 2010 LTIP grant
Executive Directors received annual awards of three-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in 
exceptional circumstances). Other executives participated with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary.  
The awards are based on annual earnings per share, retail profit and free cash flow targets, with one third of the award  
available in each year .
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation were as follows:
Grant date 24 June 2010
Share price at grant date £1.17
Exercise price £nil
Number of employees 122
Number of shares in scheme 4,837,800
Vesting period 3 years
Expected volatility 54%
Option life N/A
Expected life 3 years
Risk free rate 3.57%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 4.70%
Fair value of awards £1.01
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past three years. The expected life was the average expected 
period to exercise. The risk free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term 
consistent with the assumed option life.
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2014 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below:
Number
Outstanding at 1 May 2013 179,190
Expired during year (179,190)
Outstanding at 30 April 2014 –
Exercisable at 30 April 2014 –
(b) June 2011 grant of nil cost share awards 
June 2011 LTIP grant
Executive Directors received annual awards of three-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in 
exceptional circumstances). Other executives participated with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary.  
The awards are based on annual earnings per share, retail profit and free cash flow targets, with one third of the award  
available in each year .  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   109
31 Share based payments continued
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation were as follows:
Grant date 24 June 2011
Share price at grant date £1.34
Exercise price £nil
Number of employees 111
Number of shares in scheme 4,127,600
Vesting period 3 years
Expected volatility 49%
Option life N/A
Expected life 3 years
Risk free rate 3.57%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 4.80%
Fair value of awards £1.16
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past three years. The expected life was the average expected 
period to exercise. The risk free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term 
consistent with the assumed option life.
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2014 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below:
Number
Outstanding at 1 May 2013 437,059
Outstanding at 30 April 2014 437,059
Exercisable at 30 April 2014 –
(c) June 2012 grant of nil cost share awards 
June 2012 LTIP grant
Executive Directors received annual awards of three-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in 
exceptional circumstances). Other executives participated with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary. 
The awards are based on annual earnings per share, retail profit and free cash flow targets, with one third of the award 
available in each year .
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and  
the assumptions used in the calculation were as follows:
Grant date 24 June 2012
Share price at grant date £0.49
Exercise price £nil
Number of employees 95
Number of shares in scheme 9,011,400
Vesting period 3 years
Expected volatility 46%
Option life N/A
Expected life 3 years
Risk free rate 1.94%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 5.00%
Fair value of awards £0.42 110   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
31 Share based payments continued
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past three years. The expected life was the average expected 
period to exercise. The risk free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term 
consistent with the assumed option life.
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2014 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below:
Number
Outstanding at 1 May 2013 2,412,699 
Outstanding at 30 April 2014 2,412,699
Exercisable at 30 April 2014 –
(d) June 2013 grant of nil cost share awards
June 2013 LTIP grant
Executive Directors received annual awards of three-year vesting shares up to 100 per cent of salary (up to 150 per cent in 
exceptional circumstances). Other executives participated with award sizes ranging from 15 per cent to 65 per cent of salary. 
The awards are based on annual earnings per share, retail profit and free cash flow targets, with one third of the award 
available in each year .
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of awards granted and the 
assumptions used in the calculation were as follows:
Grant date 24 June 2013
Share price at grant date £0.74
Exercise price £nil
Number of employees 21
Number of shares in scheme 3,547,168
Vesting period 3 years
Expected volatility 54%
Option life N/A
Expected life 3 years
Risk free rate 2.51%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 5.00%
Fair value of awards £0.66
The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past three years. The expected life was the average expected 
period to exercise. The risk free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term 
consistent with the assumed option life.
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2014 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below:
Number
Outstanding at 1 May 2013 –
Granted during year 3,547,168
Outstanding at 30 April 2014 3,547,168
Exercisable at 30 April 2014 –
32 Retirement benefits
Summary of Group retirement benefits and funding arrangements
The Group operates retirement benefit arrangements most notably in the UK and France. In the UK, the Group operates  
a defined benefit pension scheme (“The Comet Pension Scheme”) with assets held in a separate trustee administered fund.  
The scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2004 and future service accrual was ceased on 30 September 2007 , with 
affected employees eligible to become members of the Group defined contribution scheme. Following the disposal of Comet, 
Darty plc assumed the liabilities associated with the Comet Pension Scheme. Comet ceased to be the participating employer 
from the date of completion, 3 February 2012 with all member benefits, including any link to future salary increases, ceasing 
from this date.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   111
32 Retirement benefits continued
The UK scheme is valued by a qualified actuary every three years and a deficit recovery plan confirmed with the Trustees 
based on an agreed schedule of contributions. The March 2013 triennial valuation was agreed with the Trustees in March 2014 
resulting in fixed annual payments of £10.0m per annum aiming to make good the £73m deficit by May 2019. Company 
contributions to be paid in 2014/15 total £10.0m (2013/14: £10.0m). The next triennial valuation is in March 2016.
The UK scheme provides benefits for members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level of 
benefits provided depends on members’ length of service and salary at 3 February 2012. The Trustees are required to act on 
behalf of the Scheme’s stakeholders in accordance with UK legislation and play a role in the long-term investment and funding 
strategy. In the UK scheme, pensions in payment are generally increased in line with inflation.
There is a risk to the Company that adverse experience (asset volatility, longevity or inflation) could lead to a requirement for 
the Company to make additional contributions to cover any deficit increase that arises. A description of pension scheme 
liabilities risks and mitigation measures is set out in the principal risks section of the Annual report.
In France, post retirement benefits are primarily provided by the state system though the Group has supplementary funded 
pension plans in place for certain senior executives. At 30 April 2014, given funding to date of €1.7m, these pension plans had 
a deficit of €7 .4m. The Group has no further mortality risk post retirement. This scheme is no longer open to new entrants 
with existing liabilities being paid as they fall due. At 30 April 2014, there were eight members remaining in the scheme with 
liabilities estimated at €9.1m. In addition, the Group is required to pay lump sum retirement indemnities to employees when 
they retire from service. The entitlement on retirement is secured through the purchase of an annuity from an insurance 
company tariff under terms prescribed by legislation. No pre-funding is legally required, though at 30 April 2014 €16.3m of 
funding has been set aside for retirement indemnity plans set against estimated IAS 19 liabilities of €53.4m, leading to a net 
deficit of €37 .1m.
Outside of the UK and France defined benefit obligations, the operating companies generally operate defined contribution 
pension schemes. Annual contributions to these schemes are summarised below:
2014 2013 restated
UK  
€m
France  
€m
Other  
€m
Group  
€m
UK  
€m
France  
€m
Other 
 €m
Group  
€m
Defined contribution schemes 0.3 – 2.5 2.8 0.2 – 2.6 2.8
Impact of the change in IAS 19
IAS 19, ‘‘Employee benefits’’, was amended in June 2011. The impact on the Group is as follows: to immediately recognise all 
past-service costs and to replace interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated 
by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability (asset). The standard is effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The following table shows the impact of the changes made to IAS 19 on the Company’s income statement, defined benefit 
obligation, plan assets and net liability.
2014 2013
UK  
€m
France  
€m
Group  
€m
UK  
€m
France  
€m
Group  
€m
Impact on income statement (2.5) 0.2 (2.3) (2.4) (0.2) (2.6)
Present value of defined benefit obligations – 1.4 1.4 – 1.7 1.7
Unrecognised service costs recognised – (0.4) (0.4) – 2.4 2.4
Fair value of plan assets – – – – – –
Impact on net liability recognised in the balance sheet – 1.0 1.0 – 4.1 4.1
Defined benefit Schemes – IAS 19 Accounting Valuations
The Group’s defined benefit schemes in the UK and France have been valued by a qualified and independent actuary at  
30 April 2014 based on IAS 19. No significant new legislation has impacted the IAS valuation for the year ended April 2014.  
As announced in 2011, an increased retirement age has been implemented under French legislation and is being phased in to 2018. 112   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
32 Retirement benefits continued
 The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were: 
2014 2013 restated
UK 
 %
France 
%
UK 
%
France  
%
Discount rate 4.5 1.50-3.00 4.2 1.75-3.00
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries N/A 2.5 N/A 2.5
Rate of pension increases 3.3 – 3.2 –
Price inflation 2.0 2.0
– RPI 3.4 – 3.3 –
– CPI 2.4 – 2.3 –
Discount rate
In the UK, the discount rate is based on the yield on high-quality AA and corporate rated bonds, as classified by Merrill Lynch. 
A yield curve is fitted to the data using least squares optimisation techniques. The yield curve is extrapolated beyond 30 years 
in line with a gilt yield curve.
In France, the discount rate is based on high-quality (AA) corporate bonds in the Eurozone.
Price inflation
The assumption for future RPI price inflation is taken from published Bank of England estimates for future price inflation, as 
implied by the index-linked and fixed interest gilt markets, as at the accounting date and reflects the duration of the pension 
liabilities.
In the long term, inflation measured by the Consumer Prices Index (CPI) is expected to be lower than the Retail Prices Index 
(RPI) because of differences in how the indices are calculated. The CPI assumption takes the assumption for RPI inflation and 
deducts 1.0 per cent, reflecting long-term structural differences between the inflation measures.
The inflation rate of 2.00 per cent in the Eurozone is based on the long-term forecasts as set out by the European Central 
Bank in its Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) and the published forecasts from “Consensus Economics”.
Mortality tables
For the UK scheme, the Group has used S1PA tables, weighted by 97 per cent for males and 95 per cent for females, with 
improvements in line with the CMI_2013 projections subject to a long- term rate of 1.25 per cent pa for males and females.  
For the France schemes, the mortality tables used by the Group are TGHF 2005 for pensioners and INSEE 2009/11 H/F for  
non-pensioners.
The main mortality outcomes for the UK scheme are summarised below:
2014 
 Years
2013 
 Years
Life expectancy at age 60 for a male currently aged 60 26.3 25.9
Life expectancy at age 60 for a female currently aged 60 29.1 28.0
Life expectancy at age 60 for a male currently aged 40 28.4 27.5
Life expectancy at age 60 for a female currently aged 40 31.2 29.3
Duration of the schemes
The weighted average duration of the expected benefit payments from the Comet Pension Scheme is approximately 21 years.
In France, the main scheme is the Darty Retirement Indemnity Plan, which had 10,004 active members at the year end  
(2013: 10,430). This plan has an expected duration of 13.6 years. The weighted average of the five France schemes, based  
on the values of their defined benefit obligations is 11.9 years.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   113
32 Retirement benefits continued
Expected Company contributions
Company contributions to the Comet Scheme will be £10.0m in the year to 30 April 2015. In France, Company contributions 
are expected to total €0.9m next year .
Membership data
At 30 April 2014, the Comet Scheme had 3,720 deferred pensioners with an average age of 46 and a deferred pension  
of £12,066,000. A total of 1,544 pensioner members had an average age of 64 and an annual pension of £5,965,000. 
Approximately one third of the scheme’s liabilities are in respect of current pensions in payment, with the other two thirds  
in respect of non-pensioners.
In France, active members of the main Darty Retirement Indemnity Plan totalled 10,004, with an average age of 39.  
There were 113 members in other France schemes with an average age of 44.
Net liability
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows:
2014 2013 restated
UK  
€m
France  
€m
Group  
€m
UK  
€m
France  
€m
Group  
€m
Present value of defined benefit obligations 478.2 62.5 540.7 449.5 64.1 513.6
Fair value of plan assets (418.1) (18.0) (436.1) (409.1) (19.7) (428.8)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 60.1 44.5 104.6 40.4 44.4 84.8
Asset holdings
In the UK, €0.9m (2013: €3.3m) of the assets held were quoted assets. In France, €nil (2013: €nil) of the assets held were 
quoted assets. Quoted assets are assets which have a quoted market price in an active market.
The fair value of plan assets at the end of the year for the defined benefit plans are as follows:
2014 2013 restated
UK 
€m
France 
€m
UK 
€m
France  
€m
Equities and equity derivatives 112.9 1.9 109.8 1.7
Gilts 53.7 – 55.0 –
Bonds 40.5 14.0 46.0 16.4
Cash 4.6 – 31.2 –
Dynamic asset allocation 156.2 – 140.0 –
Real estate – 1.1 – 1.0
Swaps 24.3 – 27.1 0.6
Alternatives 25.9 – – –
Other – 1.0 – –
Total 418.1 18.0 409.1 19.7
Asset liability matching strategy
For the UK scheme, the hedging strategy is reviewed and rebalanced regularly. The current policy is to hedge 85 per cent  
of interest rate risk and 85 per cent of inflation risk. There are no swaps in the assets of the France schemes. 114   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
32 Retirement benefits continued
Self investment
The plan assets of the UK and France schemes do not contain any direct investments in ordinary shares or bonds issued  
by Darty plc.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2014 2013 restated
UK  
€m
France 
 €m
Group  
€m
UK  
€m
France  
€m
Group 
 €m
Current service cost – 3.4 3.4 – 2.8 2.8
Interest cost 1.4 1.2 2.6 1.5 1.7 3.2
Curtailment gain – (2.3) (2.3) – (3.0) (3.0)
Total included in the income statement 1.4 2.3 3.7 1.5 1.5 3.0
Of the total charge, including defined contribution schemes, €nil (2013: €nil), €4.2m (2013: €3.7m), €1.7m (2013: €1.6m)  
and €0.3m (2013: €0.3m) were included in cost of sales, administrative expenses, selling expenses and distribution  
costs respectively.
Analysis of the movement in the defined benefit obligation during the year .
2014 2013 restated
UK 
 €m
France 
 €m
Group 
 €m
UK 
 €m
France 
 €m
Group 
 €m
Defined benefit obligation at start of year 449.5 64.1 513.6 396.9 52.3 449.2
Current service cost – 3.4 3.4 – 2.8 2.8
Interest cost 18.8 1.7 20.5 18.7 2.4 21.1
Benefits paid (10.2) (1.5) (11.7) (10.5) (1.5) (12.0)
Remeasurements recognised in the statement  
of comprehensive income 5.6 (2.9) 2.7 63.2 11.1 74.3
Curtailment gains – (2.3) (2.3) – (3.0) (3.0)
Currency translation movement 14.5 – 14.5 (18.8) – (18.8)
Defined benefit obligation at end of year 478.2 62.5 540.7 449.5 64.1 513.6
2014 2013 restated
UK 
 €m
France 
 €m
Group 
 €m
UK 
 €m
France 
 €m
Group 
 €m
Remeasurements recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income impacting the defined benefit 
obligation arose from
Experience (gains)/losses on benefit obligation 10.6 (3.1) 7.5 – (0.8) (0.8)
Actuarial (gains)/losses due to changes in  
financial assumptions (10.5) 0.1 (10.4) 63.2 11.9 75.1
Actuarial (gains)/losses due to changes  
in demographic assumptions 5.5 0.1 5.6 – – –
5.6 (2.9) 2.7 63.2 11.1 74.3  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   115
32 Retirement benefits continued
Analysis of the movement in plan assets during the year .
2014 2013 restated
UK 
 €m
France 
 €m
Group 
 €m
UK 
 €m
France 
 €m
Group 
 €m
Fair value of plan assets at start of year (restated) 409.1 19.7 428.8 356.9 20.1 377.0
Interest credit 17.4 0.6 18.0 17.2 0.7 17.9
Contributions by employer 11.9 0.9 12.8 16.6 – 16.6
Contributions by employees – – – – – –
Benefits paid (10.2) (3.4) (13.6) (10.5) (1.1) (11.6)
The return on plan assets, excluding amounts included  
in interest income (22.8) 0.2 (22.6) 45.8 – 45.8
Currency translation movement 12.7 – 12.7 (16.9) – (16.9)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 418.1 18.0 436.1 409.1 19.7 428.8
Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet liability during the year .
2014 2013 restated
UK 
 €m
France 
 €m
Group 
 €m
UK 
 €m
France 
 €m
Group 
 €m
Liability at start of year (restated) 40.4 44.4 84.8 40.0 32.2 72.2
Total expense as above 1.4 2.3 3.7 1.5 1.5 3.0
Contributions paid (11.9) 0.9 (11.0) (16.6) (0.4) (17.0)
Remeasurements recognised in the statement  
of comprehensive income 28.4 (3.1) 25.3 17.4 11.1 28.5
Curtailment gains – – – – – –
Currency translation movement 1.8 – 1.8 (1.9) – (1.9)
Liability at end of year 60.1 44.5 104.6 40.4 44.4 84.8
Cumulative remeasurements recognised in equity.
2014 2013 restated
UK 
 €m
France 
 €m
Group 
 €m
UK 
 €m
France 
 €m
Group 
 €m
At beginning of year (restated) 15.7 17.5 33.2 (0.2) 6.4 6.2
Remeasurements recognised in the year 28.4 (3.1) 25.3 17.4 11.1 28.5
Currency translation movement 1.2 – 1.2 (1.5) – (1.5)
At end of year 45.3 14.4 59.7 15.7 17.5 33.2 116   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
32 Retirement benefits continued
The actual returns on plan assets were:
2014 2013 restated
UK 
 €m
France 
 €m
Group 
 €m
UK 
 €m
France 
 €m
Group 
 €m
Actual returns on plan assets (5.5) – (5.5) 63.0 0.7 63.7
History of experience gains and losses:
2014 2013 (restated) 2012 restated
Continuing Group
UK 
 €m
France 
 €m
Total  
€m
UK 
 €m
France 
 €m
Total  
€m
Total  
€m
Experience gains/(losses) arising on plan assets:
Amount (22.8) 0.1 (22.7) 45.8 – 45.8 24.0
Experience (gains)/losses arising on defined 
benefit obligation:
Amount 10.6 (2.1) 8.5 – (2.1) (2.1) (1.5)
Present value of plan liabilities 478.2 62.5 540.7 449.5 64.1 513.6 449.2
Fair value of plan assets 418.1 18.0 436.1 409.1 19.7 428.8 377.0
Unrecognised past-service costs – – – – – – –
Deficit (60.1) (44.5) (104.6) (40.4) (44.4) (84.8) (72.2)
Sensitivity of defined benefit obligation and income statement charge to key assumptions.
Impact on defined benefit obligation Impact on income statement
2014 
 €m
2013 
 €m
2014 
 €m
2013 
 €m
Sensitivity
A decrease of 0.5 per cent in the discount rate 52.1 54.1 (1.4) (1.6)
An increase of 0.5 per cent in price inflation 39.8 41.7 (1.1) (1.1)
An increase of one year in longevity 13.1 16.2 (0.6) (0.7)
The sensitivity analyses above have been prepared based on reasonable assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting 
period and may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on a change in the key assumption while holding all 
other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity to the assumption, the same method used to calculate the 
liability recognised in the balance sheet has been applied. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the 
sensitivity analysis did not change compared with the previous year .  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   117
33 Operating lease commitments
The Group has operating lease commitments for certain of its retail, distribution and office properties and other assets such 
as motor vehicles. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
2014 
 €m
2013 
 €m
Future aggregate minimum lease payments* under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Within one year 100.3 97.1
Later than one year and less than five years 173.3 160.7
After five years 26.0 30.5
Total 299.6 288.3
The Group sub-lets some unutilised stores and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases 
have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
2014 
 €m
2013 
 €m
Future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases 1.1 0.5
* Excluding annual indexation increases
34 Capital commitments and contingent liabilities
Capital commitments
2014 
 €m
2013 
 €m
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for:
– property, plant and equipment 3.5 0.5
– intangible assets 0.2 0.2
Total 3.7 0.7
Contingent liabilities
In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and 
reviews (“litigation”). The facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated to determine whether it is more 
likely than not that there will be a future outflow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific case 
is necessary or sufficient. The outcome of any litigation is difficult to predict, and significant management judgement is 
exercised when determining the value and risk of a contingent liability. The Group does not expect the ultimate resolution  
of the litigation to which it is a party to have a significant adverse impact on the financial position of the Group.
The Company, in line with standard practice, has given some guarantees and indemnities most notably in relation to disposals 
of subsidiary undertakings and legacy tax matters. The liabilities are, in the main, capped based on agreed terms and 
valuations and unwind over time.
There are a number of ongoing indirect and corporation tax audits and competition authority reviews under way around  
the Group and in respect of previously disposed businesses where we have provided guarantees and indemnities.  
The investigations do give rise to possible risks though the overall impact to the Group is not deemed material.
At the end of April 2014 the risks relating to such contingent liabilities are deemed both unlikely and immaterial. 118   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for the year ended 30 April 2014
35 Business combinations
On 31 March 2014, the Group through its subsidiary Etablissemants Darty et Fils (France) acquired 100 per cent of the share 
capital of Mistergooddeal, one of France’s leading online electrical retailers.
The acquisition allows Darty to more profitably trade in the lower quartile price entry sector . Darty’s existing service 
infrastructure will be used to offer Mistergooddeal customers additional services on a pay as you go basis. This, together  
with Darty’s superior buying terms and supply chain, is expected to create a profitable channel by year two of ownership.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for Mistergooddeal, the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed at the acquisition date.
Consideration at 31 March 2014
Cash 2.0
Total consideration transferred 2.0
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
Net assets 
acquired
Fair value 
adjustments
Total fair value 
acquired
Cash and cash equivalents 5.4 – 5.4
Property, plant and equipment (note 14) 5.9 (4.6) 1.3
Software (included in intangibles) (note 13) 0.7 – 0.7
Inventories 10.3 (0.8) 9.5
Trade and other receivables 7.4 (1.5) 5.9
Deferred tax 0.2 3.7 3.9
Trade and other payables (20.6) (4.1) (24.7)
Total identifiable net assets 9.3 (7.3) 2.0
Goodwill –  –  – 
Total 9.3 (7.3) 2.0
The revenue included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income since 31 March 2014 contributed by 
Mistergooddeal was €7 .5m, Mistergooddeal also contributed a loss of €0.9m over the same period.
Had Mistergooddeal been consolidated from 1 May 2013, the consolidated statement of income would show pro-forma revenue 
of €3,696.6m and retail profit of €67 .6m.
Acquisition related costs of €0.4m have been charged to administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement for 
the year ended 30 April 2014.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   119
36 Related party transactions
Transactions carried out with related parties in the normal course of business are summarised below.
Joint ventures and associates
2014 
 €m
2013 
 €m
Dividends receivable 11.0 2.6
Value of products sold by the Group where an associate has provided credit facilities 173.9 165.1
Commission received from joint ventures 2.4 1.6
Amounts recoverable from joint ventures  –  – 
Amounts recoverable from associates 1.5 1.5
Amounts payable to joint ventures  –  – 
Amounts payable to associates  –  – 
The associated undertakings provide credit facilities to customers on product sales.
Other related parties
2014 
 €m
2013 
 €m
Rent payments 1.8 2.1
Other payments for services 1.3 0.3
Outstanding balances at year end – –
All transactions are at arm’s length and balances are unsecured.
Further information on the option held by Darty plc over the non-controlling shareholding of Kesa Turkey Limited is given in 
note 2 – Financial risk management.
37 Principal subsidiaries
Company
Country of  
incorporation
Percentage 
owned and 
voting rights
Description  
of share  
classes owned Main activity
Etablissements Darty et Fils S.A.S. France 99.7% Ordinary shares Retailing
New Vanden Borre S.A. Belgium 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing
Datart International A.S. Czech Republic 60.0% Ordinary shares Retailing
BCC Holding Amstelveen B.V. Netherlands 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing
Mistergooddeal France 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing
The Directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. 
A full list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures has been annexed to the Company’s latest annual return.
Mistergooddeal has a financial year end of 31 December .
All subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidation. 120   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
Report on the Company financial 
statements
Our opinion
In our opinion the financial statements, defined below:
• 
give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s 
affairs as at 30 April 2014;
• 
have been properly prepared in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
• 
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements 
of the Companies Act 2006.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the 
remainder of this report.
What we have audited
The Company financial statements (the “financial 
statements”), which are prepared by Darty plc, comprise:
• 
the Company balance sheet as at 30 April 2014;
• 
the Company reconciliation of movements in 
shareholders’ funds for the year then ended; and
• 
the notes to the financial statements, which include a 
summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
What an audit of financial statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & 
Ireland)”). An audit involves obtaining evidence about the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error . This includes an assessment of:
• 
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed;
• 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates 
made by the Directors; and
• 
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and  
to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinions on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• 
the information given in the strategic report and the 
Directors’ report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements; and
• 
the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006.
Other matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
• 
we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
• 
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• 
the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no 
exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual report
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion, information in the Annual report is:
• 
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or
• 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
• 
is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF DARTY PLC  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   121
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities 
statement set out on page 57 , the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards  
for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for 
and only for the Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other 
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown 
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial 
statements of Darty plc for the year ended 30 April 2014.
John Ellis (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
18 June 2014 122   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
as at 30 April 2014
COMP ANY BALANCE SHEET
Note
 2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets 2 – –
Investments 3 166.9 166.9
Total fixed assets 166.9 166.9
Current assets
Debtors due within one year 4 139.2 99.7
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (4.8) (4.0)
Net current assets 134.4 95.7
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Retirement benefits 6 (60.1) (40.4)
Net assets 241.2 222.2
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 7 158.9 158.9
Other reserves 0.6 0.6
Profit and loss account 8 81.7 62.7
Equity shareholders’ funds 9 241.2 222.2
Darty plc has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006
Profit attributable to the parent Company is ¤67 .2m (2013: loss of ¤14.2m).
The notes on pages 123 to 130 form part of these financial statements
The financial statements on pages 122 to 130 were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 June 2014 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Régis Schultz Director  Dominic Platt Director
Company registration number: 4232413
Company statement of total recognised gains and losses
for the year ended 30 April 2014
Note
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 8 67.2 (14.2)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 8 0.6 (2.1)
Actuarial losses on pension scheme 6 (30.9) (19.8)
Total recognised gains and losses relating to the year 36.9 (36.1)  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   123
NOTES TO THE COMP ANY FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 
for the year ended 30 April 2014
1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial information set out on pages 122 to 130 comprises the financial statements of Darty plc for the year ended  
30 April 2014 prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
The financial statements of the Company are prepared on a going concern basis under United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (UK GAAP) using the historical cost convention, and are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006 and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom. Principal accounting policies have been applied consistently 
throughout the year .
Cash flow statement and related party disclosures
Under Financial Reporting Standard 1 (revised 1996) the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow 
statement as the Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Darty plc and is included in the consolidated financial statements 
of Darty plc, which are publicly available. The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 from disclosing related party 
transactions with entities that are part of the Darty plc Group.
Investments
In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiary undertakings are shown at cost adjusted for capital contributions 
relating to share based payments.
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are included in the balance sheet at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for 
impairment. Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is charged to reflect a reduction from book value to estimated residual value 
over the estimated useful life of the asset to the Company.
Tangible fixed assets comprise fixtures, fittings and equipment. These are depreciated over their estimated useful economic 
life of five years on a straight-line basis.
Employee share schemes
The cost of awards to employees that take the form of shares or rights to shares are recognised over the period of the 
employee’s related performance. Where there are no performance criteria, the cost is recognised when the employee 
becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares. The cost of awards is measured as the fair value of the award at grant date 
less employee contributions.
Dividends
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Retirement benefits
A defined contribution plan is a retirement benefit under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. 
The Company has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets 
to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a 
retirement benefit that is not a defined contribution plan. Typically, defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit 
that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary.
In accordance with FRS 17 , for defined benefit plans the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the 
defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for past 
service costs which have not yet vested. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using 
the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated 
future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the 
benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related retirement benefit liability. 124   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
1 Accounting policies continued
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised 
immediately in the profit and loss reserve.
For defined contribution plans, the Company pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans 
on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Company has no further payment obligations once the contributions have 
been paid. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Taxation
Current tax represents the expected tax payable (or recoverable) on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted 
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments arising from prior years.
Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or asset has arisen as a result of transactions that had occurred by 
the balance sheet date and have given rise to an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or the right to pay less tax in the future. 
An asset has not been recognised to the extent that the transfer of economic benefits in the future is uncertain. Deferred tax 
assets and liabilities recognised have not been discounted. Provision is made for UK or foreign taxation arising on the distribution 
to the UK of retained profits of overseas subsidiary undertakings where dividends have been recognised as receivable.
Auditors’ remuneration
During the period the Company obtained the following services from the Company’s auditors at costs as detailed below:
 2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Audit fees:
Fees payable to the auditors for the audit of the Company’s financial statements 0.4 0.4
Fees for other services:
Other non-audit services 0.3 0.8 
0.7 1.2
2 Tangible fixed assets
Fixtures, fittings 
and equipment 
€m
Cost
At 1 May 2013 0.3
Additions –
At 30 April 2014 0.3
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 May 2013 0.3
Charge for period –
At 30 April 2014 0.3
Net book value
At 30 April 2014 –
At 30 April 2013 –
NOTES TO THE COMP ANY FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 
for the year ended 30 April 2014  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   125
3 Investments
Shares in subsidiary undertakings 
€m
Cost and net book value
At 30 April 2013 166.9
At 30 April 2014 166.9
The investment comprises 100.0 per cent of the shares in Kesa Holdings Limited.
The Directors believe the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
4 Debtors due within one year
 2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Owed by subsidiary undertakings 138.7 99.6
Prepayments 0.5 0.1
Total debtors due within one year 139.2 99.7
5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
 2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Other creditors 4.7 3.2
Accruals 0.1 0.8
Total creditors due within one year 4.8 4.0
6 Retirement benefits
 2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Retirement benefits liability 60.1 40.4
The Company operates a funded defined benefit pension scheme (“The Comet Pension Scheme”) with assets held in a 
separate trustee administered fund. The scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2004 and future service accrual was 
ceased on 30 September 2007 . Following the disposal of Comet, the Company assumed the liabilities associated with the 
Comet Pension Scheme. Comet ceased to be the participating employer from the date of completion, 3 February 2012,  
with all member benefits, including any link to future salary increases, ceasing from that date.
Under the defined benefit scheme, each member’s pension at retirement is related to their pensionable service and final 
pensionable pay. The weighted average duration of the expected benefit payments from the Scheme is approximately  
21 years. The defined benefit scheme is operated from a trust, which has assets which are held separately from the Company 
and trustees who ensure the scheme’s rules are followed. The expected rate of return on assets for the financial year ending 
30 April 2014 was 4.8 per cent p.a. (year ending 30 April 2013: 5.5 per cent p.a.). 126   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
6 Retirement benefits continued
This rate is derived by taking the weighted average of the long-term expected rate of return on each of the asset classes that 
the plan was invested in at 30 April 2013, less investment expenses.
The results of a formal actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2013 were updated to the accounting date by an independent 
qualified actuary in accordance with FRS 17 .
Contributions are set based on funding valuations carried out every three years. The funding target is for the scheme to hold 
assets equal in value to the accrued benefits. If there is a shortfall against this target, then the Company and trustees will 
agree on deficit contributions to meet this deficit over a period.
There is a risk to the Company that adverse experience could lead to a requirement for the Company to make additional 
contributions to recover any deficit that arises.
The next valuation is due to be carried out as at 31 March 2016. The agreed amount of total employer contributions to be paid 
to the scheme during 2014/15 is £10.0m (2013/14: actual £10.0m)
The scheme’s investment strategy hedges 85 per cent of interest rate risk and 85 per cent of inflation risk using both UK 
government bonds and a portfolio of swaps. This hedging strategy is reviewed and rebalanced regularly in light of any new 
actuarial information that is available.
A qualified independent actuary has updated the actuarial valuations of the Comet Pension Scheme as at 30 April 2014 under 
FRS 17 . The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were:
 2014  
%
2013  
%
Discount rate 4.4 4.2
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries N/A N/A
Rate of pension increase (5% LPI) 3.3 3.2
Price inflation
– RPI 3.4 3.3
– CPI 2.4 2.3
Expected return on assets 5.9 4.8
The expected return on assets for 2014/15 are set out below:
 %
pa
%
pa
Gilts 3.2 2.7
Corporate bonds 4.4 4.0
Dynamic asset allocation 6.5 6.0
Equity option 7.3 6.4
Cash 1.3 0.4
Swaps 3.4 2.9
Alternatives 7.3 N/A
NOTES TO THE COMP ANY FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 
for the year ended 30 April 2014  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   127
6 Retirement benefits continued
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows:
 2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Present value of defined benefit obligation 478.2 449.5
Fair value of plan assets (418.1) (409.1)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 60.1 40.4
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows:
 2014  
%
2013  
%
Gilts 13 13
Corporate bonds 10 11
Equity derivatives 27 27
Cash 1 8
Dynamic asset allocation 37 34
Swaps 6 7
Alternatives 6 N/A
The scheme does not invest in property or in the Company’s own securities.
The amounts recognised in operating profit are as follows:
 2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Employer’s part of current service cost – –
Total operating charge – –
The following amounts are included in finance income:
 2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Expected return on scheme assets (19.9) (19.6)
Interest cost 18.8 18.7
Total charge/(credit) to finance income (1.1) (0.9)
Reconciliation of present value of scheme liabilities
2014  
€m
  2013  
€m
Opening present value of scheme liabilities 449.5 396.9
Employer's part of current service cost – –
Interest cost 18.8 18.7
Contributions by employees – –
Benefits paid (10.2) (10.5)
Actuarial loss recognised in the STRGL 5.6 63.2
Comprising: experience on benefit obligation 10.6 –
 changes in financial assumptions (10.5) 63.2
 changes in demographic assumptions 5.5 –
Currency translation movement 14.5 (18.8)
Closing present value of scheme liabilities 478.2 449.5 128   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
6 Retirement benefits continued
Reconciliation of fair value of scheme assets
 2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Opening fair value of scheme assets 409.1 356.9
Expected return on scheme assets 19.9 19.6
Contributions by employer 11.9 16.6
Contributions by employees – –
Benefits paid (10.2) (10.5)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the STRGL (25.3) 43.4
Currency translation movement 12.7 (16.9)
Fair value of plan assets at end of period 418.1 409.1
The actual return on the scheme’s assets over the year was (€1.7m)
Movements in the deficit during the year
 2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Opening FRS 17 (surplus)/deficit 40.4 40.0
Employer's part of current service cost – –
Other finance costs (1.1) (0.9)
Contributions by the employer (11.9) (16.6)
Actuarial (gain)/loss recognised in the STRGL 30.9 19.8
Currency translation movement 1.8 (1.9)
Closing FRS 17 (surplus)/deficit 60.1 40.4
The amount recognised outside profit and loss in the statement of total recognised gains and losses (STRGL) for 2013/14  
is a loss of €30.9m (2012/13: loss of €19.4m).
Amounts to be shown for the previous four periods
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
2012  
€m
2011  
€m
2010  
€m
Present value of funded obligations 478.2 449.5 396.9 331.5 333.2
Fair value of plan assets 418.1 409.1 356.9 285.6 275.2
(Surplus)/deficit 60.1 40.4 40.0 45.9 58.0
Experience gains/(losses) arising on scheme assets:
Amount (25.3) 42.8 (23.8) 13.9 52.8
Percentage of scheme assets (6)% 10% 7% 5% 19%
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities:
Amount (10.6) – – (10.5) (9.6)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 2% – – 3% 3%
NOTES TO THE COMP ANY FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 
for the year ended 30 April 2014  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   129
7 Share capital
2014 2013
Number  
m €m
Number 
 m €m
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 30 cents each 1,000.0 300.0 1,000 300.0
Issued and fully paid 
Ordinary shares of 30 cents each 529.6 158.9 529.6 158.9
Kesa Employee Share Trust
The Group operates an employee share trust, the Kesa Employee Share Trust (“the Trust”), that owns 2,093,938 (2013: 
2,093,938) ordinary shares of 30 cents in Darty plc at 30 April 2014. These were acquired at an average cost of €1.94 (2013: 
€1.94) and included in the balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of €4.1m (2013: €4.1m). The shares are used to 
satisfy share option exercises and the purchases are funded by cash contributions from participating companies. Dividends 
receivable on these shares during the year have been waived. The administration expenses of the Trust are borne by the Trust. 
Shares will be allocated by the Trust when relevant options under the scheme are exercised. The market value of the shares at 
30 April 2014 was €2.6m (2013: €1.4m).
8 Reserves
Profit and loss account 
€m
At 1 May 2013 62.7
Profit for the year 67.2
Dividends (18.0)
Investments in ESOP shares 0.1
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.6
Actuarial loss on pension scheme recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses (30.9)
At 30 April 2014 81.7
All retained profits are distributable
Profit and loss account 
€m
At 1 May 2012 110.0
Loss for the year (14.2)
Dividends (11.2)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (2.1)
Actuarial loss on pension scheme recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses (19.8)
At 30 April 2013 62.7 130   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
9 Statement of changes in shareholders’ funds
 2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Profit/(loss) attributable to shareholders 67.2 (14.2)
Dividends (18.0) (11.2)
Investments in ESOP shares 0.1 –
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.6 (2.1)
Actuarial loss on pension scheme recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses (30.9) (19.8)
Opening shareholders’ funds 222.2 269.5
Closing shareholders’ funds 241.2 222.2
10 Employees
 2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Staff costs for the year
Wages and salaries 4.2 3.0
Social security costs 0.4 0.4
Other pension costs 0.1 0.2
Total staff costs 4.7 3.6
Average monthly number of administration staff employed during the period, including Directors, was 21 (2013: 18).
For details of remuneration of Directors employed by the Company, refer to the report on Directors’ remuneration and related 
matters on pages 43 to 56.
11 Dividends
 2014  
€m
2013  
€m
Final paid 2013: 2.625 cents (2012: 1.25 cents) per share 13.4 6.6
Interim paid 2014: 0.875 cents (2013: 0.875 cents) per share 4.6 4.6
18.0 11.2
An interim dividend of 0.875 cents was paid to the ordinary shareholders of the Company on 2 April 2014. In addition, the 
Board will also recommend at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the payment of a final dividend of 2.625 cents, 
payable on 3 October 2014 in relation to the year ending 30 April 2014. The final dividend, once approved, will be paid to  
those persons on the Register of Members at the close of business on 10 September 2014.
NOTES TO THE COMP ANY FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 
for the year ended 30 April 2014  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   131
SHAREHOLDER INFORMA TION
OTHER INFORMATION
Registrar and transfer office
All enquiries relating to shareholdings should be addressed 
to the Company’s registrar , as follows:
By mail:   Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
By phone: +44 (0)870 707 1102
By email: web.queries@computershare.co.uk 
Please indicate that you are a shareholder of Darty plc.
Investor Centre
Investor Centre is a free, secure share management website  
provided by our registrars. This service allows you to view 
your share portfolio and see the latest market prices  
of your shares, check your dividend payment and tax 
information, change your address, update payment 
instructions and receive your shareholder communications 
online. To take advantage of this service, please log in at 
www.investorcentre.co.uk and enter your Shareholder 
Reference Number and Company Code. The information can 
be found on your last dividend voucher or share certificate.
Dividend mandates
If you wish dividends to be paid directly into your bank 
account through the BACSTEL -IP (Bankers’ Automated 
Clearing Services) system, you should contact our  
registrars for a Dividend Mandate Form or apply online  
at www.investorcentre.co.uk.
Electronic shareholder communications
We have entered into an arrangement with our registrars 
whereby shareholders are able to elect to receive shareholder 
communications from the Company electronically, rather 
than in paper format via the postal system.
We actively encourage shareholders to register now for our 
electronic communications service through eTree campaign 
run by our registrars in conjunction with the Woodland Trust. 
When you register for electronic communications, a tree will 
be planted on your behalf with the Woodland Trust’s “Tree 
For All” scheme in a UK area selected for reforestation. The 
service enables you to save paper , contributing to a greener 
countryside and reducing harmful carbon dioxide emissions 
which impact climate change. 
In order to receive shareholder communications such as 
notices of shareholder meetings and Annual report and 
accounts electronically rather than by post, you should 
register your details via the Investor Centre/information  
and services page of Darty plc website www.dartygroup.com. 
You can also register for electronic communications via  
www.etreeuk.com/darty.
Share dealing service
We offer an internet and telephone share dealing service for 
shareholders (in certain jurisdictions) in conjunction with 
Computershare, our registrars.
Internet dealing:
• 
The fee for this service will be 1 per cent of the value  
of each sale or purchase, subject to a minimum charge  
of £30.00. Stamp duty at 0.5 per cent is payable  
on purchases.
• 
Up to 90 day limit orders available on shares.
• 
Service is available to place orders out of market hours.
• 
Log onto www.computershare.com/dealing/uk.
Telephone dealing:
• 
The fee for this service will be 1 per cent of the value  
of the transaction plus £35.00. Stamp duty at 0.5 per cent  
is payable on purchases.
• 
The share price at which you deal will be confirmed to you 
whilst you are still on the telephone.
• 
Service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday  
to Friday excluding bank holidays.
• 
Call +44 (0)870 703 0084.
No forms will need to be completed in advance and the 
settlement period is ten business days after your trade has 
been dealt in the market, for both internet and telephone 
share dealing. Further information and copies of the terms 
and conditions of both these services can be obtained by 
calling +44 (0)870 703 0119.
Gifting shares to your family or to charity 
To transfer shares to another member of your family as a 
gift, please ask the registrars for a Gift Transfer Form. If you 
only have a small number of shares whose value makes it 
uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider donating 
them to ShareGift, the share donation charity (registered 
charity number 1052686). The relevant share transfer form 
may be obtained from the registrars. Further information 
about the scheme is available from the ShareGift internet  
site www.ShareGift.org. 132   DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14
OTHER INFORMATION
GROUP FIVE - YEAR SUMMARY
2014  
€m
2013  
€m
2012  
€m
2011  
€m
2010  
€m
Continuing operations
Revenue 3,579.4 3,558.9 3,655.2 3,731.5 3,572.0
Retail profit 73.4 66.0 111.2 148.3 129.2
Adjusted profit before tax 60.0 56.5 103.7 132.9 117.0
Profit before tax 25.3 4.0 82.7 119.0 111.2
Taxation (15.8) (3.7) (22.4) (34.4) (30.0)
Profit from continuing operations 9.5 0.3 60.3 84.6 81.2
Discontinued operations (16.4) (108.2) (374.2) (53.9) (38.2)
(Loss)/profit for the year (6.9) (107.9) (313.9) 30.7 43.0
Adjusted EPS (cents) 6.4 7.2  14.6 18.4 17.9
Basic EPS (cents) (0.7) (19.8) (59.2) 6.0 8.4
Dividend (cents) 3.5 3.5 3.5 7.0 6.6
Summary balance sheet
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 408.2 431.8 509.0 690.4 697.4
Defined benefit pension liability (104.6) (84.8) (69.6) (71.9) (85.0)
Net (debt)/funds (185.2) (150.6) (126.5) 121.0 91.1
Other net liabilities (434.6) (459.2) (429.9) (523.4) (470.6)
Net (liabilities)/assets (316.2) (262.8) (117.0) 216.1 232.9
Notes
The results of prior years have been restated following the sale of Comet and the Turkish, Spanish and Italian operations,  
now classified as discontinued operations.
The financial information for 2010 was originally published in sterling. Proforma summary financials for the financial year 
ending 30 April 2010 were published in September 2010 and this information is included in the table above.  DARTY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013/14   133
Designed and produced by FTI Consulting www.fticonsulting.com
Printed at Cousin, ISO14001, FSC certified and is a carbon neutral company. 
This has been printed on Revive 75 Silk paper . The paper has been independently certified  
according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and awarded NAPM Recycled Mark. Darty plc
Registered address 
22-24 Ely Place 
London EC1N 6TE 
+44 (0)20 7269 1400
Registered in England 
Company number: 04232413
For information visit 
www.dartygroup.com
Darty plc Annual report 2013/14
