 ANNUAL
REPORT
2010 Business Review
01 Results Headlines
02 De La Rue at a Glance
10 Chairman’s Statement
12 Chief Executive’s Review
16 Operational Review
– Currency
– Cash Processing Solutions
– Security Products
– Identity Systems
24 Risk and Risk Management
28 Financial Review
31 Corporate Responsibility
Corporate Governance Report
36 Directors and Secretary
38 Shareholders and Share Capital
40 Other Statutory Information
42 Corporate Governance Statement
47 Remuneration Report
Group Financial Statements
54 Independent Auditor’s Report
55 Group Income Statement
56 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
57 Group Balance Sheet
58 Group Statement of Changes in Equity
59 Group Cash Flow Statement
60 Accounting Policies
66 Notes to the Accounts
Company Financial Statements
90 Company Balance Sheet
91 Accounting Policies
92 Notes to the Accounts
94 Principal Subsidiaries, Branches and Associated Companies
Shareholders’ Information
95 Five Year Record
96 Shareholders’ Information
Directors’ Report
De La Rue plc is incorporated as a public limited company and is
registered in England and Wales under the UK Companies Act 1985
with registered number 3834125 and has its registered office at
De La Rue House, Jays Close, Viables, Basingstoke, Hampshire
RG22 4BS.
The Directors present their Annual Report for the year ended
27 March 2010 which includes the Business Review, Corporate
Governance Report and audited Financial Statements for the year.
Pages 01 to 53 inclusive of this Annual Report comprise a Directors’
Report which has been drawn up and presented in accordance
with English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in
connection with that report are subject to the limitations and
restrictions of such law.
The Business Review contains certain forward-looking statements
which are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties; actual
future results may differ materially from those expressed in or
implied by such statements. Many of these assumptions, risks
and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond De La Rue’s
ability to control or estimate precisely.
Throughout this Annual Report, ‘Group’ is used as a collective term
to describe De La Rue plc and its subsidiary companies. ‘Company’
is a reference to De La Rue plc.
All financials are for the continuing Group (excluding the disposed
Cash Systems business but including Cash Processing Solutions)
unless otherwise stated.
The Group key performance indicators
The Group uses a range of key performance indicators (KPIs), along
with other management tools, to monitor performance over time
against the financial objectives and strategy set out in the Business
Review. The principal KPIs with their page references are listed below:
Financial KPIs
10 Dividends per share
11 Earnings per share (EPS)
11 Total shareholder return
12 Revenue
12 Profit before tax and exceptional items
13 Operating profit before exceptional items
13 Operating cash flow
28 Key financials summary table
Operational KPIs
Pages 14 and 15
Health, Safety and Environment KPIs
Pages 33 and 34 RESUL TS
HEADLINES
REVENUE
PROFIT MARGINS
CASH DIVIDEND
£561. 1m
2009: £502.4m
£1 04. 1m
2009: £105.0m
19.5%
2009: 19.2%
42.3p
2009: 41.1p
£1 16. 1m
2009: £69.4m
Profit before tax and exceptional items Operating profit before exceptional items
Operating cash flow Total dividend for the year
De La Rue is the world’s largest commercial
security printer and papermaker, involved in the
production of over 150 national currencies and
a wide range of security documents such as
passports, authentication labels and fiscal
stamps. De La Rue is a leading provider of cash
sorting equipment and software solutions to
central banks, helping them to reduce the cost
of handling cash. De La Rue also pioneers new
technologies in government identity solutions
for national identification, driving licence and
passport issuing schemes.
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 01 DE LA RUE
AT A GLANCE
Geographic employee split
1 UK and Ireland: 52%
2 Rest of Europe: 19%
3 Americas: 7%
4 Rest of world: 22%
Total revenue split
by business unit
1 Currency: £411.2m
2 Cash Processing Solutions:
£56.9m
3 Security Products: £74.9m
4 Identity Systems: £32.0m
Geographic analysis
of Group revenue
1 UK and Ireland: 13%
2 Rest of Europe: 9%
3 Americas: 17%
4 Rest of world: 61%
MARKET CAPITALISATION
£929.5m
As at 27 March 2010
EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE
c4,000
Across 24 countries
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
4
1
2
3
4
EPS
76.2p
2009: 57 .0p
Headline EPS before exceptional items
02 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 Dulles
Dallas
Albany
United Kingdom
Zejtun
Nairobi
Midrand
Kuala Lumpur
Malwana
Moscow
Delhi
Beijing
São Paulo
Mexico City
Melbourne
Bangkok
Johannesburg
Amsterdam
Hong Kong
Dubai
Currency
De La Rue Currency provides
market leading banknote paper,
printed banknotes and an
unparalleled portfolio of
banknote security features.
Working in partnership with its
customers to provide effective
currency solutions, the business
can also advise on critical issues
of currency strategy such as
design, demand forecasting,
denominational structure and
protection against
counterfeiting.
See page 16 for more
information.
Cash Processing Solutions
(CPS)
De La Rue Cash Processing
Solutions is integral to the
Currency offering with shared
central bank customers. The
business provides bulk cash
handling organisations – central
banks, commercial banks and
cash-in-transit companies –
with a range of sophisticated
high speed cash sorting and
authentication systems as well
as software solutions,
consultancy, service and support
to enhance the productivity,
performance and security of
cash processing operations.
See page 18 for more
information.
Security Products
De La Rue Security Products
consists of specialist businesses
whose solutions are critical
to authenticating products,
documents and revenues
for governments, global
corporations and financial
institutions around the world.
It produces authentication
labels, brand licensing products,
government documents,
cheques and postage stamps
as well as vital components
for our Currency and Identity
Systems business units.
See page 20 for more
information.
Identity Systems (IDS)
De La Rue Identity Systems
is a world expert in the delivery
and management of secure
government identity
programmes, systems and
solutions. A reliable and trusted
partner of governments
worldwide, IDS has implemented
over 100 projects in 65 countries
focusing on the provision of
passport, ePassport, national
ID and eID, driving licence and
voter registration schemes.
See page 22 for more
information.
Currency
Cash Processing Solutions (CPS)
Security Products
Identity Systems (IDS)
KEY DE LA RUE SITES
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 03 04 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
A FOCUSED
BUSINESS
CORE COMPETENCIES
De La Rue is a focused business, leveraging
our core competencies and synergies in order
to achieve long term sustainable growth,
supported by an engaged workforce.
Maximising our synergies
Brand and
relationship
• 200 year history
• Using our global brand
and reputation
• Fostering and developing
long term customer
relationships
Innovation
and technology
• Maximising solutions
from intellectual property
• Leveraging materials
science expertise
• Developing software
capabilities
• Partnering with small
and highly innovative
high-tech companies
Efficiency and
productivity
• Building on our
productivity programme
• Sharing facilities and
expertise
• Developing best practice
teams
• Building a manufacturing
culture based on quality
and performance De La Rue Annual Report 2010 05
LONG TERM SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
ENGAGED WORKFORCE
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
All parts of the business contributing
Evolving central
bank policy
Customer productivity
in cash handling
Threat of
counterfeiting
Growth
of e-identity
Engine of the
De La Rue brand
Core to Currency
offering
Capitalising on Group
intellectual property
and internal sales
Leveraging reputation
and relationships
State print works
privatisation
Outsourcing of
cash processing
by central banks
Replicate brand
licensing model
Large national
schemes such
as UK passport
Currency
Cash Processing
Solutions
Security Products
Identity Systems
A culture that makes sense for our employees
85%
of our employees understand our values:
honesty, teamwork and dedication
90%
of our employees understand De La Rue’s
business objectives
93%
of our employees appreciate how their job contributes
to De La Rue’s strategic agenda
Current growth drivers Synergies Future growth
opportunities
Source: De La Rue ‘Your Say’ staff survey 2009 A SUSTAINABLE
BUSINESS
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP
De La Rue is a sustainable business
thanks to its long term customer relationships,
ongoing investment in capability and
continued cash generation.
National Bank of Kazakhstan: long term partnership case study
Collaboration to build
state print works
Paper Supply
Banknotes in circulation
since 1993, following
Kazakhstan’s independence
Design
Design of banknotes
since 1993, following
Kazakhstan’s independence
1st Optiks™ Thread
Wide embedded security
thread with aperture
Central Bank sorters Holograms
Holograms for visas
Calypso
Experimental banknote
project
Banknote Security
Joint development
Infrastructure development
Automation of cash cycle
Securing banknotes
Joint R&D projects Securing borders
06 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 CONTINUOUS INVESTMENT
CASH GENERATION
Developing our capabilities
Low risk business model
Investment
New
customer
relationship
UK passport
Capability
New production
line in Sri Lanka
R&D
Leveraged across
the Group
Shared
services
Common platform
eg IS, logistics
People
and talent
Creation of the
De La Rue
Academy
Health
& safety
1,770 man days
in HSE training
in 2009/2010
2007 2008 2009 2010
Cash conversion
%
0%
100%
For Group excluding CPS for consistency of comparators.
Cash conversion equals operating cash flow excluding
exceptional items, special pension contributions and the
movement in advance payments, less capital expenditure,
divided by operating profit.
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 07
94
105
98
97 08 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
A WINNING
BUSINESS
SUSTAINED GROWTH
De La Rue is a winning business, delivering
sustained growth in revenue and profit,
increased productivity and ongoing
shareholder value.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
358.5
401.8
467 .0
502.4
561.1 109.2
46.9
61.3
79.2
96.5
Revenue
£m
Operating profit
before exceptional items
£m De La Rue Annual Report 2010 09
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
INCREASED PRODUCTIVITY
A continuous improvement culture
2006 to 2010
Cash returned
£810m
Cash Systems
cash return
Share
buy backs
Special
dividends
Ordinary
dividends
£460m
£166m
£143m
£41m
SHAREHOLDER VALUE
Delivering value for our shareholders: five year record
Paper
manufacture
Print
operations
Increased productivity
per employee 2005 to 2010
+29%
Increased productivity
per employee 2005 to 2010
+20% Nicholas Brookes
Non-executive Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S
STATEMENT
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
11.80
17 .00
19.10
21.40
41.10
42.30
13.27
14.87
27 .40
28.20
Dividends per share
Pence
Final
Interim
Includes proposed
2010 final dividend
These results demonstrate De La Rue’s
resilience in the uncertain economic
environment. We will continue to focus on
our core strengths whilst driving long term
growth, profitability and cash generation.
5.20
5.83
6.53
13.70
14.10
10 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 Headlines
• Group operating profit margin* remains strong
at 19.5 per cent, underpinned by productivity,
mix and foreign exchange benefits
• Strong operating cash flow of £116m
• Final dividend increase to 28.2p, making
a total of 42.3p for the year, an increase
of 3 per cent
• Secured £400m UK passport contract
for delivery over 10 years
• Sale of Camelot investment, subject to
National Lottery Commission approval
• Share buy back announced
*Operating profit is reported for continuing operations
and before exceptional items of £7 .5m in 2009/2010
Group results
The Group had an excellent year, with Currency delivering an
outstanding performance due to strong demand and a high quality
mix of work. These results underline the Board’s rationale for
creating a more focused Group and demonstrate De La Rue’s
resilience in the uncertain economic environment. We will continue
to focus on our core strengths whilst driving long term growth,
profitability and cash generation.
Dividend
Final dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 28.2p per share
(2008/2009: 27 .4p per share), subject to shareholders’ approval.
This will be paid on 5 August 2010 to shareholders on the register
on 9 July 2010. Together with the interim dividend paid in January
2010, this will give a total dividend for the year of 42.3p (2008/2009:
41.1p per share).
Overall, this equates to an uplift of 3 per cent in the level of ordinary
dividend and reflects the previously announced policy.
Changes to the Board
As previously announced, the year has seen a number of changes
to the Board.
Simon Webb will step down from the Board as Group Finance
Director on 31 May 2010. Philip Nolan and Keith Hodgkinson
stepped down as non-executive Directors in July 2009 and
December 2009 respectively. The Board wishes to thank all three
Directors for their contribution to De La Rue.
The Board is pleased to welcome three new Directors. Colin Child
will join the Board on 1 June 2010 as Group Finance Director,
bringing a wealth of financial and management experience with
large international companies.
Sir Julian Horn-Smith joined as non-executive Director on
1 September 2009 with an impressive track record at senior level in
major global companies including Vodafone. Victoria Jarman joined
as non-executive Director on 22 April 2010. She has worked closely
with the boards of major FTSE companies and businesses advising
them on a variety of strategic options.
Outlook
As indicated in March, the Board believes that 2010/2011 banknote
volumes should remain at similar levels to 2009/2010 but with a
greater than normal weighting towards the second half. Pension
charges will be £3m higher than the prior year.
The strong margin mix in Currency will not be repeated in the
current financial year. It is expected that this will be offset by
productivity gains, by cost reduction, especially in Cash Processing
Solutions, and by improved trading in other parts of the business.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
22.6
23.6
Earnings per share
Pence
Basic earnings per share
Headline earnings per share
before exceptional items
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
146.5
142.5
Total shareholder return
£
De La Rue plc
FTSE 250 excluding
investment trusts index
This graph shows the value at
27 March 2010 of £100 invested
in De La Rue plc on 26 March
2005 compared with the value
of £100 invested in the FTSE 250
excluding investment trusts
index, assuming in both cases
the reinvestment of dividends.
The other points plotted are the
values at intervening financial
year ends
Source: Thomson Financial
33.1
41.7
50.9
71.0
33.1
43.4
57 .0
76.2
190.9
174.1
149.7
98.8
166.6
240.6
267 .9
276.1
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 11 James Hussey
Chief Executive
CHIEF
EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
358.5
401.8
467 .0
502.4
561.1
Revenue
£m
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
53.7
73.3
88.6
105.0
104.1
Profit before tax and
exceptional items
£m
The strategy remains simple: delivering
certainty for our customers with secure
and innovative solutions.
12 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 Overview
It is clear that the strategy of refocusing the Group on its core
strengths has delivered a strong financial performance with growth
in both revenues and margins as well as a reduction in debt despite
strong capital investment in the business. Overall our operations
have proved remarkably resilient to the prevailing economic
conditions as we continue to focus on meeting the needs of a
shared set of customers in the high value areas of currency, security
printing, authentication and identity.
Over the past twelve months De La Rue has secured key contracts
and profitable growth in challenging economic conditions. It
continues to implement a strongly integrated strategy, leveraging its
customer relationships and investments in technology and assets to
drive continuous improvement in performance and sustainable long
term growth. Increased productivity remains a key focus for
managing short term market variability.
Group results
De La Rue reports an excellent performance for the year ended
27 March 2010. Revenues grew by 12 per cent to £561.1m
(2008/2009: £502.4m) and operating profit before exceptional items
rose by 13 per cent to £109.2m (2008/2009: £96.5m). Operating
profit margins (before exceptional items) were 19.5 per cent
(2008/2009: 19.2 per cent), reflecting benefits from productivity
improvements, customer mix and foreign exchange. Overall for the
Group, movement in the value of sterling against the euro and US
dollar contributed £27m to revenue and £7m to operating profit
(2008/2009: £25m and £6m respectively).
Profit before tax and exceptional items decreased by 1 per cent
to £104.1m (2008/2009: £105.0m) due to the increased interest
charges arising from the return of capital in 2008 and lower income
from associates. Headline earnings per share increased by 34 per
cent to 76.2p (2008/2009: 57 .0p) mainly reflecting the benefits of
the previous share consolidation. Basic earnings per share from
continuing operations were 71.0p compared with 50.9p in
2008/2009, representing an increase of 39 per cent.
Operating cash flow was £116.1m (2008/2009: £69.4m).
Management of working capital remains a strength of the Group
as demonstrated by the improved working capital ratios. Advance
payments of £44.0m (2008/2009: £39.6m) benefited from some
large receipts immediately prior to the year end. The Group ended
the year with net debt of £11.0m (2008/2009: £33.1m).
Associates
Profit from associates after tax was £6.3m (2008/2009: £8.9m)
representing the contribution from Camelot, the UK lottery operator.
This reduction was anticipated following the grant of the third lottery
licence with effect from 1 February 2009.
As previously announced, De La Rue is to dispose of its
shareholding in Camelot for approximately £77 .8m to the Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan, subject to the approval of the National
Lottery Commission. The proceeds, which are expected to be tax-
free, will be used to reduce the pension fund deficit by £35m as well
as returning surplus cash to shareholders via a share buy back.
The investment in Camelot is shown as an asset held for sale in
the balance sheet as at 27 March 2010. As a result there will be no
further income from this associate shown in the 2010/2011 income
statement.
Group strategy
The strategy remains simple: delivering certainty for our customers
with secure and innovative solutions. This strategy relates to our
three stakeholder communities as outlined below.
Customers: De La Rue’s products and services are needed in
a world threatened by sophisticated counterfeiting and global
terrorism. The strategy for an integrated De La Rue flows from our
core strengths of reputation, customer relationships and innovation.
Leveraging these across the individual businesses, while continuing
both to drive productivity and to invest in capability, enables the
Group to maximise the opportunities presented by our markets.
Employees: achieving and maintaining our market leadership
position requires that all De La Rue operations work together to
enhance our offering to customers by harnessing our shared culture
and capabilities. In order to focus our efforts, shared work streams
have been set up across the business units under the banner of
‘One De La Rue’ in the following six areas:
• Our Customers: shared customer contacts and relationships
resulting in additional sales
• Our People: training and performance management including
establishment of the De La Rue Academy
• Our Innovation: key research and development activities remain
core to our strategy
Operating cash flow
£m
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
98.7
106.7
86.7
69.4
116.1
Operating profit
before exceptional items
£m
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
46.9
61.3
79.2
96.5
109.2
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 13 • Our Performance: manufacturing best practice rolling out across
the Group
• Our Communications: clear, consistent messages to both internal
and external audiences
• Our Contribution: employee suggestions to improve productivity
continue to produce spectacular results
More information on some of these initiatives can be found in the
Corporate Responsibility section of this report (pages 31 to 35).
Shareholders: for our investors, I have previously outlined our six
steps to value:
• Focus on currency, security, identity and authentication systems
• Drive for cost management
• Maintain strong cash conversion
• Continue to invest in capability and innovation
• Actively manage the balance sheet
• Return surplus cash to shareholders
We are committed to continuing this strategy for our shareholders.
Please see pages 4 to 9 of this report for illustrations of how our
business remains focused, sustainable and winning.
People
Our people remain core to our success and I would like to take this
opportunity to thank all our employees for the dedication and hard
work which have resulted in such a good set of figures this year.
Our evolution into an integrated Group around the ‘One De La Rue’
philosophy is bearing fruit as we share resources, expertise and
technologies. Employee satisfaction levels have improved as
witnessed by the staff survey ‘Your Say’ undertaken during the year.
This produced some very encouraging results with 79 per cent of
respondents agreeing that they would prefer to work at De La Rue
rather than another company. The survey results indicate that we
have successfully communicated the Group’s values of honesty,
dedication and teamwork as well as our business objectives (see
the Corporate Responsibility section for more information page 33).
We have loyal and long serving employees in whom the Board
takes great pride.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW
continued
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
5.2
6.2
7 .0
7 .6
7 .8
Banknote print volumes
Billion
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
12.0
12.4
14.7
15.0
15.5
Banknote paper output volume
‘000 tonnes
14 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 How our businesses have performed in 2009/2010
Currency
Currency produced an outstanding performance in 2009/2010
due to a combination of strong demand for its products and a high
quality mix. Its manufacturing units operated at very high levels of
capacity utilisation throughout the year. Further investment has been
made during the year to enhance the capability of the print factory
in Sri Lanka.
Banknote volumes increased by 2 per cent year on year. The
operating profit margins continued to benefit from volume increases,
high specification work and productivity improvements, assisted by
the further weakness of sterling exchange rates against the euro
and the US dollar.
Banknote paper production again reflected strong capacity
utilisation as output rose by 4 per cent driven by ongoing increases
in productivity from capital investment in earlier years and a
systematic approach to process improvement.
The Currency order book continues to provide good visibility
for 2010/2011 and supports the expectation of consistent year
on year volumes.
We illustrate here four performance measures for Currency:
Banknote print volumes and paper output volumes: these two
measures have shown consistent year on year growth which clearly
demonstrates the ongoing demand for both paper and printed
banknotes as well as our ability to capitalise on the market
opportunities.
Overspill: this is the print work that is usually produced by state
printing works but which, for whatever reason, has come into the
private sector. Our capacity utilisation will vary depending on how
much overspill is available, the timing and our requirement for this
kind of work. In 2009/2010 the level of overspill was around 23 per
cent (2008/2009: 11 per cent) as we chose to take more of this sort
of work.
Currency order book: this indicates a rolling two-year average
number of weeks’ work we have outstanding in our Currency order
book. This has dropped slightly from last year’s level of 46 to 42
weeks as a result of the reversion to more consistent order levels
and reflects the lumpy nature of the order receipt.
Cash Processing Solutions
CPS continued to experience difficult trading as purchases
of sorters were deferred; nevertheless the business was cash
generative for the year (before exceptional items). Management
has made good progress in its actions to focus the business more
effectively on its key customer segments, especially central banks,
and to rationalise the product and manufacturing base in order to
lower the breakeven point. This restructuring is on track and has
resulted in exceptional costs of £4.8m, as announced last
September, with a payback expected within two years.
Security Products
The Security Products business delivered a strong performance,
achieving increases in government revenues, brand licensing and
high margin internal components sales against a backdrop of a
difficult economic environment in its markets.
Operating profit growth was driven by continued productivity
improvements, cost control and foreign exchange movements.
The business is well positioned in the niche markets in which it
operates, providing proven, effective and robust solutions to meet
a variety of customer needs. In addition it continues to benefit from
increased collaboration with other Group entities via internal
component sales and sharing of Group technology.
Identity Systems
IDS’ results reflect its continued development of offerings in eID
and ePassports as well as ongoing sales of non-chipped solutions.
The new ePassport factory in Malta reached full operational status
in the year positioning the business well for further expansion into
eSystems as well as existing machine readable documents.
The award of the UK passport contract in June 2009 clearly
demonstrates IDS’ ability to leverage De La Rue’s customer
understanding, reputation and technology offerings in high growth
identity markets.
Preparation for the implementation of the UK passport contract
is on schedule for sales to commence in the second half of
2010/2011. At the present time, the precise volume requirement
for passport deliveries in 2010/2011 is subject to final confirmation
by the customer.
For more information on each business unit, see the Operational
Review pages 16 to 23.
Conclusion and looking forward
Overall the business has performed strongly during the year. This
robust performance demonstrates the quality of our core offerings
in currency, security printing, authentication and identity and of our
positions in those markets.
Looking to the future, our Currency business will continue to see
long term growth (albeit offset by short term fluctuations depending
on the immediate mix of customers in the order book) as demand
continues to be driven by central bank policy which remains largely
unrelated to economic conditions. The rationalisation actions that we
have taken in CPS to address the market conditions will continue to
come through in 2010/2011. I am confident that Security Products
will continue to perform well. In IDS, clearly the focus will remain on
meeting our obligations for the UK passport contract whilst
continuing to service other customers around the world.
Productivity and cost control remain key for senior management
and in the longer term we continue to invest in the technologies
and capabilities to enhance the Group’s ability to deliver sustainable
growth in value for all its stakeholders.
Overspill proportion
of total banknotes
%
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
17
26
29
11
23
Currency order book
Weeks – two year rolling average
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
29
40
47
46
42
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 15 OPERATIONAL
REVIEW
CURRENCY
De La Rue Currency provides market
leading banknote paper, printed banknotes
and an unparalleled portfolio of banknote
security features. Working in partnership
with its customers to provide effective currency
solutions, the business can also advise on
critical issues of currency strategy such as
design, demand forecasting, denominational
structure and protection against counterfeiting.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
226.8
254.0
316.7
348.6
411.2
Revenue
£m
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
47 .1
50.4
66.5
82.8
95.3
Operating profit
before exceptional items
£m
16 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 Strategy
Currency’s strategic objective is to develop further its global market
leading position as a commercial provider of banknotes, banknote
paper, security features and associated services. There are three
key elements behind the strategy:
• Close customer relationships: by developing and maintaining
the closest possible partnerships with its customers, the business
understands their requirements and can tailor the products and
services that it provides to meet their particular needs. This
understanding of customer needs also drives the innovation
process
• An efficient and high quality manufacturing base: as the largest
commercial manufacturer of banknotes and banknote paper in
the world, Currency has natural economies of scale, which are
enhanced by comprehensive programmes of continuous
improvement to reduce costs while increasing quality
• Innovation: in both its products and its processes, the delivery
of novel security features helps combat the threat of counterfeiting,
while the efficiency of the cash circulation cycle is key to
Currency’s market leadership
Drivers of performance in 2009/2010
During the year, Currency delivered growth in sales of 18 per cent
and in operating profit of 15 per cent. Please see page 15 of the
Chief Executive’s Review for commentary on the specific
performance.
This was an outstanding year for the Currency business with high
capacity utilisation across all of its manufacturing units. There was
a good quality mix of work and the strong margins achieved were
due to some high specification work and productivity improvements
as well as foreign exchange.
The business did not see any reduction in demand despite
the uncertain global economic environment. The main driver
of banknote demand is central bank policy and this remains
unchanged from previous years and is forecast to continue
in the future (see following section).
In 2009 the Clydesdale Bank launched a new family of
banknotes, its first for over two decades. De La Rue was
proud to work with the bank, Scotland’s largest issuer
of currency, over two years to produce this superb series.
The notes display Scotland’s five Unesco World Heritage
Sites alongside celebrated national figures such as the
poet Robert Burns and the doctor and suffragette Elsie
Inglis. The designs were the first to include De La Rue’s
innovative Depth™ Image hologram. In May 2010 the series
was awarded the prestigious Best New Banknote award by
the International Association for Currency Affairs.
Drivers and market trends for the future
In terms of the issuance of new notes into circulation, demand is
driven by central bank policy decisions, of which those that affect
note lives are the most significant. The policy factors – which include
launches of new designs, changes in cash recycling policy and
developments in cash handling automation – are the most important
and consequently the global economic situation has not had a
significant impact on the Currency business.
As cash handling becomes increasingly mechanised and
counterfeiting ever more sophisticated, so the requirement for
central banks to ensure an adequate supply of secure, high quality
banknotes underpins long term demand for Currency’s products
and services.
Cash remains the world’s predominant payment system, as
measured by the number of transactions undertaken, as a result
of the particular characteristics that it has in comparison with other
payment systems. These characteristics include its universal
acceptability and the speed and lack of any requirement for
complex infrastructure at the point of transaction. Although interest
in new, alternative payment systems continues, there is little
evidence currently that such systems will fundamentally change
the dynamics between cash and non-cash payment methods.
Risks
The Currency business operates within a defined market and the
business is exposed to the short term ordering cycles of central
banks. Significant year on year changes in volume or customer
mix could affect profitability. The loss of key customers, either in
banknotes or banknote paper, could have a major effect on the
Group’s results and prospects which the business mitigates by
achieving diversity in its customer base.
Although the overall level of banknote counterfeiting around the
world remains low, analysis of counterfeit notes indicates that
criminals are attempting increasingly to simulate some of the
security features introduced over the last ten to fifteen years.
Currency undertakes extensive analysis of counterfeits to assess
this trend and has a continuing programme of innovation, in many
cases involving novel materials and processes, to develop new
features to remain ahead of the counterfeiter.
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 17 OPERATIONAL REVIEW
continued
CASH PROCESSING
SOLUTIONS
De La Rue Cash Processing Solutions (CPS) is
integral to the De La Rue Currency offering with
shared central bank customers. The business
provides bulk cash handling organisations with
a range of sophisticated high speed cash sorting
and authentication systems as well as software
solutions, consultancy, service and support to
enhance the productivity, performance and
security of cash processing operations.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
40.1
47 .3
58.4
66.0
56.9
Revenue
£m
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
-4.1
-0.4
0.4 0.4
-3.5
Operating profit
before exceptional items
£m
18 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 Strategy
CPS’ strategic objective is to deliver stable and sustainable business
growth by leveraging De La Rue’s strength in developing customer
relationships, bringing innovative solutions to our customers and
by delivering excellence in execution.
This will be delivered by:
• Leveraging De La Rue’s market position and strategic customer
relationships and focusing on our key market segments of central
banks, commercial banks and cash-in-transit companies
• Continued investment in research and development programmes
that deliver innovative solutions to our customers and benefit their
cash processing operations
• Designing customer-focused excellence into our processes
to ensure that we meet and exceed customer expectations
CPS is proud of its long term relationship with central banks,
commercial banks and other bulk cash handlers. We seek to build
sustainable partnerships with our customers and deliver innovative
solutions that can take advantage of future market opportunities.
Drivers of performance in 2009/2010
During the year, CPS saw a fall in sales of 14 per cent and
a reduction in operating profit of £3.9m. Please see page 15
of the Chief Executive’s Review for commentary on the specific
performance.
Trading conditions remained difficult during the year and reductions
in customer discretionary spend resulted in order deferrals. However,
we are pleased that our service revenues have held up in the year,
testimony to our continued customer focus.
Management has made good progress in its actions to refocus the
business on its key customer segments as well as to rationalise the
product and manufacturing base. Overall the CPS business has
been able to deliver a positive operating cash flow before
exceptionals for the year.
Notwithstanding the difficult market conditions, CPS has achieved
a major milestone in installing the new DLR 7000 high speed note
sorter into all key market segments of central banks, commercial
banks and cash-in-transit companies (see case study below).
Innovation continues to be core to the strategy: for example this year
has seen the successful introduction of the new Cobra shredder
solution to a number of central bank customers worldwide.
The DLR 7000 high speed banknote sorter is now processing
banknotes on a daily basis for central banks, commercial
banks and cash-in-transit companies worldwide, including
leading Irish bank AIB and Paris-based CIT Temis. AIB
Currency Services says ‘the DLR 7000 has provided AIB
with a modern, effective and efficient solution which enables
us to run a world class operation serving our customers and
servicing our branches and ATM network’. Temis, a local
leader in its sector, automated its two cash centres using the
DLR 7000. Gilles Goudron, Managing Director, said ‘We are
now running over 1 million notes per day and the system has
already delivered significant savings to our operation’.
Drivers and market trends for the future
The growing use of automation in the cash cycle continues to
drive change in the cash processing industry. The growth in the
number of ATMs has made cash available 24 hours a day, driving
ever higher volumes of banknotes, even in developed economies
where credit cards might have been expected to reduce the
demand for cash. Moreover, the economic downturn has driven
increased cash usage as the public turn to cash as a means to
control personal expenditure.
Central banks have increased their focus on security and
performance and a number have introduced performance standards
for the authentication and fitness sorting of banknotes in the
commercial sector. This has helped central banks to achieve their
objectives of ensuring the integrity of banknotes and ensuring the
efficient supply of cash, wherever and whenever it is needed. It has
also led to increased demand for advanced banknote processing
solutions from the commercial sector as they look to improve
operational efficiency within these regulatory frameworks.
The demands on the products and services we provide are
increasing, as customers challenge us to deliver higher levels of
security, performance and productivity. Central and commercial
banks are seeing a requirement to deliver increasing levels of
process control and visibility, allowing organisations to replicate
global best practice in their operations. Solutions such as ECM™
Business Intelligence (CPS’ cash management software) are
designed to deliver critical business data to decision makers in
real time, and have allowed users to realise significant operational
savings. We anticipate that demand for such solutions will continue
to grow as organisations demand greater process control and
become more cost focused and data driven.
The cash processing industry is a vital part of the economy and
we anticipate that it will remain so whilst demand for banknotes
continues to grow. The trend for some central banks to outsource
the recycling of fit banknotes to the commercial sector will continue
to drive the demand for advanced solutions, whilst the current
economic challenges will continue to drive the search for
productivity gains across the industry.
Risks
Whilst the underlying business drivers remain strong, the CPS
business is exposed to long ordering processes of central and
commercial banks, frequently for customers in the developing world.
Significant year on year changes in volume or customer mix could
affect profitability, which the business mitigates by achieving a
diversity of its customer base. One of the strengths of the CPS
business is that a significant part of the business is annual service
and maintenance of the installed base. These are very stable, long
term contracts to maintain mission critical machine operation.
CPS’ total solution package typically represents a major investment
by its customers. Therefore, the profitability of the CPS business in
any given period can fluctuate significantly, depending upon the
customer demand and the specific solutions delivered in that period.
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 19 OPERATIONAL REVIEW
continued
SECURITY PRODUCTS
De La Rue Security Products consists of
specialist businesses whose solutions are
critical to authenticating products, documents
and revenues for governments, global
corporations and financial institutions around
the world. It produces authentication labels,
brand licensing products, government
documents, cheques and postage stamps
as well as vital components for our Currency
and IDS business units.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
67 .6
72.3
74.8
69.7
74.9
Revenue
£m
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
1.2
6.6
8.4
11.0
14.8
Operating profit
before exceptional items
£m
20 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 Strategy
Security Products’ strategy is to build market share in three segments
with long term growth prospects: government revenues, brand
authentication and components supplied to internal customers.
The businesses that make up Security Products are amongst the
leaders in their respective markets and are renowned for delivering
innovative solutions. This is a result of investment in new technology,
leveraging the Group’s intellectual property and research and
development activities.
Security Products’ solutions are critical to authenticating revenue
streams, documents, products and people, and are continually
upgraded to maintain effectiveness. Increasingly the business delivers
a complete solution, including secure tokens, data management,
supply chain services and on-line authentication capability.
Productivity gains continue to be delivered through continuous
process improvement, sharing fixed costs and rigorous cost control,
helping to maintain the trend in increasing profit and better margins.
Drivers of performance in 2009/2010
During the year, Security Products delivered growth in sales of
7 per cent and growth in operating profit of 35 per cent. See page
15 of the Chief Executive’s Review for commentary on the specific
performance.
Performance was in line with expectations, showing an
improvement over 2008/2009 in terms of orders, sales and
operating profit, reflecting growth in each of the target segments.
This focused approach combined with high contract renewal rates
and increased efficiency gives Security Products a stable platform
for growth.
This year Security Products secured new multi year contracts in all
of its target sectors: government revenue contracts in Africa and the
Middle East, brand authentication business with organisations in
UK, Europe, Asia and North America and internal component orders
from both Currency and IDS, including the first use of the Depth™
Image holographic feature on a family of banknotes by Clydesdale
Bank (see customer case study on page 17).
Security Products has shown considerable resilience to weak
economic conditions. Orders from commercial customers were
relatively slow in the first half, continuing the trend from the end of
2008/2009, but there is now some evidence that growth is returning.
The challenge for Security Products is to deliver continually value
to our customers by combining the latest security with world class,
cost effective service to create superior solutions.
Having successfully delivered a high quality, reliable
service to more than 170 licensed customers at over
400 manufacturing sites for the 2006 FIFA World Cup™,
De La Rue Holographics was delighted to be asked
to replicate the model for the 2010 FIFA World Cup™.
Our holograms, designed specifically for the 2010
event with enhanced security features, are being used
on all official 2010 FIFA World Cup™ branded licensed
merchandise, enhancing FIFA’s iconic brand, protecting
its revenues and making it easier and faster for football
fans to identify genuine FIFA licensed products.
Drivers and market trends for the future
Security Products is focused on three distinct markets, each with
attractive characteristics:
• Government revenues: Security Products is already one of the
leading suppliers of tax stamps on tobacco and alcohol products.
This market has long term growth prospects with over 100
countries without schemes in place. As governments seek to raise
and protect revenues, we expect new schemes to be introduced
and existing schemes upgraded
• Brand authentication: Security Products’ combination of world
class design, manufacturing excellence and unbeatable security
has led to long term relationships with many of the world’s leading
brands to protect their revenue streams and global reputation.
Security Products works with brand owners such as FIFA,
football’s governing body, who successfully license their brand
and benefit from technology that reveals counterfeit, royalty
under-reporting and grey market diversion issues (see case study
on FIFA below). We expect brand owners to continue to place
increasing emphasis on protecting their revenue streams and
brand integrity as the global economy recovers
• Internal components: Security Products is a key supplier of security
features and components to the Currency and IDS business units
of De La Rue. Security Products will benefit from the long term
growth in each of these businesses
Security Products has achieved notable productivity gains in the
last few years. There is potential for further improvement and we are
putting additional investment into realising these benefits, including
a significant training initiative ‘Leading Performance’.
Risks
Security Products’ customers are principally governments, major
commercial organisations and financial institutions constantly
threatened by counterfeiting and illicit trade issues. Solutions
need to be continually upgraded to meet these threats.
Sales cycles can be lengthy, but once contracts are secured the
business benefits from significant stability and good forward visibility.
Managing the customer relationship over time becomes critical.
Government spending continues to be under scrutiny and the
implementation of tax stamp schemes must demonstrate the ability
to increase revenue collections. Without this evidence schemes
may be delayed.
Our commercial customers are more vulnerable to weak economic
conditions but there is some evidence that growth is returning.
Digital authentication remains the long term objective for many
progressive customers and Security Products has developed
solutions that provide functionality today and a roadmap towards
future upgrades.
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 21 OPERATIONAL REVIEW
continued
IDENTITY SYSTEMS
De La Rue Identity Systems (IDS) is a world
expert in the delivery and management of
secure government identity programmes,
systems and solutions. A reliable and trusted
partner of governments worldwide, IDS has
implemented over 100 projects in 65 countries
focusing on the provision of passport,
ePassport, national ID and eID, driving licence
and voter registration schemes.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
27 .7
29.9
26.5
30.4
32.0
Revenue
£m
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
2.7
4.7
3.9
2.3
2.6
Operating profit
before exceptional items
£m
22 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 Strategy
IDS’ goal is to deliver growth by developing its customer base in
existing regions and continue to extend its capabilities and offerings
in response to the evolving needs of the identity market.
The business delivers this goal in three ways:
• Continued development of sales channels – deepening its
relationships with existing customers while leveraging Group
networks and external partnerships to find new opportunities
• Innovation and breadth of proposition – targeting research
investment and using existing Group technologies to develop
new and differentiated security features for identity documents,
alongside the ongoing development of software systems and
electronic identity (eID) solutions
• Delivery of customer-focused operational excellence – driving
cost advantages and superior customer satisfaction through
continuous improvement in quality and manufacturing efficiency
Drivers of performance in 2009/2010
During the year, IDS delivered growth in sales of 5 per cent and
growth in operating profit of 13 per cent. Please see page 15 of the
Chief Executive’s Review for commentary on the specific
performance.
The identity market is continuing to grow. Despite evidence that the
global economic crisis has in some cases slowed down the roll-out
and development of identity programmes, underlying trends and
drivers remain consistent as the pressures to improve cross-border
security and demands for public sector identity programmes
continue. Further driving performance, the business continues
to manage its supply chain effectively, both controlling costs and
mitigating the risks. As a manufacturer this has meant a focus on
continuous improvement in quality and efficiency and as a reseller
and integrator of issuance solutions, robust procurement strategies
and delivery methodology.
In the current year IDS was successful in winning the contract to
design, manufacture and supply the UK passport. This is a 10-year
contract valued at around £400m. The implementation programme
has now commenced and is set to deliver substantial growth in the
coming year. Other successes during the year include the award
for East Africa’s first eID solution in Rwanda (see case study below),
delivery of a national ID card and system in Guyana and an update
to the existing Bahrain passport including the first ever instance
of Cornerstone™ in a travel document (Cornerstone™ is a paper
feature originally developed for banknotes that ensures greater
durability). In addition to further developing its eID capability during
2009/2010, IDS also delivered EAC (Enhanced Access Control)
capability allowing it to provide the latest secure ePassport solutions
comprising enhanced security protocols for the safe storage and
accessing of fingerprint data on the chip.
IDS’ new purpose built ePassport factory in Malta, which opened
last year, has now reached full operational status. Investment in
this plant will continue in order to ensure the latest technological
advancements are installed.
Reaffirming its strong ties with the Government of Rwanda,
IDS has been awarded the contract to design and implement
East Africa’s first national eID project. De La Rue has been
working in Rwanda for over ten years and already delivers
its passport, current ID card, driving licence and supporting
systems. The new smart eID card device is at the leading
edge of technology and innovation and will deliver a
document that offers multi-application functionality, allowing
citizens easier access to services while also providing
improved levels of security.
Drivers and market trends for the future
Technology will continue to drive growth. More countries will move
to higher value eSystems, with an increase in associated needs for
more sophisticated data security management.
IDS will continue to see its markets transition to ePassports and
eID from non-chipped solutions at a steady pace. This provides
a natural opportunity for growth as new eID solutions increase
the scope of a country’s requirements, adding the need for more
complex secure data capture and data management. With a large
customer base yet to move to eSystems, IDS is well-positioned
to grow organically. At the same time this transition provides
challenges as it is a natural re-tender point. IDS is focused on
ensuring it is well positioned where it is incumbent and able to
satisfy these changing customer needs.
The new contract for the UK passport marks a significant
opportunity. Operational efficiencies and enhancements will flow
from increased scale, while in parallel the business continues to
deliver significant new services alongside its existing operations.
Risks
Due to the expanding nature of the service proposition around
ePassports and eID systems, IDS is seeing continued competition
from players who do not come from a security print heritage. It is
also seeing increasingly sophisticated sales processes often involving
partnership and contact with a wider range of stakeholders. Typically
contract values may increase but also the sales process grows in
length and complexity.
As an integrator of services from other companies, IDS must ensure
it manages risks in its supply chain. Finding the right partners and
putting in place strategies to ensure it manages the risk of supplier
failure are key to success.
IDS is a contract-based business focusing on government
customers. As such its revenues can be lumpy in nature.
Government contracts can be prone to cancellation or delay at
short notice and the business aims to ensure it has a sufficiently
strong pipeline and range of ongoing contracts to ensure it
maintains steady growth.
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 23 RISK AND RISK
MANAGEMENT
De La Rue’s reputation is based on security,
integrity and trust. This section summarises
the types of risks which are either specific
to De La Rue or which could have a material
adverse effect on the Group, together with
the controls which have been put in place
to manage those risks. The risks outlined
in this section represent the principal major
uncertainties and trends which may have an
impact on De La Rue’s ability to implement
effectively its future strategy. It is not an
exhaustive list as some risks may be as yet
unknown and other risks, currently regarded
as immaterial, could turn out to be material.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
Risk owners
and managers
• Responsible for
operational management
and oversight of risk
within individual
businesses or functional
areas
• Allocation of appropriate
levels of resource for
individual risk controls
Risk Committee
• Approves risk
management framework
• Reviews business and
Group risk registers
• Composition includes
Chief Executive,
Group Finance Director,
Company Secretary,
business unit managing
directors and Group
Director of Business
Continuity
• Considers actions to
improve management
of risk
• Considers new or
emerging risks
Audit Committee
• Considers adequacy of
internal controls and risk
management framework
• Receives and reviews
reports on risk
management from
Risk Committee
• Receives and reviews
reports from internal and
external audit on status
of internal controls
Board
• Responsible for
governance structure
• Approves high level risk
appetite
• Receives reports
from Audit and Risk
Committees on risk
and internal controls
24 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 The Combined Code on Corporate Governance requires the
Board to maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard
shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets and at least
annually to conduct a review of the effectiveness of the Group’s
system of internal controls. During the year, the Board carried out its
annual review which covered all material controls, including financial,
operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
Additionally, the Board received information about the Group’s
operations throughout the year enabling it regularly to evaluate
the nature and extent of the risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Board is therefore able to confirm that an effective system
of internal control has been in place throughout 2009/2010.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. It relies on the Audit and
Risk Committees to assist in this process. Over the course of the
last year, a comprehensive review of risk management and reporting
structures has been undertaken and changes to the risk assessment
procedures have been introduced to improve the management
of risks at the business unit and functional levels and to strengthen
the role of the Risk Committee. Details of the Audit and Risk
Committees are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement
on pages 45 and 46.
Management is responsible for implementing the controls which are
designed to meet the particular needs of the Group, and the risks to
which it is exposed, with procedures intended to provide effective
internal control. The controls by their nature are designed to manage
rather than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable but not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The
processes used by the Board and, on its behalf, by the Audit and
Risk Committees have been in place throughout the year, and
include reviewing:
• Monthly finance, operational and development reports
• Internal and external audit plans
• Significant issues identified by internal and external audits
• Significant Group risks and risk mitigation actions reported by the
Risk Committee including updates to the Group’s risk register
• Annual compliance statements in the form of self-audit
questionnaires
• Reports on other matters such as security, health, safety and
environmental issues and fire risks
Internal financial control
The financial control framework includes the following key features:
• An annual strategic planning process
• An annual budget
• A system of monthly reporting by each business unit which
involves comparison of actual results with the original budget
and the updating of a full year forecast
• Monthly reporting of performance to the Board
• Audited annual Financial Statements
• Interim Financial Statements reviewed by the auditors
The main controls which address the financial implications of
the major business risks are centred on strict approval procedures.
These are reviewed annually, approved by the Board and apply
to all subsidiaries. They include:
• Executive Directors’ approval of all major non-routine revenue
expenditure
• Board approval of all major capital expenditure
• Board approval of all acquisitions and disposals
• A system of authorisation limits which cascades throughout
the Group
• Board consideration of any matter having a material effect
on the Group
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base and modest
levels of net debt in order to maintain investor, creditor and market
confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
Further details on capital management can be found in note 15
to the accounts on page 75.
Treasury, foreign exchange and borrowing facilities
The Group Treasury department provides a central service to Group
companies and conducts its operations in accordance with clearly
defined guidelines and policies, which have been reviewed and
approved by the Board. Treasury transactions are only undertaken
as a consequence of underlying commercial transactions or
exposures and do not seek to take active risk positions. It is Group
Treasury’s role to ensure that the Group has sufficient available
borrowing facilities to meet its needs in the foreseeable future.
Details of specific operational risks can be found in the Operational
Review on pages 16 to 23. Details of financial risk management can
be found in note 15 to the accounts on page 74.
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 25 RISK AND RISK
MANAGEMENT
continued
Risk
Loss of key site
There are a number of key manufacturing sites across the business.
The total loss of any one of these key sites could have a major
financial impact, particularly where the site forms a source of supply
for the business.
Contract issues
Customer contracts contain a range of obligations and conditions.
If liabilities were to be triggered, significant penalties could be
incurred. Quality failures could also trigger liability claims that
may require re-manufacturing.
Product security
There is the potential for reputational damage in the event of the
loss of materials from a manufacturing site as a result of negligence
or theft. Loss of product whilst in transit, particularly during
transhipment, through the failure of freight companies or through
the loss of an aircraft or vessel as a result of an accident or natural
disaster is also possible.
Pension funding
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme in the UK.
Presently there is a deficit between the projected liability on the
scheme and the assets held by the scheme. The size of the deficit
may be materially impacted by a number of factors including
inflation, investment returns, changes in interest rates and life
expectancy. An increase in the deficit may require the Group to
increase the cash contributions to the scheme which would reduce
the Group’s available cash for other purposes.
Environmental breach
Our main banknote paper manufacturing site is at Overton mill
which is located in an environmentally sensitive area. Any significant
breach of operations, such as unauthorised discharges, could result
in immediate suspension of operations at the site.
Mitigation
The Group aims to achieve the highest standards of health, safety
and environmental management. Risk engineering to minimise risks,
particularly from fire hazards and the use of flammable solvents,
is a key focus to ensure that site risks are clearly prioritised and
resourced and actions taken, wherever possible, to terminate
or minimise these risks. The development, updating and testing
of business continuity plans is also an essential component in
maintaining assurance for the continuity of supply.
Commercial and contract risks are managed through a variety
of means. Contracts are reviewed by the internal legal team and
material exposures, together with identified means of mitigating
them, are submitted to the Board (sometimes through its General
Business Committee) for approval. Supplier performance is also
kept under regular review with rigorous testing and quality control
applied to products.
Security is a key focus across De La Rue. Robust physical and
audit security procedures at production sites reduce the risk of an
inadvertent loss or theft during manufacturing. Movements of security
materials between De La Rue sites and for onward delivery to
customers are conducted applying stringent operational procedures
using carefully selected carriers and suitably screened personnel.
All movements are risk managed and monitored globally on a 24/7
basis. Procedures are kept under continuous review and any
incident or non-compliance is fully investigated.
The performance of the pension scheme is reviewed regularly
by Group management in conjunction with the scheme’s Trustee.
External actuarial and investment advice is taken on a regular basis
to ensure that the scheme is managed in the best interests of both
the Group and the scheme’s members. Following consultation with
the members, Trustee and advisers, agreement has been reached
to close the defined benefit plan to all members with effect from
April 2013, with a replacement defined contribution scheme being
brought into operation.
Environmental awareness is afforded high priority at all De La Rue
manufacturing sites and particularly at Overton. To ensure continued
compliance with regulations, constant monitoring of all key
operating parameters is in place with regular testing of discharge
water against performance criteria agreed by the Environment
Agency. Controls and specialist personnel are in place on a
continuous basis throughout the year with regular training and
awareness programmes in place for all employees.
Each business unit and every Group function has developed and maintains a risk register, capturing significant risks to which the relevant
business unit is exposed or which have been identified as a risk to the Group by the relevant function. These risks are reviewed by the Risk
Committee, which identifies those risks which could have a material adverse impact in the context of the Group as a whole, and which are
then reported to the Board. The principal risks identified by the Risk Committee and reported to the Board in 2009/2010 are set out below
but do not appear in any particular order of potential materiality or probability of occurrence.
26 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 Risk
Foreign exchange
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign
exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily
with respect to the US dollar and euro. Any material exposure
to foreign exchange risk could have a major effect on the
Group’s profits.
Health and safety failure
All De La Rue’s activities are subject to extensive internal Health,
Safety and Environmental (HSE) procedures, processes and
controls. Nevertheless, there is a risk that failure of process
could in the worst case lead to a serious injury or fatality.
Breach of competition regulations
Breach of competition regulations could result in significant
financial penalties as well as reputational damage.
Information security
The confidentiality, integrity and availability of information systems
could be affected by factors that include human error, ineffective
design or operation of key controls or through malfunction or
deliberate attack. Outages and interruptions could affect our ability
to conduct day to day operations and any compromise of the
confidentiality of information could impact our reputation with
current and potential customers.
Non-compliance/illegal behaviour by third parties acting
outside the law or De La Rue policies
In some countries De La Rue relies on the services of third parties
to represent its interests. There is a risk that third parties such as
suppliers or agents could operate in a manner contrary to the
Group’s strict policies on ethical business conduct or the law,
exposing us to potential financial and reputational damage.
Mitigation
The Group aims to hedge between 60 and 100 per cent of foreign
exchange exposure risk arising from future commercial transactions
and recognised assets and liabilities. An annual review of hedging
policy is presented to the Board.
The Group has detailed corporate health and safety standards
which are internally audited and supplemented by certification to the
OHSAS18001 standard in all major facilities, requiring independent
external audit verification. The Health, Safety and Environment
Committee has Operating Board representatives from each
business unit and reviews HSE performance regularly. Each facility
has clear HSE action plans which are prioritised, monitored and
subject to review by local senior management to ensure that health
and safety standards are maintained. HSE performance is reported
to the Board each month.
Regular training takes place for all sales and other personnel who
may have contact with competitors, for example at industry forums
or during formal tender processes.
De La Rue keeps all aspects of its security arrangements under
regular review. There are a number of controls in place to manage
this risk including network segregation, access restrictions, system
monitoring, security reviews and vulnerability assessments of
infrastructure and applications. Business continuity plans are in
place to help recover from significant outages or interruptions.
During the year, the Group implemented the recommendations of
Lord Woolf arising out of the investigation into allegations of corrupt
payments by BAE Systems, insofar as they relate to the use of
agents. A rigorous assessment of all processes involving third party
appointments is conducted and audited independently of the sales
team. In addition, a number of further control measures have been
introduced such as dedicated training for sales personnel, senior
managers and agents on the Code of Conduct, anti-bribery and
corruption issues. Controls on the use of cash and advance
payments are in place and external advisers are engaged to
undertake due diligence on sensitive agents identified as a result
of a full risk assessment. Greater visibility has also been given to
the Whistleblowing policy to encourage employees to report any
suspicious conduct.
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 27 FINANCIAL
REVIEW
In this section of the Business Review we
analyse the strong performance and financial
position of the Group at 27 March 2010.
Key financials (Continuing Group – excluding the disposed business of Cash Systems but including CPS)
2009/2010 2008/2009 Change
Revenue £561.1m £502.4m 11.7%
Profit before tax £96.6m £96.1m 0.5%
Profit before tax and exceptional items
(1)
£104.1m £105.0m (0.9%)
Operating profit before exceptional items
(1)
£109.2m £96.5m 13.2%
Basic earnings per share 71.0p 50.9p 39.5%
Headline earnings per share
(1)
76.2p 57.0p 33.7%
Operating cash flow £116.1m £69.4m 67.3%
Net debt at end of year
(2)
£11.0m £33.1m 66.8%
Dividends per share
(3)
42.3p 41.1p 2.9%
(1)
before exceptional costs of £7.5m (2008/2009: £8.9m).
(2)
cash and cash equivalents of £41.6m (2008/2009: £58.5m) less current and non-current borrowings of £52.6m (2008/2009: £91.6m).
(3)
includes proposed final dividend.
Simon Webb
Group Finance Director
28 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 Financial results
Revenues grew by 12 per cent to £561.1m (2008/2009: £502.4m)
and operating profit before exceptional items rose by 13 per cent
to £109.2m (2008/2009: £96.5m). Operating profit margins (before
exceptional items) were 19.5 per cent (2008/2009: 19.2 per cent),
reflecting productivity improvements, customer mix and foreign
exchange. Overall for the Group, movement in the value of sterling
against the euro and US dollar contributed £27m to revenue and
£7m to operating profit (2008/2009: £26m and £6m respectively).
Profit before tax and exceptional items decreased by 1 per cent
to £104.1m (2008/2009: £105.0m) due to the increased interest
charges arising from the return of capital in 2008 and lower income
from associates. Headline earnings per share increased by 34 per
cent to 76.2p (2008/2009: 57 .0p) mainly reflecting the benefits of
the previous share consolidation. Basic earnings per share from
continuing operations were 71.0p compared with 50.9p in
2008/2009, representing an increase of 39 per cent.
Exceptional items
Exceptional charges of £7 .5m in the period reflect the resolution
of a legacy overseas indirect tax issue and the reorganisation of
CPS, the latter expected to have a payback within two years.
Reorganisation costs principally covered redundancy charges and
rationalisation of products and site capabilities. These charges gave
rise to a related tax credit of £1.0m. In addition £1.4m of tax credit
arose when the tax treatment of some prior year exceptional items
was determined.
During 2008/2009, De La Rue announced its intention to reduce
central costs by approximately 50 per cent following the disposal of
Cash Systems. This programme was completed ahead of schedule.
Central reorganisation costs relating to this programme principally
covered redundancy, separation costs and site rationalisation
charges.
The Group completed the sale of its Cash Systems activities on
1 September 2008. Profit from discontinued operations (after tax)
was £296.5m, which included £12.6m (after tax) from the trading of
the discontinued activities for the five months to 1 September 2008.
Interest charge
The Group’s net interest charge was £5.1m (2008/2009: income
£1.4m), which reflects the debt taken on in connection with the
return of capital in 2008. In addition the IAS 19 related finance item,
arising from the difference between the interest on liabilities and the
expected return on assets rose to £6.3m (2008/2009: £1.8m) as
a result of lower expected returns on the reduced market valuation
of pension assets at the 2008/2009 year end.
Taxation
The tax charge for the year was £26.2m (2008/2009: £28.5m). The
effective tax rate pre exceptional items, was 27 .5 per cent, broadly
in line with the previous year’s rate. The effective tax rate excluding
associate income (shown post-tax) would have been 29 per cent.
A credit of £2.4m arises on the exceptional charges noted above.
Cash flow and borrowings
Operating cash flow was £116.1m (2008/2009: £69.4m) with a
strong cash conversion of 99 per cent (2008/2009: 98 per cent).
Management of working capital remains a strength of the Group as
demonstrated by the improvement in stock days to 40 (2008/2009:
58) and debtor days to 34 (2008/2009: 39). Advance payments of
£44.0m (2008/2009: £39.6m) benefited from some large receipts
immediately prior to the year end.
Capital expenditure of £33.1m (2008/2009: £29.3m) was higher
than depreciation, reflecting the investment programme directed
at enhancing the future capability of the business, including the
preparation for delivery of the UK passport contract.
The Group ended the year with net debt of £11.0m (2008/2009:
£33.1m).
During the year, the Group negotiated a new borrowing facility
running to September 2013. Key financial covenants on this facility
are unchanged and require that the interest cover be greater than
four times, and the net debt to EBITDA ratio be less than three
times.
Pension deficit and funding
The Group’s last formal (triennial) funding valuation of its UK defined
benefit pension scheme took place on 5 April 2009 and identified
the scheme had a deficit of £204m (5 April 2006: £56m deficit).
The deficit increased despite special contributions of £51m over the
three years prior to April 2009, primarily as a result of a fall in asset
values following the financial crisis and continued improvements
in life expectancy.
In April 2006, the Group agreed with the Trustee to make additional
special contributions of £12m per annum until 2012 or until the
deficit was cleared, if sooner. Following the completion of the latest
triennial valuation and in addition to the one-off contribution resulting
from the Camelot sale (£35m), agreement has been reached with
the Trustee to increase the annual funding plan to £15m per annum
(commencing in 2010/2011 and running for approximately 11 years)
with a 4 per cent annual increment.
During 2009/2010, special funding payments of £17m were made
to the Group pension fund, comprising the scheduled contribution
of £12m and an early payment of part of the 2010/2011 contribution
for reasons of tax efficiency.
Pension scheme changes
The final salary section was closed to new entrants from July 2004,
with new employees joining the De La Rue Retirement Plan which
is a combination of a 1/100ths accrual final salary section and a
defined contribution arrangement. From June 2007 the normal
retirement age was increased from 62 to 65, with retirements before
the normal retirement age resulting in a 5 per cent per annum
actuarial reduction in pension accrued after June 2007 .
Analysis of the Group’s assets and related cash/debt by currency
2010 2010 2010 2009
Group Assets Cash/(debt) Net Assets
†
Net Assets
†
£m £m £m £m
£ sterling (41.9) (3.0) (44.9) (47.2)
US dollar 34.1 (17.1) 17.0 14.9
euro 23.9 1.2 25.1 41.1
All other 1.2 7.9 9.1 8.9
17.3 (11.0) 6.3 17.7
†
Excluding minority interest.
Principal exchange rates used in translating the Group’s results
2009/2010 2010 2008/2009 2009
Average Year end Average Year end
£
US dollar 1.58 1.49 1.73 1.43
euro 1.13 1.11 1.21 1.08
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 29 FINANCIAL
REVIEW
continued
After a consultation process with members the following agreed
changes to the pension scheme will be implemented:
• A new defined contribution scheme, open to all UK employees,
to be created from the summer of 2010
• The Final Salary and Retirement Plan defined benefit schemes
to be closed to future accrual for all employees with effect from
1 April 2013
Closing the defined benefit scheme will result in a one off
exceptional benefit in the income statement for 2010/2011
of c£16m and a reduction in the deficit of c£20m.
IAS 19 accounting
It is the responsibility of the Trustee to set the method and
assumptions for calculating the scheme liabilities under scheme
Funding Valuation. The assumptions used to calculate the IAS 19
valuation used in the consolidated accounts are set by the Group
in compliance with the guidance given in IAS 19 and advice from
its actuary. The discount rate used for calculating IAS 19 liabilities
is the yield prevailing on AA rated corporate bonds. Those used for
ongoing funding valuation are based on actuarial advice taking into
account the actual investment profile of assets between bonds and
equities over the longer term. This is the principal difference between
the two sets of assumptions.
The valuation of the UK pension scheme under IAS 19 principles
indicates a scheme deficit pre-tax at 27 March 2010 of £124.8m
(March 2009: £67 .5m). This significant increase in deficit during the
period has mainly arisen due to the reduction, from 6.8 per cent to
5.8 per cent, in the bond discount rate used to value the scheme
liabilities. This is partly offset by the increased asset values from the
market low point in March 2009 and the Group’s ongoing regular
contributions. The charge to operating profits in respect of the UK
pension scheme for 2009/2010 was £4.5m (2008/2009: £5.8m).
In addition, under IAS 19 there was a finance charge of £6.3m
arising from the difference between the expected return on assets
and the interest on liabilities (2008/2009: £1.8m).
2008 2009 2010
22.1
21.3
23.0
19.2
29.3
33.1
Capital expenditure relative
to depreciation
£m
Depreciation
Capital expenditure
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
29.4
29.9
27 .9 28.0
27 .5
Underlying effective tax rate
before exceptional items
%
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
33.6
70.1
62.9
39.6
44.0
Group working capital
– advance payments
£m
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
33.8
11.2
27 .7
51.2
57 .3
Group working capital
– trade working capital
£m
Trade working capital comprises
inventory plus trade receivables
less trade payables and advance
payments.
30 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
De La Rue is committed to ensuring that
its business is managed in a responsible
and sustainable way by incorporating sound
Corporate Responsibility (CR) policies and
practices as part of its business strategy and
day to day business activities. De La Rue is
a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
The CR section of the website
www.delarue.com contains more information
about CR in De La Rue. The case studies in
this section illustrate a number of CR initiatives
from around the Group.
The theme of the tenth Interlock Health, Safety and
Environmental (HSE) Conference held in November 2009
was ‘Back to Basics – Driving Good Practice’. Topics
included travel and personal safety, slips, trips and falls,
fire safety and machinery safety. Eighty delegates from
sites around the world attended, including all members
of the Operating Board. Delegates voted for the best health
and safety initiatives, with awards being presented by the
Chief Executive. The winner was De La Rue Security
Threads for excellent work on reducing manual handling
risks. Our employees are instrumental in driving the ongoing
improvement of HSE processes – all those attending were
invited to make one personal commitment to improving health
and safety at their site. These pledges were recorded centrally
and are being followed up personally by the Chief Executive.
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 31 Accountability and management processes
The Board receives monthly reports on CR issues and is ultimately
responsible for assessing the impact of these on De La Rue’s
business, and for setting appropriate policies for the Group. The
Chief Executive is the Board member with designated responsibility
for CR, supported by:
• The Operating Board, which is responsible for the day to day
management of CR and receives monthly reports
• The Risk Committee, which discusses CR at its meetings in the
context of monitoring the effectiveness of internal control systems
• The Health, Safety and Environment Committee, whose
responsibilities include making recommendations on HSE strategy
and identifying areas for improvement
• The Charity and Community Affairs Committee, established during
the year, which will make recommendations to the Board and
monitor and report on charitable giving and community activities
Workplace
Code of Conduct
The Code of Conduct defines De La Rue’s core values and
principles for doing business and deals with:
• Share dealing procedures
• Competition law
• Legal compliance
• Ethical dealings with governments, customers, suppliers
and third parties
• Protecting the Group’s assets
• Avoiding conflicts of interest
• Health and safety and the environment
It is supplemented by more detailed policies and procedures and
relevant training. All employees receive a copy of, and are required
to comply with, the Code of Conduct.
Whistleblowing
The Group’s Whistleblowing policy and procedures enable
employees who have concerns about the application of the Code
of Conduct or business practices within the Group to raise them
internally or anonymously through an independently run telephone
helpline. The Board and Audit Committee receive details about any
issue raised and how it has been followed up. Each year the Audit
Committee reviews the policy and procedures.
Third Party Partners
The Group Third Party Partner Team was established during the
year to provide a central, neutral hub for ensuring that partners
such as distributors, sales agents and consultants comply with
the Group’s policies and expectations in relation to ethical business
conduct. The team reports directly to the General Counsel and
Company Secretary. Further information is given in the Corporate
Governance Statement on page 45.
Health and Safety
De La Rue recognises its responsibility to safeguard the health
and safety of all stakeholders affected by our operations and is
committed to keeping its employees safe and secure when they
are at work and travelling for work. This is achieved through clearly
defined responsibilities, good communications and training, hazard
spotting, risk assessments and by implementing appropriate
controls at all of our facilities.
None of our operations has been prosecuted for infringing any
health and safety laws or regulations during 2009/2010.
The Board receives confirmation that the business units comply
with Group policy and applicable laws through external and internal
audits, reports and measurement against action plans and
benchmarking processes. These reports are used to develop
effective improvement programmes. Thirteen of our fifteen
operational sites have achieved OHSAS18001:2007 certification
for their health and safety management system.
We also work with our main suppliers and main contractors to
ensure their health and safety processes are robust. This year in Sri
Lanka we have conducted safety training for over 1,000 contractors
working on the large extension of our facility. This has resulted in a
zero reportable injury rate on this project.
The health and safety KPIs opposite show continued improvements
in reportable injury rate, days lost and total lost time accident figures.
Our health and safety objectives for 2009/2010 were to implement
updated road risk management and travel risk management
programmes, both of which were achieved. During the year over
300 UK employees who may drive for work have taken part in an
online individual driver risk assessment process and have completed
follow up training where required. Travel risk assessments are now
completed as appropriate for international travel. Other significant
activities during 2009/2010 included manual handling and fire safety
training. We have also reviewed all areas that store and handle
chemicals and flammable solvents and have upgraded these
where necessary.
The best examples of ideas which have supported the
Our Contribution initiative are showcased at the Spotlight
event which is designed to reward those who have helped
us achieve success. Spotlight awards play an integral role
in celebrating the efforts of our people in devising ways in
which we can do things better. Following on from events held
in Spain, Switzerland and France in previous years, the 2009
awards were held in Malta. The winning projects were: an
initiative by CPS site engineers; a machinery improvement
project at Overton mill; and the more efficient use of
materials in Sri Lanka. The projects delivered environmental
savings and increased customer satisfaction as well as
process and quality improvements.
CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
continued
32 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 Our health and safety objectives for 2010/2011 are:
• For all employees to have some level of health and safety training
and all operational line managers and supervisors to have a
certified level of health and safety training
• To review and update all fire procedures at our facilities and
monitor test evacuations
• For one smaller printing facility to achieve OHSAS18001:2007
Employees
The Group employs approximately 4,000 staff in 24 countries.
The benefits and synergies of greater collaboration and process
sharing across the businesses continue to be harnessed via the
‘One De La Rue’ programme. As mentioned in the Chief Executive’s
Review, cross-business teams are focusing on initiatives in six key
areas: Our Customers, Our People, Our Innovation, Our
Performance, Our Communication and Our Contribution.
The results from our 2009 ‘Your Say’ staff survey demonstrate the
progress made in engaging our employees. Across the Group the
results suggest that many managers are getting the fundamentals
right. The vast majority of people (more than 80 per cent) agree
that they:
• Know what is expected of them at work
• Have the equipment they need to do their job
• Feel safe
• Understand why innovation is important
• Understand how they contribute to their site and De La Rue
It is encouraging to see that 79 per cent of people agree they would
rather work for De La Rue than any other company and 77 per cent
say they would recommend working at De La Rue to a friend. This
survey shows an improving trend over the 2005 and 2007 surveys.
For example, we see much higher proportions of staff stating they
know what is expected of them and receive appropriate praise than
we did in 2005 and 2007.
We recognise that engaging all employees is critical to our
performance and so engagement is becoming a key aim for our
managers. Each has been given a report on how their team scored in
the latest survey, guidance on creating engagement and an objective
to improve it. Over the first few months of 2010 each manager has
spent time with their team discussing what can be done. During the
rest of the year we will take actions to improve engagement.
The De La Rue Academy was set up during the year to co-ordinate
and deliver core cross-business unit training including leadership
and management, project and process management and a range
of business skills. The Academy provides personal development and
promotes shared knowledge and better understanding between the
businesses. The Academy is set up to meet business needs and is
closely aligned to Group talent reviews (a process designed to
identify and review new and existing talent within the Group so that
succession planning is managed in a structured way), personal
development reviews and culture change programmes.
De La Rue Security Papers carried out a project replacing
many of their fan and pump motors with variable speed
inverter drives. The most important benefit is better process
control and in turn lower energy demand. The use of inverter
controlled pumps means that only sufficient energy to
produce the flows required for the process at that time
is consumed and the production of over capacity and the
resulting waste of energy is avoided. A reduction to 90 per
cent of the original speed reduces the power required
to approximately 73 per cent of the original, a 27 per cent
energy saving. With the reduction in energy requirement
comes an associated reduction in costs and CO2 production.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
424
599
592
530
209
Total days lost
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
70
73
59
48
32
Total lost time accidents
Including 3 days+
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 33
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
800
849
715
526
378
Annualised reportable
injury rate per 100,000
employees
UK manufacturing average CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
continued
Environment
De La Rue aims to operate in a manner that protects the
environment and prevents pollution, as well as considering the
environmental effects of any new projects, when changing business
activities and business processes and when developing new
products. We operate a formal environmental management system,
and our objective is for all manufacturing sites to be certificated
to ISO 14001:2004. Thirteen of our fifteen operational sites have
received this certification to date.
None of our operations has been prosecuted for infringing any
environmental laws or regulations during 2009/2010.
We continue to measure our greenhouse gas emissions, shown
in the graph below, following the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the
most widely used international accounting tool for government and
businesses. This data includes the combustion of fuels, ie natural
gas, fuel oils and purchased grid electricity, and owned transport
energy consumption. Over 50 per cent of our carbon footprint
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
84.2
86.2
92.1
94.0
7 .9 10.7 12.3
9.6 11.7
97 .1
Greenhouse gas emissions
‘000 tonnes as CO2
Transport emissions
Energy and production
emissions
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
310.0
300.0
281.0 283.0
287 .0
Water used per gross tonne
of banknote paper
m
3
Note: Total water used (abstraction
plus recycled) per production tonne
of banknote paper produced at
Overton for 2009/2010. Production
tonne definition here means
production tonnes at standard
weight including spoil less any
paper trials.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Recycled and recovered
solid waste as a % of
solid waste
70.0
73.0
72.0
69.0
71.0
Additionally, the Academy provides improved savings through
centralising spend and coordinating training programme delivery
across De La Rue.
The effectiveness of communication processes at Group and local
site level are regularly reviewed to encourage employee engagement
and broaden business understanding. To complement the employee
magazine and the Chief Executive’s electronic articles on key
business issues, new initiatives this year included the relaunch of the
intranet and regular conference calls hosted by the Chief Executive,
in which all employees have the opportunity to participate and ask
questions directly on matters of current importance.
Our Contribution, De La Rue’s productivity programme, continues
to be well supported by our employees. The best initiatives were
recognised at the fourth Spotlight event which was held in Malta
in September 2009 (see case study on page 32).
De La Rue is committed to the fair and equitable treatment of all
its employees in recruitment, training, promotion and in terms and
conditions of employment irrespective of gender, sexual orientation,
religious beliefs, age, colour, ethnic or racial origin, nationality,
disability or trade union membership. If an employee becomes
disabled when in the Group’s employment, full support is given
through the provision of special training, equipment or other
resources to facilitate continued employment wherever possible.
All managers are required to ensure that employees understand
their responsibility for the active implementation of the Group’s
policies. Details of De La Rue’s Human Rights, Equal Opportunities,
Anti-Harassment and Stress Management policies are available
on the Group’s website.
The Group’s web based HR management system is now a well
established tool for streamlining core HR management processes
and enhancing the HR management reporting capability.
To the extent permitted by relevant local laws, the Group
monitors data on staff diversity to help it review policies and
improve best practice.
34 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 In autumn 2009 a UK-wide appeal was launched inviting
employees to fill shoeboxes with Christmas gifts for 350
children at the Good Samaritan Children’s Home in Nairobi,
an orphanage sponsored by De La Rue Kenya. The children’s
names, ages and hobbies were published on the Group’s
intranet and employees chose a child to send their gift box
to. The response from our employees was overwhelming,
with all 350 boxes being pledged within a few days. The
shipping of the boxes to Nairobi in time for Christmas was
coordinated by staff at Bathford mill and gifts were distributed
by colleagues at De La Rue Kenya.
relates to the gas and electricity used at Overton mill. The graph
shows an increase in greenhouse gas emissions which is related
to increasing volumes, new processes and product complexity.
Our main sites have energy reduction committees and we have
implemented energy reduction initiatives such as swapping in
energy efficient motors and installing energy efficient lighting
systems during upgrades. Overton mill has a combined heat
and power plant producing electricity and steam requirements
from a natural gas turbine.
Water used per gross tonne of banknote paper produced is partly
dependent on the volume, mix and complexity of the paper
produced. We have increased our use of recycled water this year
up to 9 per cent of all water used at the Overton mill.
Recycled and recovered solid waste as a percentage of all solid
waste is dependent on the waste markets and we look for any
opportunities for recycling and recovery. One challenge for our
business is the advance of the anti-counterfeiting features in our
products which by their nature are complex to produce and can
affect waste volumes and energy use.
Our objective for 2009/2010 was to continue with our carbon
measurement and aim to reduce our impact. At the Gateshead
plant, an energy management system is utilised to control the use
of energy consumption from high to low periods of activity across
production environments. All significant new building work carried
out across the site during the year maximises use of energy saving
materials to reduce energy needs. Transport usage is targeted to
minimise journey length and frequency. As part of the UK
Confederation of Paper Industries, Overton mill operates in
accordance with an agreed energy policy, setting and implementing
internal energy targets and measures. These targets relate to both
the efficient operation of the combined heat and power plant and
general energy efficiency through the mill. When electricity generation
is in excess of demand, electricity is sold to the UK National Grid.
Over the last few years we have implemented environmental
initiatives on a local level, such as the installation of variable speed
inverter drives at De La Rue Security Papers (see case study on
page 33), as well as achieving improvements in key areas across
the Group. In the last 5 years the volume of solid waste going to
landfill sites has reduced by 9 per cent and the percentage of waste
recycled and recovered has increased by c4 per cent. There has
also been a downward trend in solid waste generated per tonne
of production, despite the increased product portfolio and product
complexity. During 2010/2011 we will register for the UK Carbon
Reduction Commitment energy efficiency scheme and the IDS
business is seeking to achieve ISO14001:2004.
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 35
Community and Charitable Donations
Around the Group our facilities and factories are widely engaged
with local communities, for example the Shoebox Appeal in Kenya
(see case study below), sponsorship of a local child safety scheme
in the UK and the maintenance and decoration of a children’s home
in Malta.
De La Rue is proud to support a variety of charitable causes on
a local and international level. In 2009/2010 Group donations for
charitable purposes amounted to £96,000 (2008/2009: £166,000),
excluding donations made by the De La Rue Charitable Trust
detailed below. During the year employees also participated in a
wide range of internal fundraising activities for local charities in the
UK and abroad, including the Haiti Disaster Appeal following the
earthquake in January 2010.
The Group operates a Give As You Earn scheme in the UK which
enables employees to make regular donations to charity from their
pre-tax monthly salary. Donations are matched by De La Rue.
During the year a Charity and Community Affairs Committee was
established, chaired by the General Counsel and Company
Secretary, whose remit includes making Group policy
recommendations to the Board on charitable giving and activities
and monitoring and reporting to the Board at least annually.
The De La Rue Charitable Trust aims to direct funds to appropriate
causes in countries where De La Rue operates, emphasising
educational projects promoting relevant skills, international
understanding or relieving suffering. The Trust also matches funds
raised by employees for charitable causes. During 2009/2010, the
Trust distributed £45,000 (2008/2009: £61,000).
Marketplace
Customers
The customer survey programme, Net Promoter®, is a valuable
customer feedback tool for all four business units. The survey is
conducted annually and data collected and analysed externally.
Results are reported to the Operating Board.
Suppliers
De La Rue continues to apply a consistent set of procurement
policies and processes to deliver accountability, sustainable value
for money and continuous improvement while enabling the Group
to fulfil its legal and financial obligations and effectively manage risk.
In particular, we expect our suppliers to share our CR values and
commitment to ISO standards for HSE performance.
Overton mill sources cotton waste for use in banknote papermaking
from a few key international suppliers and we continue to audit
to ensure our suppliers comply with our terms and conditions
relating to the United Nations Convention on Rights of the Child
and child labour.
De La Rue Security Print at Dunstable has been accredited with the
‘FSC Chain of Custody’ status by the Forest Stewardship Council. DIRECTORS AND SECRETARY
Nicholas Brookes
Non-executive Chairman
James Hussey
Chief Executive
Colin Child
Group Finance Director
(from 1 June 2010)
Warren East
Non-executive
Sir Jeremy Greenstock
Non-executive
Sir Julian Horn-Smith
Non-executive
Gill Rider
Non-executive
Edward Peppiatt
General Counsel and
Company Secretary
Victoria Jarman
Non-executive
Simon Webb
Group Finance Director
(until 31 May 2010)
36 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 Nicholas Brookes FCA (62)
Non-executive Chairman
† ‡
was appointed to the Board in March 1997 and became Chairman
of the Company on 22 July 2004. He is also Chairman of the
Nomination Committee of the Board. He was, until 30 June 2004,
Chief Executive of Spirent plc. He is a director of Corporacion
Financiera Alba SA, Axel Johnson Inc and The Institute of Directors.
He was previously Vice President of Texas Instruments Inc and
President of the Materials and Controls Group.
James Hussey (48)
Chief Executive
Ø †
was appointed as Chief Executive and executive Director on
1 January 2009. He has more than 25 years’ experience within
De La Rue and was Managing Director of the Security Paper
and Print Division for the previous four years. He is a director
of Camelot Group plc.
Colin Child (52)
Group Finance Director (from 1 June 2010)
is a chartered accountant and has a broad range of financial and
commercial expertise. He was previously Group Finance Director
at DTZ Holdings plc, a major global commercial property advisory
company, and prior to that he held roles as Group Finance Director
at Stanley Leisure plc, Fitness First Plc and National Express
Group Plc.
Warren East (48)
Non-executive
# †
was appointed to the Board on 9 January 2007 . He became
Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 April 2009. He is Chief
Executive of ARM Holdings plc, a post he has held since October
2001, having joined in 1994. He previously worked for Texas
Instruments Inc in a variety of roles in the semiconductor and
telecom products divisions. He is a non-executive director of Reciva
Ltd, a Cambridge start up company manufacturing internet radios.
Sir Jeremy Greenstock GCMG (66)
Non-executive
† ‡
was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2005. From 1998 to 2003
he served as Britain’s UN Ambassador in New York and Permanent
Representative on the UN Security Council. From 2003 to 2004
he served as HM Government’s UK Special Representative for Iraq.
He is director of the Ditchley Foundation, a Special Adviser to BP plc
and a Trustee of the International Rescue Committee (UK). He is the
senior independent non-executive Director.
Sir Julian Horn-Smith (61)
Non-executive
# † ‡
was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2009. He was part
of the founding team at Vodafone and is one of the foremost figures
in the global mobile telecommunications industry. His career at
Vodafone started in 1984 and culminated in the position of Deputy
CEO in 2005. Prior to that, he worked for major international
businesses including Mars GH and Philips. He is a Senior Advisor
to UBS Investment Bank and holds a number of directorships
including Lloyds Banking Group (non-executive director) and Digicel
Group in the Caribbean. He was previously a non-executive director
of Smiths Group plc from 2000 to 2006 and Sage Group plc from
2006 to 2008.
Victoria Jarman (37)
Non-executive
# †
was appointed to the Board on 22 April 2010. She started her
career in 1995 with KPMG, before moving to Lazard Corporate
Finance in 1998. She went on to be appointed Chief Operating
Officer of Lazard’s London and Middle East operations, where she
remained until 2009. She was also a board member of Lazard & Co
Limited and a member of the European Management Committee.
She has worked closely with the boards of major FTSE companies
and businesses advising them on a variety of strategic options.
She is a qualified chartered accountant.
Gill Rider (55)
Non-executive
# † ‡
was appointed to the Board on 22 June 2006 and since 26 July
2007 has been the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
She started her career with Accenture in 1979 in various consulting
roles before being appointed as a partner in 1990. She held a variety
of management roles in Accenture before being appointed global
Chief Leadership Officer in 2002, reporting to the Accenture CEO,
to lead the people aspects of the transition from a partnership
to a public company listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
She is Director General, Cabinet Office and at the end of the
year she will take up the presidency of the Chartered Institute
of Personnel and Development.
Edward Peppiatt (43)
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Ø
was appointed as General Counsel of De La Rue plc on 1 March
2009 and as Company Secretary with effect from 1 April 2009.
He was previously General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
of Christian Salvesen PLC.
Simon Webb (46)
was appointed Group Finance Director on 1 April 2009 and he will
leave the Board on 31 May 2010.
#
Member of the Audit Committee of the Board.
†
Member of the Nomination Committee of the Board.
‡
Member of the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
Ø
Member of the Risk Committee of the Board.
Ages stated are those on 27 March 2010.
Shareholders’ Information Company Financial Statements Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Business Review
De La Rue Annual Report 2010 37 38 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
As at 27 March 2010 the Company’s authorised share capital was
£66m comprising 111,673,300 deferred shares of 1p each and
144,641,840 ordinary shares of 44
152
⁄175p each. On 27 March 2010
there were 98,882,856 ordinary shares and 111,673,300 deferred
shares in issue.
Details of shares issued during the year are provided in note 21a
to the Financial Statements on page 82.
Results and Dividends
Profit before taxation and exceptionals was £104.1m (2008/2009:
£105.0m for continuing businesses). The profit attributable to
shareholders for the year was £69.9m (2008/2009: £363.0m).
The Directors are recommending a final ordinary dividend for the
year of 28.2p per share. Subject to the approval of shareholders
at the Annual General Meeting (AGM), the final dividend will be paid
on 5 August 2010 to ordinary shareholders on the register on
9 July 2010. An interim dividend of 14.1p per ordinary share was
paid on 13 January 2010 making a total for the year of 42.3p per
share (2008/2009: 41.1p per share).
Pre-emption rights and authority to allot
The Companies Act 2006 requires that any shares issued wholly for
cash must be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their
existing holdings unless authorised to the contrary by a resolution
of the shareholders. Resolutions giving such authority were passed
in 2009. Authorities to renew for one year the power of Directors
to allot shares pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006
will be sought from the shareholders at the AGM. The Company
was granted authority by its shareholders at the 2009 AGM to
purchase a maximum of 9.99 per cent of its own ordinary shares
either for cancellation or to be held in treasury (or a combination
of both). No purchases have been made pursuant to this authority
and a resolution will be put to shareholders to renew the authority
for a further period of one year.
Takeover directive
Pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which
implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the Company is required
to disclose additional information including:
Rights and restrictions on shares and transfers of shares
Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company,
apply to the rights and transfers of shares in the Company. The
rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary and
deferred shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders
by law, are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association (the
Articles), copies of which can be obtained from Companies House
in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary. The key points
are summarised below.
Ordinary shares
Notices of meetings must be given to every shareholder and to
any person entitled to a share unless the Articles or the rights of the
shares say he is not entitled to receive them from the Company. The
Board can decide that only people who are entered on the register
at the close of business on a particular day are entitled to receive the
notice. On a show of hands each holder of shares present in person
and entitled to vote has one vote and upon a poll each such holder
who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one
vote for every share held.
Dividends and distributions on liquidation to shareholders
Holders of ordinary shares may receive interim dividends approved
by Directors and dividends declared in general meetings. On a
liquidation and subject to an extraordinary resolution of the Company
the liquidator may divide amongst members the whole or any part
of the assets of the Company and may, for such purpose, set such
value as he deems fair upon any property to be divided and may
determine how such division shall be carried out.
Transfers of shares
The Company’s existing Articles place no restrictions on the transfer
of ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to
them, except: (i) where the Company has exercised its rights to
suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the
omission by their holder or any person interested in them to provide
the Company with information requested by it in accordance with
Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 or (ii) where their holder is
precluded from exercising rights by the Financial Services Authority’s
Listing Rules, the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers or any
other regulations.
The deferred shares carry limited economic rights and no
voting rights. They are not transferable except in accordance
with the Articles.
Dealings subject to the Model Code of the Listing Rules
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority,
Directors and other Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities
and certain employees require the approval of the Company to deal
in the ordinary shares of the Company.
Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes
The Trustee of the De La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust
does not seek to exercise voting rights on shares held in the
employee trust. No shares are currently held in trust.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 24 May 2010 the following companies had notified an interest
in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in accordance
with the Financial Services Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency
Rules.
Total Number Total Number Percentage of
Persons Notifying of Shares of Voting Rights Voting Rights
Capital Research and
Management Company 17,383,233 17,383,233 18.04%
Ruane, Cunniff
& Goldfarb Inc 6,430,399 6,430,399 6.50%
Massachusetts Mutual
Life Insurance Company 6,023,496 6,023,496 6.09%
BlackRock Investment
Management (UK) Limited 4,638,337 4,638,337 4.69%
Legal & General Group Plc 3,404,426 3,404,426 3.44%
SHAREHOLDERS AND SHARE CAPITAL De La Rue Annual Report 2010 39
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
Relationship with shareholders
The Company places a high priority on communications with and
accountability to shareholders. A fully audited Annual Report and
Accounts is made available to shareholders either in hard copy
by post or via the Group’s website. The interim statement is also
posted on the Group’s website as are presentations to institutional
investors. Announcements are also regularly made by the Company
through a Regulatory Information Service to the London Stock
Exchange. The Chairman and the senior independent non-executive
Director are available to meet key shareholders to discuss strategy,
governance and other matters.
All shareholders are entitled to attend the AGM and receive a Notice
of Meeting which is posted at least 20 working days before the
AGM. Shareholders can also vote and appoint proxies electronically.
At this year’s AGM voting on resolutions will be conducted on a poll.
Results of the poll will be made available to shareholders on the
Group’s website. The Chairman also provides a trading update. The
Chairmen of the Board Committees are also present. Shareholders
may question the Board on these and other matters relating to the
Group’s business. Shareholders also have an opportunity to meet
Directors informally after the meeting.
The share register is actively monitored. During the year meetings
take place with individual institutional shareholders and analysts, and
presentations are made at the time of major events. The views of
shareholders and analysts’ and brokers’ reports are reported to the
Board and from time to time a survey of institutional shareholders’
views is carried out by the Company’s broker.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held at 10.30 a.m. on Thursday 22 July 2010
at De La Rue House, Jays Close, Viables, Basingstoke, RG22 4BS.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting, including a letter from the
Chairman, accompanies this Annual Report. In addition to
resolutions already described are proposals to establish new
performance share plans for senior executives and to adopt
new Articles that fully comply with the provisions of the
Companies Act 2006. 40 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
Payments to suppliers
The Company and Group’s policy is that suppliers be paid on the
basis of monthly summary invoicing plus 60 days subject to local
laws or other exceptions. The average number of days’ credit
provided by suppliers to the Group has been calculated at 35 days
(2008/2009: 67 days). The Company does not have any trade
payables.
Change of control
A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a
change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such
as bank loan agreements and employee share plans. None of these
is deemed to be significant as a whole except for the following:
The £175m credit facility dated 11 March 2010 between the
Company and four of its key relationship banks contains a provision
such that in the event of a change of control, any lender may, if it so
requires, notify the agent that it wishes to cancel this commitment
whereupon the commitment of that lender will be cancelled and all
its outstanding loans, together with accrued interest, will become
immediately due and payable.
A change of control will be deemed to have occurred if any person
or persons acting in concert (as defined in the City Code on
Takeovers and Mergers) at any time is/are or become interested
in more than 50 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital
of the Company.
Political donations
There were no political donations made during the year. The Group’s
policy is not to make any. The Company will propose to shareholders
at this year’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) that the precautionary
authority granted at the 2009 AGM, pursuant to the Companies Act
2006, be renewed and details are included in the Chairman’s Letter
and Notice of Meeting.
Essential contracts or other arrangements
De La Rue confirms there are no persons with whom the Group
has contractual or other arrangements which De La Rue considers
are essential to its business.
Annual Report and the Financial Statements
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to
affect its future development, performance and position are set out
on pages 16 to 23 of the Business Review. The financial position of
the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities
are described in pages 28 to 30 of the Business Review. The
accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial results
are described in pages 60 to 65.
As described on page 29 of the Annual Report, the Group meets
its funding requirements through a main corporate borrowing facility
of £175m (which runs until September 2013) and cash generated
from operations. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking into
account reasonably possible changes in trading performance,
show that the Group should be able to operate with its currently
available facilities.
The Group has sufficient financial resources together with assets
that are expected to generate cash flow in the normal course
of business. As a consequence the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Company and the Group are well placed
to manage their business risks and to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future, despite the current global
uncertain economic environment. Accordingly, the Directors
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
Annual Report and Accounts.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the
Annual Report and the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report
and the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent
Company Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that
law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law
and have elected to prepare the Parent Company Financial
Statements in accordance with UK accounting standards and
applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of
their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and
Parent Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently
• Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent
• For the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU
• For the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether
applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent
Company Financial Statements
• Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the
Parent Company will continue in business
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy
at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable
them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the
Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking
such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets
of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement
that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity
of the corporate and financial information included on the Group’s
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation
in other jurisdictions.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION De La Rue Annual Report 2010 41
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
Directors’ Responsibility Statement in respect of the
Disclosure and Transparency Rules
We confirm to the best of our knowledge:
• The Financial Statements prepared in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by
the EU (adopted IFRS), give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole
• The Parent Company Financial Statements in this report, which
have been prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) and applicable law,
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position
and profit of the Company
• The Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development
and performance of the business and the position of the Company
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties that they face
Provision of information to auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are
unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she
ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the
Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
Edward Peppiatt
Company Secretary
24 May 2010 42 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
The Board is collectively accountable to the Company’s
shareholders for good corporate governance and all Directors are
responsible for complying with their legal and fiduciary obligations.
The Board is committed to complying with the highest standards
of corporate governance, which is the system of internal principles,
controls and processes it approves and by which the De La Rue
Group is run in order to achieve its objectives while complying with
the required standards of accountability and probity.
The Group’s corporate governance procedures, which are approved
by the Board, define the matters reserved to the Board, the terms
of reference of various Committees of the Board and the functions
delegated to these Committees as well as defining the jobs of
the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and
non-executive Directors. The Company reviews and amends its
corporate governance policies to reflect changes to the Combined
Code, legislation or good practice. Revisions were made in
September and November 2009.
The Board also approves the Code of Conduct which defines the
Group’s business principles and which was updated in September
2007 . This is discussed further in this section of the Annual Report
and in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 32. These
documents are set out on the Group’s website www.delarue.com.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control,
the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the key risks including financial, operational
and compliance controls and risk management systems. This
process has been in place throughout the year and up to the
date of approval by the Board of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board’s governance policies include a process for the Board
to review regularly the effectiveness of the system of internal control
and risk management systems, and the Board concluded its latest
review in April 2010. Details are set out in this Statement. This
does not extend to associated companies or joint ventures such
as Camelot Group plc where the Group does not have
management control.
Compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code
on Corporate Governance
In the year to 27 March 2010 the Company has complied
throughout with the provisions and applied the principles of the
Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June
2008 (the Code) except arguably for a brief period following the
retirement of Keith Hodgkinson on 31 December 2009 in respect of
the composition of the Audit Committee (provision C.3.1). The Audit
Committee Chairman is the chief executive of a listed company and
the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee
recently recruited a non-executive Director, Victoria Jarman, with
financial expertise who is a member of the Audit Committee. Keith
Hodgkinson, who retired from the Board during the year, ceased
to be viewed as independent having served nine years on the
Board from the date of his first election.
Board of Directors
Composition of the Board
Following the departure of Philip Nolan (23 July 2009) and Keith
Hodgkinson (31 December 2009) and the appointment of Sir Julian
Horn-Smith (1 September 2009) and Victoria Jarman (22 April 2010)
the Board comprises five independent non-executive Directors, the
non-executive Chairman and two executive Directors. The Board
has concluded that its composition throughout the year was and
remains appropriately balanced.
There is a clear division between the management of the Board
and the executive Directors’ responsibility for managing the Group’s
business. However, no individual or small group can dominate
decision taking. The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are
separated and clearly defined. The Chairman is primarily responsible
for the working and leadership of the Board. The Chief Executive
is responsible for running the business and implementing Board
strategy and policy.
The Directors’ biographies appear on page 37 and the Board’s
policy is that the Chairman and executive Directors should accept
appointments to the boards of other companies only with the prior
approval of the Board and that non-executive Directors must seek
the agreement of the Chairman and confirmation by the Board
before accepting additional commitments that may affect the
time they devote to their role.
Board changes
During the year there were several changes of Directors and roles.
Gill Rider temporarily stood down from the Board from 26 February
2009 until 30 June 2009 whilst the award of the contract for the UK
passport was being considered by the Identity and Passport Service.
Philip Nolan resigned as a Director at the conclusion of the 2009
Annual General Meeting (AGM) and Keith Hodgkinson resigned
as a Director on 31 December 2009. Sir Julian Horn-Smith was
appointed non-executive Director on 1 September 2009. Sir Jeremy
Greenstock became senior independent non-executive Director on
1 January 2010. Victoria Jarman was appointed non-executive
Director on 22 April 2010.
Simon Webb became Group Finance Director and an executive
Director of the Board on 1 April 2009. The Company announced
on 30 April 2010 the appointment of Colin Child as Group
Finance Director and as an executive Director of the Company
with effect from 1 June 2010. Simon Webb will leave the Board
on 31 May 2010.
The non-executive Directors hold letters of appointment which
will be displayed at the AGM, together with the executive Directors’
service contracts and Directors’ indemnification agreements.
Sir Julian Horn-Smith and Victoria Jarman who were appointed
Directors since the last AGM, and Colin Child, who will be appointed
on 1 June 2010, will, being eligible, offer themselves for election at
the AGM. The Board adopted the policy during the year that each
Director be required to submit himself for annual re-election and
accordingly all other Directors will retire and offer themselves
for re-election.
The existing commitments of Directors appear on page 37 and the
Board is satisfied that these commitments do not conflict with their
ability to carry out effectively their duties as Directors of the Company.
Subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Company’s
Memorandum and Articles of Association and any directions given
by special resolution, the Directors may exercise all the powers
of the Company.
Edward Peppiatt replaced Louise Fluker as Company Secretary
on 1 April 2009.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT De La Rue Annual Report 2010 43
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
Succession planning
The Board reviews its composition at least annually, assessing the
skills profile, type and number of non-executive Directors required to
enable the Board to perform effectively. It also reviews the Group’s
internal talent review process in planning executive Director and
senior management succession.
Objectives of the Board
The Board has confirmed its objectives during 2009/2010 as follows:
• Delivering value to shareholders and other stakeholders
• Maintaining the Group’s reputation for integrity as the foundation
of its relationship with stakeholders
• Building long term success through quality and sound
management
Role and operation of the Board
The Board has a programme of fixed meetings during the year
and it also met on an ad hoc basis as required. The Board’s core
procedures are:
• Set out in the terms of reference for the Board, its Committees
and Directors
• The control of risk through agreed evaluation and control
procedures reviewed and revised annually
• Monitoring the composition of the Board through the Nomination
Committee
The Board has also reserved certain matters to itself to reinforce
its control of the Group. Full details are set out on the Group’s
website www.delarue.com. These include:
• Determining the responsibilities of Directors, in particular those
of the Chairman and Chief Executive
• Approving internal control processes
• Approving the final and interim Financial Statements and
(in conjunction with the Audit Committee) the recommendation
of dividends
• Approving appointments to, and removals from, the Board and
the terms of reference and membership of Board Committees
• Approving the Group’s strategy and annual budget
• Authorisation of authority levels, financial and treasury policies
and any acquisition or disposal
The Board delegates authority to run the business to the Chief
Executive. The Chief Executive manages the Group’s day to day
activities and presents to the Board the strategic options for growth
in shareholder value and, in conjunction with the Operating Board
comprising business unit managing directors and other senior
executives, sets the operating plans and budgets required to deliver
the agreed strategy. The role and responsibilities of the Chairman,
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, senior independent
non-executive Director and other Directors are also clearly defined.
Full details are set out on the Group’s website www.delarue.com.
The executive Directors and the Operating Board operate within
clearly defined limits of authority delegated by the Board.
The Board provides leadership of the Group within a framework of
prudent and effective internal controls, including financial, operational
and compliance controls and risk management systems. These are
required to identify and manage the risks and their potential effect
whilst ensuring that material changes are reported to the Board in a
timely fashion. The Board reviews the effectiveness of those controls
and systems and is assisted by the Audit and Risk Committees.
The controls by their nature are designed to manage, rather than
eliminate, risk and can only provide reasonable but not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. Details of the
processes and controls are set out below. The Board reviews
matters reserved to itself and the performance of management in
achieving agreed goals and objectives at its meetings. The Board
timetable ensures that the Board receives regular reports and
presentations from the executive Directors, operational managing
directors and key functions. Directors receive agendas and Board
papers generally five days before each Board meeting; minutes
are circulated as soon as possible thereafter. The Board reviews
progress on implementing actions arising from the Board and
its Committee meetings each month.
There is also a defined procedure for dealing with urgent matters
between Board meetings.
Any Director can request additional information from management at
any time. All Directors have direct access to the advice and services
of the General Counsel and Company Secretary who is responsible
for ensuring that Board procedures are followed. The Board decides
the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
Board evaluation and effectiveness review
The Board and each of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit
Committees carried out an evaluation of their performance during
the year. The Risk Committee was evaluated by the Board. The
process involved completion of questionnaires which focused
on process, structure, behaviours and key issues, such as strategy
and succession, against delivery of the Board’s objectives and
addressing any issues identified during the previous review or which
became relevant during the year.
The Chairman and each Committee Chairman had discussions
with each Director or Committee member based on the responses
and each Director’s own views regarding effectiveness of the Board
or Committee as a whole and the individual Director’s performance.
The senior independent non-executive Director was responsible
for appraising the Chairman’s performance in discussions with the
non-executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman. The
Chairman and the non-executive Directors also met in the absence
of the executive Directors. The results were discussed by the Board
and individual Committees and the final report highlighting any areas
for improvement agreed by the Board in May 2010.
Conflicts of interests
Directors have a duty to avoid a direct or indirect interest which
conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Group
unless that conflict has been authorised by the Board. Such conflict
may arise by reason of a situation or a specific transaction proposed.
The Board has established a process to review at least annually and
if thought appropriate authorise any conflict of interest and has
carried out such review and authorised all Directors’ situational
conflicts. Any transactional conflicts are reviewed as they arise.
Indemnity
To the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the
UKLA Listing Rules the Company indemnifies certain officers so
that the Company may advance defence costs in civil or regulatory
proceedings on such terms as the Board may reasonably determine
but any advance must be refunded if the Director or officer is
subsequently convicted.
The indemnity will not provide cover where the Director or officer
has acted fraudulently or dishonestly. 44 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
Details of attendance at Board and Committee meetings
The number of full scheduled Board meetings and Committee
meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows:
Directors’ Attendance Audit Nomination Remuneration
2009/2010 Committee Board Committee Committee
Number of
meetings held 4 14 67
Mr N K Brookes – 14 67
Mr D W A East 4 11 4–
Sir Jeremy Greenstock – 12 67
Mr K H Hodgkinson
(resigned 31 December 2009) 49 44
Mr J A Hussey – 14 6–
Dr P M G Nolan
(resigned 23 July 2009) 24 22
Ms G Rider
†
(temporarily stood down
26 February 2009 and rejoined
the Board 1 July 2009) 29 25
Sir Julian Horn-Smith*
(appointed 1 September 2009) –71 3
Mr S Webb
(appointed 1 April 2009) – 14 ––
†
Appointed to the Nomination Committee 24 September 2009
*Appointed to Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees
on 24 September 2009
Role of non-executive Directors
The non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered by the
Board to be independent as at 27 March 2010, have an appropriate
range of business, financial and international experience which is
relevant to the Company’s activities. None of the non-executive
Directors holds a material shareholding in the Company. Nicholas
Brookes ceased to be independent after his appointment on 22 July
2004 as Chairman under the Code but the Board considers that his
contribution and objectivity in Board and Committee discussions
were fully consistent with those of an independent Director.
Keith Hodgkinson, who retired from the Board on 31 December
2009, ceased to be viewed as independent during the year and was
succeeded by Sir Jeremy Greenstock as the senior independent
non-executive Director on 1 January 2010. Shareholders may
contact the senior independent non-executive Director if they feel
their concerns are not being addressed through normal channels.
Non-executive Directors confirm on appointment and any
re-appointment that they are able to allocate sufficient time to enable
them to discharge their duties properly. Directors who have been
unable to attend Board or Committee meetings have made known
their views on pertinent matters before the meeting.
Induction and training
All new Directors receive an induction on joining the Company, for
which the Chairman is responsible. This covers such matters as the
strategy, operation and activities of the Group (including key financial
data, and business, social and environmental risks to the Group’s
activities), corporate governance matters such as the role of the
Board and individual Committees, and the Company’s corporate
governance procedures as outlined in this report. They are advised
on the duties and obligations of Directors of a listed company. Site
visits and meetings with senior management are also arranged. Any
newly appointed Director, who has not previously been a Director of
a listed company, is invited to attend external training covering such
duties and responsibilities. Directors are briefed, where appropriate,
by the Company’s internal and external advisers, on changes to
legislation, regulation or market practice, as well as receiving
briefings from individual businesses throughout the year. The Board
received specific briefing on the key issues of the Companies Act
2006 and on its implementation during the year. The Directors,
especially Committee Chairmen, have the opportunity of attending
appropriate training sessions.
The Board visits an operational site at least annually (Westhoughton,
Bolton in 2009). Directors are also encouraged to visit other sites and
staff. The General Counsel and Company Secretary, in conjunction
with the Chairman, ensures that there is proper communication
between the Board and its Committees and senior management
and that non-executive Directors receive appropriate information.
The Chairman reviews and the General Counsel and Company
Secretary facilitates induction and other professional development
as required.
Directors may take independent professional advice at the
Company’s expense, although no such advice was sought during
the year.
Appointments
Following a decision during the year by the Board, all Directors are
required to submit themselves for annual re-election. New Directors
are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after
their appointment. Non-executive Directors are appointed for an
initial period of two years with the expectation of three two year
terms subject to satisfactory performance.
The Board may invite a non-executive Director to serve a further
term after six years following a detailed review at the end of this
period, subject to re-election.
The Board, having carried out the effectiveness and evaluation
process, considers the performance of each of the Directors
standing for election and re-election at this year’s AGM to be fully
satisfactory and is of the opinion that they have demonstrated
continued commitment to the role. The Board strongly supports
their election and re-election and recommends that shareholders
vote in favour of the resolutions at the AGM.
Corporate responsibility
Information on the Group’s initiatives and commitment to corporate
responsibility can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report
on pages 31 to 35.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued De La Rue Annual Report 2010 45
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
Business Ethics
De La Rue’s reputation is based on security, integrity and trust.
De La Rue has clear core values and principles which govern how
the Group does business and which everyone within De La Rue
must follow. The way De La Rue delivers this policy is reflected in
the way the Group competes for business and delivers its services,
focused on quality, value for money and the reliability and reputation
of its employees.
All employees are required to follow the Code of Conduct approved
by the Board when performing their duties as employees or where
they are representing De La Rue. In addition all agents, sales
consultants and distributors must also follow this Code of Conduct
when they are representing De La Rue.
More detailed policies and procedures supplement the Code
of Conduct. The main principles of the Code of Conduct are:
• Compliance with the law where either employees are employed
or where they carry out business on behalf of De La Rue
• Compliance with competition/anti-trust law
• Compliance with export licensing or trade embargoes
• Business dealings with customers, suppliers and third parties
must be conducted honestly and with integrity
• Avoiding conflicts of interests in any business dealings
The policies and procedures related to the appointment and
management of sales agents and consultants were strengthened
during the year in light of Lord Woolf’s recommendations on the
appointment and management of agents. The Group Third Party
Partner Team was established and management processes and
tools for the appointment of Third Party Partners (TPPs) were
upgraded to eliminate any potential inconsistencies in the area. The
Team also provides improved focus on training and communication
to key relevant personnel on fundamental principles regulating TPPs
and coordinates external due diligence where particular risks are
identified. Advice was also sought from a number of external parties
such as the Institute of Business Ethics and professional due
diligence suppliers with regard to best practice in this area.
The Company announced on 18 November 2009 that it had
received notification from the Serious Fraud Office that it had
concluded its investigation into the Company which was initiated
in 2007 and that no action will be taken against any company
in the Group or against any current or former employee.
Committees of the Board
The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination,
General Business and Risk Committees with appointed chairmen
and fixed terms of reference which are reviewed annually. The terms
of reference and duties of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and
Risk Committees appear on the Group’s website and are also
available on request. The Board is satisfied that the Committees
discharged their responsibilities satisfactorily. Membership of these
Committees is given in the Directors’ biographies on page 37.
Further details of Committees and key activities performed during
the year are given below.
Nomination Committee
The Committee consists of five independent non-executive
Directors at the date of this report together with the Chairman
and the Chief Executive.
The Committee meets at least once a year and otherwise as
necessary and makes recommendations to the Board with regard
to any vacancies for executive or non-executive Directors or changes
that are considered necessary. The Committee has the power to
employ the services of such advisers as it deems necessary in order
to carry out its responsibilities. The Committee also reviews the time
commitment required of non-executive Directors at least once a
year. The Board, as a whole, approves the appointment and removal
of Directors and retains appropriate executive search consultants,
having prepared a job specification for the particular role to be filled.
The principal activity of the Committee during 2009/2010 was
succession planning and the recruitment of new Directors.
Remuneration Committee
Gill Rider was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in
July 2006 and she has been the Committee Chairman since
26 July 2007 . She temporarily stood down from the Board
on 26 February 2009. Philip Nolan acted as Chairman of the
Committee until Gill Rider’s return on 1 July 2009. Details of
the Committee and of the remuneration policy can be found
in the Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 53.
General Business Committee
The Committee meets when necessary to deal with routine matters
arising between scheduled Board meetings. Only independent non-
executive Directors may decide matters relating to the administration
or the implementation of the Company’s share schemes (other than
for the purpose of allotting shares on exercise).
Risk Committee
The Board reviewed the terms of reference and the composition
of the Risk Committee during the year. Core responsibilities of
the Risk Committee are to:
• Assist the Board by assessing and reporting on the effectiveness
of the Company’s internal control systems for managing risks
• Assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities by providing
a framework for managing risks throughout the Group
• Provide an appropriate level of reporting on the status of risk
management within the Group
• Promote awareness of internal control issues and risk
management
• Provide an appropriate level of reporting to the Board which
retains the overall responsibility, on the status of internal risk
management.
The Committee, chaired by the General Counsel and Company
Secretary, meets and reports to the Board at least twice a year.
Other members of the Committee include the Chief Executive,
Group Finance Director, business unit managing directors and
the Group Director of Business Continuity. Any Director is entitled
to attend any meeting.
The Committee is assisted by Group-wide committees which
deal with specific areas of risk such as the Health, Safety and
Environment Committee and the Security Committee.
Details of risk management and particular risks within the Group
are set out on pages 24 to 27 . 46 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
Audit Committee of the Board
Warren East succeeded Keith Hodgkinson as Chairman of
the Audit Committee on 1 April 2009. All members of the Audit
Committee are independent non-executive Directors other than
Keith Hodgkinson, who retired from the Board on 31 December
2009 and who ceased to be viewed as independent having served
on the Board for more than nine years from the date of his first
election. Warren East is the chief executive of a listed company.
The external auditors, Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance
Director, General Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Financial
Controller and the internal auditors Ernst & Young LLP attend each
meeting at the invitation of the Committee Chairman. Ernst & Young
LLP and KPMG Audit Plc each meet the Committee without
executive Directors or employees of the Company being present.
The Committee provides an independent overview of the
effectiveness of the internal financial control systems and financial
reporting processes. Its principal responsibilities include:
• The appointment of the external auditor and the agreement
of terms of engagement at the start of each audit
• Approving and reviewing progress on audit plans across
the businesses
• Reviewing the integrity of the interim and full year financial
statements
• Reviewing and monitoring the external auditor’s independence
and objectivity
• Reviewing reports on the effectiveness of the Group’s
Whistleblowing policy, details of which are set out on
pages 27 and 32
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness
of the internal audit function and of the external audit and KPMG
Audit Plc’s role in performing it.
Internal audit
The Board through the Audit Committee monitors the internal
financial control systems through reports received from the internal
audit function during the year. The Audit Committee decided to
outsource the internal audit function entirely to Ernst & Young LLP
for 2009/2010. The internal audit function is now more aligned to
the risks that De La Rue faces with outputs providing assurance
over selected key risks that could impact the ability of the Group
to achieve its business goals and objectives. Internal audit acts as
a service to businesses by assisting with the ongoing improvement
of controls and procedures. There is a system of internal control
reviews which includes a self-assessment programme covering
both financial and IT controls and actions agreed are followed up
by management to ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
The internal audit plan is set and reviewed by the Audit Committee,
together with reports from the external auditors (KPMG Audit Plc)
on internal control matters noted as part of their audit work.
The Group has continued to raise the profile of good internal
financial controls. The fraud risk profiling programme, involving multi-
disciplined teams, considers areas of potential risks and confirms
controls needed for key financial processes to mitigate such risks.
Independence of auditors
The Audit Committee places great emphasis on the objectivity of
the Group’s auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, in reporting to shareholders.
The KPMG audit Partner is present at Audit Committee meetings
to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit. The
overall performance of the auditor is reviewed annually. This activity
also forms part of KPMG’s own system of quality control. The Audit
Committee has discussions with the auditor, without management
being present, on the adequacy of controls and on judgmental
areas and receives and reviews the auditors’ highlights reports and
management letters which are one of the main outputs from the
external audit.
The scope and key focus of the forthcoming year’s audit is discussed
with, and approved by, the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has a detailed policy specifying which services
the external auditor is allowed to perform on behalf of the Group
and the relevant procedures to be followed by the Group.
Briefly, the procedures cover:
• Selecting the statutory auditor and approving the audit fee
• Being satisfied that there are no relationships between the auditor
and the Group (other than in the ordinary course of business)
• Commissioning non-audit work
• Circumstances in which it is appropriate for incumbent auditors
to provide non-audit work
De La Rue has procedures for procuring audit and consulting
services from external sources as follows:
• Audit-related services, covering regulatory and statutory reporting
• Non-audit related services, covering the nature and extent of
non-audit services whilst seeking to maintain the balance between
objectivity and value for money
The allocation of non-audit work is considered in accordance
with the Group’s policy on the engagement of external auditors
and the commissioning of non-audit services. The policy sets out
a pre-approved framework of services, where the auditors can apply
their existing in-depth business knowledge and skill to bring both
quality and efficiency benefits to the Group. The external auditors
are prohibited from performing certain non-audit related services
including remuneration consultancy and advice and the design,
development or implementation of financial information or internal
control systems. However, a total prohibition on use of incumbent
external auditors might lead to loss of business knowledge that
could adversely affect audit quality.
Whilst it may be cost effective for incumbent external auditors to
provide services, as a general principle all services must be subject
to competitive tender. The Group Finance Director determines how
this applies.
Incumbent auditors may, but only with the prior approval of the
Chairman of the Audit Committee, provide some non-audit related
services, where the selection criteria include detailed proposals,
timescales, local resource and cost. During 2009/2010 the amount
of non-audit fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc was £0.2m and was
principally related to work performed in connection with tax
assurance services.
The external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid their
objectivity and independence being compromised. They report
to the Audit Committee on how they comply with professional and
regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their
independence. Key members of the KPMG Audit Plc audit team
rotate and the firm ensures, where appropriate, that confidentiality
is maintained between different parts of the firm providing services
to De La Rue.
By order of the Board
Edward Peppiatt
Company Secretary
24 May 2010
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued De La Rue Annual Report 2010 47
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
The Remuneration Committee presents its Report which has been
adopted by the Board and which shareholders will be asked to
approve at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Report covers the following:
• Committee membership and responsibilities
• Policy on Directors’ and senior executives’ remuneration
• Details of each Director’s remuneration and awards under share
or share option schemes
• Graphs comparing the performance of the Company against
the FTSE 250, its comparator group
• Details of the fees of non-executive Directors (for which the Board
rather than the Remuneration Committee is responsible)
Constitution of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists entirely of non-executive
Directors all of whom are considered to be independent (as defined
under the Combined Code), except Keith Hodgkinson who retired
on 31 December 2009 and who ceased to be independent in July
2009 having served on the Board for more than nine years and the
Chairman of the Company, who was independent at the time of his
appointment as Chairman on 22 July 2004. During the year under
review, Philip Nolan acted as Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee until Gill Rider rejoined the Committee as Chairman
on 1 July 2009 (having temporarily stood down from the Board
on 26 February 2009). The Remuneration Committee comprises
Nicholas Brookes, Sir Jeremy Greenstock, Keith Hodgkinson (until
31 December 2009) and Sir Julian Horn-Smith (from 24 September
2009). Their biographical details appear on page 37 . The Committee
meets as required: seven meetings were held during the year, and
attendance details are set out on page 44. Its remit is to determine
the Group’s policy for executive remuneration, to determine the
remuneration packages of the Chairman, executive Directors and
certain other senior executives who report to the Chief Executive,
including pension rights and compensation payments and to
oversee the implementation and operation of share incentive
schemes. Details of how the Committee has carried out these
responsibilities are described in this report. Terms of Reference
for the Committee are set out in full on De La Rue’s website.
Advisers
The Committee is authorised to and does use independent
consultants. During 2009/2010 Towers Watson advised on
benchmarking against comparator companies, executive salaries,
share plan design and review of senior management bonus schemes
and pensions. Hewitt New Bridge Street advised on whether
performance targets in share option schemes were achieved.
The Chief Executive and the Group Director of Human Resources
are normally invited by the Remuneration Committee to attend
meetings of the Committee. The General Counsel and Company
Secretary, who is also Secretary to the Committee, advised on
governance issues.
No-one is present when his or her own remuneration or contractual
terms are discussed. The Chief Executive is consulted on the
remuneration of executives directly reporting to him and other senior
executives and will seek to ensure a consistent process across
the Group.
General policy
The Group’s remuneration policy aims to align the interests
of the executive Directors and other senior executives with those
of shareholders. The Committee believes that variable performance
related pay and incentives should account for a significant proportion
of the overall remuneration package of executive Directors so that
the remuneration of executive Directors is aligned with the Group’s
performance. Performance related elements of remuneration therefore
form a significant proportion of total remuneration packages.
In setting the Group’s remuneration policy, the Remuneration
Committee believes that the Group should provide:
• Competitive rewards, which will attract and retain high calibre
employees with the skills and commitment to drive performance
and which reflect individual responsibilities and experience
• Incentive arrangements which are fair, competitive, simple
to understand and transparent. They should also be subject
to challenging performance targets reflecting the Group’s
objectives to motivate executives to focus on both annual
and longer term performance
Performance targets set for the incentive schemes are designed
to provide maximum awards for exceptional performance. The
Remuneration Committee intends that executive Directors’ basic
salaries should, over time, be positioned at or around the median
level in the marketplace with the incentive arrangements (provided
performance targets are met) set in order that overall remuneration
is at the median level in the marketplace. When assessing the
marketplace, the Remuneration Committee refers to survey data
supplied by Towers Watson, focusing on companies of similar size
and complexity in the FTSE 250.
The Committee adopted a policy in 2002 that certain key executives
(being executive Directors and other members of the Operating
Board) should be encouraged to hold and retain a personal
shareholding in the Company equivalent to one times salary over
a period of five years.
New performance share plan and changes to Annual
Incentive Award
During the year the Remuneration Committee carried out a review
of the Group’s remuneration arrangements for executive Directors and
senior management in conjunction with its advisers, Towers Watson.
These arrangements are subject to approval by shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting (AGM) and a description of the key terms
of the proposed new plans may be found in the Notice of AGM.
The Group intends to introduce a new long term incentive plan,
the De La Rue Performance Share Plan (PSP). The PSP will replace
the current 2005 Deferred Bonus and Matching Share Plan for
awards from 2010 onwards and no further awards will be made
under that plan.
The purpose of the PSP is to provide executives and selected senior
managers with a long term incentive award that promotes long term
value creation for shareholders and reinforces the alignment of
participant and shareholder interests.
The terms of the current annual incentive awards will also be
amended such that a proportion of the annual incentive award may
be paid in shares or restricted stock units with a mandatory holding
period of three years, and which will be subject to forfeiture
(clawback) in the event of resignation, dismissal for misconduct
or a restatement of financial results. In order to achieve this, a new
Annual Bonus Plan (ABP) will be introduced and will apply to annual
incentive awards in respect of the 2009/2010 and subsequent
financial years.
The Remuneration Committee currently considers that the
maximum awards under the ABP should be set at 100 per cent
of salary in cash and 35 per cent of salary in shares for the Chief
Executive and up to 80 per cent of salary in cash and 35 per cent
of salary in shares for other executive Directors.
Principal shareholders were consulted on the key features of the
proposed plans.
REMUNERATION REPORT 48 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
Components for executive Directors and senior executives
Executive Directors’ remuneration is provided in the form of a
combination of basic salary, annual bonus (cash) and an award
of shares, currently under the De La Rue Deferred Bonus and
Matching Share Plan.
Salaries for executive Directors and senior executives
The Remuneration Committee, taking into account performance,
experience and responsibilities, determines the basic salary for
each executive Director. Salaries are reviewed annually by the
Remuneration Committee having regard to employees’ pay and
conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The Remuneration Committee regularly benchmarks key roles
against similar positions in comparable companies and obtains
detailed information from external and internal sources about
current market practices. Key roles include executive Directors
and members of the Operating Board.
At the most recent benchmarking review, James Hussey’s level
of annual salary was positioned below the median of composite
comparator data for chief executives, comprising Towers Watson’s
proprietary remuneration survey data and a bespoke group of
predominantly FTSE 250 companies. Simon Webb’s level of annual
basic salary was also positioned below the median of composite
comparator data for finance directors on the same basis.
Benefits
All executive Directors and senior employees are eligible for a
range of taxable benefits which include provision of car allowance,
pension, membership of a private medical scheme and life
assurance and reimbursement of the annual subscription to an
appropriate professional body. In addition, the Chief Executive
is provided with permanent health insurance.
Annual Incentive Award
The annual bonus, which is paid as a percentage of basic salary,
is based on achieving targets for the year set by the Remuneration
Committee. The maximum bonus opportunity as a percentage of
salary is 100 per cent for the Chief Executive, James Hussey, and
70 per cent for the Group Finance Director, Simon Webb. The
Committee considers each year what are appropriate performance
measures to align the reward strategy with the business strategy.
Typical measures for executive Directors and senior executives will
include operating profit (before exceptionals), operating cash flow
and the achievement of key business imperatives. For the executive
Directors, the Annual Incentive Award measures for 2009/2010
were set against Group Operating Profit and Group Cash Flow
targets for the full year. These measures were chosen as they
represent the key business drivers that reflect the underlying
financial performance of the Group. There are appropriate divisional
measures for managing directors and senior executives of business
units. The incentive plan is structured so that there is no payment
unless a minimum performance threshold has been achieved and
the maximum payout will only be made if stretching and challenging
targets are met. The 2009/2010 Annual Incentive Award achieved
payouts for executive Directors and some senior management of
between entry and target.
Once the design of the relevant annual incentive scheme has been
approved by the Committee it is then introduced throughout the
Group with appropriate measures for individual business units and
eligible employees. Measures may include increase in revenues,
productivity improvements, working capital management, order
growth, cash flow and relevant profit targets. The Committee has
used a combination of these measures for the past nine years,
including the annual incentive award for 2009/2010.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to consider other
factors, such as ethical behaviours, corporate responsibility,
environment and health and safety matters as it sees fit when
determining the final outcome of the annual incentive award.
Targets set for 2010/2011 follow a similar plan design as for
2009/2010 with appropriately challenging performance targets.
Details of the emoluments of the executive Directors during the year
are in the table on page 50.
Executive Directors’ service contracts
James Hussey and Simon Webb have rolling service contracts
dated 25 November 2008 and 26 January 2009 respectively
allowing 12 months’ notice period from either party and provision
for compensation on termination by the Company not exceeding
12 months’ basic salary, excluding benefits in kind.
The Company announced on 30 April 2010 that Simon Webb
will leave the Board on 31 May 2010 and details of the termination
arrangements are set out on page 50.
In determining compensation for early termination of a service
contract, the Remuneration Committee carefully considers the
specific circumstances, the Company’s commitments under the
individual’s contract and the individual’s obligation to mitigate loss.
Directors’ share interests (audited information)
The interests in ordinary shares of 44
152
/175p of Directors holding
office at the end of the financial year are set out below.
28 March 27 March
2009 2010
Nicholas Brookes 7,780 7,780
Warren East 2,093 2,093
James Hussey 13,298 36,345
Gill Rider 454 454
Simon Webb – 2,410
Sir Jeremy Greenstock, Sir Julian Horn-Smith and Victoria Jarman (appointed
22 April 2010) have no interest in the Company’s ordinary shares. There have
been no changes in Directors’ interests in ordinary shares since 27 March 2010.
All interests of the Directors and their families are beneficial.
Pension
All executive Directors and senior executives in the UK may join the
HM Revenue and Customs registered De La Rue Pension Scheme
(the Scheme). Executives who are members of the closed senior
section of the Scheme are required to pay a contribution of 8 per
cent of pensionable salary into the Scheme and are provided with
a pension of up to 71.66 per cent of final pensionable salary on
retirement. The actual level of pension depends upon the number
of years’ service with the Group. Executives who are members
of the retirement plan section of the Scheme are required to pay
a contribution of 3.5 per cent of pensionable salary to the Scheme.
Pension accrues at a maximum rate of 1 per cent of pensionable
salary for each year of service. In addition members of this section
may pay up to an extra 3 per cent of pensionable salary into a
defined contribution plan and receive equal matching contributions
from the Company.
The current normal retirement age is 65 although pension accrued
on service before 1 June 2007 may be drawn in full from age 60.
Pension accrued after 1 June 2007 is subject to a variable accrual
rate which is adjusted annually to reflect changes to life expectancy.
The Scheme also provides a lump sum death in service benefit and
pensions for dependants of members on their death. Executive
Directors and senior executives who reach the Lifetime Allowance
will be offered the option of leaving the Scheme at that point and
receiving a cash allowance in lieu of pension provision, or remaining
in the Scheme and incurring a personal tax charge, known as the
Lifetime Allowance Charge, on any excess benefits. The Committee
has decided that the Group will not compensate any executive
Director or employee for any additional tax which may be payable
as a result of a member reaching the Lifetime Allowance.
REMUNERATION REPORT continued De La Rue Annual Report 2010 49
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
During the year the Group has consulted with its employees on
the way it provides pension benefits. As a result of the consultation
process the following changes are planned:
• The current final salary sections will be closed to future accrual
from 1 April 2013 and pensionable pay will be frozen from
31 March 2011
• The mortality adjustment applied to pension accrued after
1 June 2007 will be removed in respect of employees who remain
in service after 31 March 2013
• A new defined contribution pension scheme will be put in place
during 2010 for new employees. Current employees who leave the
final salary sections in 2013 and those who wish to leave the final
salary sections before then may also join this scheme. The
scheme offers employees a choice of contribution between 3 per
cent and 6 per cent of pensionable pay with a double matching
employer contribution
Details of each executive Director’s pension arrangements are as
follows:
James Hussey is eligible for a pension of up to 71.66 per cent of
his notional pensionable salary at age 65. He is required to make a
contribution to the senior section of the Scheme of 8 per cent of his
notional pensionable salary. He is covered for a lump sum on death
in service of four times his basic salary, with a widow’s pension of
60 per cent of his prospective pension in the event of death in service.
His pension under the defined benefit Scheme as at 27 March 2010
was £97,809 per annum. His notional pensionable salary for
2009/2010 was £231,525. James Hussey receives a cash allowance
of 20 per cent on the difference between his basic salary and his
notional pensionable salary. Notional salary increases annually
in line with the retail price index.
Stephen King (resigned 31 March 2009) was eligible for a target
pension from all sources of 71.66 per cent of basic salary at the age
of 65. His target pension was provided through a combination of a
closed FURBS, membership of the senior section of the Scheme
and pensions from previous employments.
He made a contribution of 8 per cent of basic salary to his pension
arrangement and was covered for a lump sum on death in service
based on four times basic salary, with a widow’s pension of 60 per
cent of target pension in the event of death in service. He ceased
to be a Director on 31 March 2009 and left service on 30 June 2009.
His pension under the defined benefit Scheme as at 31 March 2009
was £45,900 per annum. As part of his termination arrangements,
the Group made an additional payment to the Scheme of £71,680
to augment his benefits. His deferred pension entitlement at
30 June 2009 was £58,600 per annum.
Simon Webb is entitled to a pension from the retirement plan
section of the Scheme. The accrual rate from 1 April 2010 allowing
for adjustments for mortality is
1
⁄102.16 for each year of pensionable
service. He is required to make a contribution of 3.5 per cent of
his basic salary towards his defined benefit pension and has elected
to pay additional top up contributions of 3 per cent to the defined
contribution section. In the event of death in service he is covered
for a lump sum of four times his basic salary and a widow’s pension
of 25 per cent of basic salary. His pension under the defined benefit
Scheme as at 27 March 2010 was £2,583 per annum. The Group
also makes a payment of 10 per cent of basic salary to a self invested
pension plan for the executive. For the first nine months of the year
this contribution was paid as a cash allowance to the executive.
Directors’ pension entitlements (audited information)
The table below sets out the pension benefits to which each
executive Director is entitled. It shows:
• The accrued pension entitlement at the end of the year, including
pension accrued before appointment as a Director, if applicable,
payable from normal retirement age
• The additional pension accrued during the year, payable at normal
retirement age
• The transfer value amounts as at 28 March 2009 and 27 March
2010 and the increase in transfer value between the two periods
net of Directors’ contributions. The transfer values have been
calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11
Pensions accruing to executive Directors during the full or part year are set out below:
Directors’ pension entitlements (£’000)
Transfer
value of the Transfer Transfer
Pension Increase increase value of value of Change in
accumulated pension in pension accumulated accumulated transfer value Contributions
at Increase during year (excluding pension at pension at (excluding to a Defined
27 March pension (net of Directors’ 28 March 27 March Directors’ Contribution
2010 during year inflation) contributions) 2009 2010 contributions) Scheme
Stephen King (to date of resignation of 31 March 2009) 46 –– – 514 621 107 –
James Hussey 98 88 71 1,028 1,295 248 –
Simon Webb (appointed Group Finance Director
and executive Director on 1 April 2009) 3 22 14 3 25 14 12 50 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
Directors’ emoluments (audited information)
2010
Total to
27 March 2010
2010 (or date of
Salary 2010 2010 resignation 2009
and fees Benefits Bonus if sooner) Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive Directors
James Hussey 325 44 82 451 221
Stephen King (resigned 31 March 2009) 2– 4 6 991
Simon Webb (appointed 1 April 2009) 225 36 40 301 66
552 80 126 758 1,278
Non-executive Chairman
Nicholas Brookes 163 –– 163 163
Non-executive Directors
Warren East 47 –– 47 40
Sir Jeremy Greenstock 40 –– 40 40
Keith Hodgkinson (resigned 31 December 2009) 35 –– 35 47
Sir Julian Horn-Smith (appointed 1 September 2009) 23 –– 23 –
Philip Nolan (resigned 23 July 2009) 18 1* – 19 42
Gill Rider (temporarily stood down from the Board on 26 February 2009 until 1 July 2009) 35 –– 35 43
Aggregate emoluments 913 81 126 1,120 1,653
*Relates to reimbursement of travelling expenses from Ireland to attend Board meetings.
Simon Webb’s termination arrangements
Agreement was reached with Simon Webb that on termination of his employment on 25 June 2010 he will receive £321,000 as payment
in lieu of notice and compensation for loss of office and/or employment. The Company will bear certain expenses of £12,000. In accordance
with the rules of the Deferred Bonus and Matching Share Plan, Simon Webb will also receive allocations of shares in respect of awards
made in 2009 not exceeding a value of £140,000.
Payments made to former Directors of the Company
Lord Wright, who retired as a Director on 19 July 2000, continues to provide up to 20 days’ consultancy each year pursuant to an
agreement with the Company dated 20 July 2000 which has been extended to 19 July 2010. He is paid a fee of £20,000 per annum.
Directors’ Share Options (audited information) – Sharesave Scheme
The number of options over De La Rue plc shares held by executive Directors under the Sharesave Scheme during the period is detailed
below:
Number of
Options
27 March Market
2010 price at Average
Granted Lapsed (or date of Exercise exercise Performance Date from fair value
Date of 28 March Exercised during during resignation price date targets which Expiry per share
Grant 2009 during year year year if sooner) (pence) (pence) (see below) exercisable date (pence)
(4)
Stephen King
(to date of resignation
of 31 March 2009)
Sharesave options Dec ‘07 1,287 –– – 1,287
(1)
745.74 –
(1)
–
(2)
–
(3)
–
(3)
288.0
Notes
(1) Stephen King exercised 582 options (pro rated) on 13 August 2009. The closing mid-market price on this date was 848p.
(2) No performance conditions are attached to the options under the Sharesave Scheme as it is open to all UK employees.
(3) Exercisable for a period of six months from date of termination of 30 June 2009.
(4) Estimated value of award at time of grant (see also note 21b to the Financial Statements).
James Hussey and Simon Webb do not hold any options under the Sharesave Scheme.
The closing mid-market price of De La Rue plc shares at 27 March 2010 was 940p and the highest and lowest mid-market prices during
the year were:
Ordinary shares
of 44
152
⁄175p to
27 March
2010
High 1,006.0
Low 813.5
REMUNERATION REPORT continued De La Rue Annual Report 2010 51
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
Deferred Bonus and Matching Share Plan (audited information)
Allocation of shares held by executive Directors is as follows:
Total Total 10 Day
allocation allocation average
as at as at mid market
28 March 27 March share price Market
2009 2010 preceding price at Average
(or date of Allocation Lapsed (or date of date of date of fair value
Date of appointment Allocation vesting during resignation allocation vesting Vesting per share
(b)
allocation if later) during year during year year if sooner) (pence) (pence) date (pence)
James Hussey
Deferred Allocation Jun ‘06 12,505 – 12,505
(1)
– – 531.80 877.80 Jun ‘09 540
Jun ‘07 9,691 –– – 9,691 758.40 – Jun ‘10 792
Jun ‘08 8,494 –– – 8,494 908.50* – Jun ‘11 889
Jun ‘09 – 13,249 –– 13,249 858.55 – Jun ‘12 880
Maximum Matching
Allocation
(a)
Jun ‘06 25,010 – 25,010 – – 531.80 877.80 Jun ‘09 380
Jun ‘07 19,380 –– – 19,380 758.40 – Jun ‘10 552
Jun ‘08 16,988 –– – 16,988 908.50* – Jun ‘11 639
Jun ‘09 – 26,498 –– 26,498 858.55 – Jun ‘12 665
92,068 39,747 37,515
(2)
– 94,300
Simon Webb
(appointed 1 April 2009)
Deferred Allocation Jun ‘09 – 9,172 –– 9,172 858.55 – Jun ‘12 880
Maximum Matching
Allocation
(a)
Jun ‘09 – 13,758 –– 13,758 858.55 – Jun ‘12 665
– 22,930 –– 22,930
Stephen King
(resigned 31 March 2009)
Deferred Allocation Jun ‘06 17,770 –– – 17,770
(3)
531.80 877.80 Jun ‘09 540
Jun ‘07 14,075 –– – 14,075
(4)
758.40 902.21 Jun ‘09 792
Jun ‘08 12,336 –– – 12,336
(5)
908.50* 902.21 Jun ‘09 889
Maximum Matching
Allocation
(a)
Jun ‘06 35,540 –– – 35,540
(6)
531.80 877.80 Jun ‘09 380
Jun ‘07 28,150 –– – 28,150
(6)
758.40 902.21 Jun ‘09 552
Jun ‘08 24,671 –– – 24,671
(7)
908.50* 902.21 Jun ‘09 639
132,542 –– – 132,542
Notes
*Middle market value of an ordinary share on the dealing day immediately preceding date of allocation.
(a) Details of the performance condition attached to Matching Shares are set out on page 52. The performance condition for the 2006 awards under the Plan was met in full
and the shares vested on 22 June 2009.
(b) Estimated value of award at time of grant (see also note 21b to the Financial Statements).
Dividend Shares
An additional award of shares will be released on the vesting date in respect of all Deferred Shares released equal in value to the amount of dividends which would have
been payable on the Deferred Shares over the performance period. As at 27 March 2010 and based on the prevailing share price on that date dividend shares accrued
were as follows:
James Hussey: 2,622 ordinary shares
Simon Webb: 404 ordinary shares
James Hussey
(1) A total of 1,617 dividend shares were released to James Hussey on Deferred Allocations vesting on 22 June 2009.
(2) James Hussey retained the shares acquired on vesting of the June 2006 award under the Plan after selling sufficient number of shares to meet his PAYE and NI liability.
Stephen King
(3) Deferred Allocation for the year 2006 was released in full on 22 June 2009. 2,297 dividend shares relating to this allocation were also released.
(4) Deferred Allocation for the year 2007 was released in full on 30 June 2009. 1,465 dividend shares relating to this allocation were also released.
(5) Deferred Allocation for the year 2008 was released in full on 30 June 2009. 386 dividend shares relating to this allocation were also released.
(6) Matching Allocations for the years 2006 and 2007 were also released in full on 22 June 2009 and 30 June 2009 respectively, without pro rating for time served subject
to measurement of the EPS condition to 31 March 2008 and the TSR condition to 1 September 2008 which were both met.
(7) Matching Allocation for the year 2008 was released pro rated (8,314) to 30 June 2009 subject to the measurement of the EPS condition to 31 March 2008 and the
TSR condition to 1 September 2008 which were met in full. 52 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
Current schemes
Sharesave Scheme
All UK employees may join the Company’s HM Revenue and
Customs approved SAYE Scheme. Options are granted over
De La Rue plc shares, at the prevailing market price at the time
of grant (with a discretionary discount to the market price), to
employees who agree to save between £5 and £250 per month
over a period of three or five years. A grant was made in December
2009 at a price of 819.55p which was at a 15 per cent discount
and 40 per cent of eligible employees participated.
US Employee Share Purchase Plan
The US Employee Share Purchase Plan (USESPP), established
under Section 423 of the US Internal Revenue Code, provides a
competitive incentive for US employees to invest up to 10 per cent
of basic salary each year in the Company’s shares, subject to the
statutory limit (currently US$25,000 worth of shares). No
performance conditions are attached to options under the USESPP .
The Eighth Offering under the Plan began on 1 January 2010 and
38 per cent of eligible employees participated. The purchase price
is 85 per cent of the lower of the market value of a De La Rue share
either at the beginning (988p) or end of the Offering Period on
31 December 2010.
Deferred Bonus and Matching Share Plan
The Company established the Deferred Bonus and Matching
Share Plan (the Plan) in July 2005 which, following a review in 2007,
was extended until 2010.
Awards of deferred allocations of shares (Deferred Shares) to
executive Directors and selected senior executives are made based
on the achievement of annual performance targets to be satisfied
before the awards are made.
The maximum potential value of the Deferred Shares based on the
market value of a share at the date of allocation is 50 per cent of
salary. For 2009/2010 financial year the value of awards to executive
Directors was 35 per cent of salary. The number of Deferred Shares
will be matched by additional free shares (Matching Shares) which
will be released on the third anniversary of the allocation of the
Deferred Shares provided pre-determined performance targets are
satisfied and the participant is still employed within the Group.
There are two performance targets, each one of which applies to
allocations of up to 50 per cent of the Matching Shares. Fifty per cent
is based on the achievement of an annual rate of increase in earnings
per share (EPS) of a De La Rue share over the annual rate of increase
in the retail price index of a minimum of 3 per cent per annum. If the
minimum target is not achieved no matching share allocation subject
to the EPS test will be awarded. If EPS increases by 5 per cent
or more above the annual rate of increase in the retail price index,
the eligible participant will receive 100 per cent of Matching Shares
subject to the EPS test, with intermediate straight line vesting.
The remaining 50 per cent of the Matching Share element is based
on De La Rue’s total shareholder return (TSR) relative to the TSR of
the companies comprising the FTSE Mid 250 (excluding investment
trusts) over the relevant period. The proportion of any matching
allocation subject to this test will be 50 per cent for median
performance, and 100 per cent for upper quartile performance,
with intermediate straight line vesting.
For executive Directors and certain selected senior executives,
up to two Matching Shares will be allocated for each Deferred Share.
No shares will be released for performance below that which
qualifies for the minimum number of Matching Shares.
An additional award of shares will be released on the vesting date in
respect of all Deferred Shares released equal in value to the amount
of dividends which would have been payable on the Deferred
Shares over the performance period. The Remuneration Committee
regularly reviews the operation of the Plan and its specific terms,
including performance measures. At the time the Plan was
introduced in 2005 the EPS and TSR performance measures were
adopted following consultation with shareholders as being the most
transparent and appropriate. Before making any award the
Remuneration Committee considers the appropriateness of the
performance targets for matching awards, recognising in particular
that the average earnings per share growth target of retail price
index plus 3 to 5 per cent is the minimum. Subject to approval
by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM, the Plan will be replaced
with the PSP and ABP as detailed on page 47 of this report.
Long Term Incentive Plan
The Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) was introduced in 2006 to
retain key individuals who are not eligible for the Deferred Bonus and
Matching Share Plan. The LTIP is a cash based plan under which
participating employees may, subject to the performance measure
being met, receive up to 20 per cent of their annual salary as a cash
payment at the end of three years after an allocation is made.
The performance measure is EPS based and on a straight line
basis. The test is achievement of an annual rate of increase in
earnings per share which is at least 3 per cent over the annual rate
of increase in the retail price index. At the minimum achievement
a cash payment equivalent to 15 per cent of annual salary is payable
whilst an earnings per share increase of 5 per cent or more above
the annual rate of increase in the retail price index means 20 per
cent of annual salary is payable with intermediate straight line
vesting in between.
Superseded schemes
Executive Share Option Plan
The Executive Share Option Plan, which expired on 17 July 2006
for the purpose of grants of options, provided for the grant of options
at a price equal to the average market value of a De La Rue plc
ordinary share over the three dealing days immediately preceding
the date of grant, with a performance condition based on the
achievement of an earnings per share growth target. This is a legacy
plan with five participants holding 28,362 subsisting options, none
of whom are executive Directors or senior executives.
The Plan was replaced by the Long Term Incentive Plan.
Dilution limits
The Executive Share Option Plan and Deferred Bonus and Matching
Share Plan incorporate the current (December 2009) Association
of British Insurers Guidelines on headroom which provide that over
a 10 year period in relation to the Company’s issued share capital
(including any reissue of treasury shares):
• No more than 10 per cent can be issued to satisfy options granted
under both executive share option schemes and any other
employee share scheme of the Company
• No more than 5 per cent can be allocated to satisfy executive
(discretionary) share option schemes or share awards
The Remuneration Committee monitors regularly the effect of
potential vesting of share options or share awards to ensure that
the Company remains within these dilution limits. Options for which
a market purchase of shares has been made are excluded from
the headroom calculations.
REMUNERATION REPORT continued De La Rue Annual Report 2010 53
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
As at 24 May 2010 the current headroom in relation to all
outstanding share options or deferred share awards is shown below:
Shareholder return
The performance chart below illustrates total shareholder return.
Non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts and have
letters of appointment specifying fixed terms of office. Terms of
appointment are initially for two years with the expectation of three
two year terms. The Board may invite non-executive Directors to
serve a further term after a six year term following a detailed review.
The non-executive Directors’ current terms of appointment are
detailed below:
Current expiry Date of first
Non-executive Director of appointment appointment
Warren East 8 January 2011 9 January 2007
Sir Julian Horn-Smith 31 August 2011 1 September 2009
Sir Jeremy Greenstock 29 February 2012 1 March 2005
Victoria Jarman 21 April 2012 22 April 2010
Gill Rider 21 June 2012 22 June 2006
Nicholas Brookes was initially appointed as a non-executive
Director on 19 March 1997 and as Chairman of the Company
on 22 July 2004.
Remuneration for non-executive Directors
The Board determines the fees paid to non-executive Directors
taking into account market norms, comparator companies and the
duties required of non-executive Directors. Towers Watson advised
the Board during 2009/2010. Details of fees to the Chairman and
other non-executive Directors are set out on page 50. The fees
remain unchanged for the year 2010/2011 other than the fee to the
Chairman which increased to £165,000 from £162,500 having not
been reviewed prior to that since 2007. The Chairmen of the Audit
and Remuneration Committees each receive an additional fee of
£7,000 per annum for their work. Non-executive Directors are not
eligible for pension scheme membership and do not participate
in any of the Group’s bonus or share option schemes.
By order of the Board
Gill Rider
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
24 May 2010
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
146.5
142.5
Total shareholder return
£
De La Rue plc
FTSE 250 excluding
investment trusts index
This graph shows the value, on
27 March 2010, of £100 invested
in De La Rue plc on 26 March
2005 compared with the value
of £100 invested in the FTSE 250
excluding investment trusts
index, assuming in each case
the reinvestment of dividends.
The other points plotted are the
values at intervening financial
year ends
Source: Thomson Financial
190.9
174.1
149.7
98.8
166.6
240.6
267 .9
276.1
100.0
100.0
5% in 10 years 10% in 10 years
1.75
2.61
Scheme limits headroom
Shares (million)
Headroom
SAYE subsisting
Executive Schemes subsisting
4.08
3.19 3.19 54 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
We have audited the Financial Statements of De La Rue plc for the
52 week period ended 27 March 2010 set out on pages 55 to 94.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by
the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in
the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is
applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state
to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state
to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s
members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the
opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
set out on page 40, the Directors are responsible for the preparation
of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the Financial
Statements in accordance with applicable law and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is
provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP .
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion:
• the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of
the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 27 March
2010 and of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s profit for the
year then ended;
• the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
• the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice;
• the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the
Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies
Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006;
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year
for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with
the Financial Statements;
• the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement
set out on pages 42 to 46 with respect to internal control and risk
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes
and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial
Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
• Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,
in our opinion:
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
– the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
– certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law
are not made; or
– we have not received all the information and explanations
we require for our audit; or
– a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared
by the Company.
• Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
– the Directors’ statement, set out on page 40, in relation to going
concern; and
– the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages
42 to 46 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine
provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for
our review.
A J Sykes
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
8 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8BB
24 May 2010
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS
OF DE LA RUE PLC De La Rue Annual Report 2010 55
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
GROUP INCOME STATEMENT
For the year ended 27 March 2010
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 1 561.1 502.4
Operating expenses 2 (451.9) (405.9)
Operating profit before exceptional items 109.2 96.5
Exceptional items – operating 3 (7.5) (8.9)
Operating profit 101.7 87.6
Share of profits of associated companies after taxation 6.3 8.9
Profit before interest and taxation 108.0 96.5
Interest income 4 0.3 7.8
Interest expense 4 (5.4) (6.4)
Retirement benefit obligation finance income 25 26.4 33.3
Retirement benefit obligation finance cost 25 (32.7) (35.1)
Net finance cost (11.4) (0.4)
Profit before taxation 96.6 96.1
Taxation 5 (26.2) (28.5)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 70.4 67.6
Discontinued operations
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 6 – 296.5
Profit for the year 70.4 364.1
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 69.9 363.0
Profit attributable to minority interests 0.5 1.1
70.4 364.1
Earnings per share attributable to the Company’s equity holders
From continuing operations
Basic 7 71.0p 50.9p
Diluted 7 70.5p 50.4p
From discontinued operations
Basic 7 – 226.8p
Diluted 7 – 224.6p
On profit for the year
Basic 7 71.0p 277.7p
Diluted 7 70.5p 275.0p 56 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the year ended 27 March 2010
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Profit for the financial year 70.4 364.1
Other comprehensive income
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations 0.1 3.6
Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations (72.3) (75.0)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of amounts recycled to the income statement 6.6 (13.0)
Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 5 21.4 24.7
Foreign exchange recycled to the income statement on disposal of subsidiary undertakings – (13.3)
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (44.2) (73.0)
Comprehensive income for the year 26.2 291.1
Comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the Company 25.7 290.0
Minority interests 0.5 1.1
26.2 291.1 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 57
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
GROUP BALANCE SHEET
At 27 March 2010
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 9 165.6 148.3
Intangible assets 10 19.3 18.3
Investments in associates and joint ventures 11 0.1 21.1
Deferred tax assets 17 36.5 29.3
Derivative financial instruments 15 0.8 11.6
222.3 228.6
Current assets
Inventories 13 61.0 65.3
Trade and other receivables 14 76.5 82.5
Current tax assets 3.9 0.4
Derivative financial instruments 15 20.4 23.3
Cash and cash equivalents 16 41.6 58.5
Non-current assets held for sale 12 20.5 –
223.9 230.0
Total assets 446.2 458.6
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Borrowings 19 (51.7) (40.1)
Trade and other payables 18 (164.2) (158.5)
Current tax liabilities (34.5) (40.4)
Derivative financial instruments 15 (24.7) (27.7)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 20 (26.1) (32.5)
(301.2) (299.2)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 19 (0.9) (51.5)
Retirement benefit obligations 25 (127.1) (69.7)
Deferred tax liabilities 17 (0.3) –
Derivative financial instruments 15 (2.1) (14.3)
Other non-current liabilities 18 (5.1) (3.3)
(135.5) (138.8)
Total liabilities (436.7) (438.0)
Net assets 9.5 20.6
EQUITY
Share capital 21a 45.5 45.0
Share premium account 28.4 26.5
Capital redemption reserve 5.9 5.9
Hedge reserve (3.9) (8.6)
Cumulative translation adjustment 3.8 3.7
Other reserves (83.8) (83.8)
Retained earnings 10.4 29.0
Total equity attributable to shareholders of the Company 6.3 17.7
Minority interests 3.2 2.9
Total equity 9.5 20.6
Approved by the Board on 24 May 2010.
Nicholas Brookes Simon Webb
Chairman Group Finance Director 58 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
GROUP STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended 27 March 2010
Minority Total
Attributable to equity shareholders interest equity
Share Capital Cumulative
Share premium redemption Hedge translation Other Retained
capital account reserve reserve adjustment reserve earnings
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 30 March 2008 44.6 22.5 5.5 0.7 13.4 (83.8) 210.3 2.3 215.5
Comprehensive income
for the year –– – (9.3) (9.7) – 309.0 1.1 291.1
Share capital issued 0.8 4.0 –– ––– – 4.8
Purchase of shares
for cancellation (0.4) – 0.4 –– – (119.3) – (119.3)
Allocation of treasury shares –– ––– – 2.2 – 2.2
Employee share scheme:
– value of services provided –– ––– – 2.8 – 2.8
Income tax on income and
expenses recognised directly
in equity –– ––– – 0.7 – 0.7
Dividends paid –– ––– – (376.7) (0.5) (377.2)
Balance at 29 March 2009 45.0 26.5 5.9 (8.6) 3.7 (83.8) 29.0 2.9 20.6
Comprehensive income
for the year –– – 4.7 0.1 – 20.9 0.5 26.2
Share capital issued 0.5 1.9 –– ––– – 2.4
Employee share scheme:
– value of services provided –– ––– – 1.5 – 1.5
Income tax on income and
expenses recognised directly
in equity –– ––– – (0.1) – (0.1)
Dividends paid –– ––– – (40.9) (0.2) (41.1)
Balance at 27 March 2010 45.5 28.4 5.9 (3.9) 3.8 (83.8) 10.4 3.2 9.5
Nature and purpose of other reserves
(a) Share premium account
This reserve arises from the issuance of shares for consideration in excess of their nominal value.
(b) Capital redemption reserve
The reserve represents the nominal value of shares redeemed by the Company.
(c) Hedge reserve
The reserve records the portion of any gain or loss on hedging instruments that are determined to be effective cash flow hedges. When
the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is transferred out of equity to the income statement. If a forecast
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss on the related hedging instrument previously recognised in equity is transferred
to the income statement.
(d) Cumulative translation adjustment
This reserve records cumulative exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign entities since
transition to IFRSs. Upon disposal of foreign operations, the related accumulated exchange differences are recycled to the income
statement. This reserve also records the effect of hedging net investments in foreign operations.
(e) Other reserve
On 1 February 2000, the Company issued and credited as fully paid 191,646,873 ordinary shares of 25p each and paid cash of £103.7m
to acquire the issued share capital of De La Rue plc, following the approval of a High Court Scheme of Arrangement. In exchange for every
20 ordinary shares in De La Rue plc shareholders received 17 ordinary shares plus 920p in cash. The other reserve of £83.8m arose as a
result of this transaction and is a permanent adjustment to the consolidated Financial Statements. De La Rue Annual Report 2010 59
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended 27 March 2010
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax 96.6 96.1
Adjustments for:
Finance income and expense 11.4 0.4
Depreciation and amortisation 23.0 21.3
Decrease/(increase) in inventory 4.3 (0.1)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 16.6 (30.4)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (9.9) 17.5
(Decrease)/increase in reorganisation provisions (5.0) 4.4
Special pension fund contributions (17.0) (27.0)
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.9 (0.1)
Share of income from associates after tax (6.3) (8.9)
Other non-cash movements 1.5 (3.8)
Cash generated from continuing operations 116.1 69.4
Cash generated from discontinued operations 22 – (2.2)
Tax paid – continuing operations (21.0) (20.5)
Tax paid – discontinued operations 22 – (10.0)
Net cash flows from operating activities 95.1 36.7
Cash flows from investing activities
Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 22 (1.0) 333.7
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (PPE) & software intangibles – continuing operations (33.1) (29.3)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (PPE) & software intangibles – discontinued operations 22 – (0.7)
Development assets capitalised – continuing operations (2.3) (3.3)
Development assets capitalised – discontinued operations 22 – (1.1)
Proceeds from sale of PPE 0.5 0.5
Loans made to associates (0.6) –
Dividends received from associates 6.8 10.3
Net cash flows from investing activities (29.7) 310.1
Net cash inflow before financing activities 65.4 346.8
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital 2.4 7.0
Return of capital – (119.3)
(Repayment of)/proceeds from borrowings (32.9) 77.6
Finance lease principal payments (3.1) (3.9)
Interest received 0.4 7.6
Interest paid (3.7) (4.1)
Dividends paid to shareholders (40.4) (376.7)
Dividends paid to minority interests (0.2) (0.5)
Net cash flows from financing activities (77.5) (412.3)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the year (12.1) (65.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 50.1 116.7
Exchange rate effects (0.2) (1.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 37.8 50.1
Cash and cash equivalents consist of:
Cash at bank and in hand 16 35.1 43.4
Short term bank deposits 16 6.5 15.1
Bank overdrafts (3.8) (8.4)
22 37.8 50.1 60 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
De La Rue plc (the Company) is a public limited company
incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address
of its registered office is disclosed on page 96 of this Annual Report.
The consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the year
ended 27 March 2010 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries
(together referred to as the Group) and the Group’s interest in
associates. The Parent Company Financial Statements present
information about the Company as a separate entity and not about
its Group. The principal activities of the Group are described in
note 1. The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation
of these consolidated Financial Statements are set out below. These
policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented,
unless otherwise stated.
Statement of compliance
European Union (EU) law (IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002) requires
that the consolidated Financial Statements, for the year ended
27 March 2010, be prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU
(Adopted IFRSs). These consolidated Financial Statements have
been approved by the Directors and prepared in accordance with
Adopted IFRS including interpretations issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company Financial
Statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (UK GAAP).
The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing
standards, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board,
are applicable to the Group for the first time in the current year and
have been adopted by the Group with no impact on the Group’s
accounting policies or on its results or net assets included within
these consolidated Financial Statements:
• IAS 1 (Presentation of Financial Statements) amendments require
a number of changes to the presentation of financial statements.
These include a requirement to present, in a statement of changes
in equity, all owner changes in equity. All non-owner changes in
equity (ie comprehensive income) are required to be presented
in one statement of comprehensive income or in two statements
(a separate income statement and a statement of comprehensive
income). As a result, the Group has elected to present a
consolidated income statement, a consolidated statement of
comprehensive income and a consolidated statement of changes
in equity.
• IFRS 7 (Financial Instruments: Disclosures) amendments expand
the disclosures required in respect of fair value measurements and
liquidity risk. The Group has elected, on a voluntary basis, to
provide comparative information for these expanded disclosures
in the current year in order to aid comparability between periods.
• IFRS 8 (Operating Segments) requires segment disclosures based
on the components that the Chief Operating Decision Maker
(ie the Board) monitors in making decisions about operating
matters. Such components are identified on the basis of internal
reports that the Board reviews regularly in allocating resources
to segments and in assessing performance. This results in a
segmental analysis which is similar to that presented previously
under IAS 14 (Segmental Reporting) as the Group had previously
given additional voluntary disclosures of segmental information.
However, the comparatives have been restated for the effects of
the different disclosure requirements of current and deferred tax
assets and liabilities.
• IAS 23 (Borrowing Costs) amendments have removed the
option of immediately recognising as an expense borrowing
costs that relate to assets that take a substantial period of time
to get ready for use or sale. The revised standard requires such
borrowing costs to be capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
This does not change the Group’s current accounting policy on
borrowing costs.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under
the historical cost convention with the exception of certain items
which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting
policies below. The accounts have been prepared as at 27 March
2010, being the last Saturday in March. The comparatives for the
2009 financial year are for the year ended 28 March 2009.
As described on page 40 of the Directors’ Report, the consolidated
Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Financial
Statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company
(its subsidiaries) up to 27 March 2010. Control exists when the
Company has the power to govern the financial and operating
policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In
assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable
are taken into account. The results of subsidiaries acquired or
disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated Financial
Statements from the date that control commences or until the date
that control ceases. The majority of the subsidiaries prepare their
financial statements up to 27 March except for certain subsidiaries
whose year end is 31 December. In the case of the subsidiaries
whose financial statements are made up to 31 December 2009,
results for the period to 27 March 2010 have been consolidated.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a
subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the
identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any
deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the
identifiable net assets acquired (ie discount on acquisition) is
credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements
of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with
those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are
eliminated on consolidation.
Significant accounting policies and judgements applied
Foreign currency
Foreign currency transactions
These Financial Statements are presented in sterling, which
is the functional and presentational currency of the Company.
The functional currency of Group entities is principally determined
by the primary economic environment in which the respective
entity operates.
Transactions in foreign currencies entered into by Group entities are
translated into the functional currencies of those entities at the rates
of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet
date are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised
in the income statement.
Foreign currency non-monetary items measured in terms of
historical cost are translated at the rate of exchange at the date of
the transaction. Exchange differences on non-monetary items are
recognised in line with whether the gain or loss on the non-monetary
item itself is recognised in the income statement or in equity.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks,
the Group enters into forward contracts (refer to the accounting
policy on derivative financial instruments below for details of
the Group’s accounting policies in respect of such derivative
financial instruments).
ACCOUNTING POLICIES – GROUP De La Rue Annual Report 2010 61
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
Financial statements of foreign operations
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and
intangible assets, are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at
the balance sheet date. Income and expenses are translated at
average exchange rates (which approximate to actual rates).
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the
Group’s translation reserve, which is a component of equity. When
a foreign operation is sold, exchange differences that were recorded
in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain
or loss on sale.
Exchange differences in respect of foreign operations that arose
before 27 March 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs,
are presented as part of retained earnings, as permitted by IFRS 1.
Net investment in foreign operations
Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a financial
liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in foreign
operations are recognised in the translation reserve to the extent the
hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective such
differences are recognised as finance income or costs in the income
statement. Cumulative gains or losses in equity arising since the
date of transition to Adopted IFRSs are taken to the income
statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
Financial instruments
The Group’s operating activities expose it to financial risks of
changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses a range of derivative instruments, including forward
contracts and swaps to hedge its risk to changes in foreign
exchange rates and interest rates. Derivative financial instruments
are only used for hedging purposes. The use of financial derivatives
is governed by the Group’s risk management policies approved by
the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use
of financial derivatives consistent with the Group’s risk management
strategy.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at the
date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently
remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date. The gain
or loss on subsequent fair value measurement is recognised in the
income statement unless the derivative qualifies for hedge
accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends
on the nature of the item being hedged.
Cash flow hedges
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that
are designated and are effective as hedges of future cash flows are
recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised
immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated in
equity are recycled to the income statement in the period in which
the hedged item also affects the income statement. However, if the
hedged item results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or
liability, the amounts accumulated in equity on the hedging
instrument are transferred from equity and included in the initial
measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. Hedge accounting
is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold,
terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, for forecast transactions, any cumulative gain or loss
on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity
until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no
longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised
in equity is transferred to the income statement. Changes in the fair
value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge
accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Fair value hedges
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value of
a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment,
the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to
the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in net income.
Gains or losses from re-measuring the derivative, or for non-
derivatives, the foreign currency component of its carrying value,
are recognised in net income.
Embedded derivatives
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other
non-financial host contracts are treated as separate derivatives
when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those
of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair
value. Any unrealised gains or losses on such separated derivatives
are reported in the income statement.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations
Gains or losses on instruments used to hedge net investment in
foreign operations that are effective hedges are recognised in equity.
Ineffective hedges or portions thereon are recognised in the income
statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative
financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised
immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related to
operating activities are included in operating profit when recognised
in the consolidated income statement.
Revenue recognition
Group revenue predominantly represents sales to external
customers of manufactured products which fall within the Group’s
ordinary trading activities. This excludes VAT and other sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement to the extent
that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the
transaction will flow into the Group and the amount can be reliably
measured. In practice this means that revenue is recognised when
goods are supplied to external customers in accordance with the
terms of sale.
When goods are supplied, this is when the significant risks and
rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer.
Revenues and costs on project based contracts are recognised by
reference to the stage of completion, based on the work performed
to date and the overall contract profitability. The assessment of the
stage of completion is dependent on the nature of the contract,
and is assessed by reference to reviews of work performed,
achievement of contractual milestones and costs incurred.
Revenue on service-based contracts is recognised as services
are provided.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable,
which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash
receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that
asset’s net carrying amount.
Intangible assets
All intangible assets, except goodwill, are stated at cost less
accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. Goodwill
is not amortised and is stated at cost less any accumulated
impairment losses. 62 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost
of acquisition of a business combination over the Group’s share of
the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities
of the business acquired at the date of acquisition.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any
accumulated impairment losses. At the date of acquisition the
goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of
impairment testing and is tested annually for impairment and when
there are indications of impairment. Any impairment loss is
recognised immediately in the income statement and is not
subsequently reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying
amount of goodwill relating to the business. Goodwill arising on
the acquisition of subsidiaries is presented in goodwill and goodwill
arising on the acquisition of associates is presented in investments
in associates. Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as
an asset.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 27 March 2004 (the date
of transition to IFRS) has been retained at the previous UK GAAP
amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Development costs
Expenditure incurred in the development of products or
enhancements to existing product ranges is capitalised as an
intangible asset only when the future economic benefits expected to
arise are deemed probable and the costs can be reliably measured.
Development costs not meeting these criteria are expensed in the
income statement as incurred. Capitalised development costs are
amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful
economic lives once the product or enhancement is available for
use. Product research costs are written off as incurred.
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software licences
that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are capitalised
at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Software intangibles are amortised on a straight line basis over the
shorter of their useful economic life or their licence period at rates
which vary from between three and five years.
Distribution rights are capitalised at cost less accumulated
amortisation and impairment losses and are amortised over their
useful economic lives as determined by the life of the products
to which they relate.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or valuation,
less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated provision
for impairment in value. Assets in the course of construction
are included in property, plant and equipment on the basis
of expenditure incurred at the balance sheet date.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land. Freehold and long
leasehold buildings are depreciated over their estimated useful
economic lives of 50 years. Other leasehold interests are
depreciated over the lesser of the unexpired period of the lease
and 50 years.
The Group’s policy is to write off the cost or valuation of all other
plant and equipment evenly over their estimated remaining useful
life at rates which vary between eight per cent and 50 per cent per
annum. The principal annual rates of depreciation used are 10 per
cent on plant and machinery and on fixtures and fittings. No
depreciation is provided for assets in the course of construction.
Depreciation methods, residual values and useful lives are reviewed
at least at each financial year end, taking into account commercial
and technical obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear,
provision being made where the carrying value exceeds the
recoverable amount.
On revaluation, any accumulated depreciation at the date of
revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the
asset, and the net amount is restated to the revalued amount of
the asset.
Increases in the carrying amount arising on revaluation of land
and buildings are credited to other reserves in shareholders’ equity.
Decreases that offset previous increases of the same asset are
charged against other reserves directly in equity; all other decreases
are charged to the income statement.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are capitalised if an asset under construction
is significant and the construction period is longer than one year.
The capitalisation rate is based on the short term borrowing rate
over the period of construction.
Impairment
Financial assets
A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine
whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired. A financial
asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates
that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated
future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at
amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying
amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows
discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Individually significant assets are tested for impairment on an
individual basis. The remaining financial assets are assessed
collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other
than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each
balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of
impairment. If any such indication exists then the asset’s recoverable
amount is estimated. For goodwill and intangible assets that have
indefinite useful lives or that are not yet ready for use, the
recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment
whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value
may not be recoverable. In addition, goodwill is tested at least
annually for impairment. Impairment tests are performed for all Cash
Generating Units (CGUs) to which goodwill has been allocated at the
balance sheet date or whenever there is indication of impairment.
For all other intangible assets, an impairment test is performed
whenever an indicator of impairment exists.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income
statement for the amount by which the asset’s carrying value
exceeds its recoverable amount, the latter being the higher of the
asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use and in the case
of goodwill is not subsequently reversed. In assessing value in use,
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific
to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have
not been adjusted.
For other intangible assets, at each balance sheet date an
assessment is made to determine whether there is any indication
that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods may no longer
exist or has decreased. Where such an indication exists, an
impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the asset’s carrying
value does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment
loss had been recognised.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES – GROUP continued De La Rue Annual Report 2010 63
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
Associated companies
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to
exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through
participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the
investee. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the
Group holds between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting power
of another entity.
The Group’s share of the results, assets and liabilities of associated
companies are included in these Financial Statements using the
equity method of accounting, except when classified as held for
sale. The results are presented after interest, tax and minority
interest. Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet
at cost as adjusted by the post acquisition changes in the Group’s
share of net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the
value of the individual investment. Losses of the associate in
excess of the Group’s interest in that associate are not recognised
unless the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to fund
those losses.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the
identifiable net assets at the date of acquisition of the associate
is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition
below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired
(ie discount on acquisition) is credited to the income statement
in the period of acquisition.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group,
profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest
in the associate. Losses may provide evidence of an impairment
of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is
made for impairment.
The majority of the material associated companies prepare their
financial information to 27 March except for certain associated
companies whose year end is 31 December. In the case of the
associated companies whose Financial Statements are made
up to 31 December, results for the period to 27 March have
been included in the consolidated income statement.
Leasing
A lease is defined as an agreement whereby the lessor conveys
to the lessee the right to use a specific asset for an agreed period
of time in return for a payment or a series of payments.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership
to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as property,
plant and equipment at an amount equal to the fair value of the
leased asset or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease
payments at the inception of the lease, and then depreciated
over their useful economic lives. Lease payments are apportioned
between repayment of capital and interest. The capital element of
future lease payments is included in the balance sheet as a liability.
Interest is charged to the income statement so as to achieve a
constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income
statement on a straight line basis over the lease term. Benefits
received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating
lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sublet under terms
such that the rental income is less than the head-lease rental cost,
provision is made for the best estimate of unavoidable lease
payments during the vacancy or on the anticipated future shortfall
of sub-lease income compared with the head-lease expense.
Taxation
The tax expense included in the income statement comprises
current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected tax payable
on the taxable income for the year, including adjustments in respect
of prior periods, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted
by the balance sheet date.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that
it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is
recognised in equity.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method,
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the
amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is measured
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted
by the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply when
the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the
extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available
against which the temporary difference can be utilised. Such assets
and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises
from goodwill, not deductible for tax purposes, or from the initial
recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets
and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit
nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except
where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow
all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are only offset to the
extent that there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax
assets and current tax liabilities, they relate to taxes levied by the
same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current
tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise an asset and
settle a liability simultaneously.
Inventories
Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and
net realisable value. Cost is determined on a weighted average cost
basis and comprises directly attributable purchase and conversion
costs, including direct labour and an allocation of production
overheads based on normal operating capacity that have been
incurred in bringing those inventories to their present location and
condition. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less
estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held
by the Group and short term deposits with an original maturity of
three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand
and form part of the Group’s cash management are included as a
component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the
cash flow statement. 64 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
Loans
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value
less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition,
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any
difference between cost and redemption value being recognised
in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on
an effective interest basis.
Employment benefits
Pensions
The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes. The
major schemes are defined benefit pension funds with assets held
separately from the Group. The cost of providing benefits under
each scheme is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial
valuation method.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and
curtailments are included in operating costs in the group income
statement. Past service costs are similarly included where the
benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight
line basis over the vesting period. The expected return on assets
of funded defined benefit pension schemes and the imputed interest
on pension scheme liabilities are disclosed as retirement benefit
obligation finance income and retirement benefit obligation finance
expense respectively in the income statement.
Differences between the actual and expected return on assets,
changes in the retirement benefit obligation due to experience and
changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the statement of
comprehensive income in full in the period in which they arise.
The liability recognised in respect of defined benefit pension plans is
the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value
of the scheme assets, as determined by actuarial valuations carried
out at the balance sheet date.
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are charged
to the income statement in the period to which the contributions
relate.
Share based payments
The Group operates various equity settled and cash settled option
schemes. For equity settled share options, the services received
from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the
share options. The fair value is calculated at grant date and
recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with
a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity, on a straight line
basis over the vesting period, based on the numbers of shares that
are actually expected to vest, taking into account non market
vesting conditions (including service conditions). Vesting conditions,
other than market based conditions, are not taken into account
when estimating the fair value.
For cash settled share options, the services received from
employees are measured at the fair value of the liability for options
outstanding and recognised in the consolidated income statement
on a straight line basis over the vesting period. The fair value of the
liability is re-measured at each reporting date and at the date of
settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated
income statement. IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’ has been applied
to equity settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 not
yet vested at 1 January 2005 and to outstanding cash settled share
options as at 1 January 2005.
Share option schemes
The De La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust is a separately
administered trust. Liabilities of the trust are guaranteed by the
Company and the assets of the trust mainly comprise shares
in the Company.
The own shares held by the trust are shown as a reduction in
Shareholders’ funds. The shares will be held at historical rates until
such time as they are disposed of. Any profit or loss on the disposal
of own shares is treated as a movement in reserves rather than as
a profit and loss item.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation
in respect of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources
will be required to settle the obligation, and where the amount can
be reliably estimated. Provisions are measured at the Directors’
best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation at
the balance sheet date and are discounted where the time value
of money is considered material.
Exceptional items
Items which are both material by size and/or by nature and non-
recurring are presented as exceptional items within their relevant
consolidated income statement category. The separate reporting
of exceptional items charged to operating profit helps to provide an
indication of the Group’s underlying business performance. Events
which may give rise to the classification of items as exceptional
include gains or losses on the disposal of businesses (other than
those within the scope of IFRS 5), restructuring of businesses and
asset impairments.
Dividends
Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at
the year end are not recognised in the Financial Statements until
they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting. Interim dividends are recognised in the period that they
are paid.
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at
the lower of the asset’s previous carrying amount and fair value
less costs to sell. No depreciation is charged on assets classified
as held for sale. Non-current assets are classified as held for sale
if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction
rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as
met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available
for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be
committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for
recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date
of classification.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES – GROUP continued De La Rue Annual Report 2010 65
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
New accounting standards and interpretations
The following Adopted IFRSs were available for early adoption but
have not been applied by the Group in these Financial Statements:
• IFRIC 12 (Service Concession Arrangements) is effective for
the first time in 2010/2011. This interpretation sets out general
principles on recognising and measuring the obligations and
related rights in service concession arrangements. Adopting IFRIC
12 is not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
• An amended IFRS 3 (Business Combinations), an amended
IAS 27 (Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements), an
amended IAS 28 (Investments in Associates) and IAS 31 (Interests
in Joint Ventures) are effective for business combinations
undertaken by the Group after 28 March 2010. The revised IFRS 3
will make many changes to how future business combinations will
be accounted for, including accounting for acquisition costs,
contingent consideration, step acquisitions, partial disposals of an
investment in a subsidiary and partial disposals of associates and
joint ventures. As the revised standard is to be applied
prospectively it is not possible to quantify its likely impact.
No impact is expected from any other standards that are available
for early adoption but that have not been early adopted.
The following standards and interpretations have been issued by
the IASB, but have not been adopted by the European Commission
(and published in the EU Official Journal) for their application to
become mandatory:
• IFRS 9 (Financial Instruments), effective for annual accounting
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. IFRS 9 uses a
single approach to determine whether a financial asset is
measured at amortised cost or fair value. This approach is based
on how an entity manages its financial instruments (its business
model) and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the
financial assets. The new standard also requires a single
impairment method to be used, replacing the many different
impairment methods in IAS 39.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
In applying the above accounting policies, management has made
appropriate estimates which are continually evaluated and are
based on historical experience and other factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal
the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have
a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
are discussed below.
(a) Property, plant and equipment
Assets are carried at historical cost less depreciation calculated
to write down the cost of such assets to their residual values over
their estimated useful lives. Management determines estimated
useful lives and the related depreciation charges at acquisition,
based upon historical experience with similar assets and anticipation
of future events such as technological change which might impact
upon asset lives. Subsequently, asset lives and residual values are
reviewed annually for appropriateness. Changes in asset lives or
residual values would alter the depreciation charge in the income
statement.
(b) Impairment of assets
The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that
have indefinite useful lives are impaired. Other assets are reviewed
for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its
recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-
generating unit is determined based on value-in-use calculations
prepared on the basis of management’s assumptions and estimates
of future cash flows, discounted at suitable rates.
(c) Income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions
and significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide
provision for those taxes. Calculation of the current tax position
involves estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose
tax treatment is uncertain and which will be resolved at some future
date. Management makes judgements as to the likely impact and
outcome of uncertain or disputed tax treatments. Deferred tax
generally recognises the future reversal of all temporary timing
differences, but management exercises judgement in respect of
deferred tax assets as to their likely recoverability against future
taxable profits. As this judgement involves assessment of the future
trading prospects of individual statutory entities, the actual outcome
may vary from that anticipated. Where the final tax outcomes differ
from the amounts initially recorded, there will be impacts upon
income tax and deferred tax provisions and the income statement
in the period in which such determination is made.
(d) Provisions for other liabilities and charges
The Group measures provisions at the Directors’ best estimate
of the amount required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet
date, discounted where the time value of money is considered
material. These estimates take account of available information,
historical experience and the likelihood of different possible
outcomes. Both the amount and the maturity of these liabilities
could be different from those estimated.
(e) Pension obligations
Pension costs within the income statement and the pension
obligations as stated in the balance sheet are both dependent
upon a number of assumptions chosen by management.
The assumptions used in determining the net cost/(income)
for pensions include the expected long term rate of return on the
relevant plan assets and the discount rate. Any changes in these
assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined on a
uniform basis, taking into consideration long term historical returns,
asset allocation and future estimates of long term investment
returns. The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at
the end of each year. This is the interest rate that should be used
to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows
expected to be required to settle the pension obligations. In
determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the
interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated
in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have
terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension
liability. Other key assumptions for pension obligations include
estimates of expected longevity for current and future pensioners
and estimates of future rates of inflation. 66 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
1 Segmental analysis
The Group’s international operations are managed and reported internally on a divisional basis that reflects the different characteristics
of each business. These divisions have been disclosed as reportable segments because they are the components that the Board monitors
regularly in making decisions about operating matters such as allocating resources to businesses and assessing performance. Each division
has its own managing director who reports directly to the Chief Executive. The principal financial information reviewed by the Board, which
is the Group’s chief operating decision maker, is revenue and operating profit before exceptional items, measured on an IFRS basis.
The Group’s segments are:
• Currency – provides banknote paper, printed banknotes and banknote security features.
• Cash Processing Solutions – primarily focused on the production of large sorters for central banks, complementing the Currency business.
• Security Products – produces security documents, including authentication labels, travellers’ cheques and fiscal stamps.
• Identity Systems – involved in the production of passports, including ePassports, together with other secure identity products.
Exceptional
Cash items/
Processing Security Identity Discontinued
Currency Solutions Products Systems operations Total
2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total revenue 411.2 56.9 74.9 32.0 – 575.0
Less: Inter-segment revenue (1.1) – (12.8) –– (13.9)
Revenue 410.1 56.9 62.1 32.0 – 561.1
Operating profit/(loss) before exceptional items 95.3 (3.5) 14.8 2.6 – 109.2
Exceptional items – operating (note 3) – (7.5) –– – (7.5)
Operating profit/(loss) 95.3 (11.0) 14.8 2.6 – 101.7
Share of profits of associated companies after taxation 6.3
Net interest expense (5.1)
Retirement benefit obligations net finance expense (6.3)
Profit before taxation 96.6
Segment assets 194.4 39.5 24.9 30.2 – 289.0
Unallocated assets 157.2
Total assets 446.2
Segment liabilities (120.3) (20.9) (13.4) (14.6) – (169.2)
Unallocated liabilities (267.5)
Total liabilities (436.7)
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment 31.5 1.7 0.9 7.2 – 41.3
Capital expenditure on intangible assets 3.2 – 0.2 0.7 – 4.1
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14.4 2.7 2.3 0.8 – 20.2
Amortisation of intangible assets 1.5 1.0 0.1 0.2 – 2.8
Exceptional
Cash items/
Processing Security Identity Discontinued
Currency Solutions Products Systems operations Total
2009 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total revenue 348.6 66.0 69.7 30.4 – 514.7
Less: Inter-segment revenue (0.9) – (11.4) –– (12.3)
Revenue 347.7 66.0 58.3 30.4 – 502.4
Operating profit before exceptional items 82.8 0.4 11.0 2.3 – 96.5
Exceptional items – operating (note 3) –– –– (8.9) (8.9)
Operating profit/(loss) 82.8 0.4 11.0 2.3 (8.9) 87.6
Share of profits of associated companies after taxation 8.9
Net interest income 1.4
Retirement benefit obligations net finance expense (1.8)
Profit before taxation 96.1
Segment assets 186.2 48.0 26.5 14.9 – 275.6
Unallocated assets 183.0
Total assets 458.6
Segment liabilities (100.7) (20.0) (14.3) (15.5) – (150.5)
Unallocated liabilities (287.5)
Total liabilities (438.0)
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment 22.0 3.8 2.0 0.4 0.7 28.9
Capital expenditure on intangible assets 1.2 2.6 0.1 – 1.1 5.0
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14.9 1.4 2.6 0.7 1.3 20.9
Amortisation of intangible assets 1.1 0.4 0.1 0.1 1.1 2.8 De La Rue Annual Report 2010 67
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
1 Segmental analysis continued
Unallocated assets principally comprise centrally managed property, plant and equipment, associates and other investments, deferred
tax assets, current tax assets, derivative financial instrument assets and cash and cash equivalents which are used as part of the Group’s
financing offset arrangements. Unallocated liabilities comprise borrowings, derivative financial instrument liabilities, current and non-current
tax liabilities, deferred tax liabilities, retirement benefit obligations, and centrally held accruals and provisions.
Geographic analysis of revenue by origin
2010 2009
£m £m
UK 466.0 405.7
Other countries 95.1 96.7
561.1 502.4
Geographic analysis of non-current assets
2010 2009
£m £m
UK 104.9 117.7
Malta 37.6 41.6
Sri Lanka 18.9 1.3
Other countries 23.6 27.1
185.0 187.7
Deferred tax assets and derivative financial instruments are excluded from the analysis shown above.
Major customers
The Group has a major customer from which it derived revenues of £78.0m (2009: £46.7m) in the Currency segment.
2 Operating profit
2010 2009
£m £m
Operating profit is arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 125.5 90.4
Net impairment of inventories 3.5 2.3
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment:
– purchased 18.4 17.7
– leased 1.8 3.2
Amortisation of other intangibles 2.8 2.8
Impairment of trade receivables – 0.4
Operating leases:
– hire of plant and equipment 1.9 2.0
– hire of property 3.6 3.9
Auditor’s remuneration:
– Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s consolidated Financial Statements 0.2 0.2
– Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services:
– audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.5 0.5
– tax services 0.2 0.1
– services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf
of the Company or the Group – 1.0
Research and non-capitalised development expense 9.9 10.3
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.9 (0.1)
Reorganisation costs (Exceptional items – see note 3) 4.8 8.9
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses (8.4) 5.3
Auditor’s remuneration relates to fees paid to the Company’s current auditors KPMG Audit Plc. Other assurance services include corporate
finance work performed in connection with the disposal of the Cash Systems business in 2008/2009.
3 Exceptional items
2010 2009
£m £m
Reorganisation of CPS (4.8) –
Legacy overseas indirect tax (2.7) –
Reorganisation of central operations – (8.9)
Exceptional items (7.5) (8.9)
Exceptional items – tax 2.4 0.9
Exceptional charges of £7.5m in the period reflect the resolution of a legacy overseas indirect tax issue and the reorganisation of CPS,
which is expected to have a payback within two years. Reorganisation costs principally comprise redundancy charges and rationalisation
of products and site capabilities.
During 2008, De La Rue announced its intention to reduce central costs by approximately 50 per cent following the disposal of Cash
Systems. This programme was completed ahead of schedule. Central reorganisation costs relating to this programme principally covered
redundancy, separation costs and site rationalisation charges.
The exceptional charges in the year gave rise to a related tax credit of £1.0m. In addition £1.4m of tax credit arose when the tax treatment
of some prior year exceptional items was determined. In 2008/2009 exceptional tax credits were £0.9m, with a credit of £1.9m in relation
to the central reorganisation being partly offset by a £1.0m charge in respect of the phasing out of Industrial Buildings Allowances. 68 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued
4 Interest income and expense
2010 2009
£m £m
Recognised in the income statement
Interest income
Cash and cash equivalents 0.3 7.8
Interest expense
Bank overdrafts (0.5) (1.3)
Bank loans (2.9) (2.9)
Finance leases (0.1) (0.3)
Other including amortisation of finance arrangement fees (1.9) (1.9)
Total interest expense calculated using the effective interest method (5.4) (6.4)
Retirement benefit obligation net finance expense (note 25) (6.3) (1.8)
All finance income and expense arises in respect of assets and liabilities not at fair value through income statement.
The charge to the income statement in respect of the ineffective portion of derivative financial instruments was £0.3m (2009: nil) and
is included within interest expense under the ‘Bank loans’ heading.
5 Taxation
2010 2009
£m £m
Consolidated income statement
Current tax
UK Corporation tax
– Current tax 14.8 11.6
– Double tax relief – (0.5)
– Adjustment in respect of prior years (4.3) 0.2
10.5 11.3
Overseas tax charges
– Current year 5.2 6.3
– Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.7) 0.2
4.5 6.5
Total current income tax expense 15.0 17.8
Deferred tax
UK
– Origination and reversal of temporary differences 10.8 10.5
Overseas
– Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.4 0.2
Total deferred tax expense 11.2 10.7
Income tax expense reported in the consolidated income statement in respect of continuing operations 26.2 28.5
Income tax expense in respect of discontinued operations (note 6) – 5.0
Total income tax expense in the consolidated income statement 26.2 33.5
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
– On pension actuarial adjustments (20.3) (21.0)
– On cash flow hedges 1.9 (3.7)
– On foreign exchange on quasi-equity balances (3.0) –
Income tax income reported within comprehensive income (21.4) (24.7)
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
– On share options 0.1 (0.7)
Income tax expense/(income) reported within equity 0.1 (0.7) De La Rue Annual Report 2010 69
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
5 Taxation continued
The tax on the Group’s consolidated profit before tax differs from the UK tax rate of 28 per cent as follows:
2010 2009
Before Exceptional Before Exceptional
exceptionals items Total exceptionals items Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit before tax 104.1 (7.5) 96.6 105.0 (8.9) 96.1
Tax calculated at UK tax rate at 28 per cent 29.1 (2.1) 27.0 29.4 (2.5) 26.9
Effects of overseas taxation (1.9) – (1.9) (1.5) – (1.5)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.4 1.1 3.5 3.6 0.6 4.2
Adjustment for tax on profits of associate (1.8) – (1.8) (2.5) – (2.5)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.8 (1.4) (0.6) 0.4 – 0.4
Industrial Buildings Allowances –– – – 1.0 1.0
Tax charge 28.6 (2.4) 26.2 29.4 (0.9) 28.5
The underlying effective tax rate excluding one-off items was 27.5 per cent (2009: 28.0 per cent). In 2009, a charge of £1.0m related to the
impact on deferred tax balances of the phasing out of Industrial Buildings Allowances, included in the Finance Act 2008.
6 Discontinued operations
The Group completed the disposal of the Cash Systems business (excluding Cash Processing Solutions) on 1 September 2008.
Results of discontinued operations
2010 2009
£m £m
Revenue – 121.6
Operating expenses – (104.0)
Operating profit – 17.6
Taxation on operating profits from discontinued operations – (5.0)
Gain on disposal of discontinued operations before tax – 316.8
Taxation on gain on disposal of discontinued operations – (32.9)
– 283.9
Profit for the year from discontinued operations – 296.5
Gain on disposal of discontinued operations
2010 2009
£m £m
Amounts paid by purchaser – 367.3
Amounts payable by purchaser – 1.9
Disposal costs paid – (11.2)
Disposal costs accrued – (5.4)
Taxation on gain on disposal – (32.9)
Reserves recycled on disposal – 13.3
Net assets and liabilities disposed (see note 24) – (49.1)
Gain on disposal – 283.9 70 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued
7 Earnings per share
2010 2009
pence per pence per
share share
Total operations
Basic earnings per share 71.0 277.7
Diluted earnings per share 70.5 275.0
Continuing operations
Basic earnings per share 71.0 50.9
Diluted earnings per share 70.5 50.4
Discontinued operations
Basic earnings per share – 226.8
Diluted earnings per share – 224.6
Headline
Basic earnings per share 76.2 57.0
Diluted earnings per share 75.7 56.4
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number
of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted for the impact of all dilutive potential
ordinary shares.
During 2008/2009 the Company returned cash of £460m to shareholders and at the same time carried out a consolidation of its share
capital. These transactions were conditional on each other. They were specifically designed to achieve the same overall effect on the
Company’s capital structure as a buy back of shares in a way in which all shareholders could participate. Accordingly, earnings per share
is presented on the basis that in substance a share buy back occurred.
The Directors are of the opinion that the publication of the headline earnings is useful to readers of annual accounts as they give an
indication of underlying business performance.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below.
Earnings
2010 2009
£m £m
Earnings for basic and diluted earnings per share 69.9 363.0
Deduct: Profit for the year from discontinued operations – (296.5)
Earnings for basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 69.9 66.5
Add: Exceptional items 7.5 8.9
Less: Tax on exceptional items (2.4) (1.9)
Add: Tax effect of phasing out of Industrial Buildings Allowances – 1.0
Earnings for headline earnings per share 75.0 74.5
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
2010 2009
Number Number
m m
For basic earnings per share 98.4 130.7
Dilutive effect of share options 0.7 1.3
For diluted earnings per share 99.1 132.0
8 Equity dividends
2010 2009
£m £m
Final dividend for the year ended 28 March 2009 of 27.4p paid on 31 July 2009 27.0 –
Interim dividend for the period ended 26 September 2009 of 14.1p paid on 13 January 2010 13.9 –
Final dividend for the year ended 29 March 2008 of 14.87p paid on 1 August 2008 – 22.3
B share dividend of 305.0p paid on 28 November 2008 – 340.6
Interim dividend for the period ended 27 September 2008 of 13.7p paid on 14 January 2009 – 13.8
40.9 376.7
A final dividend per equity share of 28.2 pence has been proposed for the year ended 27 March 2010, payable on 5 August 2010.
In accordance with IFRS accounting requirements this dividend has not been accrued in these consolidated Financial Statements. De La Rue Annual Report 2010 71
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
9 Property, plant and equipment
Land and Plant and Fixtures and In course of
buildings machinery fittings construction Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 30 March 2008 58.1 256.6 44.1 13.6 372.4
Exchange differences 1.6 13.3 1.0 0.1 16.0
Additions – 10.7 1.1 17.1 28.9
Disposal of business (6.1) (5.0) (31.3) (1.7) (44.1)
Transfers from assets in the course of construction – 13.2 1.4 (14.6) –
Disposals – (6.8) (0.3) – (7.1)
At 29 March 2009 53.6 282.0 16.0 14.5 366.1
Exchange differences (0.1) 0.3 0.1 (0.5) (0.2)
Additions – 17.9 0.6 22.8 41.3
Transfers from assets in the course of construction – 13.2 1.7 (14.9) –
Disposals – (6.9) (0.6) (1.9) (9.4)
At 27 March 2010 53.5 306.5 17.8 20.0 397.8
Accumulated depreciation
At 30 March 2008 21.2 171.9 36.1 – 229.2
Exchange differences 0.6 6.7 0.8 – 8.1
Depreciation charge for the year 1.3 17.3 2.3 – 20.9
Disposal of business (3.1) (3.2) (27.3) – (33.6)
Disposals – (6.5) (0.3) – (6.8)
At 29 March 2009 20.0 186.2 11.6 – 217.8
Exchange differences – 0.3 0.1 – 0.4
Depreciation charge for the year 1.2 17.4 1.6 – 20.2
Disposals – (5.8) (0.4) – (6.2)
At 27 March 2010 21.2 198.1 12.9 – 232.2
Net book value at 27 March 2010 32.3 108.4 4.9 20.0 165.6
Net book value at 29 March 2009 33.6 95.8 4.4 14.5 148.3
Net book value at 30 March 2008 36.9 84.7 8.0 13.6 143.2
Included within plant and machinery are assets held under finance leases with net book value of £0.2m (2009: £2.1m). Additions include
£0.1m (2009: £0.1m) for plant and machinery held under finance leases. Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance
lease liabilities.
Land and buildings includes £4.3m (2009: £4.3m) of land that is not subject to depreciation.
Property, plant and equipment do not include any capitalised interest. 72 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued
10 Intangible assets
Development Software Distribution
Goodwill* costs assets rights Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 30 March 2008 28.0 21.5 10.7 2.9 63.1
Exchange differences 3.8 0.3 0.1 (0.2) 4.0
Additions – 4.4 0.6 – 5.0
Disposal of business (23.5) (15.8) (5.6) (2.3) (47.2)
At 29 March 2009 8.3 10.4 5.8 0.4 24.9
Exchange differences 0.2 (0.2) –– –
Additions – 2.3 1.8 – 4.1
At 27 March 2010 8.5 12.5 7.6 0.4 29.0
Accumulated amortisation
At 30 March 2008 13.3 7.1 6.6 2.9 29.9
Exchange differences 2.3 – 0.3 (0.2) 2.4
Amortisation for the year – 1.6 1.2 – 2.8
Disposal of business (15.3) (7.5) (3.4) (2.3) (28.5)
At 29 March 2009 0.3 1.2 4.7 0.4 6.6
Exchange differences 0.1 –– – 0.1
Amortisation for the year – 1.5 1.3 – 2.8
Impairment 0.2 –– – 0.2
At 27 March 2010 0.6 2.7 6.0 0.4 9.7
Carrying value at 27 March 2010 7.9 9.8 1.6 – 19.3
Carrying value at 29 March 2009 8.0 9.2 1.1 – 18.3
Carrying value at 30 March 2008 14.7 14.4 4.1 – 33.2
*Goodwill amortisation relates to impairments made in the current and previous years.
The impairment in the year arose from the proposed closure of a small CPS business and was charged to exceptional items within the
income statement.
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s Cash Generating Units (CGUs) identified according to business segment and country of operation.
A segment level summary of the goodwill allocation is presented below:
2010 2009
£m £m
Currency 4.3 4.3
Cash Processing Solutions 3.6 3.7
7.9 8.0
The majority of the goodwill relates to the acquisition of CSI Inc in 2001 which was allocated to Currency and Cash Processing Solutions on
the basis that the acquired business generated synergies for both CGUs. The estimates of recoverable amount are based on value-in-use
calculations. In each case, the value-in-use calculations are based on cash flow projections covering a five year period based on the
2010/2011 budget plus a terminal year. The key assumptions underlying these projections are summarised below:
(a) Currency: The volume and price of orders secured, particularly in respect of banknotes and banknote papers, are based on a combination
of the current order book and past experience, taking into account:
(i) expectations in respect of economic growth and central banks’ banknote circulation policies
(ii) the Company’s knowledge of its customer base, gained through its long standing relationships with them
Material input prices and foreign exchange rates are also factors but are not considered significant in the context of the headroom available
in the calculations.
(b) Cash Processing Solutions: Unit sales of large sorters and the extent of maintenance income generated from these sales are based
on a combination of orders on hand and past experience.
The pre-tax discount rate used for both Currency and Cash Processing Solutions was 13.4 per cent (2009: 13.6 per cent). The discount
rates applied take into account the Group’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and the relative risks associated with the CGUs’
operations. The post tax discount rate used is unchanged compared to the prior period, reflecting the fact that the Group’s WACC has not
changed and the risks associated with the CGUs in question have not materially changed. Cash flows beyond the period covered by the
projections have been held constant.
Sensitivity analysis has been performed and management do not consider there to be any reasonably possible change in assumptions that
could result in the assets’ recoverable amounts falling below their book values. De La Rue Annual Report 2010 73
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
11 Investments
Associated Companies
Equity Redeemable
shares shares Total
£m £m £m
At 30 March 2008 12.5 10.0 22.5
Share of post tax profits 8.9 – 8.9
Dividends paid (10.3) – (10.3)
At 29 March 2009 11.1 10.0 21.1
Share of post tax profits 6.3 – 6.3
Dividends paid (6.8) – (6.8)
Reclassification as non-current assets held for sale (10.5) (10.0) (20.5)
At 27 March 2010 0.1 – 0.1
At 27 March 2010 and 28 March 2009, the principal associate of the Group was Camelot Group plc, in which the Group has a 20 per cent
holding. The Group holds 10,000,000 redeemable shares of £1 each in Camelot Group plc. The redeemable shares do not carry any voting
rights, but rank equally with ordinary shares for dividend and return of capital purposes.
On 25 March 2010, the Group announced the proposed sale of its investment in Camelot Group plc, subject to National Lottery
Commission approval, and the investment has therefore been reclassified as a non-current asset held for sale.
The Group’s share of the results, assets and liabilities for associates are as follows:
2010 2009
Camelot Camelot
Group Group
£m £m
Share of the associate’s results:
Revenue 1,090.4 1,029.9
Profit after tax 6.3 8.9
Share of the associate’s net assets:
Non-current assets – 33.1
Current assets – 61.2
Share of total assets – 94.3
Non-current liabilities – (1.7)
Current liabilities – (69.7)
Share of total liabilities – (71.4)
Share of net assets – 22.9
12 Non-current assets held for sale
On 25 March 2010, the Group announced the proposed sale of its investment in Camelot Group plc, subject to National Lottery
Commission approval, to Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan for a consideration of approximately £77.8m.
13 Inventories
2010 2009
£m £m
Raw materials 19.5 21.4
Work in progress 23.0 23.4
Finished goods 18.5 20.5
61.0 65.3
The replacement cost of stocks is not materially different from original cost.
Provisions of £5.2m recognised in operating expenses were made against inventories in 2010 (2009: £5.0m). The Group also reversed
provisions of £1.7m (2009: £2.2m), being part of an inventory write down that was not subsequently required.
14 Trade and other receivables
2010 2009
£m £m
Trade receivables 71.1 70.3
Provision for impairment (3.9) (4.1)
Net trade receivables 67.2 66.2
Amounts due from associated companies and joint ventures 0.6 –
Other receivables 4.8 11.7
Prepayments 3.9 4.6
76.5 82.5
The carrying value of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair value.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number of customers, internationally
dispersed. 74 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued
15 Financial instruments
Financial risk management
Overview
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
• Credit risk
• Liquidity risk
• Market risk
– Currency risk
– Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, its objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk and the
management of capital are set out below.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The Board
has established the Risk Committee, which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Group’s risk management policies. The
Committee reports regularly to the Board of Directors on its activities.
The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and
controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in
market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop
a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Group’s overall financial risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise
potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk
exposures. Financial risk management is carried out by Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Group’s operating units. Group Treasury
provides written principles for overall risk management as well as policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest
rate risk, use of derivative financial instruments and the investment of excess liquidity.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and
reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The Audit Committee is assisted in
its oversight role by the Internal Audit function. The Internal Audit function undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management
controls and procedures, the result of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and investment securities.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the Group’s
customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, has less of an influence on credit risk.
Geographically, there is no concentration of credit risk. The Group has one major customer where revenue attributable to sales transactions
is significant. Where appropriate, letters of credit are used to mitigate the credit risk from customers.
The Group has established a credit policy that ensures that wholesale sales of products are made to customers with an appropriate credit
history. The Group has a policy to procure advance payments during order negotiation which further reduces credit risk. Derivative
counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high-credit-quality financial institutions and the Group has policies that limit the amount
of credit exposure to any one financial institution.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to managing
liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and
stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an
adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying
businesses, Group Treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates will affect the Group’s income or
the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures
within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return.
Currency risk
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect
to the US dollar and the euro. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities,
unrecognised firm commitments and net investments in foreign operations.
To manage their foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in the Group
use forward contracts, transacted with Group Treasury. Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised
assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. Group Treasury is responsible for managing the
net position in each currency via foreign exchange contracts transacted with financial institutions.
The Group’s risk management policy aims to hedge firm commitments and between 60 per cent and 100 per cent of forecast exposures
in each major currency for the subsequent 12 months to the extent that forecast transactions are highly probable.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. The Group’s
policy is to manage the currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations primarily through borrowings
denominated in the relevant foreign currencies and through foreign currency swaps. De La Rue Annual Report 2010 75
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
15 Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk
All material financial assets and liabilities are maintained at floating rates of interest. Where the Group has forecast average levels of debt
above £50m on a continuing basis floating to fixed interest rate swaps will be used to fix the interest rate on a minimum of 50 per cent
of the Group’s debt for a period of at least 12 months.
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain
future development of the business. The Group finances its operations through a mixture of equity funding and debt financing. The Board
of Directors monitors earnings per share, which the Group defines as the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. The Board also monitors the level of dividends to ordinary
shareholders. There were no changes to the Group’s approach to capital management during the year and the Group is not subject
to any externally imposed capital requirements.
Fair values
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows:
Fair value Total fair Carrying Total fair Carrying
measurement value amount value amount
basis 2010 2010 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) 72.6 72.6 77.9 77.9
Cash and cash equivalents 41.6 41.6 58.5 58.5
Derivative financial instruments:
– Forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges Level 2 3.6 3.6 6.5 6.5
– Forward exchange contracts not designated as cash flow hedges Level 2 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0
– Embedded derivatives Level 2 14.6 14.6 25.4 25.4
Total financial assets 135.4 135.4 171.3 171.3
Financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts (52.4) (52.4) (88.3) (88.3)
Finance lease liabilities (0.2) (0.2) (3.6) (3.3)
Trade and other payables (excluding accruals) (58.4) (58.4) (61.4) (61.4)
Derivative financial instruments:
– Forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges Level 2 (3.3) (3.3) (18.4) (18.4)
– Forward exchange contracts not designated as cash flow hedges Level 2 (14.5) (14.5) (19.5) (19.5)
– Embedded derivatives Level 2 (8.4) (8.4) (4.0) (4.0)
– Interest rate swaps Level 2 (0.6) (0.6) (0.1) (0.1)
Total financial liabilities (137.8) (137.8) (195.3) (195.0)
The ineffective portion of fair value hedges that was recognised in the income statement amounted to a loss of £0.3m (2008/2009: nil).
The ineffective portion of cash flow hedges that was recognised in the income statement was nil (2008/2009: nil).
Fair value measurement basis for derivative financial instruments
The valuation bases are classified according to the degree of estimation required in arriving at the fair values. Level 1 valuations are derived
from unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets, level 2 valuations use observable inputs for the assets or
liabilities other than quoted prices, whilst level 3 valuations are not based on observable market data and are subject to management
estimates.
Determination of fair values of derivative financial instruments
Fair value is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest
at the reporting date.
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging
The fair value of forward exchange contracts has been determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Interest rate swaps
Interest rate swaps are measured by reference to third party bank confirmations and discounted cash flows using the yield curves in effect
at the balance sheet date.
Embedded derivatives
The fair value of embedded derivatives is calculated based on the present value of forecast future exposures on relevant sales and purchase
contracts and using quoted forwards foreign exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The movement in fair value of embedded derivatives
is shown within revenue or operating expenses as appropriate, depending on the nature of the transaction.
Determination of fair values of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities
Trade and other receivables and payables
Due to their short maturities, the fair values of trade payables, trade receivables and accruals have been stated at their book values.
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Fair value is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the
reporting date. The interest rates used to discount estimated cash flows, where applicable, are based on sterling LIBOR. At 27 March 2010
the discount rate used was 1.0 per cent (2009: 1.90 per cent). 76 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued
15 Financial instruments continued
Credit risk
Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting
date was:
Carrying amount
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) 14 72.6 77.9
Cash and cash equivalents 16 41.6 58.5
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging 6.6 9.5
Embedded derivatives 14.6 25.4
135.4 171.3
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was:
Carrying amount
2010 2009
£m £m
UK and Ireland 8.8 15.2
Rest of Europe 6.2 10.2
The Americas 12.6 9.9
Rest of world 45.0 42.6
72.6 77.9
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables at the reporting date by type of customer was:
Carrying amount
2010 2009
£m £m
Banks and financial institutions 32.2 38.6
Government institutions 22.8 15.0
Distributors 4.1 3.6
Retail customers 1.3 –
End user customers 4.1 6.8
Other debtors 8.1 13.9
72.6 77.9
Impairment losses
The ageing of trade and other receivables at the reporting date was:
Gross Impairment Gross Impairment
2010 2010 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m
Not past due 58.0 (0.2) 62.6 (0.1)
Past due 0-30 days 9.8 – 6.2 (0.1)
Past due 31-120 days 4.6 (0.8) 6.6 (1.0)
Past due more than 120 days 4.1 (2.9) 6.6 (2.9)
76.5 (3.9) 82.0 (4.1)
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Balance at beginning of year (4.1) (4.8)
Impairment losses recognised (0.7) (1.2)
Impairment losses utilised 0.9 0.5
Disposal of business – 1.4
Balance at end of year (3.9) (4.1)
The allowance accounts in respect of trade receivables are used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that no recovery
of the amount owing is possible; at that point the amounts considered irrecoverable are written off against the financial asset directly.
At 27 March 2010 the Group does not have any collective impairments on its trade receivables (2009: nil).
Based on past experience, the Group believes that no further impairment is required for financial assets that are neither past due
nor impaired. De La Rue Annual Report 2010 77
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
15 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The following are the contractual undiscounted cash flow maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments and
excluding the impact of netting agreements.
Total Impact of
Due within Due between Due between undiscounted discounting Carrying
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years cash flows and netting amount
27 March 2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts 52.4 –– 52.4 – 52.4
Finance lease liabilities 0.2 0.1 – 0.3 (0.1) 0.2
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts used for cash flow hedging:
– Gross amount payable from currency derivatives 173.8 53.1 2.1 229.0 (211.2) 17.8
Interest rate swaps 1.1 0.2 – 1.3 (0.7) 0.6
227.5 53.4 2.1 283.0 (212.0) 71.0
Total Impact of
Due within Due between Due between undiscounted discounting Carrying
1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years cash flows and netting amount
28 March 2009 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts 37.8 – 50.5 88.3 – 88.3
Finance lease liabilities 2.5 1.1 – 3.6 (0.3) 3.3
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts used for cash flow hedging:
– Gross amount payable from currency derivatives 168.3 88.8 – 257.1 (219.2) 37.9
Interest rate swaps 0.3 0.3 – 0.6 (0.5) 0.1
208.9 90.2 50.5 349.6 (220.0) 129.6
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than
12 months and as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Forward foreign exchange contracts
The net principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 27 March 2010 are US dollar 60.0m, euro 133.9m,
Kuwaiti dinar 0.5m and Swiss franc (11.9m).
The net principal amounts outstanding under forward contracts with maturities greater than 12 months are US dollar 1.1m and euro 44.8m.
These forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedges or fair value hedges as appropriate.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts at 27 March 2010 will be released
to the income statement at various dates between one month and 36 months from the balance sheet date.
Cash management swaps
The Group uses currency swaps to manage the level of borrowings in foreign currencies. The fair value of cash management currency
swaps at 27 March 2010 was nil (2009: £0.2m). Gains and losses on cash management swaps are included in the consolidated income
statement.
The principal amounts outstanding under cash management currency swaps at 27 March 2010 are US dollar 5.7m, euro (20.9m), Canadian
dollar 3.6m, Singapore dollar (1.0m), Swiss franc 0.3m, South African rand (6.9m), Japanese yen (5.9m) and Australian dollar (0.8m).
Embedded derivatives
Embedded derivatives relate to sales and purchase contracts denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the
customer/supplier, or a currency that is not deemed to be a commonly used currency of the country in which the customer/supplier
is based. The net fair value of embedded derivatives at 27 March 2010 was £6.2m (2009: £21.4m).
Balance sheet swaps
The Group uses currency swaps to manage the translational exposure of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
The fair value of balance sheet swaps as at 27 March 2010 was nil (2009: nil). Gains and losses on balance sheet swaps are included in the
consolidated income statement.
The principal amounts outstanding under balance sheet swaps at 27 March 2010 are US dollar (38.7m), euro 32.1m, Canadian dollar
(5.2m), Swiss franc 5.7m and South African rand (22.0m). 78 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued
15 Financial instruments continued
Market risk: Currency risk
Exposure to currency risk
Net Investment hedging
The Group’s policy is not to hedge net investments in subsidiaries or the translation of profits or losses generated in overseas subsidiaries.
Translation of monetary assets and liabilities
Where individual Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies the net exposure, where material, is hedged
in order to minimise translational gains and losses in the income statement.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:
Average rate Reporting date spot rate
2010 2009 2010 2009
US dollar 1.58 1.73 1.49 1.43
euro 1.13 1.21 1.11 1.08
Sensitivity analysis
A 10 per cent strengthening of £ sterling against the following currencies at 27 March 2010 and 28 March 2009 would have
increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below. The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular
interest rates, remain constant. The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2009.
2010 2009
£m £m
US dollar (1.7) (2.6)
euro 0.8 1.4
A 10 per cent weakening of £ sterling against the above currencies at 27 March 2010 and 28 March 2009 would have had the equal but
opposite effect to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
Transactional exposure
To manage their foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in the Group
use forward contracts, transacted with Group Treasury. Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised
assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. Group Treasury is responsible for managing
the net position in each currency via foreign exchange contracts transacted with financial institutions.
The Group’s risk management policy aims to hedge firm commitments and between 60 per cent and 100 per cent of forecast exposures
in each major currency for the subsequent 12 months to the extent that forecast transactions are highly probable.
Market risk: Interest rate risk
Interest rate profile
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
Carrying amount
2010 2009
£m £m
Variable rate instruments
Financial assets 41.6 58.5
Financial liabilities (52.6) (91.6)
(11.0) (33.1)
As at 27 March 2010 the Group does not hold any fixed rate instruments.
The Group has reduced its exposure to cash flow interest rate risk through interest rate swaps with notional principal amounts of £50m,
which have the effect of fixing the interest cost on £50m of borrowings under the Group’s committed bank facility until May 2011 at an
average rate of 3.49 per cent (inclusive of borrowing margin).
Where the Group has forecast average levels of net debt above £50m on a continuing basis, Group policy is to maintain a minimum of
50 per cent of the Group’s average net debt fixed for a period of at least 12 months. As at 27 March 2010 £25m of the interest rate swaps
were treated as ineffective because of reduced levels of sterling debt. The cumulative fair value of these swaps has been shown in the
income statement.
Sensitivity analysis
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit and loss by the
amounts shown below. The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. The analysis
is performed on the same basis for 2009.
Profit and Loss Equity
100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp
increase decrease increase decrease
£m £m £m £m
Variable rate instruments cash flow sensitivity (net)
27 March 2010 0.3 (0.3) 0.3 (0.3)
28 March 2009 1.3 (1.3) 1.3 (1.3) De La Rue Annual Report 2010 79
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
16 Cash and cash equivalents
2010 2009
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 35.1 43.4
Short term bank deposits 6.5 15.1
41.6 58.5
The effective interest rate on short term bank deposits was 1.0 per cent (2009: 1.2 per cent) and the deposits had an average maturity
period of 42 days.
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement:
2010 2009
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 41.6 58.5
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand (3.8) (8.4)
Balance per Group cash flow statement 37.8 50.1
All cash and deposits are of a floating rate nature, earn interest based on the relevant national LIBID equivalents and are recoverable within
three months.
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 15.
17 Deferred taxation
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The offset amounts are as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 36.5 29.3
Deferred tax liabilities (0.3) –
36.2 29.3
The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Beginning of the year 29.3 25.3
Exchange differences (0.2) 1.5
Income statement charge (11.2) (15.9)
Tax credited to equity 18.3 25.0
Disposal of business – (6.6)
End of the year 36.2 29.3
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the
same tax jurisdiction, is as follows:
Property,
plant and Fair value Development
equipment gains costs Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Liabilities
At 30 March 2008 8.0 0.4 4.6 1.9 14.9
Recognised in the income statement (0.4) – (2.6) (0.5) (3.5)
Disposal of business (0.2) – (1.2) – (1.4)
At 29 March 2009 7.4 0.4 0.8 1.4 10.0
Recognised in the income statement 0.9 – 0.5 (0.8) 0.6
At 27 March 2010 8.3 0.4 1.3 0.6 10.6
Share Retirement
options benefits Tax losses Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Assets
At 30 March 2008 (5.8) (7.0) (4.5) (22.9) (40.2)
Recognised in the income statement 3.1 8.5 4.5 3.3 19.4
Recognised in equity (0.2) (21.0) – (3.8) (25.0)
Disposal of business – 0.1 – 7.9 8.0
Exchange differences –– – (1.5) (1.5)
At 29 March 2009 (2.9) (19.4) – (17.0) (39.3)
Recognised in the income statement 1.4 4.2 (0.3) 5.3 10.6
Recognised in equity 0.1 (20.3) – 1.9 (18.3)
Exchange differences –– – 0.2 0.2
At 27 March 2010 (1.4) (35.5) (0.3) (9.6) (46.8) 80 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued
17 Deferred taxation continued
Other deferred assets and liabilities predominantly relate to tax associated with provisions (£4.1m), and overseas tax credits (£3.9m).
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax losses available to carry forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit
through future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of £2.5m (2009: £2.2m) in respect of losses amounting to £9.8m (2009: £8.6m)
that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
Unremitted earnings totalled £558.9m at 27 March 2010 (2009: £527.1m). Deferred income tax liabilities have not been recognised for the
withholding tax and other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal
can be controlled and it was considered unlikely that dividends would be paid from those subsidiaries.
UK capital losses of £337m are carried forward at 27 March 2010 (2009: £372m). No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect
of these losses.
18 Trade and other payables
2010 2009
£m £m
Current liabilities
Payments received on account 42.9 38.4
Trade payables 26.9 40.7
Amounts owed to associated companies 1.1 1.6
Social security and other taxation 2.0 –
Deferred income 3.7 4.3
Accrued expenses 63.2 56.5
Other payables 24.4 17.0
164.2 158.5
Non-current liabilities
Payments received on account 1.1 1.2
Other payables 4.0 2.1
5.1 3.3
The Directors consider the carrying amounts of trade and other payables to approximate to their fair values.
Payments received on account relate to monies received from customers under contract prior to commencement of production of goods
or delivery of services.
The Group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 15. De La Rue Annual Report 2010 81
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
19 Borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings, which are measured
at amortised cost. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risk, see note 15.
Face Carrying Face Carrying
value amount value amount
Nominal Year of 2010 2010 2009 2009
Currency interest rate maturity £m £m £m £m
Current liabilities
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts EUR 0% 2010 0.2 0.2 ––
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts LKR 13.00% 2010 0.1 0.1 4.9 4.9
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts GBP 2.30% 2010 25.0 25.0 5.0 5.0
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts USD 2.00% 2010 22.9 22.9 24.4 24.4
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts BRL 14.10% 2010 3.4 3.4 3.5 3.5
Finance leases GBP 1.00% 2010 0.1 0.1 2.3 2.3
51.7 51.7 40.1 40.1
Non-current liabilities
Unsecured bank loans repayable by instalments EUR 0% 2011 0.8 0.8 1.3 1.3
Unsecured bank loans repayable otherwise
than by instalments GBP – 2011 –– 49.2 49.2
Finance leases GBP 1.00% 2011 0.1 0.1 1.0 1.0
0.9 0.9 51.5 51.5
Total interest bearing liabilities 52.6 52.6 91.6 91.6
In 2010, bank loans and overdrafts of £107.9m were pooled for interest purposes against cash and cash equivalents.
The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities:
2010 2009
£m £m
Floating rate
– Expiring within one year – 13.9
– Expiring beyond one year 125.2 93.9
125.2 107.8
As at 27 March 2010, the total of undrawn committed borrowing facilities maturing in more than two years was £125.2m (2009: £93.9m).
In March 2010 the existing committed borrowing facilities were re-financed and replaced by a committed Revolving Credit Facility of £175m
with a maturity of September 2013.
Finance lease liabilities
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
Present Present
Future value of Future value of
minimum minimum minimum minimum
lease lease lease lease
payments Interest payments payments Interest payments
2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year 0.2 (0.1) 0.1 2.5 (0.2) 2.3
Between one and five years 0.1 – 0.1 1.1 (0.1) 1.0
0.3 (0.1) 0.2 3.6 (0.3) 3.3 82 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued
20 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Business
Restructuring disposals Warranty Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 29 March 2009 12.5 1.1 11.7 7.2 32.5
Exchange differences –– – 0.2 0.2
Charge for the year 4.8 – 11.4 0.6 16.8
Utilised in year (11.5) – (3.5) (1.6) (16.6)
Released in year –– (5.7) (1.1) (6.8)
At 27 March 2010 5.8 1.1 13.9 5.3 26.1
Restructuring provisions relate to exceptional amounts set aside for various reorganisations, principally within CPS. Most of the utilisation
of these provisions is likely within the next year.
Business disposal provisions represent amounts provided for warranties and indemnities in respect of businesses sold by the Group.
The majority of these provisions are expected to be utilised within one year.
Warranty provisions relate to present obligations for defective products and include known claims as well as anticipated claims that had not
been reported at the balance sheet date. The provisions are management judgements based on information currently available, past history
and experience of the products sold, however it is inherent in the nature of the business that the actual liabilities may differ from the
provisions. The precise timing of the utilisation of these provisions is uncertain, but is generally expected to fall within the year.
Other provisions comprise a number of liabilities with varying expected utilisation rates. There are no individually material provisions within
this total.
21a Share capital
2010 2009
£m £m
Authorised
144,641,840 ordinary shares of 44
152
/175p each (2009: 144,641,840 ordinary shares of 44
152
/175p each) 64.9 64.9
111,673,300 deferred shares of 1p each (2009: 111,673,300 deferred shares of 1p each) 1.1 1.1
Authorised, called up and fully paid
98,882,856 ordinary shares of 44
152
/175p each (2009: 97,786,854 ordinary shares of 44
152
/175p each) 44.4 43.9
111,673,300 deferred shares of 1p each (2009: 111,673,300 deferred shares of 1p each) 1.1 1.1
45.5 45.0
2010 2009
B shares/
Ordinary Deferred Ordinary Deferred
shares shares shares shares
‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000
Allotments during the year
Shares in issue at 29 March 2009/30 March 2008 97,787 111,673 149,843 –
Sub-division of shares –– – 150,774
Shares bought back for cancellation –– – (39,101)
Issued under executive share option plans 49 – 546 –
Issued under savings related share option scheme 415 – 724 –
Issued under US employee share purchase plan 16 – 23 –
Issued under deferred bonus and matching share plan 616 – 775 –
Shares consolidated* –– (54,124) –
Shares in issue at 27 March 2010/28 March 2009 98,883 111,673 97,787 111,673
*Following shareholders’ approval of a return of cash at the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company on 14 November 2008,
each existing ordinary share held by shareholders on the Company’s Register of Members at the close of business on 14 November 2008
was sub-divided into one undesignated share and one B share. The undesignated shares were immediately consolidated on the basis
of 25 new ordinary shares for every 39 undesignated shares. On 28 November 2008, shareholders opting for the single B share dividend
alternative received a special dividend of 305 pence per B share. J. P . Morgan Cazenove acting as principal purchased 39,101,452
B shares in respect of which valid acceptances of the purchase offer had been received for 305 pence each. The Company acquired the
39,101,452 B shares for an aggregate consideration of approximately £119.3m, and these B shares were cancelled on 28 November 2008.
The remaining B shares were converted into deferred shares of 1 penny each nominal value. As a consequence of the return of cash and
share consolidation, the Company’s authorised share capital was reduced from £66.4m to £66.0m, representing 111,673,300 deferred
shares of 1 penny each and 144,641,840 ordinary shares of 44
152
/175 pence each. The issued ordinary share capital was reduced
from 150,774,752 to 96,650,482.
The deferred shares carry no voting rights and are unlisted. De La Rue Annual Report 2010 83
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
21b Share based payments
At 27 March 2010, De La Rue plc have a number of share based payment plans, which are described below. These plans have been
accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2, ‘Share Based Payments’, which means that IFRS 2 has
been applied to all grants of employee share based payments granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested at 1 January 2005 and
cash settled awards outstanding at 1 January 2005.
The compensation cost and related liability that have been recognised for De La Rue’s share based compensation plans are set out in the
table below:
Expense recognised for the year Liability at end of year
2010 2009 2010 2009
£m £m £m £m
Deferred bonus and matching plan 0.9 2.5 – –
Savings related share option plan 0.6 0.6 – –
US employee share plan 0.1 0.1 – –
1.6 3.2 – –
The fair value of share options is estimated at the date of grant using a lattice based option valuation model. The significant assumptions
used in the valuation model are disclosed below.
Executive share Deferred bonus Savings related US employee
Arrangement option plan and matching plan share option plan share plan
Dates of current year grants n/a 5 June 2009 24 Dec 2009 n/a
Number of options granted n/a 199,382 348,207 n/a
Exercise price n/a n/a 819.55p n/a
Contractual life (years) n/a 3 3 or 5 n/a
Settlement Shares Shares Shares Shares
Vesting period (years) n/a 3 3 or 5 n/a
Dividend yield n/a 4.5% 3.5% n/a
Fair value per option at grant date n/a £8.80 for £3.17 for n/a
deferred allocation 3 year plan
£6.65 for £3.49 for
matching allocation 5 year plan
An expected volatility rate of 25 per cent has been used for grants in the period. This rate is based on historical volatility over the last three
years. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government
bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. The rate applied during the year was in the region of 2.3 per cent depending on
exact grant date.
Reconciliations of option movements over the year to 27 March 2010 for each class of options are shown below:
Executive Share Option Plan
The Executive Share Option Plan was open to eligible senior executives around the Group. Options were granted at a price equal to the
average market price of a share over the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant with a performance condition based
on the achievement of an earnings per share growth target. The performance condition relates to the achievement over three years of three
per cent per annum earnings per share growth over the rate of increase in the retail price index. If this condition is not met at the end of the
performance period the options will lapse. For grants of options before April 2004 retesting of the performance target will be allowed twice,
on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date. A pre vesting forfeiture rate of 5 per cent per annum has been assumed.
2010 2009
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number of exercise price Number of exercise price
options pence per options pence per
‘000 share ‘000 share
Options outstanding at start of year 40 373.59 1,072 362.84
Granted –– ––
Forfeited –– ––
Exercised (30) 368.59 (1,032) 362.42
Expired –– ––
Outstanding at end of year 10 388.05 40 373.59
Exercisable at year end 10 388.05 40 373.59
The range of exercise prices for the share options outstanding at the end of the year is 340.50p - 407.42p (2009: 340.50p - 407.42p).
The remaining contractual life of the outstanding share options is up to 5 July 2015 (2009: up to 5 July 2015). 84 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued
21b Share based payments continued
Executive Share Option Scheme
The Company operated an Executive Share Option Scheme with a HM Revenue and Customs approved section and unapproved section
which expired on 31 December 2004. Options granted under the Scheme since July 1996 can only be exercised if performance targets are
met. The performance condition that has been applied to the 1997 grant and to all subsequent grants of options up to and including 2001
is that options can only be exercised if the total return of a share over a consecutive three-year period exceeds the total return of the median
ranked company in the FTSE Mid-250 Index over the same period. Options granted in 1996 are normally exercisable only if the total return
of a share over a rolling three-year period exceeds the average total return of the FTSE All Share Index. A pre vesting forfeiture rate of 5 per
cent per annum has been assumed.
2010 2009
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number of exercise price Number of exercise price
options pence per options pence per
‘000 share ‘000 share
Options outstanding at start of year 37 505.56 120 514.79
Exercised (19) 522.30 (83) 518.92
Expired –– ––
Outstanding at end of year 18 487.88 37 505.56
Exercisable at year end 18 487.88 37 505.56
The range of exercise prices for the share options outstanding at the end of the year was 482.33p - 522.30p (2009: 482.33p - 522.30p).
The remaining contractual life of the outstanding share options was up to 3 December 2011.
Deferred Bonus and Matching Plan
The Plan is open to eligible senior executives around the Group. The Plan is a combination of three elements: deferred allocation, dividend
allocation and matching allocation. The matching allocation is linked to the deferred allocation and is subject to the following performance
condition: up to 50 per cent of the award is released subject to an earnings per share test and up to 50 per cent is released based on the
performance of the total shareholder return test (TSR) against the companies in the FTSE Mid-250 excluding investment trusts. The
performance conditions are described in more detail on page 52. The TSR performance condition has been incorporated into the Monte
Carlo simulation model used to estimate the fair value of these options.
2010 2009
Number of Number of
options options
‘000 ‘000
Options outstanding at start of year 887 1,447
Granted – deferred shares 82 107
Granted – matching shares 117 170
Forfeited (72) (102)
Exercised (592) (735)
Expired – –
Outstanding at end of year 422 887
Exercisable at year end – –
The deferred and matching shares have been allocated based on a share price of 880.0p (2009: 908.5p).
Savings Related Share Option Scheme
The Scheme is open to all UK employees. Options are granted at the prevailing market price at the time of the grant (with a discretionary
discount to the market price), to employees who agree to save between £5 and £250 per month over a period of three or five years.
There are no performance conditions attaching to the options. After the three or five year term has expired, employees normally have six
months in which to decide whether or not to exercise their options. A pre vesting forfeiture rate of 5 per cent has been assumed.
2010 2009
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number of exercise price Number of exercise price
options pence per options pence per
‘000 share ‘000 share
Options outstanding at start of year 1,225 565.31 1,778 439.63
Granted 348 819.55 300 712.90
Forfeited (42) 691.21 (119) 570.50
Exercised (415) 443.54 (723) 311.81
Expired (9) 475.50 (11) 387.65
Outstanding at end of year 1,107 686.87 1,225 565.31
Exercisable at year end 12 470.74 36 352.46
The range of exercise prices for the share options outstanding at the end of the year is 303.31p - 819.55p (2009: 258.90p - 745.74p).
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the outstanding share options is 1 September 2012 (2009: 1 September 2011). De La Rue Annual Report 2010 85
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
21b Share based payments continued
US Employee Share Option Plan
De La Rue operates a US Employee Share Purchase Plan for US employees. Under the plan, employees have an option to
purchase De La Rue plc shares at the end of each 12 month savings period at a price which is the lower of the market value of the
De La Rue plc share either at the beginning or the end of the offering period, less a 15 per cent discount. In 2009/2010 16,110 shares
(2008/2009: 22,152 shares) were allotted pursuant to the plan. It is estimated that 25,541 shares will be required to satisfy the
Company’s 2010/2011 obligations in respect of employees’ savings under the plan as at 27 March 2010.
Market share purchase of shares by Trustee
De La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust
The De La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust was established to administer shares granted under the various De La Rue Executive
Share Option Schemes (ESOS) and the De La Rue Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP) (or any other share option plan established by the
Company) to executive Directors and senior employees. Bachmann Trust Company Limited is the Trustee. The Trustee held no shares at
27 March 2010.
22 Notes to Group cash flow statement
2010 2009
£m £m
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations
Cash utilised by discontinued operations – (2.2)
Tax paid – (10.0)
Net cash used in operating activities – (12.2)
Net cash used in investing activities – (1.8)
Net cash used in discontinued operations – (14.0)
2010 2009
£m £m
Disposal of subsidiary undertakings
Consideration received, satisfied in cash 1.9 367.3
Net cash disposed of – (22.4)
Disposal costs paid (2.9) (11.2)
Disposal of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash disposed) (1.0) 333.7
2010 2009
£m £m
Analysis of net debt
Cash at bank and in hand 35.1 43.4
Short term bank deposits 6.5 15.1
Bank overdrafts (3.8) (8.4)
Total cash and cash equivalents 37.8 50.1
Borrowings due within one year (47.9) (31.7)
Borrowings due after one year (0.9) (51.5)
Net debt (11.0) (33.1)
23 Group operating leases
2010 2009
2010 Plant and 2009 Plant and
Property equipment Property equipment
£m £m £m £m
Total commitments due:
Within one year 3.4 0.2 3.6 0.2
Between one and five years 9.6 0.1 5.0 0.2
Over five years 34.2 0.1 28.3 –
47.2 0.4 36.9 0.4 86 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued
24 Disposals
On 1 September 2008 the Group disposed of the Cash Systems business (excluding Cash Processing Solutions).
The effect of these disposals on the financial position of the Group is summarised as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Assets and liabilities disposed of
Property, plant and equipment – 10.5
Intangible assets – 18.7
Inventories – 42.0
Trade and other receivables – 39.2
Cash and cash equivalents – 22.4
Trade and other payables – (17.6)
Advance payments – (12.0)
Other current assets and liabilities – (22.0)
Retirement benefit obligations – (2.9)
Provisions for liabilities and charges – (5.9)
Deferred income – (23.3)
Net assets and liabilities – 49.1
25 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates pension plans throughout the world covering the majority of employees. These plans are devised in accordance with
local conditions and practices in the country concerned. The assets of the Group’s plans are generally held in separately administered trusts
or are insured.
(i) Defined benefit pension plans
Overseas
UK defined defined Gross defined Net defined
benefit benefit benefit Deferred benefit
pension pension pension tax pension
£m £m £m £m £m
At 30 March 2008 (20.7) (4.6) (25.3) 7.0 (18.3)
Exchange differences – (0.4) (0.4) – (0.4)
Current service cost included in operating profit (5.8) (0.2) (6.0) 1.6 (4.4)
Curtailments 0.8 – 0.8 (0.2) 0.6
Net finance cost (1.8) – (1.8) – (1.8)
Actuarial gains and losses arising over the year (75.1) 0.1 (75.0) 21.0 (54.0)
Cash contributions and benefits paid 35.5 – 35.5 (9.9) 25.6
Disposal of businesses – 2.9 2.9 (0.2) 2.7
Transfers (0.4) – (0.4) 0.1 (0.3)
At 29 March 2009 (67.5) (2.2) (69.7) 19.4 (50.3)
Exchange differences – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Current service cost included in operating profit (4.5) (0.2) (4.7) 1.3 (3.4)
Net finance cost (6.2) (0.1) (6.3) 1.7 (4.6)
Actuarial gains and losses arising over the year (72.4) 0.1 (72.3) 20.3 (52.0)
Cash contributions and benefits paid 25.9 – 25.9 (7.3) 18.6
Transfers (0.1) – (0.1) 0.1 –
At 27 March 2010 (124.8) (2.3) (127.1) 35.5 (91.6)
Amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet:
2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of plan assets 569.2 0.3 569.5 427.3 0.8 428.1
Present value of funded obligations (687.3) (0.4) (687.7) (489.3) (0.8) (490.1)
Funded defined benefit pension plans (118.1) (0.1) (118.2) (62.0) – (62.0)
Present value of unfunded obligations (6.7) (2.2) (8.9) (5.5) (2.2) (7.7)
Net liability (124.8) (2.3) (127.1) (67.5) (2.2) (69.7) De La Rue Annual Report 2010 87
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
25 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement:
2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Included in employee benefits expense:
– Current service cost (4.5) (0.2) (4.7) (5.8) (0.2) (6.0)
Included in profit from discontinued operations:
– Curtailments –– – 0.8 – 0.8
Included in net finance cost:
– Expected return on plan assets 26.4 – 26.4 33.2 0.1 33.3
– Interest cost (32.6) (0.1) (32.7) (35.0) (0.1) (35.1)
Net finance cost (6.2) (0.1) (6.3) (1.8) – (1.8)
Total recognised in the consolidated income statement (10.7) (0.3) (11.0) (6.8) (0.2) (7.0)
Actual return on plan assets 143.8 – 143.8 (90.5) 0.1 (90.4)
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income:
2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Actuarial gains/(losses) on plan assets 117.4 – 117.4 (123.7) – (123.7)
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension obligations (189.8) 0.1 (189.7) 48.6 0.1 48.7
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income (72.4) 0.1 (72.3) (75.1) 0.1 (75.0)
Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets:
2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
%%% % %%
Equities 58.9 – 58.9 54.4 – 54.3
Bonds 19.4 – 19.4 15.0 – 15.0
Gilts 19.0 – 19.0 28.8 – 28.7
Other 2.7 100.0 2.7 1.8 100.0 2.0
Other UK assets comprise cash. Categories of plan assets for overseas plans have not been disclosed as these plans are not considered
sufficiently material to warrant such disclosure.
Principal actuarial assumptions:
2010 2010 2009 2009
UK Overseas UK Overseas
% % %%
Future salary increases 4.10 3.00 3.50 3.00
Future pension increases – past service 3.70 0.43 3.30 1.35
Future pension increases – future service 3.50 – 2.90 –
Discount rate 5.80 5.80 6.80 5.80
Inflation rate 3.50 2.00 2.90 2.00
Expected return on plan assets:
Equities 8.25 – 8.30 –
Bonds 5.80 – 6.80 –
Gilts 4.60 – 4.00 –
Other – 2.80 – 5.80
The expected rate of return on plan assets has been determined following advice from the plans’ independent actuary and is based on the
expected return on each asset class together with consideration of the long term asset strategy.
The mortality assumptions used to assess the defined benefit obligation for the UK plan are based on tables issued by the Continuous
Mortality Investigation Bureau. At 27 March 2010 and 28 March 2009 mortality assumptions are based on the PxA92 birth year tables
multiplied by a rating of 125 per cent and allowance for medium cohort mortality improvements in future, with a 0.5 per cent mortality
improvement underpin. The resulting life expectancy for a 65 year old pensioner is 20.5 years (2009: 20.2 years). 88 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued
25 Retirement benefit obligations continued
History of experience gains and losses:
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of plan assets 569.5 428.1 523.2 537.6 525.1
Present value of defined benefit pension obligations (696.6) (497.8) (548.5) (645.7) (644.7)
Net liability (127.1) (69.7) (25.3) (108.1) (119.6)
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement
of comprehensive income (90.1) (17.8) 57.2 (16.3) (19.8)
Experience (losses)/gains arising on defined benefit pension obligations:
Amount (£m) (38.3) (0.1) 0.3 16.2 –
Percentage of present value of defined benefit pension obligations 5.5% – -0.1% -2.5% –
Experience gains/(losses) arising on plan assets:
Amount (£m) 117.4 (123.7) (43.6) (9.6) 55.3
Percentage of plan assets 20.6% -28.9% -8.3% -1.8% 10.5%
The largest defined benefit pension plan operated by the Group is in the UK. A full actuarial valuation of the plan was carried out by a
qualified actuary as at 5 April 2009 and updated to 27 March 2010. The plan is valued formally every three years, the next valuation being
as at April 2012.
Changes in the fair value of UK plan assets:
2010 2009
£m £m
At 29 March 2009/30 March 2008 427.3 507.4
Expected return on plan assets 26.4 33.2
Actuarial gains/(losses) 117.4 (123.7)
Employer contributions 25.4 34.9
Plan participant contributions 3.1 3.3
Claims from insurance policy 0.5 0.6
Benefits paid (28.0) (25.3)
Plan administration and investment management expenses (2.4) (2.2)
Life assurance premiums (0.4) (0.5)
Transfers (0.1) (0.4)
At 27 March 2010/28 March 2009 569.2 427.3
Changes in the fair value of UK defined benefit pension obligations:
2010 2009
£m £m
At 29 March 2009/30 March 2008 (494.8) (528.1)
Current service cost (4.5) (5.8)
Curtailments – 0.8
Interest cost (32.6) (35.0)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (189.8) 48.6
Plan participant contributions (3.1) (3.3)
Benefits paid 28.0 25.3
Plan administration and investment management expenses 2.4 2.2
Life assurance premiums 0.4 0.5
At 27 March 2010/28 March 2009 (694.0) (494.8)
Movements in the fair value of plan assets and defined benefit pension obligations for overseas plans have not been disclosed as these
plans are not considered sufficiently material to warrant such disclosure.
The Group expects to contribute around £18m to its UK pension fund in 2010/2011.
(ii) Defined contribution pension plans
The Group operates a number of defined contribution plans for which the charge in the consolidated income statement for the year was
£1.4m (2009: £1.3m). De La Rue Annual Report 2010 89
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
26 Employees
2010 2009
number number
Average number of employees
United Kingdom and Ireland 2,021 1,992
Rest of Europe 688 593
The Americas 302 309
Rest of World 935 1,065
3,946 3,959
Average number of employees
Currency 2,440 2,327
Cash Processing Solutions 739 820
Security Print 606 688
Identity Systems 161 124
3,946 3,959
2010 2009
£m £m
Employee costs (including Directors’ emoluments)
Wages and salaries 133.9 134.8
Social security costs 7.8 6.1
Share incentive schemes 1.0 2.6
Sharesave schemes 0.6 0.6
Pension costs 6.1 7.3
149.4 151.4
27 Capital commitments
2010 2009
£m £m
The following commitments existed at the balance sheet date:
Contracted but not provided for in the accounts 22.1 2.5
28 Contingent liabilities
There are contingent liabilities, arising in the ordinary course of business, in respect of litigation and guarantees in various countries, for
which the Directors believe adequate provisions have been made in the accounts. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 17 Companies
(Amendment) Act 1986 of the Republic of Ireland, the Company has guaranteed the liabilities of certain of its Irish subsidiaries and as
a result such subsidiaries have been exempted from the provisions of Section 17 Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 of the Republic
of Ireland.
29 Related party transactions
During the year the Group traded on an arms-length basis with the associated company Fidink (33.3 per cent owned). The Group’s trading
activities with this company included £12.7m (2009: £9.2m) for the purchase of ink and other consumables. At the balance sheet date there
were creditor balances of £1.1m (2009: £1.6m) with Fidink.
Intra-group transactions between the parent and the fully consolidated subsidiaries or between fully consolidated subsidiaries are eliminated
on consolidation. Such transactions were contracted on an arms-length basis.
Key management compensation
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Salaries and other short term employee benefits 2,661.4 5,457.4
Termination benefits 1,578.9 114.2
Retirement benefits:
– Defined contribution 31.2 11.2
– Defined benefit 422.8 410.1
Share-based payments 801.0 2,209.0
5,495.3 8,201.9
Key management comprises members of the Board (including fees of non-executive Directors) and the Operating Board. Key management
compensation includes compensation for loss of office, ex-gratia payments, redundancy payments, enhanced retirement benefits and any
related benefits-in-kind connected with a person leaving office or employment. 90 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
At 27 March 2010
2010 2009
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiaries 4a 152.4 152.4
152.4 152.4
Current assets
Debtors receivable within one year 5a 100.2 168.8
Cash at bank and in hand 2.2 –
102.4 168.8
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings 6a (26.4) (62.3)
Other creditors 7a (8.8) (5.8)
(35.2) (68.1)
Net current assets 67.2 100.7
Total assets less current liabilities 219.6 253.1
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 8a (100.0) (100.0)
Net assets 119.6 153.1
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 9a 45.5 45.0
Share premium account 10a 28.4 26.5
Capital redemption reserve 10a 5.9 5.9
Retained earnings 10a 39.8 75.7
Total shareholders’ funds 119.6 153.1
Approved by the Board on 24 May 2010.
Nicholas Brookes Simon Webb
Chairman Group Finance Director De La Rue Annual Report 2010 91
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
Basis of preparation
The Financial Statements of De La Rue plc (the Company) have
been prepared under the historical cost convention and have been
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and
applicable UK accounting standards.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company
is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss
account. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption
in Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 29 (IFRS 7) ‘Financial
Instruments: Disclosures’ not to prepare a financial instrument note
as the information is available in the published consolidated Financial
Statements of the Group.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from
preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS1 ‘Cash
Flow Statements’.
The accounts have been prepared as at 27 March 2010, being the
last Saturday in March. The comparatives for the 2009 financial year
are for the year ended 28 March 2009.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently
in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to
the Company Financial Statements.
Foreign currencies
Amounts receivable from overseas subsidiaries which are
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at
the appropriate year end rates of exchange. Exchange gains and
losses on translating foreign currency amounts are included within
the interest section of the profit and loss account except for
exchange gains and losses associated with hedging loans that
are taken to reserves.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional
currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the
individual transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated
in foreign currencies are subsequently retranslated at the rate of
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Such exchange
differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Other receivables
Other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision
for impairment. Trade and other receivables are discounted when
the time value of money is considered material.
Investments
Investments are stated at cost or valuation in the balance sheet,
less provision for any permanent diminution in the value of the
investment.
Retirement benefits
The pension rights of the Company employees are dealt with
through a self administered scheme, the assets of which are held
independently of the Group’s finances. The scheme is a defined
benefit scheme that is funded partly by contributions from members
and partly by contributions from the Company and its subsidiaries
at rates advised by independent professionally qualified actuaries.
In accordance with FRS 17, De La Rue plc accounts for its
contributions as though it were a defined contribution scheme.
This is because the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme
cover the Company and a number of its subsidiaries and those
assets and liabilities cannot be split between each subsidiary on
a consistent and reasonable basis. Full details of the scheme and
its deficit (measured on an IAS 19 basis) can be found in note 25
to the consolidated Financial Statements.
Share based payment
The Company operates various equity settled and cash settled
option schemes although the majority of plans are settled by the
issue of shares. The services received from employees are measured
by reference to the fair value of the share options. The fair value is
calculated at grant date and recognised in the profit and loss
account, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders’
funds, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an
estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. Vesting
conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken into account
when estimating the fair value. FRS 20 has been applied to share
settled share options granted after 7 November 2002.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to
the employees of its subsidiary undertakings these awards are
accounted for by the Company, as an additional investment in its
subsidiary. The costs are determined in accordance with FRS 20
share based payments. Any payments made by the subsidiary
undertaking in respect of these arrangements are treated as
a return of this investment.
Share based payments recharged to subsidiaries are recorded
via the intercompany loan account.
Dividends
Under FRS 21, final ordinary dividends payable to the shareholders
of the Company are recognised in the period that they are approved
by the shareholders. Interim ordinary dividends are recognised in the
period that they are paid.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and
takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and
accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all
timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation
and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the
balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to
guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group,
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and
accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats
the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as
it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make
a payment under the guarantee.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES – COMPANY 92 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS – COMPANY
1a Employee costs and numbers
Employee costs are borne by De La Rue Holdings plc. For details of Director’s remuneration, refer to disclosures in the Directors’ Report
on pages 47 to 53.
2010 2009
Number Number
Average employee numbers 2 2
2a Auditor’s remuneration
Auditor’s remuneration is borne by De La Rue Holdings plc. For details of auditor’s remuneration, see Note 2 to the consolidated
Financial Statements.
3a Equity dividends
For details of equity dividends, see Note 8 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
4a Investments
2010 2009
£m £m
Investments comprise:
Investments in subsidiaries 152.4 152.4
£m £m
Cost
At 29 March 2009 and 30 March 2008 152.4 152.4
Additions – –
At 27 March 2010 and 28 March 2009 152.4 152.4
For details of investments in Group companies, refer to Principal subsidiaries, branches and associated companies on page 94.
5a Debtors
2010 2009
£m £m
Amounts due within one year
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 100.2 168.8
6a Borrowings
2010 2009
£m £m
Short term borrowings
Bank loans and overdrafts 26.4 62.3
The carrying amounts of short and long term borrowings approximate to their fair value.
The carrying amounts of the Company’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
2010 2009
£m £m
US dollar 22.8 34.4
euro 0.2 24.3
£ sterling – 0.8
Other currencies 3.4 2.8
26.4 62.3
7a Other creditors
2010 2009
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts due to Group undertakings 5.3 2.0
Accruals and deferred income 3.5 3.8
Other creditors 8.8 5.8
8a Creditors: Amounts due after more than one year
2010 2009
£m £m
Amounts due to Group undertakings 100.0 100.0
9a Share capital
For details of share capital, see note 21a to the consolidated Financial Statements. De La Rue Annual Report 2010 93
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
10a Other reserves
Share Capital
Share premium redemption Retained Total
capital account reserve earnings equity
£m £m £m £m £m
At 30 March 2008 44.6 22.5 5.5 113.4 186.0
Share capital issued 0.8 4.0 –– 4.8
Allocation of shares for cancellation –– – 2.2 2.2
Profit for the financial year –– – 453.3 453.3
Return of capital (0.4) – 0.4 (119.3) (119.3)
Dividends paid –– – (376.7) (376.7)
Employee share scheme:
– value of services provided –– – 2.8 2.8
At 29 March 2009 45.0 26.5 5.9 75.7 153.1
Share capital issued 0.5 1.9 –– 2.4
Profit for the financial year –– – 3.5 3.5
Dividends paid –– – (40.9) (40.9)
Employee share scheme:
– value of services provided –– – 1.5 1.5
At 27 March 2010 45.5 28.4 5.9 39.8 119.6
11a Share based payments
For details of share based payments, see note 21b to the consolidated Financial Statements and the Remuneration Report on page 47.
12a Related party transactions
The Company has no transactions with or amounts due to or from subsidiary undertakings that are not 100 per cent owned either directly
by the Company or by its subsidiaries.
For details of key management remuneration, see note 29 to the consolidated Financial Statements. 94 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES, BRANCHES AND
ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
As at 27 March 2010
The companies and branches listed below include those which principally affect the profits and assets of the Group. A full list of subsidiary
undertakings will be filed with the Company’s Annual Return.
De La Rue interest
in ordinary shares
Country of incorporation and operation Activities %
Europe
United Kingdom DLR (No.1) Limited Holding company 100
DLR (No. 2) Limited Holding company 100
†
De La Rue Holdings plc Holding and general commercial activities 100
De La Rue International Limited Security paper and printing, sale and
maintenance of CPS products and services,
identity systems, brand protection and holographics 100
De La Rue Overseas Limited Holding company 100
De La Rue Investments Limited Holding company 100
Portals Group Limited Holding company 100
Portals Property Limited Property holding company 100
Camelot Group plc Lottery operator 20*
Channel Islands The Burnhill Insurance Company Limited Insurance 100
De La Rue (Guernsey) Limited General commercial company 100
France De La Rue Cash Processing Solutions
(France) S.A.S. Distribution, service and marketing 100
Malta De La Rue Currency and Security Print Limited Security printing 100
The Netherlands De La Rue BV Holding company and distribution
and marketing of CPS products 100
Russia De La Rue CIS Manufacturing, distribution, service and marketing 100
Spain De La Rue Cash Processing Solutions
(Spain) SLU Distribution, service and marketing 100
Switzerland Thomas De La Rue A.G. Holding company 100
Fidink S.A. Security ink marketing 33.33*
North America
United States of America De La Rue North America Holdings Inc. Holding company 100
De La Rue North America Inc. Security printing 100
Canada De La Rue Canada Inc. Distribution and marketing of CPS and identity systems 100
South America
Brazil De La Rue Cash Systems Limitada Distribution, service and marketing 100
Mexico De La Rue Mexico, S.A. de C.V . Distribution, marketing and identity systems 100
Africa
Kenya De La Rue Currency and Security Print Limited Security printing 100
South Africa De La Rue South Africa (Proprietary) Limited Distribution, service and marketing 100
De La Rue Global Services (S.A.) (Proprietary)
Limited Security printing 100
Far East
Australia De La Rue Cash Processing Solutions
(Australia) Pty Limited Distribution, service and marketing 100
China De La Rue Banking Technology (Shenzhen)
Corporation Limited Distribution, service and marketing 100
De La Rue (Suzhou) Trading Company Limited Distribution, service and marketing 100
Hong Kong De La Rue Systems Limited Distribution, service and marketing 100
Malaysia De La Rue (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Distribution, service and marketing 100
Sri Lanka De La Rue Lanka Currency and Security Print
(Private) Limited Security printing 60
Thailand De La Rue (Thailand) Limited Distribution, service and marketing 100
*Associated company
†
Held directly by De La Rue plc De La Rue Annual Report 2010 95
Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders’ Information
FIVE YEAR RECORD
Profit and Loss Account
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Notes £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
– Continuing operations 358.5 401.8 467.0 502.4 561.1
– Discontinued operations (a) 252.3 285.7 286.6 121.6 –
Total 610.8 687.5 753.6 624.0 561.1
Operating profit
– Continuing operations 46.9 61.3 79.2 96.5 109.2
– Exceptional items – operating 1.7 –– (8.9) (7.5)
Total 48.6 61.3 79.2 87.6 101.7
Share of profits of associated companies 6.8 6.6 7.1 8.9 6.3
Exceptional items – non-operating –– 2.6 – –
Profit on continuing operations before interest 55.4 67.9 88.9 96.5 108.0
Net interest income/(expense) 1.8 3.6 2.0 1.4 (5.1)
Retirement benefit obligation net finance (expense)/income (1.8) 1.8 0.3 (1.8) (6.3)
Profit on continuing operations before taxation 55.4 73.3 91.2 96.1 96.6
Taxation (16.5) (21.9) (24.7) (28.5) (26.2)
Profit on continuing operations after taxation 38.9 51.4 66.5 67.6 70.4
Discontinued operations 12.9 20.4 21.9 296.5 –
Equity minority interests (0.9) (1.6) (0.3) (1.1) (0.5)
Profit for the financial year 50.9 70.2 88.1 363.0 69.9
Dividends (95.8) (28.3) (105.4) (376.7) (40.9)
Retained profit/(loss) for the period (44.9) 41.9 (17.3) (13.7) 29.0
Earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations 23.6p 33.1p 43.4p 50.9p 71.0p
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 23.0p 32.4p 42.7p 50.4p 70.5p
Headline earnings per ordinary share (before exceptionals) 22.6p 33.1p 41.7p 57.0p 76.2p
Dividends per ordinary share (b) 17.0p 19.1p 21.4p 41.1p 42.3p
Profit on continuing operations before taxation and exceptional items 53.7 73.3 88.6 105.0 104.1
Balance Sheet
£m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 235.5 235.1 226.0 228.6 222.3
Net current assets (69.4) (96.0) (87.3) (87.6) (67.2)
Net cash/(debt) 91.6 137.3 106.7 (33.1) (11.0)
Other liabilities (121.4) (111.5) (29.9) (87.3) (134.6)
Equity minority interests (3.8) (5.0) (2.3) (2.9) (3.2)
Equity shareholders’ funds 132.5 159.9 213.2 17.7 6.3
Notes
(a) Discontinued operations include all businesses discontinued between 2006 and 2010. Thus continuing operations are those businesses continuing as at 27 March 2010.
(b) Includes proposed final dividend which, in accordance with IFRS accounting requirements, has not been accrued. 96 De La Rue Annual Report 2010
Registered office
De La Rue House
Jays Close, Viables, Basingstoke
Hampshire RG22 4BS UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1256 605000
Fax: +44 (0)1256 605336
Registered Number 3834125
Company Secretary: Mr E H D Peppiatt
Registrar
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZY
Telephone: +44 (0)870 703 6375
Fax: +44 (0)870 703 6101
Shareholder enquiries
Enquiries regarding shareholdings or dividends should, in the first
instance, be addressed to Computershare Investor Services PLC.
Details of your shareholding and how to make amendments to
your details can be viewed online at www.investorcentre.co.uk.
Shareholder Helpline Telephone: +44 (0)870 703 6375.
Electronic communications
You can register online at www.investorcentre.co.uk/ecomms to
stop receiving statutory communications through the post. If you
choose this option you will receive an email notification each time
we publish new shareholder documents on our website and be able
to download and read them at your own convenience. You will need
to have your Shareholder Reference number (‘SRN’) available when
you first log in. This 11 character number (which starts with the letter
C or G) can be found on share certificates and dividend tax
vouchers. Shareholders who subscribe for electronic
communications can revert to postal communications or request a
paper copy of any shareholder document at any time in the future.
Internet
Visit www.delarue.com to access previous annual reports, dividend
history and share price information.
Consolidation of share certificates
If your total registered shareholding is represented by several
individual share certificates, you may wish to have these replaced
by one consolidated certificate. De La Rue will meet the cost for this
service. You should send your share certificates to the Company’s
registrar together with a letter of instruction.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 10.30 a.m. on
Thursday, 22 July 2010 at De La Rue House, Jays Close, Viables,
Basingstoke, Hampshire RG22 4BS. Each shareholder is entitled
to attend and vote at the meeting, the arrangements for which
are described in a separate notice to shareholders.
Financial calendar
Preliminary Results Announcement 25 May 2010
Ex Dividend Date for 2009/2010 Final Dividend 7 July 2010
Record Date for Final Dividend 9 July 2010
Payment of 2009/2010 Final Dividend 5 August 2010
Interim Results Announcement* 23 November 2010
Ex Dividend Date for 2010/2011
Interim Dividend* 8 December 2010
Record Date for 2010/2011 Interim Dividend* 10 December 2010
Payment of 2010/2011 Interim Dividend* 6 January 2011
*Expected
Analysis of shareholders at 27 March 2010
Shareholders Shares
By range of holdings Number % Number %
1–1,000 5,675 76.26 1,909,373 1.93
1,001–2,000 859 11.54 1,190,986 1.20
2,001–4,000 387 5.20 1,057,018 1.07
4,001–20,000 251 3.37 2,111,962 2.14
20,001–200,000 202 2.72 13,833,768 13.99
200,001 and above 68 0.91 78,779,749 79.67
Total 7,442 100.00 98,882,856 100.00
Share dealing facilities
J. P . Morgan Cazenove Limited
The Company’s Stockbroker, J. P . Morgan Cazenove Limited,
provides a simple, low cost postal dealing facility in De La Rue plc
shares. Commission is charged at 1 per cent up to £5,000 and
0.5 per cent thereafter, with a minimum charge of £20. Further
information and forms can be obtained from J. P . Morgan Cazenove
Limited, 20 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6DA UK. Telephone:
+44 (0)20 7155 5155. A copy of the low cost dealing form is also
available at www.delarue.com.
Computershare Investor Services PLC
Computershare, the Company’s Registrar, provides a simple way
to sell or purchase De La Rue plc shares.
Internet share dealing
Available 24 hours a day/seven days a week with real time pricing
in market hours. Commission is charged at 0.5 per cent subject
to a minimum charge of £15, with no set up or annual management
fees. Further information can be obtained by logging on to:
www.computershare.com/dealing/uk.
Telephone share dealing
Commission is charged at 1 per cent subject to a minimum charge
of £25 with no set up or annual management fees. The telephone
share dealing service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday
to Friday, excluding bank holidays on telephone number:
+44 (0)870 703 0084.
Stocktrade
An execution-only telephone dealing service has been arranged
with Stocktrade which provides a simple way for buying or selling
De La Rue plc shares. Basic commission is 0.5 per cent with a
minimum charge of £15 up to £10,000 and then 0.2 per cent
thereafter with no maximum. For further information please call
+44 (0)845 601 0995 and quote reference Low Co103.
Capital gains tax
March 1982 Valuation
The price per share on 31 March 1982 was 617.5p.
November 2008 return of cash
A shareholder’s original base cost in the existing ordinary shares
will be apportioned between the new ordinary shares and the
B shares by reference to their respective market values on the day
on which they were first listed which were equal to 816.75p and
302.375p, respectively. On the reorganisation, for each 39 existing
ordinary shares held by a shareholder he or she received 25 new
ordinary shares and 39 B shares. Based on these values the tax
base cost in the existing ordinary shares is apportioned 63.3899
per cent to the new ordinary shares received and 36.6101 per cent
to the B shares received.
Shareholders are advised to refer to their brokers/financial advisers
for detailed advice on individual CGT calculations.
SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION Cornerstone™, Depth™ Image,
ECM™ Business Intelligence, Optiks™
are trademarks of De La Rue International Limited
FIFA World Cup™ is a trademark of FIFA
Net Promoter® is a registered trademark of Satmetrix Systems, Inc.
This Report is printed on Hello Silk paper. This paper has been
independently certified as meeting the standards of the Forest
Stewardship Council (FSC), and was manufactured at a mill that
is certified to the ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards.
Designed and produced by
Langsford Corporate Design
Printed by
Fulmar Colour Printing Company which is ISO14001 certified,
CarbonNeutral®, Alcohol Free Printer, FSC and PEFC chain
of custody certified. The inks used are all vegetable oil based. De La Rue plc
De La Rue House
Jays Close
Viables
Basingstoke
Hampshire
RG22 4BS
T +44 (0)1256 605000
F +44 (0)1256 605004
www.delarue.com
