 De La Rue plc
Annual Report 201 1 Overview
01 Results summary
02 De La Rue at a glance
Business review
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Chief Executive’s review
16 Operational review
 – Currency
 – Cash Processing Solutions
 – Security Products
 – Identity Systems
20 Risk and risk management
24 Financial review
27 Corporate responsibility
Corporate governance report
32 Directors and Secretary
34 Shareholders and share capital
35 Other statutory information
37 Corporate governance statement
42 Remuneration report
Financial statements
51 Independent Auditor’s Report
52 Group Income Statement
53 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
54 Group Balance Sheet
55 Group Statement of Changes in Equity
56 Group Cash Flow Statement
57 Accounting policies 
63 Notes to the accounts
88 Company Balance Sheet
89 Accounting policies – Company
90 Notes to the accounts – Company
92 Principal subsidiaries, branches and associated companies
93 Five year record
94 Shareholders’ information
Financial key performance indicators (KPIs)
04 Dividends per share
05 Earnings per share
05 Total shareholder return
06 Revenue
06 Profit before tax and exceptional items
06 Operating profit before exceptional items
06 Operating cash flow
24 Key financials summary table
Operational KPIs
07
Health, safety and environment KPIs
29 and 30
Throughout this Annual Report, ‘Group’ is used as a collective 
term to describe De La Rue plc and its subsidiary companies. 
‘Company’ is a reference to De La Rue plc. 1 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Results summary
As the world’s largest integrated 
commercial security printer and 
papermaker, De La Rue is a trusted  
partner of governments, central banks, 
issuing authorities and commercial 
organisations around the world.
The Group is involved in the design and 
production of over 150 national currencies 
and a wide range of security documents 
including passports, driving licences, 
authentication labels and tax stamps. 
In addition, the Group manufactures 
sophisticated, high speed cash  
sorting equipment.
De La Rue also offers a range of specialist 
services and software solutions including 
government identity schemes, product 
authentication systems and cash 
management processing solutions.
De La Rue employs approximately  
4,000 people worldwide and is listed on 
the London Stock Exchange. For further 
information visit De La Rue’s website at 
www.delarue.com
Revenue
2011: £463.9m 
2010: £561.1m
Operating profit
Operating profit before exceptional items 
2011: £40.4m 
2010: £109.2m 
Profit
Profit before tax and exceptional items 
2011: £33.3m 
2010: £104.1m 
Cash
Operating cash flow 
2011: £14.7m* 
2010: £116.1m
*Operating cash flow before one off special pension contribution
Earnings per share (EPS)
Headline EPS (before exceptional items) 
2011: 24.0p 
2010: 76.2p
Dividend
Total dividend for the year 
2011: 42.3p 
2010: 42.3p 2 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
De La Rue at a glance
Dulles
Dallas
Albany
United Kingdom
Zejtun
Nairobi
Midrand
Kuala Lumpur
Malwana
Moscow
Delhi
Beijing
São Paulo
Mexico City
CPS locations: Melbourne, Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur, Johannesburg, Amsterdam, Hong Kong and Dubai
 
Melbourne
Bangkok
Amsterdam
Hong Kong Dubai
Key sites
 Currency 
 Cash Processing Solutions 
 Security Products 
 Identity Systems
Geographic revenue
Percentage 
 UK and Ireland 
 Rest of Europe 
 Americas 
 Rest of world
row
americas
roe
uk
19%
13%
16%
52%
Employees by location
Percentage 
 UK and Ireland 
 Rest of Europe 
 Americas 
 Rest of world
row
americas
roe
uk
52%
17%
6%
25%
We have manufactured banknote paper  
for nearly 300 years and printed banknotes 
for 150 years.
Our DLR 7000 large sorter processes, 
sorts and authenticates at a speed of  
up to 33 banknotes per second. 
De La Rue has partnered with Microsoft 
since 1996 to protect consumers from 
software piracy.
We are involved in the issue of 27 million 
secure identity documents each year. 3 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Currency
De La Rue Currency provides market leading printed banknotes, 
banknote paper and an unparalleled portfolio of banknote 
security features. Working in partnership with its customers 
to provide effective currency solutions, the business can also 
advise on critical issues of currency strategy such as design, 
demand forecasting, denominational structure and protection 
against counterfeiting.
See page 16 for more information. 
Security Products
De La Rue Security Products consists of specialist businesses 
whose solutions are critical to authenticating products and 
documents as well as protecting revenues for governments, 
global corporations and financial institutions around the world. 
It produces authentication labels, brand licensing products, 
government documents, cheques and postage stamps as  
well as vital components for Currency and Identity Systems.
See page 18 for more information.
Cash Processing Solutions (CPS)
De La Rue Cash Processing Solutions is integral to the Currency 
offering with shared central bank customers. The business 
provides bulk cash handling organisations – central banks, 
commercial banks and cash-in-transit companies – with a range 
of sophisticated high speed cash sorting and authentication 
systems as well as software solutions, consultancy, service and 
support to enhance the productivity, performance and security  
of cash processing operations.
See page 17 for more information.
Identity Systems (IDS)
De La Rue Identity Systems is a world expert in the delivery 
and management of secure government identity programmes, 
systems and solutions. A reliable and trusted partner of 
governments worldwide, IDS has implemented over 100 
projects in 65 countries focusing on the provision of passport, 
ePassport, national ID and eID, driving licence and voter 
registration schemes.
See page 19 for more information.
1 Detail of intaglio (raised) print from a States of Jersey £50
2 Stacker wheel from DLR 7000 cash sorter
3 Paper for Dutch passport
4 Data page from the new UK passport
1
2
3
4 4 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Chairman’s statement
13.27
5.83
14.87
6.53
27.40
13.70
28.20
14.10
28.20
14.10
Nicholas Brookes
Non-executive Chairman
 Operating profit of £40.4m
(before exceptional items)
Dividend maintained
A total of 42.3p for the year
Net debt remains low at £31.2m
UK Passport contract
Successful launch in October 2010 
Camelot investment
Gain of £55.1m on sale
Improvement Plan 
Formulated and underway
Dividends per share
Pence 
 Final 
 Interim
Includes proposed 
2011 final dividend 
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
19.10
21.40
41.10
42.30 42.30 5 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Group results
The 2010/11 financial year has undoubtedly been a difficult  
one for De La Rue, our employees, customers and shareholders. 
We have dealt with a number of challenges including paper 
production issues, lower than expected banknote print volumes, 
changes in senior management and a takeover approach.
With the appointment of Tim Cobbold as Chief Executive 
in January 2011 and a number of other changes in senior 
management, we now have in place the team that will lead  
our recovery. An Improvement Plan, which is set out in the  
Chief Executive’s review, has been formulated by this team and is 
already being implemented. The objective is to maintain our strong 
market position, improve margins and cash flow and to deliver a 
recovery in operating performance whilst ensuring the business  
is well positioned to maintain sustainable growth. 
Paper production issues
In July 2010 the Board commissioned an investigation by external 
lawyers into issues that had been brought to its attention internally. 
The investigation, which was completed in October 2010, found 
nothing of substance to support the matters raised other than in 
respect of some paper production issues where it was found that 
a small number of the many detailed specification parameters of 
some paper had fallen marginally short of specification. It was also 
established that certain paper specification test certificates had 
been deliberately falsified. The Board reported the findings of the 
investigation to the appropriate authorities, who are considering 
the matter, and is implementing a number of measures arising 
from the findings of the investigation.
Whilst the Board was satisfied that neither the physical security nor 
the security features in the paper were compromised, production 
and shipment of the affected banknote paper was immediately, 
and remains, suspended. 
Discussions remain ongoing with the principal customer 
concerned and the authorities, and therefore there remains 
uncertainty as to the ultimate outcome of these issues, including 
their financial impact. 
Supply of all other banknote paper and all the other activities of  
the Group, including banknote printing, were and remain unaffected. 
Every effort was made to keep customers well informed and the 
Board values their continuing support.
Dividends 
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 28.2p per share 
(2009/10: 28.2p per share), subject to shareholders’ approval. 
This will be paid on 4 August 2011 to shareholders on the register 
on 8 July 2011. Together with the interim dividend paid in January 
2011, this will give a total dividend for the year of 42.3p (2009/10: 
42.3p per share).
The Board’s decision to maintain the dividend reflects its 
confidence in both the strong fundamentals of the business, 
including a robust cash flow and a strong balance sheet, and  
in its ability to recover from the setbacks of 2010/11.
Disposal of shareholding
In July 2010 the Group completed the sale of its 20 per cent 
investment in Camelot, the UK national lottery operator, for a cash 
consideration of £77.6m. The Group’s investment in Camelot 
proved very successful but was no longer considered core  
to De La Rue’s ongoing strategic development. Following the 
disposal, £35m of the proceeds were utilised to make a special 
contribution to reduce the Group’s pension fund deficit. 
Board changes
During the year there have been a number of changes to the 
Board which are more fully described in the corporate governance 
statement on page 37. 
James Hussey resigned from the Board as Chief Executive on 
12 August 2010. On the same date I was appointed Executive 
Chairman and Colin Child, Group Finance Director, took on 
the additional role of Chief Operating Officer, roles we held 
until 1 January 2011 when Tim Cobbold was appointed Chief 
Executive. Tim brings a wealth of experience, including managing 
international businesses at the most senior level for more than  
20 years. His experience is proving invaluable as the Group 
pursues its Improvement Plan and adopts a more modern and 
efficient approach which will not only help develop the De La Rue 
brand but ensure that we continue to meet the expectations of  
our international customer base. 
In a challenging year I should like to thank the Non-executive 
Directors, the senior management team and our employees, 
throughout the Group, for their support and determination to 
resolve the issues we faced. They have all shown an exceptional 
commitment to De La Rue.
Outlook 
De La Rue’s strengthened senior management team and its 
loyal, experienced and skilled employees will build on the Group’s 
fundamental strengths to put the business back on track to deliver 
the value shareholders expect. 
Current trading is in line with the Board’s expectations with an  
encouraging order book profile and a good pipeline of opportunities. 
The Improvement Plan has a target to achieve an operating profit 
in excess of £100m within three years by both restoring revenue 
growth and delivering significant cost reduction. The Board is 
confident that this plan can be delivered.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Earnings per share
Pence 
 Basic earnings per share 
 Headline earnings per share 
 
Total shareholder return 
£ 
 De La Rue plc 
 FTSE 250 index excluding 
 investment trusts
The graph shows the value,  
on 26 March 2011, of £100 invested  
in De La Rue plc on 25 March 2006 
compared with the value of £100 
invested in the FTSE 250 index excluding 
investment trusts, assuming in each  
case the reinvestment of dividends.  
The other points plotted are the values  
at intervening financial year ends.
Source: Thomson Financial
33.1
33.1
41.7
43.4
50.9
57.0
71.0
76.2
24.0
67.6
122.1
130.3
105.0
164.2
69.3
182.8
188.4
116.1
185.7
116.8 6 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Chief Executive’s 
review
Tim Cobbold
Chief Executive
I am confident that, with the 
fundamental strengths of the Group 
and a clear Improvement Plan, we will 
deliver the value that shareholders 
rightly expect.
Revenue
£m
401.8
467.0
502.4
561.1
463.9
Profit before tax and  
exceptional items
£m
73.3
88.6
105.0 104.1
33.3
Operating profit before  
exceptional items
£m
61.3
79.2
96.5
109.2
40.4
Operating cash flow
£m
*adjusted for one off special  
pension contributions 106.7
86.7
69.4
116.1
14.7*
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 7 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Introduction
Clearly this has been a challenging year for De La Rue, as outlined 
in the Chairman’s statement, but my first few months as Chief 
Executive have confirmed my original assessment of the potential 
to build on the fundamental strengths of the business. My initial 
focus has been to develop and begin to execute a detailed 
Improvement Plan that will generate the value that shareholders 
rightly look to the Board to deliver. This will bring De La Rue back 
on track and also create a firm base from which the Group will  
be able to deliver further growth.
Results summary
Revenue fell by 17 per cent to £463.9m (2009/10: £561.1m) 
predominantly as a result of the lower paper and print volumes 
sold in the year representing £122m of the movement. IDS’s 
revenue increased by £31m following the completion of the 
implementation phase of the UK Passport contract. Security 
Products’ revenue was down £12m mainly due to the flow through 
impact of lower internal component sales from the Holographics 
operation into the Currency business. During the year, favourable 
foreign exchange movements contributed £10m to revenue 
(2009/10: £27m).
There was an operating exceptional charge of £15.6m in the year 
(2009/10: £7.5m). This comprised costs of £29.0m arising from 
the paper production quality issues in addition to corporate costs 
of £2.6m relating to the takeover approach received at the end  
of 2010. These costs were partially offset by a one-off curtailment 
gain of £16.0m arising from the closure of the defined benefit 
pension scheme to further accruals from 2013. In addition,  
a non operating exceptional profit of £55.1m has been recognised 
following the sale, for £77.6m, of the Group’s investment in 
Camelot, the UK national lottery operator.
Profit before tax and exceptional items decreased by 68 per 
cent to £33.3m (2009/10: £104.1m) due to the trading issues 
noted above and in addition, there was no income in the year 
from associates (2009/10: £6.3m), following the sale of the 
Group’s investment in Camelot. This was partly offset by lower 
external interest of £3.8m (2009/10: £5.1m) and pension interest 
charges of £3.3m (2009/10: £6.3m). Headline earnings per share 
decreased by 69 per cent to 24.0p (2009/10: 76.2p) while the 
basic earnings per share was 67.6p compared with 71.0p in 
2009/10, representing a decrease of 5 per cent. 
After paying a one off special pension contribution of £35.0m,  
the cash outflow from operations in the year was £20.3m 
(2009/10: inflow of £116.1m). Excluding this contribution cash 
generated from operations in the year was £14.7m. The reduction 
reflects the lower level of trading in the period and the paper 
production issues. The Group ended the year with net debt  
of £31.2m (2009/10: £11.0m). Interest cover remained good  
at 21.0 times (2009/10: 21.2 times).
Banknote print volumes
Billion notes 
  
6.2
7.0
7.6
7.8
5.9
Banknote paper output volume
‘000 tonnes 
  
12.4
14.7
15.0
15.5
9.9
Currency year end order book
£m 
 H2 
 H1
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
2010 2011
166.6
155.1 8 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
De La Rue’s fundamental strengths
Notwithstanding the issues of the past year De La Rue is a 
business with enduring fundamental strengths. It is these strengths 
which provide the foundation for our Improvement Plan. 
Brand and reputation
The Group has manufactured banknote paper for nearly 300 
years, printed banknotes for 150 years and together with other 
security products, supplies over 150 countries. In so doing it has 
established a leading brand which is recognised globally. 
Long standing customer relationships
De La Rue has over many years established long standing 
relationships with central bank governors, their staff and state 
printing works across the globe. The market is defined by deep 
and long term customer relationships – the case studies on  
pages 10 and 11 demonstrate the effectiveness of De La Rue  
in developing partnerships with its customers over the long term. 
These relationships provide unique access to a market which 
consequently has high barriers to entry and which demands 
proven capability. These long term relationships are supported  
by experienced and long serving employees, who remain a 
significant strength of the business.
Market leading position
De La Rue has a market leading position as the largest integrated 
commercial provider of printed banknotes and a major supplier  
of banknote paper. As a vertically integrated business the Group  
is able to provide customers with a complete suite of security 
features: as an integral part of the paper substrate, as part of the 
printed features or both as part of a security solution. The Group 
has also successfully leveraged this capability into its non  
Currency business. 
Technology and design
Over many years the Group has built a significant design capability 
and a valuable technology portfolio which is highly regarded by its 
customers. The Group has industry recognised creative flair and 
expertise in the design of banknotes and security documents. This 
design capability, aligned with a strong and developing portfolio of 
technology, provides a formidable competitive differentiator. The 
high value security features we produce appear in more banknote 
issues in the available market than those made by our peers. 
Robust market growth drivers
Despite the growth in alternatives such as plastic cards and 
electronic payments, the number of banknotes in circulation 
globally is expected to grow by between 2 and 4 per cent annually 
in the long term though subject to some shorter term variability.
There is an increasing need for enhanced security – be it identity 
security, security against counterfeiting and fraud or brand 
authentication. Customers are seeking increasingly sophisticated 
technology solutions which De La Rue is well placed to provide  
to combat constantly evolving threats.
Over 70 per cent of the Group’s revenues typically come from 
emerging and developing countries, which positions the Group 
well for growth. 
High margin and cash generative business model
De La Rue’s business model is high margin and cash generative 
which allows for sustained investment in the business and 
attractive returns for shareholders.
Chief Executive’s 
review continued
Business revenue
Percentage 
 Currency 
 Cash Processing Solutions 
 Security Products 
 Identity Systems 
identity systems
security products
cps
currency
62%
12%
12%
14%
Operating profit
Percentage 
 Currency 
 Cash Processing Solutions 
 Security Products 
 Identity Systems 
identity systems
security products
cps
currency
71%
1%
22%
6% 9 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Improvement Plan 
An Improvement Plan has been formulated which has at its core 
the objective of leveraging the capabilities of the Group more 
effectively than it has done in the past and providing focus to 
our activities. This is a pragmatic plan and recognises that the 
business has fundamental strengths upon which De La Rue can 
build but that the Group must become more efficient and effective.
The target is to return the business to an operating profit in 
excess of £100m within a three year timeframe by restoring the 
growth in revenue to historic rates of around 4 per cent, although 
greater growth is expected in the current year. In addition c£30m 
of cost reductions are planned, accruing broadly evenly over the 
three years. It is estimated that the Improvement Plan will incur 
exceptional charges in the region of £25m and related capital 
expenditure of approximately £20m, with the majority of the  
cash cost expected to arise in the first two years. 
The Improvement Plan has four defining principles:
•  Customer focus 
The Group will adopt a One De La Rue approach to strengthen 
sales capability and reach. Regional and country sales plans  
are being developed and executed
•  Innovation  
De La Rue will accelerate product innovation and deploy  
new technologies to provide market leading security solutions 
and features. The Group will explore new partnerships to 
generate, within its market, new business streams to improve  
its competitive position and market access
•  Professionalism  
Standardised processes and common systems, including IT, 
will be adopted in order to improve and develop the level of 
professionalism in the business
•  Operational excellence  
De La Rue will reduce its cost base, improve quality and 
productivity, increase its market competitiveness and grow 
capacity through improved asset utilisation. Specific initiatives, 
which have already been started, include:
 –  Operational process improvement – reducing waste and 
improving quality
 – Effective procurement 
 – Optimisation of Group facilities
Reshaped organisation
The organisation will be reshaped in order to strengthen further the 
senior management team and allow De La Rue’s capabilities to be 
used more effectively. This structure will ensure management focus 
on each element of the Improvement Plan as follows:
•  A new Group wide supply chain function will target quality 
improvement and waste reduction. External recruitment to lead 
this area is well advanced
•  The senior management of the three smaller ‘Solutions’ 
businesses, CPS, Security Products and IDS will be 
consolidated into a single business unit. This business will be led 
by Kevin Freeguard, previously responsible for CPS and Security 
Products, and will maximise the use of common capabilities, 
whilst retaining appropriate market insight
•  The senior management of the Currency business will 
concentrate on serving the customer to deliver revenue growth 
whilst maximising the synergies between its sales resource and 
that of the Solutions business. The Holographics operation, 
previously a part of Security Products, will become part of 
the Currency business, upon which it depends. The Currency 
business will continue to be led by Keith Brown 
•  A new business development function will lead and accelerate 
the innovation within the Group and will be responsible for all 
(non IT) related product development, R&D and for exploring 
new business relationships and partnerships. This will be led  
by Constance Baroudel, previously Group Director of  
Strategic Marketing 
•  To drive the change effectively through the organisation  
James Thorburn, previously Managing Director of IDS,  
will lead a business transformation team
People
De La Rue is fortunate to have experienced and loyal employees 
and I would like to take this opportunity to thank them all for their 
dedication and hard work.
On behalf of the Board I should also like to thank Nicholas Brookes 
for taking on the role of Executive Chairman in the five months 
prior to my joining the Group and for guiding De La Rue through 
the challenging issues it faced last year.
Conclusion
Whilst recognising the challenges ahead, I am confident that, given 
the strong fundamentals of De La Rue’s business, the commitment 
of its employees and a clear Improvement Plan, we will deliver the 
value that our shareholders expect. 
I am determined that De La Rue will become a more efficient, 
customer focused, innovative business which will be well placed  
to grow sustainably in the future.
Despite the difficulties this year,  
our business is fundamentally strong.
On the following pages I want to  
highlight some of the core strengths  
that form the foundation of an exciting 
future for De La Rue… De La Rue Annual Report 201 1 10
Strong fundamentals
Bank of Mauritius – 150 year partnership 
The first banknote order placed with De La Rue was from  
the Government of Mauritius in 1860. Some 150 years later,  
the Bank of Mauritius is still a customer and De La Rue uses  
its deep experience and understanding of currency gained  
through serving central banks around the world to develop  
a tailored currency strategy with the Bank. By investing time  
in understanding customers’ specific market issues, De La Rue  
has been able to respond to their technical and cultural 
requirements to deliver a currency they can count on.
Long lasting customer relationships
De La Rue is privileged to enjoy some very 
enduring customer relationships, many 
of which have developed into strategic 
partnerships. These strong relationships 
promote loyalty as customer needs are 
consistently understood and met during 
the course of the association.
A range of Mauritian banknotes, from the earliest  
to the most recent 11 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Bank of England banknote paper
De La Rue has been supplying banknote paper to the  
Bank of England since 1725 – a relationship of over 285 years.  
Joint developments with the Bank have included the introduction  
of security threads into banknotes in the 1940s and windowed 
security thread in the early 1980s. The Bank has always been  
an important customer and the partnership was extended 
in 2003 when De La Rue began printing sterling as well as 
providing the paper (see front cover image).
Watermark on Bank of England £20 note 12 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Strong fundamentals
continued
Hong Kong – HSBC $1,000
The new HSBC $500 and $1000 notes issued in 2010 are 
the result of very close collaboration between De La Rue and 
the Bank’s note designer. A total of 1,500 hours of work was 
involved for each denomination, including origination and 
proofing. Design ideas from the Bank were converted into 
functioning banknotes, incorporating security and manufacturing 
requirements whilst equally respecting creative freedom.  
De La Rue is well positioned to achieve this for every customer 
because of its unrivalled design experience and expertise.
Specialised design skills
It is not enough just for De La Rue’s 
products to be beautifully designed – they 
also need to be highly secure, durable and 
capable of mass manufacture. The design 
expertise of De La Rue’s banknote artists 
has been recognised by the International 
Bank Note Society as well as the 
International Association of Currency Affairs 
with the presentation of no less than eight 
design awards in recent years. Either by 
working closely with experienced designers 
from customer institutions or by using 
internal design teams, De La Rue produces 
stunning results.
Each detail of the intaglio (raised) print on a banknote starts with 
an illustration (left image) then progresses through to engraving 
(middle image) and proofing before appearing fully printed on the 
finished banknote (right image). Detail from HSBC $1,000 banknote 13 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
King Tutankhamen hologram
This new hologram from De La Rue Holographics was produced 
using complex techniques, creating a simple but very striking 
visual effect that is both highly attractive and secure. The image 
of King Tutankhamen was created from a model rather than 
digital artwork, resulting in a more lifelike, three dimensional 
image. Photographing the model from multiple angles allowed 
the holographers to create the visual effect of movement as the 
head appears to turn when the hologram is tilted. In addition to 
the time taken to research and manufacture, it took in excess of 
100 hours of dedicated work just to create the master hologram 
for this high quality image.
Images of the King Tutankhamen hologram 14 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Strong fundamentals
continued
Technology expertise
De La Rue has a proven track record of 
technological innovations from inventing 
the envelope folding machine in 1846,  
to pioneering security thread in banknotes 
in the 1940s, to today’s complex and 
sophisticated solutions. The aim is to 
create smart solutions that meet customer 
requirements, working to provide the 
technological answers to their needs.
UK Passport
Understood to be one of the most secure identity documents 
in the world, De La Rue delivers a first world solution for 
the design, manufacture and personalisation of the new UK 
ePassport. Providing the highest levels of quality, accuracy, 
security and innovation for the customer, De La Rue has 
perfected a sophisticated layering of paper, print and finishing 
security techniques designed to combat specifically identified 
threats and ensure document integrity. At the same time the 
system’s networks and IT infrastructures have all been designed 
to exacting government standards to ensure data integrity 
throughout the entire manufacturing and personalisation process.
The new UK Passport, issued following a complex and highly 
secure production process 15 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Implementation of Enterprise Cash Management (ECM™) 
software by Absa
Absa (The Amalgamated Banks of South Africa Ltd) was seeking 
to increase the cash processing capacity at its branches but at 
the same time reduce the processing costs. It chose to replace 
its manual process with an electronic solution offering higher 
levels of efficiency and control. Absa selected De La Rue’s ECM™ 
software to enhance the productivity, performance and security 
of its cash handling operations. The result, integrating ECM™ 
software, has been an overall 90 per cent increase in throughput 
and greatly improved levels of service for Absa’s customers.
Screenshot of ECM™ software 16 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Operational review
Currency 
De La Rue Currency provides market 
leading printed banknotes, banknote 
paper and an unparalleled portfolio of 
banknote security features. Working in 
partnership with its customers to provide 
effective currency solutions, the business 
can also advise on critical issues of 
currency strategy such as design, demand 
forecasting, denominational structure and 
protection against counterfeiting.
Performance in 2010/11
The paper production issues described in the Chairman’s 
statement and a separate and unrelated sharp decline in banknote 
print volumes contributed to a significantly lower revenue and profit 
than in the prior period.
Banknote print volumes at 5.9bn notes (2009/10: 7.8bn) were  
24 per cent below the high level of the prior year due to a number 
of factors including the timing of orders, changes by customers 
to existing order volumes and tenders that were expected but not 
issued or not won. This reduction reflects the potential for short 
term order variability caused by the timing of a small number of 
key orders.
Paper volumes of 9,900 tonnes (2009/10: 15,500 tonnes) were 
down 36 per cent primarily as a result of the suspension of certain 
supplies following the paper production issues.
Revenue fell by 30 per cent to £289.0m (2009/10: £411.2m) 
reflecting the reduction in trading volumes. Operating profit at 
£28.5m (2009/10: £95.3m) was down 70 per cent, the result 
of the lower volumes and adverse product mix compared with 
the prior year. Consequently operating margins were 9.9 per 
cent (2009/10: 23.2 per cent) down 13 percentage points after 
offsetting productivity benefits and a favourable foreign exchange 
impact (due to the continued weakness of sterling against the  
euro and the US dollar). 
The year end order book, excluding currently suspended orders, 
was £155m (2009/10: £166m), with a greater weighting towards 
the first half than in the previous year (see graph on page 7).  
In addition enquiries are at a higher level than at this time last  
year and there is a good pipeline of opportunities. 
The significant increase in worldwide cotton prices during the final 
quarter of the financial year had a limited impact. However, if prices 
remain at the current level, the impact in the 2011/12 financial year 
will be more significant.
Market 
The issuance of new notes into circulation is driven by central  
bank policy decision making. These policies address counterfeiting, 
new designs, note cleanliness, fitness standards, cash recycling 
requirements and developments in cash handling solutions. 
Each issuing authority also has to consider the local climatic 
environment in which the notes circulate and the prevailing 
economic conditions.
Security continues to be one of the prime factors affecting  
the market as the sophistication of counterfeiting increases.  
De La Rue’s leading portfolio of security features, which includes 
high value security threads and holograms, positions the business 
well to meet customer needs in counteracting this threat. 
The durability of banknotes directly affects the life of a note in 
circulation and hence the cost to a central bank. De La Rue has 
invested in a range of features to improve durability including, for 
example, Cornerstone™, a reinforced paper feature that has been 
adopted by 60 issuing authorities worldwide across a total of 188 
denominations. To enhance the range of durable options available 
to customers, Flexycoin™, a polymer substrate for banknotes that 
provides a durable option at the coin note boundary, was launched 
during the year.
Despite the increase in the number of electronic transactions, 
the underlying requirement for cash continues to grow steadily, 
reflecting its universal acceptance and continued attraction as  
a store of value. 
Although the patterns vary considerably from country to country, 
the growth trend for the world market for banknotes is expected to 
be between 3 and 4 per cent annually. Consequently it is expected 
that the market available to commercial providers of banknotes 
and their components will grow at a similar trend rate. 
The currency market does exhibit short term variations in order 
patterns according to the individual decisions taken by the central 
banks of countries which themselves differ greatly in the volume 
of their requirements at any point in their issuance cycle. This has 
the potential to create material volume variation year on year for 
commercial providers. 
The global capacity for banknote paper will increase over the 
next few years in both commercial and state sectors and this 
is expected to produce short term over capacity. De La Rue’s 
presence as an integrated provider with a focus on the supply  
of printed banknotes should help mitigate this exposure. 
Revenue
£m
254.0
316.7
348.6
411.2
289.0
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Operating profit before  
exceptional items
£m
50.4
66.5
82.8
95.3
28.5
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 17 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Cash Processing Solutions
De La Rue Cash Processing Solutions 
(CPS) is integral to the Currency offering 
with shared central bank customers.  
The business provides bulk cash handling 
organisations with a range of sophisticated 
high speed cash sorting and authentication 
systems as well as software solutions, 
consultancy, service and support to 
enhance the productivity, performance  
and security of cash processing operations.
Operating profit before 
exceptional items
£m
-0.4
0.4 0.4
-3.5
0.5
Performance in 2010/11 
CPS has made steady progress during the year, returning to  
profit, despite continued challenging trading conditions and some 
delays in customer decision making. This progress is expected  
to continue in the new financial year.
Although revenue remained broadly unchanged, the business 
reported an operating profit of £0.5m (2009/10: loss £3.5m).  
This reflected the positive impact of both the restructuring in 
2009/10 which delivered a significant reduction in the cost base 
and the rationalisation of the product range. 
Sales of the large DLR 7000 banknote sorters progressed well 
across all market sectors and geographies leading to an improved 
product order book at the end of the financial year. Service 
revenues were maintained and remain an important source  
of income from the installed base. 
Market 
The underlying demand for cash continues to grow and it is this 
that underpins the growth opportunity in CPS’s market. The drive 
for efficiency and cost reduction continues to generate demand  
for automated cash processing equipment, particularly in 
commercial markets. 
As customers become more cost focused and data driven, so the 
increased requirement for enhanced process control and operating 
visibility drives the demand for cash management software 
solutions. The trend for central banks to outsource the recycling  
of banknotes to the commercial sector also increases demand  
for advanced solutions. 
CPS’s large installed machine base is supported by a global 
service network which generates stable, long term revenue by 
providing regular service and maintenance to customers.
Revenue
£m
47.3
58.4
66.0
56.9 57.4
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 18 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Operational review
continued
Security Products
De La Rue Security Products consists 
of specialist businesses whose solutions 
are critical to authenticating products and 
documents as well as protecting revenues 
for governments, global corporations and  
financial institutions around the world.  
It produces authentication labels, brand  
licensing products, government documents, 
cheques and postage stamps as well as 
vital components for Currency and IDS.
Performance in 2010/11 
Security Products had a difficult year reporting reduced revenue 
of £63.3m (2009/10: £74.9m) and operating profit of £9.0m 
(2009/10: £14.8m). Performance was adversely impacted by  
the reduction in banknote print and paper volumes in the Currency 
business which it supplies, compounded by an adverse product 
mix within the Holographics business. Together these issues 
resulted, despite the execution of a cost reduction plan to mitigate 
the impact, in a 6 percentage point reduction in the operating 
profit margin. 
Sales cycles in the market can be lengthy but during the year  
the Division achieved some important contract wins, including  
the first advanced tax stamp solution which includes newly 
developed track and trace software. In addition, enhanced 
operational standards were successfully implemented for 
Microsoft, one of the business’ major customers. 
Market 
Both external market segments in this business – government 
revenue protection and brand authentication - are driven 
fundamentally by the threat of illicit trade and counterfeiting. 
Security Products is well placed to meet customer needs  
in counteracting these threats.
Governments are increasingly seeking to maximise tax revenues 
by protecting yields from revenue raising schemes on high tax 
products such as alcohol and tobacco. There is a move to greater 
international standardisation such as the recently introduced 
Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, necessitating 
additional revenue protection measures. 
On a global basis there is a growing trend for businesses to 
protect their revenues and brand equity on high value genuine 
consumer goods through the use of sophisticated authentication 
solutions. A similar trend is developing within the pharmaceutical 
industry in some parts of the world.
Augmenting physical protection with digital authentication is an 
emerging trend presenting opportunities for which De La Rue has 
developed solutions. 
In addition to external sales, products and technology developed 
in this business are also sold into the Currency and IDS divisions, 
reflecting the market drivers in those businesses.
Revenue
£m
72.3
74.8
69.7
74.9
63.3
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Operating profit before  
exceptional items
£m
6.6
8.4
11.0
14.8
9.0
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 19 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Identity Systems
De La Rue Identity Systems (IDS) is a world 
expert in the delivery and management of 
secure government identity programmes, 
systems and solutions. A reliable and 
trusted partner of governments worldwide, 
IDS has implemented over 100 projects 
in 65 countries focusing on the provision 
of passport, ePassport, national ID and 
eID, driving licence and voter registration 
schemes.
Performance in 2010/11 
IDS reported increased revenue of £62.8m (2009/10: £32.0m). 
This increase is largely a result of the completion of the 
implementation phase of the UK Passport contract. Operating 
profit of £2.4m (2009/10: £2.6m) is after a £0.6m write down on 
an asset made obsolete following investment for the UK Passport. 
Excluding this write down, underlying profit would have been up 
15 per cent.
During the year IDS successfully commenced production and 
issuance of the new UK Passport. This is one of the largest and 
most prestigious identity systems in the world with volumes of  
up to six million books on an annualised basis, worth c£400m  
over 10 years. 
The international part of the business performed satisfactorily, 
winning new contracts and implementing projects across the 
full product range, including an increasing number of electronic 
identity solutions.
Market 
The transition to electronic identity solutions is the most significant 
trend in the market place and strategic roadmaps towards these 
solutions are being developed with key customers. 
The government identity market is fragmenting as customers 
become more focused on complete and integrated solutions 
rather than just document issuance. As a result, a greater range  
of technologies is being demanded by customers. The sector is as 
a consequence attracting a wider range of providers to meet these 
needs. De La Rue is well placed to take a leading role in this area 
as both a technology and solution provider as well as a specialist 
systems integrator.
The underlying growth prospects for this market reflect the 
increasing demand for both travel documents and personal 
identification solutions. The technological infrastructure of each 
country implementing such systems determines the degree of 
sophistication of the solution developed. 
IDS is a contract based business focusing on government 
customers. The nature of this business is such that revenues 
can be variable in nature and subject to cancellation or delay. 
Maintaining as broad a portfolio of business as possible and  
a strong pipeline of opportunities mitigates this risk.
Revenue
£m
29.9
26.5
30.4
32.0
62.8
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Operating profit before  
exceptional items
£m 4.7
3.9
2.3
2.6
2.4
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 20 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Risk and risk 
management
De La Rue’s reputation is based on 
security, integrity and trust. The risks 
outlined in this section represent the 
principal major uncertainties and trends 
which may have an impact on De La Rue’s 
ability to implement effectively its  
future strategy. This section summarises 
the types of risks which are either specific 
to De La Rue or which could have a 
material adverse effect on the Group, 
together with the controls which have  
been put in place to manage those risks.  
It is not an exhaustive list as some risks 
may be as yet unknown and other risks, 
currently regarded as immaterial, could 
become material.
Risk management and governance structure
Responsible for operational 
management and oversight of 
risk within individual businesses 
or functional areas
Considers adequacy of internal 
controls and risk management 
framework
Board
Allocation of appropriate levels of 
resource for individual risk control
Proposes risk management 
framework
Reviews business and Group  
risk registers
Members include the Chief 
Executive, Group Finance 
Director, General Counsel and 
Company Secretary, business 
unit managing directors and 
Group Director of Business 
Continuity 
Considers actions to improve 
management of risk
Considers new or emerging risks
Details of Audit Committee 
members can be found on  
page 41
Receives updates on risk 
management from the Chairman 
of the Risk Committee
Receives reports from internal 
and external audit on status  
of internal controls
Responsible for governance 
structure
Defines high level risk appetite 
and risk management framework
Receives reports from Audit  
and Risk Committees on risk  
and internal controls
Risk owners and managers Risk Committee Audit Committee 21 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance requires 
the Board to maintain a sound system of internal control to 
safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets and 
at least annually to conduct a review of the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of internal controls. During the year, the Board 
carried out its annual review which covered all material controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk 
management systems. Additionally, the Board received information 
about the Group’s operations throughout the year enabling it 
regularly to evaluate the nature and extent of the risks to which  
the Group is exposed. 
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of 
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. It relies on the 
Audit and Risk Committees to assist in this process. This is the 
first full year since significant changes to the risk assessment 
procedures were implemented to improve the management of 
risks at the business unit and functional levels. A further review  
has been undertaken since year end by external risk advisers 
to assist the Board in determining whether, in the light of events 
during the year, further strengthening is necessary in the area of 
risk management and activities overseen by the Risk Committee.  
It is anticipated that, as a result of this review, further changes 
will be made to the Group’s risk management framework and 
processes and these will be reported in the 2011/12 Annual 
Report. Some measures already undertaken are set out on  
page 37. Details of the Audit and Risk Committees are set out  
in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 40 and 41.
Management is responsible for implementing the controls which 
are designed to meet the particular needs of the Group, and 
the risks to which it is exposed, with procedures intended to 
provide effective internal control. The controls by their nature 
are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can only 
provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. The processes used by the Board and,  
on its behalf, by the Audit and Risk Committees have been  
in place throughout the year, and include reviewing:
• Monthly finance, operational and development reports
• Internal and external audit reports
• Significant issues identified by internal and external audits
•  Significant Group risks and risk mitigation actions reported by 
the Risk Committee including updates to the Group’s risk register
•  Annual compliance statements in the form of self audit 
questionnaires
•  Reports on other matters such as security, health, safety, 
environmental issues and fire risks
Internal financial control
The financial control framework includes the following key features:
• An annual strategic planning process
• An annual budget
•  A system of monthly reporting by each division which involves 
comparison of actual results with the original budget and the 
updating of a full year forecast
• Monthly reporting of performance to the Board
• Audited annual Financial Statements
• Interim Financial Statements reviewed by the auditors
The main controls which address the financial implications of  
the major business risks are centred on strict approval procedures. 
These are reviewed annually, approved by the Board and apply  
to all subsidiaries. They include:
•  Executive Directors’ approval of all major non routine revenue 
expenditure
• Board approval of all major capital expenditure
• Board approval of all acquisitions and disposals
•  A system of authorisation limits which cascades throughout  
the Group
•  Board consideration of any matter likely to have a material  
effect on the Group
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base and modest 
levels of net debt in order to maintain investor, creditor and market 
confidence and to sustain future development of the business. 
Further details on capital management can be found in note 14  
to the accounts on page 72.
Treasury, foreign exchange and borrowing facilities
The Group Treasury department provides a central service to 
Group companies and conducts its operations in accordance  
with clearly defined guidelines and policies, which have been  
reviewed and approved by the Board. Treasury transactions  
are only undertaken as a consequence of underlying commercial 
transactions or exposures and do not seek to take active risk 
positions. It is Group Treasury’s role to ensure that the Group  
has sufficient available borrowing facilities to meet its needs  
in the foreseeable future.
Details of financial risk management can be found in note 14  
to the accounts on page 71. 22 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Each division and every Group function has developed and 
maintains a risk register, capturing significant risks to which the 
relevant business unit is exposed or which have been identified 
as a risk to the Group by the relevant function. These risks 
are reviewed on a regular basis by the Risk Committee, which 
identifies those risks which could have a material adverse impact  
in the context of the Group as a whole, and which are then reported 
to the Board. The principal risks identified by the Risk Committee 
and reported to the Board in 2010/11 are set out below. These  
are not presented in any particular order of potential materiality  
or probability of occurrence.
Risk and risk 
management
continued
Mitigation
The Group has a process for the appointment and remuneration of 
third party partners which operates independently of the sales function. 
This process was reviewed during the year in anticipation of the 
implementation of the UK Bribery Act (the ‘Act’) and the changes will be 
reviewed by external advisers to provide further assurance. The process 
includes a risk assessment of overseas agents and external advisers 
are engaged to undertake due diligence as appropriate. The process 
covers, inter alia, the appointment, reappointment and remuneration 
of agents. Further control measures have been introduced such as 
dedicated training for sales personnel, senior managers and agents  
on the Code of Conduct and anti bribery and corruption issues with  
a particular focus on achieving compliance with the Act. Whistleblowing 
procedures have also been improved to encourage employees to report 
any suspicious conduct.  
 
The business Code of Conduct is kept under regular review  
and is enforced robustly, including dealing with non compliances 
through disciplinary processes where necessary. The code has  
been fundamentally reviewed during the year and was relaunched 
in May 2011 as the Code of Business Principles. All employees will 
receive a briefing on the code from a senior manager. As part of the 
new code, the Group’s whistleblowing policies and procedures will  
also be relaunched. Strict recruitment procedures are maintained 
including mandatory vetting processes and probationary periods  
for all employees. 
 
The Group aims to achieve the highest standards of health, safety 
and environmental management. Risk engineering to minimise risks, 
particularly from fire hazards and the use of flammable solvents, is a key 
focus to ensure that site risks are clearly prioritised and resourced and 
actions taken, wherever possible, to eliminate or minimise these risks. 
The development, updating and testing of business continuity plans is 
also an essential component in maintaining assurance for the continuity 
of operations. 
 
The Group has detailed corporate health and safety standards 
which are internally audited and supplemented by certification to 
the OHSAS18001 standard in all major facilities providing regular 
independent external audit verification. The Health, Safety and 
Environment Committee reviews HSE performance regularly. The 
Committee is chaired by the General Counsel and Company Secretary 
and is constituted of representatives from the Executive Committee, 
including the Chief Executive and managing directors of each division, 
as well as functional heads. Each manufacturing facility has clear HSE 
action plans which are prioritised, monitored and subject to review by 
local senior management to ensure that health and safety standards  
are maintained. HSE performance is reported to the Board monthly. 
 
Non compliance/illegal behaviour by third parties acting outside 
the law or De La Rue policies
In some countries De La Rue relies on the services of third parties to 
represent its interests. There is a risk that third parties such as suppliers 
or agents could operate in a manner contrary to the Group’s strict 
policies on ethical business conduct or the law, exposing the Group  
to potential financial and reputational damage.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Illegal behaviour or serious misconduct by employees
There are already many controls across the business to ensure that 
standards of behaviour by employees are maintained at an appropriate 
level. However, as has been demonstrated during the year, it is possible 
that employees acting either individually or in collusion with others 
could act in contravention of the Group’s stringent requirements. This 
could result in major reputational and financial damage to the business. 
 
 
 
 
Loss of key site
There are a number of key manufacturing sites across the business. 
The total loss of any one of these key sites could have a major financial 
impact, particularly where the site forms a single source of supply for 
the business. 
 
 
 
 
Health and safety failure
All De La Rue’s activities are subject to extensive internal Health, 
Safety and Environmental (HSE) procedures, processes and controls. 
Nevertheless, there is a risk that failure of process could, in the worst 
case, lead to a serious injury or fatality. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk 23 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Mitigation
Security is a key focus across De La Rue. Robust physical and audit 
security procedures at production sites reduce the risk of an inadvertent 
loss or theft during manufacturing. Movements of security materials 
between De La Rue sites and for onward delivery to customers are 
conducted applying stringent operational procedures using carefully 
selected carriers and suitably screened personnel. All movements are 
risk managed and monitored globally on a 24/7 basis. Procedures are 
kept under continuous review and any incident or non compliance  
is always fully investigated. 
 
Environmental awareness is afforded high priority at all De La Rue 
manufacturing sites and particularly at Overton. To ensure continued 
compliance with regulations, constant monitoring of all key operating 
parameters is in place with regular testing of discharge water against 
performance criteria agreed by the Environment Agency. Controls and 
specialist personnel are in place on a continuous basis throughout the 
year, with regular training and awareness programmes in place for  
all employees. 
 
The Group aims to hedge between 60 and 100 per cent of foreign 
exchange exposure risk arising from future commercial transactions 
and recognised assets and liabilities. An annual review of hedging  
policy is presented to the Board. 
 
 
Regular training takes place for all sales and other personnel who may 
have contact with competitors, for example at industry forums or during 
formal tender processes. 
 
De La Rue keeps all aspects of its IS security arrangements under 
regular review. There are a number of controls in place to manage 
this risk including network segregation, access restrictions, system 
monitoring, security reviews and vulnerability assessments of 
infrastructure and applications. Disaster recovery plans are in place 
to help recover from significant outages or interruptions and a major 
business impact assessment has recently been undertaken to improve 
the effectiveness of business continuity arrangements. 
 
Close and regular contact is maintained with all key stakeholders  
so that any changes in customer requirements can be identified early. 
Financial risk exposure is mitigated through the use of secured payment 
mechanisms such as letters of credit or through close management  
of costs prior to receipt of payments.  
 
 
 
A dedicated and fully resourced change team will be established under 
the full time guidance of a member of the Executive Committee. 
Product security
There is the potential for reputational damage in the event of the loss 
of materials from a manufacturing site as a result of negligence or 
theft. Loss of product while in transit, particularly during transhipment, 
through the failure of freight companies or through the loss of an aircraft 
or vessel as a result of an accident or natural disaster is also possible. 
 
 
 
 
Environmental breach 
De La Rue’s main banknote paper manufacturing site is at Overton mill 
which is located in an environmentally sensitive area. Any significant 
environmental breach, such as unauthorised discharges, could result  
in immediate suspension of operations at the site. 
 
 
 
 
Adverse movements in foreign exchange
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange 
risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to 
the US dollar and euro. Any material exposure to foreign exchange risk 
could have a major effect on the Group’s profits.  
 
Breach of competition regulations
Breach of competition regulations could result in significant financial 
penalties as well as reputational damage. 
 
Information security
The confidentiality, integrity and availability of information systems (IS)
could be affected by factors that include human error, ineffective design 
or operation of key controls or through malfunction or deliberate attack. 
Outages and interruptions could affect the Group’s ability to conduct 
day to day operations and any compromise of the confidentiality of 
information could impact its reputation with current and potential 
customers. 
 
Geo political instability
Political unrest has the potential to delay procurement decisions for 
sensitive products such as banknotes and passports. Unexpected 
changes in key government positions may result in the unilateral 
cancellation of contracts under local jurisdiction. Breakdown of law  
and order can also disrupt freight schedules and increase shipping  
and delivery risks. 
 
Failure to manage change
As detailed in the Chief Executive’s review on pages 6 to 9 the Group 
will be undertaking a major programme of change in 2011/12. Failure 
to manage this process could result in disruptions to the business or 
dilution of the intended benefits. 
Risk 24 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Financial review
In this section of the Business review 
we analyse the performance for the 
2010/11 year and financial position  
of the Group at 26 March 2011.
Colin Child 
Group Finance Director
Key financials 
      2011 2010 Change
Revenue      £463.9m £561.1m (17.3%)
Operating profit before exceptional items
(1)
      £40.4m £109.2m (63.0%)
Profit before tax and exceptional items
(1)
      £33.3m £104.1m (68.0%)
Profit before tax       £72.8m £96.6m (24.6%)
Basic earnings per share      67.6p 71.0p (4.8%)
Headline earnings per share
(1)
      24.0p 76.2p (68.5%)
Operating cash flow
(2)
      £14.7m £116.1m 
Net debt at end of year      £31.2m £11.0m 
Dividends per share
(3)
      42.3p 42.3p 
(1) 
before exceptional income of £39.5m (2009/10: exceptional cost £7.5m)
(2) 
before one off special pension contribution of £35.0m (2009/10: nil)
(3) 
includes proposed final dividend 25 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Financial results
Revenue fell by 17 per cent to £463.9m (2009/10: £561.1m) 
predominantly as a result of the lower paper and print volumes 
sold in the year representing £122m of the movement. IDS revenue 
increased by £31m following the completion of the implementation 
phase of the UK Passport contract. Security Products revenue 
was down £12m mainly due to the flow through impact of lower 
internal component sales from the Holographics operation into the 
Currency business. During the year, favourable foreign exchange 
movements contributed £10m to revenue (2009/10: £27m).
Operating profit before exceptional items decreased by  
63 per cent to £40.4m (2009/10: £109.2m) due to the volume 
shortfalls noted above as well as a less favourable product mix. 
These reductions were partly mitigated by an improved trading 
performance of £4m in CPS, following the reorganisation of the 
business, and a favourable impact of foreign exchange of £6m 
(2009/10: £7m). Operating profit margins (before exceptional 
items) were 8.7 per cent (2009/10: 19.5 per cent).
Profit before tax and exceptional items decreased by 68 per cent 
to £33.3m (2009/10: £104.1m) due to the trading issues noted 
above and in addition, there was no income in the year from 
associates (2009/10: £6.3m), following the sale of the Group’s 
investment in Camelot, the UK national lottery operator. This was 
partly offset by lower external interest of £3.8m (2009/10: £5.1m) 
and pension interest charges of £3.3m (2009/10: £6.3m). Headline 
earnings per share decreased by 69 per cent to 24.0p (2009/10: 
76.2p) while the basic earnings per share was 67.6p compared 
with 71.0p in 2009/10, representing a decrease of 5 per cent.
Exceptional items
The results for the year include the following items:
•  An exceptional operating gain of £16.0m arising as a result of the 
previously announced closure, to future accrual, of the Group’s 
defined benefit pension schemes 
•  Exceptional operating charges of £29.0m relating to the  
paper production quality issues referred to in the Chairman’s  
statement. These include the write off of inventories and trade  
receivables together with other costs relating to the investigation 
and rectification of these matters. Provision has not been  
made for the potential costs of resolutions or for potential  
fines from regulatory authorities (as more fully described in  
note 27: Contingent liabilities). The nature and extent of these 
resolutions will be the subject of ongoing discussions, the 
outcome of which cannot be estimated reliably at present
•  Corporate costs of £2.6m incurred in relation to the engagement 
of legal and professional advisers following a takeover approach 
for the Group 
•  A non operating gain of £55.1m on the sale of the Group’s 
investment in Camelot. The sale was completed on 8 July 2010
These charges and gains gave rise to a related tax credit of £3.6m 
(2009/10: £2.4m).
Interest charge
The Group’s net interest charge was £3.8m (2009/10: £5.1m), 
which reflects the lower level of debt, primarily in the first half  
of the year, following the cash receipt of £77.6m for the Group’s 
investment in Camelot. In addition, the IAS 19 (accounting for 
defined benefit pension plans) related finance item, arising from 
the difference between the interest on liabilities and the expected 
return on assets decreased to £3.3m (2009/10: £6.3m). The 
decrease is a result of higher than expected returns on the 
increased market valuation of pension assets at the 2009/10 
year end and the additional scheme assets following a special 
contribution of £35.0m after the Camelot divestment noted above.
Taxation
The net tax charge for the year was £5.4m (2009/10: £26.2m). 
The effective tax rate, pre exceptional items, was 27 per cent, 
broadly in line with the previous year’s rate. 
Cash flow and borrowings
Cash outflow from operations was £20.3m (2009/10: inflow of 
£116.1m) after a one off special pension contribution of £35.0m 
(2009/10: nil). Increased inventory reflected the ramp up of the 
UK Passport contract as well as higher closing banknote stock 
volumes while increased debtors reflected the timing of sales 
around the 2010/11 year end. Advance payments of £54.6m 
(2009/10: £44.0m) benefited from some large receipts immediately 
prior to the year end.
Capital expenditure of £30.7m (2009/10: £33.1m) was higher  
than depreciation, reflecting the phasing of investment expenditure 
between years predominantly within the IDS and Currency 
operations. 
The Group ended the year with net debt of £31.2m (2009/10: 
£11.0m) largely reflecting the reduced trading noted above. 
The gross cash receipt of £77.6m for the Group’s investment 
in Camelot was offset by special pension contributions totalling 
£42.5m, and dividend payments of £42.1m.
The Group utilises a £175m revolving credit facility which expires 
in September 2013. Key financial covenants on this facility are 
unchanged and require that the interest cover be greater than four 
times and the net debt to EBITDA ratio be less than three times.
Analysis of the Group’s assets and related cash/(debt) by currency
     2011 2011 2011 2010 
     Group Assets Cash/(debt) Net Assets
†
 Net Assets
 
 
     £m £m £m £m
Sterling     (43.0) (12.8) (55.8) (44.9)
US dollar     25.7 (21.1) 4.6 17.0
Euro     55.9 (0.8) 55.1 25.1
All other     5.9 3.5 9.4 9.1
     44.5 (31.2) 13.3 6.3
†
Excluding non controlling interest.
Principal exchange rates used in translating the Group’s results
     2010/11 2011 2009/10 2010 
     Average Year end Average Year end
Sterling    
US dollar     1.55 1.61 1.58 1.49
Euro     1.17 1.14 1.13 1.11 26 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Pension deficit and funding
The Group’s latest formal (triennial) funding valuation of the  
UK defined benefit pension scheme took place on 5 April 2009 
and identified the scheme had a deficit of £204m (5 April 2006: 
£56m deficit).
During 2010/11, special funding payments of £42.5m were 
made to the Group’s pension fund, comprising the scheduled 
contribution of £7.5m and a one off special contribution of £35m 
following the sale of the Group’s investment in Camelot. Part of the 
scheduled contribution for 2010/11 was paid in the prior year.
IAS 19 – Employee Benefits
It is the responsibility of the Trustee to set the method and the 
assumptions for calculating the pension scheme liabilities under 
the scheme funding valuation. The assumptions used to calculate 
the IAS 19 valuation in the consolidated accounts are set by the 
Group in compliance with the guidance given in IAS 19 and advice 
from its actuary. The discount rate used for calculating IAS 19 
liabilities is the yield prevailing on AA rated corporate bonds.  
Those used for ongoing (triennial) funding valuations are based  
on actuarial advice taking into account the actual investment profile  
of assets between bonds and equities over the longer term. This  
is the principal difference between the two sets of assumptions.
The valuation of the UK pension scheme under IAS 19 principles 
indicates a scheme deficit pre tax at 26 March 2011 of £100.5m 
(March 2010: £124.8m). This significant decrease in deficit 
during the year was due to the Group’s special (£35m) and 
ongoing special contributions (£7.5m) along with the growth in 
the underlying stock market. This has been partly offset by the 
reduction, from 5.8 per cent to 5.6 per cent, in the bond discount 
rate used to value the scheme liabilities. The charge to operating 
profits in respect of the UK pension scheme for 2010/11 was 
£7.6m (2009/10: £4.5m). In addition, under IAS 19 there was  
a finance charge of £3.3m arising from the difference between  
the expected return on assets and the interest on liabilities 
(2009/10: £6.3m).
The IAS 19 calculation is sensitive to small changes in the base 
assumptions used in the valuation. An indication of the sensitivity 
is as follows:
 Change in  Change in 
 assumption liability
Discount rate +0.1% -£12m
 -0.1% +£12m
Inflation rate +0.1% +£9m
 -0.1% -£9m
Financial review
continued
Capital expenditure relative  
to depreciation
£m 
 Depreciation 
 Capital expenditure
21.3
29.3
23.0
33.1
24.4
2009 2010 2011
Underlying effective tax rate 
before exceptional items
Percentage 29.9
27.9 28.0
27.5
27.0
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Group working capital  
– advance payments
£m 70.1
62.9
39.6
44.0
54.6
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Group working capital  
– trade working capital
£m
Trade working capital comprises inventory 
plus trade receivables less trade payables 
and advance payments 
11.2
27.7
51.2
57.3
59.6
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
30.7 27 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Corporate
responsibility
De La Rue remains committed to  
ensuring that its business is managed  
in a responsible and sustainable way and  
is a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
Sound corporate responsibility (CR) policies 
and practices are incorporated in the 
day to day activities of the business and 
examples of this from around the Group 
are described in this section.
Further information about CR policies  
and initiatives in De La Rue is available  
on the Group’s website. 
Focus on Malta 
The De La Rue Malta Philanthropic Committee was established in 
1988 to offer financial, social and moral support to the community. 
Activities such as a cinema day for a local children’s home have 
now become annual events. Each Easter employees give up 
their time and De La Rue provides materials to help maintain  
a chosen charitable institution (see picture above). 
In January 2011 De La Rue Malta was awarded the Malta 
Environment Planning Authority Environmental Permit for 
manufacturing companies. Commitments under the permit 
include minimising solvent use and emissions, maximising 
efficient use of resources, reducing waste, promoting recycling 
and submitting yearly environmental reports. 
In 2010 employee volunteers carried out repairs, decorating and 
gardening work at a children’s home  28 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Accountability and management processes
The Board receives monthly reports on CR issues and is ultimately 
responsible for assessing the impact of these on De La Rue’s 
business and for setting appropriate policies for the Group. 
The Chief Executive is the Board member with designated 
responsibility for CR, supported by:
•  The Executive Committee, which is responsible for the  
day to day management of CR and receives monthly reports
•  The Risk Committee, which discusses CR at its meetings  
in the context of monitoring the effectiveness of internal  
control systems
•  The Health, Safety and Environment Committee, whose 
responsibilities include making recommendations on health, 
safety and environmental strategy and identifying areas  
for improvement
Workplace
Code of Business Principles
During the year the Code of Conduct was reviewed and was 
relaunched in May 2011 as the Code of Business Principles. By 
the end of June 2011 it is envisaged that every employee will have 
attended a senior management presentation on the new code, 
received a copy of it and acknowledged that it has been read and 
understood. The code outlines De La Rue’s core commitments, 
what they mean and how they should be implemented at all 
levels within the organisation. It is supplemented by more detailed 
policies and covers the following areas:
• Bribery and corruption
• Conflicts of interest
• Gifts and hospitality
• Health, safety and the environment
• Employment principles
• Records and reports
• Protecting personal information
• Insider trading and confidential information
• Competition and anti trust laws
Whistleblowing
The Group’s whistleblowing procedures enable employees who 
have concerns about the application of the Code of Business 
Principles or business practices within the Group to raise them 
internally or anonymously through an independently run telephone 
helpline, the De La Rue Codeline. The Board and Audit Committee 
receive details about any issue raised and how it has been 
followed up. Each year the Audit Committee reviews the policy 
and procedures.
Third party partners
The Group Third Party Partner team continues to develop and 
refine the processes and procedures for the appointment and 
reappointment of distributors, sales agents and consultants.  
All applications for appointment, reappointment and renewal 
of third party partners are managed by this central team which 
reports directly to the General Counsel and Company Secretary. 
Due diligence undertaken on partners will be extended during  
the next financial year. An online training module dedicated to 
issues surrounding working with third party partners was launched 
during the year for mandatory completion by employees involved 
in this activity.
Health and safety
De La Rue recognises its responsibility to safeguard the health 
and safety of all stakeholders affected by its operations and is 
committed to keeping employees safe and secure when they are 
at work and travelling for work. This is achieved through clearly 
defined responsibilities, good communication and training, hazard 
spotting, risk assessments and by implementing appropriate 
controls at all facilities.
None of De La Rue’s operations has been prosecuted for infringing 
any health and safety laws or regulations during 2010/11.
The Executive Committee and the Board receive confirmation 
that the divisions comply with Group policy and applicable laws 
through external and internal audits, reports and measurement 
against action plans and benchmarking processes. These reports 
are used to develop effective improvement programmes. 
Fifteen of the sixteen manufacturing units have achieved 
OHSAS18001:2007 certification for their health and safety 
management system, which is externally audited.
De La Rue works with its main suppliers and main contractors 
to ensure their health and safety processes are robust. This year 
in Sri Lanka and Kenya over 30 managers and supervisors have 
been trained using the four day Managing Safely IOSH certified 
training course to ensure that they are competent to manage 
health and safety to a high standard in their local teams.
The health and safety KPIs are shown opposite. The slight rise 
in the reportable injury rate reflects better reporting in the Cash 
Processing Solutions international businesses and flat year on 
year performance at Overton mill. Total days lost due to accidental 
injuries has reduced by 20 per cent. The frequency of lost time 
accidents has also reduced.
Corporate
responsibility
continued 29 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Health and safety objectives for 2010/11 were:
•  For all employees to have some level of health and safety  
training and all supervisory employees to attend certified health 
and safety training. During 2010/11 De La Rue provided over 
2,500 health, safety and environment training man days and  
all employees received an Interlock health and safety booklet 
•  To review and update all fire procedures at facilities and monitor 
test evacuations. This was achieved
•  For one smaller print facility to achieve OHSAS18001:2007, 
which was achieved
Health and safety objectives for 2011/12 are:
•  To hold an Interlock health, safety and environment conference  
in November 2011
•  To introduce an internal cross site audit programme
•  To maintain a reportable injury rate of 440 or lower
Employees 
The Group employs approximately 4,000 staff in 26 countries.
Training and development
During the year the De La Rue Academy provided a single  
focal point for a range of core training across De La Rue to  
meet specific business needs. Almost 300 people attended  
an Academy course this year, in addition to other internal training 
across the sites globally. Attendees were drawn from different 
sites, functions and divisions, increasing internal networking  
and strengthening relationships. Key areas of focus were: 
• Leadership and management
• Project management and problem solving 
• Negotiation 
• Presentation skills
• Time management
• Performance management through ‘honest conversations’ 
As part of De La Rue’s human resources strategy, the Academy 
is directly linked with other initiatives including performance and 
development review (PDR) rollout and talent reviews. All those 
who have been identified for Academy training have been selected 
through either their PDR, a formal talent review, or to meet a 
specific business need. The divisional and Group talent reviews, 
held twice yearly, have led to a more transparent and meritocratic 
process of selection of people to attend senior leadership or 
executive courses. All other forms of personal development are 
highlighted through the PDR process and discussed with line 
managers, providing greater awareness and engagement between 
line management and employees.
During the year 300 employees across a number of UK sites 
enlisted on a range of National Vocational Qualification (NVQ) 
training courses which were fully funded by the UK Government. 
The NVQs included Business Improvement Techniques, 
Customer Services, Business Administration and Leadership and 
Management. The Currency Gateshead site is worthy of special 
mention for the success it has achieved in putting the whole site 
through the Business Improvement Technique (Level 2) as part  
of its continuous improvement programme. 
A safe place to work
At year end Bathford mill had achieved 1,240 days without 
a reportable incident. The Confederation of Paper Industries 
(the leading organisation working on behalf of the UK paper 
related industry) showed the mill as joint leader in their 2010 
safety league table. Sites at Nairobi, Bolton and Midrand also 
celebrated over 1,000 days with no reportable accidents.
Total days lost
 
* restated to include long term absence 
following injury sustained during 2009/10
599
592
530
281*
218
Total lost time accidents
Including 3+ days 
 73
59
48
32
27
Annualised reportable injury 
rate per 100,000 employees
  UK manufacturing average 
 
 
849
715
526
378
392
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 30 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
The ‘Leading Performance’ programme designed to enhance 
leadership capability through effective (honest) conversations 
has now trained over 280 managers across the Currency and 
Security Products divisions. This has enabled all those managers 
to conduct more effective PDR reviews, to have a valuable tool 
to address operational performance issues and to build on the 
continuous improvement culture.
Building on the existing success of the Six Sigma methodology  
(a workplace organisation and housekeeping methodology) 
already implemented across a number of sites, a pilot online  
Six Sigma course is currently underway. 
Communication
De La Rue communicates regularly with its UK and European 
works councils. The UK National Employee Forum and European 
Employee Forum are both composed of elected employees, 
management representatives and employee nominated full time 
trade union officers.
In 2010 there were two full meetings with the UK Employee 
Forum. An annual European Employee Forum was also held. 
Steering group meetings for both forums are held throughout  
the year and can be called for any special requirements.
Both forums receive formal updates on strategic business 
performance from senior managers and Executive Committee 
members. Open discussion and questions are encouraged. This 
year the UK Employee Forum was consulted on the UK salary 
adjustment policy and the improved security vetting systems. 
Regular information on the consultation process regarding the 
transfer of employees following IDS winning the UK Passport 
contract was also shared with members of the UK Forum.
A joint UK and European Employee Forum is being held for the 
first time in 2011 to provide an opportunity for information sharing. 
The effectiveness of communication processes at Group and 
local site level are regularly reviewed to encourage employee 
engagement and broaden business understanding. In addition 
to the employee magazine and the intranet, the Chief Executive 
hosts regular conference calls in which all employees have the 
opportunity to participate and ask questions directly.
Equality and diversity
De La Rue is committed to the fair and equitable treatment of 
its employees in recruitment, training, promotion and in terms 
and conditions of employment irrespective of gender, sexual 
orientation, religious beliefs, age, colour, ethnic or racial origin, 
nationality, disability or trade union membership. If an employee 
becomes disabled when in the Group’s employment, full support  
is given through the provision of special training, equipment or 
other resources to facilitate continued employment wherever 
possible. Managers are required to ensure that employees 
understand their responsibility for the active implementation of 
the Group’s policies. Details of De La Rue’s human rights, equal 
opportunities, anti harassment and stress management policies 
are available on the Group’s website. 
To the extent permitted by relevant local laws, the Group monitors 
data on staff diversity to help it review policies and improve best 
practice.
A job evaluation exercise has been introduced across the whole 
Group to ensure fairness and transparency within the business.
Environment
De La Rue aims to operate in a manner that protects the 
environment and prevents pollution, as well as considering 
the environmental effects of any new projects, when changing 
business activities and business processes and when developing 
new products. The environmental policy is communicated across 
the Group and a formal environmental management system is 
in operation, the objective being for all manufacturing sites to be 
certified to ISO 14001:2004. Fourteen of the sixteen manufacturing 
units have received this certification to date.
None of De La Rue’s operations has been prosecuted for infringing 
any environmental laws or regulations during 2010/11.
Greenhouse gas emissions
‘000 tonnes as CO2 
 Transport emissions 
 Energy and production 
 emissions 87.2
5.5
93.1
4.3
95.2
98.5
89.9
Water used per gross tonne 
of banknote paper
m
3
Note: Total water used (abstraction plus 
recycled) per production tonne of banknote 
paper produced at Overton for 2010/11. 
Production tonne definition here means 
production tonnes at standard weight 
including spoil less any paper trials.
 
 
300
281 283
287
296
Recycled and recovered  
solid waste as a percentage 
of solid waste
 
 
71
69
72
73
71
Corporate
responsibility
continued
4.1
4.3
4.2
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 31 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
The Group continues to measure greenhouse gas emissions, 
shown in the graph opposite, following the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol, the most widely used international accounting tool for 
government and businesses. This data includes the combustion 
of fuels, ie natural gas, fuel oils and purchased grid electricity, 
employee passenger transport and owned transport energy 
consumption. Following a review, five years of passenger transport 
emissions have been restated in line with the new 2010 UK Defra 
conversion factors and using averages calculated from latest 
spend and distance figures. De La Rue believes these figures  
are more representative going forward. Over 50 per cent of  
De La Rue’s carbon footprint relates to gas and electricity used  
at Overton mill. The combined heat and power plant operating at 
this site, which uses heat recovery to generate steam for the paper 
machines, has been rated ‘good quality’ under the Government’s 
combined heat and power quality assurance scheme. Several 
sites have energy reduction committees and energy reduction 
initiatives, such as swapping in energy efficient motors and 
installing energy efficient lighting systems during upgrades,  
have been implemented.
Water used per gross tonne of banknote paper produced is 
partly dependent on the volume, mix and complexity of the paper 
produced. Due to the production issues experienced during the 
year and associated changes in production processes, there 
has been an increase in water used per gross tonne of banknote 
paper. The rate of recycled water use at Overton mill has been 
maintained at c10 per cent of all water used. At the Sri Lanka 
facility, a new effluent treatment plant has been installed which  
is now recycling 90 per cent of the water used while meeting  
new and tighter local discharge requirements.
Recycled and recovered solid waste as a percentage of all  
solid waste is dependent on the waste markets. De La Rue 
looks for any opportunities for recycling and recovery and various 
composting trials are ongoing in the UK. One continuing challenge 
for the business is the advance of anti counterfeiting features in 
products which by their nature are complex to produce and can 
affect waste volumes. There was an increase in waste at Overton 
mill during the year due to the paper production issues.
Four UK sites are operating under Climate Change Agreement 
energy policies setting reduction targets, although these could  
be subject to change by the Government. De La Rue in the  
UK has registered under the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
Energy Efficiency Scheme and continues to aim to reduce  
energy consumption.
Examples of environmental achievements on a local and Group 
wide level over the last few years include:
•  Reducing natural gas usage at Dulles, USA by 25 per cent  
by implementing heat saving initiatives
•  Extending the scope of ISO14001:2004 certification at two sites 
this year to cover the IDS business
•  The phasing out of ozone depleting substances at the Malta 
facility, now in its final stages 
•  De La Rue Sri Lanka won the merit award under the total 
waste management category at the Geo Responsibility Award 
ceremony for the achievement of performance and commitment 
towards managing the environment in a responsible manner
Environmental objectives for 2011/12 are:
• To develop an updated environmental strategy with new targets
• To maintain the ISO14001:2004 certification programme
•  A target of reducing waste to landfill by 3 per cent each year 
over the next three years 
•  A target 3 per cent energy reduction related to output over  
the next three years 
Community and charitable donations
Around the Group, De La Rue’s facilities and factories are widely 
engaged with local communities. Just two examples are the 
production of calendars to be sold for the benefit of children 
suffering from cancer in Dulles, USA and granting the use of  
land for a metal detecting rally to raise money for youth projects  
in Overton, UK.
De La Rue is proud to support a variety of charitable causes  
on a local and international level. In 2010/11 Group donations  
for charitable purposes amounted to £58,000 (2009/10: £96,000), 
excluding donations made by the De La Rue Charitable Trust 
detailed below. During the year employees also organised 
fundraising activities to benefit various charities, including the 
provision of 100 emergency ration packs for Sri Lankan flood 
victims, fundraising for various local hospices in the UK and 
gaining sponsorship for taking part in the Three Peaks Challenge  
in the summer of 2010 in aid of the Haiti earthquake appeal.
The Group operates a Give As You Earn scheme in the UK which 
enables employees to make regular donations to charity from their 
pre tax monthly salary. Donations are matched by De La Rue.
The De La Rue Charitable Trust aims to direct funds to appropriate 
causes in countries where De La Rue operates, emphasising 
educational projects promoting relevant skills, international 
understanding or relieving suffering. The Trust also matches funds 
raised by employees for charitable causes. During 2010/11, the 
Trust distributed £46,000 (2009/10: £45,000).
Marketplace
Customers
As part of its commitment to continually improving the products 
and services provided to customers, IDS conducted a short 
survey. The questionnaire covered 180 customers and achieved  
a 48 per cent response rate (an 11 per cent increase in responses 
compared to a similar activity carried out the previous year). 
Feedback and comments were thoroughly reviewed, with team 
briefings taking place across all business functions. Appropriate 
action plans have since been agreed ensuring focus is maintained 
and that the customer is regularly updated on progress made.
Suppliers
De La Rue continues to apply a consistent set of procurement 
policies and processes to deliver accountability, sustainable value 
for money and continuous improvement while enabling the Group 
to fulfil its legal and financial obligations and effectively manage 
risk. In particular, De La Rue expects its suppliers to share the 
Group’s CR values and commitment to ISO standards for  
HSE performance.
Overton mill sources cotton waste for use in banknote 
papermaking from a few key international suppliers and continues 
to review these suppliers to ensure they comply with De La Rue’s 
terms and conditions relating to the United Nations Convention  
on Rights of the Child and child labour.
De La Rue Security Print at Dunstable has been accredited with the 
FSC Chain of Custody status by the Forest Stewardship Council. 32 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Directors and Secretary
Nicholas Brookes
Non-executive Chairman
Tim Cobbold
Chief Executive
Colin Child
Group Finance Director 
Warren East
Non-executive
Sir Jeremy Greenstock
Non-executive
Sir Julian Horn-Smith
Non-executive 
Victoria Jarman
Non-executive 
Gill Rider
Non-executive
Edward Peppiatt
General Counsel and  
Company Secretary 33 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Nicholas Brookes FCA (63)
Non-executive Chairman
 † ‡
was appointed to the Board in March 1997 and became Chairman 
of the Company on 22 July 2004. He took on the role of Executive 
Chairman from 12 August 2010 to 31 December 2010 while 
the Company was without a Chief Executive. He is Chairman of 
the Nomination Committee of the Board and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee. He was, until 30 June 2004, Chief 
Executive of Spirent plc. He is a director of Corporacion Financiera 
Alba SA, Axel Johnson Inc and the Institute of Directors. He was 
previously Vice President of Texas Instruments Inc and President  
of the Materials and Controls Group.
Tim Cobbold (48)
Chief Executive
 Ø †
was appointed to the Board as Chief Executive and Executive 
Director on 1 January 2011. He joined the Company from Emerson  
Electric Co following its acquisition of Chloride Group PLC,  
an international provider of secure power solutions, where he was 
initially chief operating officer and then, from 2008, chief executive 
officer. Prior to this, he was with Smiths Group plc where he held 
a wide variety of senior roles including a number of managing 
director positions. He is a chartered accountant and is a  
non-executive director of Drax Group plc.
Colin Child (53)
Group Finance Director
 Ø
was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010. He is a chartered 
accountant and has a broad range of financial and commercial 
expertise. He was previously group finance director at DTZ 
Holdings plc, a major global commercial property advisory 
company, and prior to that he held roles as group finance  
director at Stanley Leisure plc, Fitness First Plc and National 
Express Group PLC. 
Warren East (49)
Non-executive
 # †
was appointed to the Board on 9 January 2007. He has been 
Chairman of the Audit Committee since 1 April 2009. He is chief 
executive officer of ARM Holdings plc, a post he has held since 
October 2001, having joined in 1994. He previously worked for 
Texas Instruments Inc in a variety of roles in the semiconductor 
and telecom products divisions. 
Sir Jeremy Greenstock GCMG (67)
Non-executive
 † ‡
was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2005. From 1998  
to 2003 he served as Britain’s UN Ambassador in New York 
and Permanent Representative on the UN Security Council. 
From 2003 to 2004 he served as HM Government’s UK Special 
Representative for Iraq. He is Chairman of Gatehouse Advisory 
Partners Limited, a director of Lambert Energy Advisory 
Limited, Chairman of the UN Association – UK and a Trustee 
of the International Rescue Committee (UK). He is the Senior 
Independent Director.
 
Sir Julian Horn-Smith (62) 
Non-executive
 # † ‡
was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2009. He was part  
of the founding team at Vodafone and is one of the foremost figures 
in the global mobile telecommunications industry. His career at 
Vodafone started in 1984 and culminated in the position of deputy 
chief executive officer in 2006. Prior to that, he worked for major 
international businesses including Mars GH and Philips. He is a 
Senior Advisor to UBS Investment Bank and holds a number of 
non-executive directorships including Lloyds Banking Group and 
Digicel Group in the Caribbean and Bumi plc (previously known 
as Vallar). He was previously a non-executive director of Smiths 
Group plc from 2000 to 2006 and Sage Group plc from 2006  
to 2007.
Victoria Jarman (38)
Non-executive
 # †
was appointed to the Board on 22 April 2010. She started her 
career in 1995 with KPMG, before moving to Lazard Corporate 
Finance in 1998. She went on to be appointed chief operating 
officer of Lazard’s London and Middle East operations, where  
she remained until 2009. She was also a board member of  
Lazard & Co Limited and a member of the European Management 
Committee. She has worked closely with the boards of major 
FTSE companies and businesses advising them on a variety  
of strategic options. She is a chartered accountant.
Gill Rider (56)
Non-executive
 # † ‡
was appointed to the Board on 22 June 2006 and since 26 July 
2007 has been the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
She started her career with Accenture in 1979 in various 
consulting roles before being appointed as a partner in 1990.  
She held a variety of management roles in Accenture before  
being appointed global chief leadership officer in 2002, reporting 
to the Accenture chief executive officer, to lead the people aspects 
of the transition from a partnership to a public company listed  
on the New York Stock Exchange. She was Director General, 
Cabinet Office until 7 May 2011 and at the end of the last year  
she took up the presidency of the Chartered Institute of Personnel 
and Development.
Edward Peppiatt (44)
General Counsel and Company Secretary
 Ø
was appointed as General Counsel of De La Rue plc on 1 March 
2009 and as Company Secretary with effect from 1 April 2009 and 
is Chairman of the Risk Committee. He was previously General 
Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Christian Salvesen PLC.
 
#
Member of the Audit Committee of the Board. 
 
†
Member of the Nomination Committee of the Board. 
 
‡
Member of the Remuneration Committee of the Board. 
 
Ø
Member of the Risk Committee of the Board.
Ages stated are those on 26 March 2011. 34 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Shareholders and share capital
New Articles of Association (the Articles) were adopted by the 
Company on 22 July 2010 with the effect of removing the concept 
of authorised share capital in line with the Companies Act 2006. 
As at 26 March 2011, there were 99,202,592 ordinary shares and 
111,673,300 deferred shares in issue. The ordinary shares are 
listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Details of shares issued during the year are provided in note 20  
to the Financial Statements on page 79.
Preemption rights and authority to allot
The Companies Act 2006 requires that any shares issued wholly 
for cash must be offered to existing shareholders in proportion 
to their existing holdings unless authorised to the contrary by a 
resolution of the shareholders. Resolutions giving such authority 
were passed in 2010. Authorities to renew for one year the 
power of Directors to allot shares pursuant to Section 551 of 
the Companies Act 2006 will be sought from shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting (AGM). The Company was granted 
authority by its shareholders at the 2010 AGM to purchase a 
maximum of 10 per cent of its own ordinary shares either for 
cancellation or to be held in treasury (or a combination of these). 
No purchases have been made pursuant to this authority and  
a resolution will be put to shareholders to renew the authority  
for a further period of one year.
Takeover directive
Pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which 
implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the Company is required 
to disclose additional information as set out below.
Rights and restrictions on shares and transfers of shares
Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, 
apply to the rights and transfers of shares in the Company. The 
rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary and 
deferred shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by 
law, are set out in the Company’s Articles, copies of which can be 
obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the 
Company Secretary. The key points are summarised below.
Ordinary shares
Notices of meetings must be given to every shareholder and  
to any person entitled to a share unless the Articles or the rights 
of the shares say they are not entitled to receive them from the 
Company. The Board can decide that only people who are entered 
on the register of members at the close of business on a particular 
day are entitled to receive the notice. On a show of hands, each 
holder of shares present in person and entitled to vote has one 
vote and, upon a poll, each such holder who is present in person 
or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every share held. 
Dividends and distributions on winding up to shareholders
Holders of ordinary shares may receive interim dividends approved 
by Directors and dividends declared in general meetings. On a 
liquidation and subject to a special resolution of the Company the 
liquidator may divide among members in specie the whole or any 
part of the assets of the Company and may, for such purpose, 
value any assets and may determine how such division shall be 
carried out.
Transfers of shares
The Company’s Articles place no restrictions on the transfer of 
ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to 
them except: (i) in very limited circumstances (such as a transfer 
to more than four persons), (ii) where the Company has exercised 
its rights to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer 
following the omission by their holder or any person interested in 
them to provide the Company with information requested by it in 
accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006, or (iii) where 
their holder is precluded from exercising rights by the Financial 
Services Authority’s Listing Rules, the City Code on Takeovers  
and Mergers or any other regulations.
The deferred shares carry limited economic rights and no  
voting rights. They are not transferable except in accordance  
with the Articles. 
Dealings subject to the Model Code of the Listing Rules
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority, Directors and other Persons Discharging Managerial 
Responsibilities and certain employees require the approval of  
the Company to deal in the ordinary shares of the Company.
Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes
The Trustee of the De La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust 
does not seek to exercise voting rights on shares held in the 
employee trust. No shares are currently held in trust.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 24 May 2011, the following companies had notified  
an interest in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company  
in accordance with the Financial Services Authority’s Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules.
   % of issued  
   ordinary 
   share capital  
  Total number at date of  
Persons notifying Date notified of shares notification
Prudential plc Group  
of companies 6 May 2011 13,030,235 13.13
Mondrian Investment  
Partners Limited 26 January 2011 5,740,542 5.80
Franklin Templeton  
Institutional LLC 3 November 2010 5,033,170 5.08
BlackRock Inc 28 March 2011 4,960,646* 5.01
Legal & General  
Group Plc 24 May 2010 3,404,426 3.44
Massachusetts Mutual  
Life Insurance Company 22 February 2011 3,010,670 3.03
*including 663,384 in the form of contracts for differences
Relationship with shareholders 
The Company places a high priority on communications with and 
accountability to shareholders. A fully audited Annual Report and 
Accounts is made available to shareholders either in hard copy 
by post or via the Group’s website and the Interim Statement is 
posted on the Group’s website. Announcements are also regularly 
made by the Company through a Regulatory Information Service 
to the London Stock Exchange. The Chairman and the Senior 
Independent Director are available to meet key shareholders  
to discuss strategy, governance and other matters. 
All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend the AGM and 
receive a Notice of Meeting which is posted at least 20 working 
days before the AGM. They are also entitled to speak at general 
meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies or, if 
they are corporations, corporate representatives, and to exercise 
voting rights. Shareholders may vote and appoint proxies 
electronically. At this year’s AGM, voting on resolutions will be 
conducted on a poll. Results of the poll will be made available  
to shareholders on the Group’s website. The Chairman will provide  
a trading update. The Chairmen of the Board Committees are also 
present. Shareholders may question the Board on these and other 
matters relating to the Group’s business. Shareholders also have 
an opportunity to meet Directors informally after the meeting. 
The share register is actively monitored. During the year meetings 
take place with individual institutional shareholders and analysts, 
and presentations are made at the time of major events. The views 
of shareholders and analysts’ and brokers’ reports are reported 
to the Board and from time to time a survey of institutional 
shareholders’ views is carried out by the Company’s broker.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held at 10:30 on Thursday 21 July 2011 at  
De La Rue House, Jays Close, Viables, Basingstoke, Hampshire, 
RG22 4BS.  35 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Introduction
De La Rue plc is incorporated as a public limited company and is 
registered in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985 
with registered number 3834125 and has its registered office at 
De La Rue House, Jays Close, Viables, Basingstoke, Hampshire, 
RG22 4BS.
The Directors present their Annual Report for the year ended  
26 March 2011, which includes the Business review, Corporate 
governance report and audited Financial Statements for the  
year. Pages 1 to 50 inclusive of this Annual Report comprise  
a Directors’ Report which has been drawn up and presented  
in accordance with English law and the liabilities of the Directors 
in connection with that report are subject to the limitations and 
restrictions of such law. This Directors’ Report also represents  
the management report for the purpose of compliance with  
DTR 4.1.8R of the UK Listing Authority disclosure rules.
The Business review contains certain forward looking statements 
which are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties; actual 
future results may differ materially from those expressed in or 
implied in such statements. Many of these assumptions, risks and 
uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond De La Rue’s ability 
to control or estimate precisely. The forward looking statements 
reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of 
preparation of this Annual Report, and will not be updated during 
the year. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as  
a profit forecast. 
Payments to suppliers
The Company and Group’s policy is that suppliers be paid  
on the basis of monthly summary invoicing plus 60 days subject  
to local laws or other exceptions. The average number of days’ 
credit provided by suppliers to the Group has been calculated  
at 39 days (2009/10: 38 days). The Company does not have  
any trade payables.
Change of control 
A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon  
a change of control of the Company such as employee share 
plans as well as bank loan and certain commercial agreements. 
None of these is deemed to be significant as a whole except  
for the following:
The £175.0m credit facility dated 11 March 2010 between 
the Company and four of its key relationship banks contains a 
provision such that, in the event of a change of control, any lender 
may, if it so requires, notify the agent that it wishes to cancel its 
commitment whereupon the commitment of that lender will be 
cancelled and all its outstanding loans, together with accrued 
interest, will become immediately due and payable.
A change of control will be deemed to have occurred if any  
person or persons acting in concert (as defined in the City 
Code on Takeovers and Mergers) at any time is/are or become 
interested in more than 50 per cent of the issued ordinary share 
capital of the Company.
Political donations
The Group’s policy is not to make any political donations and 
none were made during the year. The Company will propose to 
shareholders at this year’s AGM that the precautionary authority 
granted at the 2010 AGM, pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, 
be renewed and details are included in the Chairman’s Letter and 
Notice of AGM.
Essential contracts or other arrangements
De La Rue confirms there are no persons with whom the Group 
has contractual or other arrangements which De La Rue considers 
are essential to its business.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect  
of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent 
Company Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have  
elected to prepare the Parent Company Financial Statements  
in accordance with UK accounting standards and applicable  
law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial 
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and 
of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group 
and Parent Company Financial Statements, the Directors are 
required to:
•  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently
•  Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent
•  For the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU
•  For the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether 
applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent 
Company Financial Statements
•  Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Parent Company will continue in business
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy  
at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and 
enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with 
the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and  
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are  
also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ 
Remuneration report and Corporate governance statement  
that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the corporate and financial information included on the Group’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions.
Other statutory information 36 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Directors’ responsibility statement in respect  
of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge:
•  The Group Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole
•  The management report represented by the Directors’ Report 
includes a fair review of the development and performance of 
the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face
Provision of information to auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps that he or 
she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the 
Company will be proposed at the AGM.
By order of the Board
Edward Peppiatt
Company Secretary
24 May 2011
Other statutory information continued 37 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
The Board is collectively accountable to the Company’s 
shareholders for good corporate governance and all Directors are 
responsible for complying with their legal and fiduciary obligations.
The Board is committed to complying with the highest standards 
of corporate governance, which is the system of internal principles, 
controls and processes it approves and by which the De La Rue 
Group is run in order to achieve its objectives while complying with 
the required standards of accountability and probity.
The Group’s corporate governance procedures, which are 
approved by the Board, define the matters reserved to the Board, 
the terms of reference of various Committees of the Board and the 
functions delegated to these Committees as well as defining the 
jobs of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and 
Non-executive Directors. The Company reviews and amends its 
corporate governance policies to reflect changes to the Combined 
Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2008 (the 
Combined Code), legislation or good practice. In June 2010, the 
Financial Reporting Council introduced changes to the Combined 
Code, which will now be known as The UK Corporate Governance 
Code, to help company boards become more effective and 
more accountable to their shareholders. The Board has carefully 
considered the changes made to the Combined Code and intends 
to comply fully.
The Board approved the Code of Business Principles which 
strengthened, reinvigorated and replaced the existing Code 
of Conduct during the year and defines the Group’s business 
principles. This is discussed further in this section of the Annual 
Report and in the Corporate responsibility report on page 28.  
The document can be found on the Group’s website.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the Combined 
Code relating to internal control, which require the Board to review 
the effectiveness of internal controls and to have in place an 
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key 
risks including financial, operational and compliance controls as 
well as risk management systems. As part of the Board’s process 
for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control,  
it delegates certain matters to the Audit Committee including:
• The review of external and internal audit plans
•  Consideration of internal and external audit reports on the 
system of internal control
•  Any material control weaknesses and discussions with 
management on the actions taken on problem areas identified 
by Board and Audit Committee members, in internal audit 
reports or in external audit management letters 
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the 
date of approval by the Board of the Annual Report and Accounts. 
The Board concluded its latest review in April 2011, having 
particular regard to the events of the year and the forthcoming 
implementation of the UK Bribery Act. Amongst the changes 
made as a result of the review, the Company has taken the 
following actions:
• A number of new management appointments
•  Reinforcement of the Company’s absolute focus on quality, 
including upgrades in processes and the introduction of 
independent monitoring of paper testing
•  A review of the process of appointment and reappointment of 
and arrangements with overseas agents which will result in the 
processes being enhanced to cater for the new requirements  
of the UK Bribery Act
•  A formal review of the Group’s risk assessment and risk 
management procedures
This does not extend to associated companies or joint ventures 
where the Group does not have management control. 
Compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code  
on Corporate Governance 
In the year to 26 March 2011, the Company was subject to  
the Combined Code. The Board confirms that the Company has 
complied throughout with the provisions and applied the principles 
of the Combined Code save in respect of the separation of the 
roles of Chairman and Chief Executive for a brief period when 
Nicholas Brookes took on the role of Executive Chairman from 
12 August 2010 to 31 December 2010 while the Company was 
without a Chief Executive, pending a new appointment.
Board of Directors 
Composition of the Board 
Following the appointment of Victoria Jarman (22 April 2010) the 
Board comprises five independent Non-executive Directors, the 
Non-executive Chairman and two Executive Directors. The Board 
has concluded that its composition throughout the year was and 
remains appropriately balanced. 
There is a clear division between the management of the Board 
and the Executive Directors’ responsibility for managing the 
Group’s business. However, no individual or small group can 
dominate decision taking. The roles of the Chairman and Chief 
Executive are separated and clearly defined, except for a brief 
period between 12 August 2010 to 31 December 2010 when the 
Chairman took on the role of Executive Chairman until a new Chief 
Executive was appointed. The Chairman is primarily responsible 
for the working and leadership of the Board. The Chief Executive 
is responsible for running the business and implementing Board 
strategy and policy. 
The Directors’ biographies appear on page 33 and the Board’s 
policy is that the Chairman and Executive Directors should accept 
appointments to the boards of other companies only with the prior 
approval of the Board and that Non-executive Directors must seek 
the agreement of the Chairman and confirmation by the Board 
before accepting additional commitments that may affect the  
time they devote to their role.
Board changes
Victoria Jarman joined the Board as a Non-executive Director  
on 22 April 2010. 
Simon Webb left the Board on 31 May 2010 and James Hussey 
stepped down as Chief Executive on 12 August 2010. 
Colin Child was appointed Group Finance Director and an 
Executive Director with effect from 1 June 2010. Colin Child took 
on the additional role of Chief Operating Officer for the period from 
12 August 2010 to 31 December 2010. 
Tim Cobbold was appointed an Executive Director and Chief 
Executive on 1 January 2011.
The Non-executive Directors hold letters of appointment which will 
be displayed at the AGM, together with the Executive Directors’ 
service agreements and Directors’ indemnification agreements. 
Tim Cobbold was appointed a Director since the last AGM and, 
being eligible, will offer himself for election at the AGM. 
The Board has a policy that each Director be required to submit 
themself for annual reelection and accordingly all other Directors 
will retire and offer themselves for reelection. 
The existing commitments of Directors appear on page 33 and  
the Board is satisfied that these commitments do not conflict  
with their ability to carry out effectively their duties as Directors  
of the Company. 
Subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Company’s 
Articles and any directions given by special resolution, the 
Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company.
 
Corporate governance statement 38 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Succession planning 
The Board reviews its composition at least annually, assessing 
the skills profile, type and number of Non-executive Directors 
required to enable the Board to perform effectively. It also reviews 
the Group’s internal talent review process in planning Executive 
Director and senior management succession. 
Objectives of the Board 
The Board agreed a number of specific areas for focus in the 
coming year as a result of the 2010 review as follows: 
• Delivering value to shareholders and other stakeholders
• Strategic growth options and competitive landscape
• Succession planning
• Risk management
Role and operation of the Board 
The Board has a programme of fixed meetings during the year 
and it also met on an ad hoc basis as required. The Board’s core 
procedures are: 
•  Set out in the terms of reference for the Board, its Committees 
and Directors
•  The control of risk through agreed evaluation and control 
procedures reviewed and revised annually 
•  Monitoring the composition of the Board through the Nomination 
Committee
The Board has also reserved certain matters to itself to reinforce 
its control of the Group. Full details are set out on the Group’s 
website. These include: 
•  Determining the responsibilities of Directors, in particular those  
of the Chairman and Chief Executive
• Approving internal control processes 
• Approving the final and interim Financial Statements 
•  Approving, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, the 
recommendation of dividends
•  Approving appointments to, and removals from, the Board and 
the terms of reference and membership of Board Committees
• Approving the Group’s strategy and annual budget 
•  Authorisation of authority levels, financial and treasury policies 
and any acquisition or disposal
The Board delegates authority to run the business to the  
Chief Executive. The Chief Executive manages the Group’s day 
to day activities and presents to the Board the strategic options 
for growth in shareholder value. In conjunction with the Executive 
Committee, comprising the divisional managing directors and 
other senior executives, the Chief Executive sets the operating 
plans and budgets required to deliver the agreed strategy.  
The role and responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive, 
Group Finance Director, Senior Independent Director and other 
Directors are also clearly defined. Full details are set out on the 
Group’s website. The Executive Directors and the Executive 
Committee operate within clearly defined limits of authority 
delegated by the Board.
The Board provides leadership of the Group within a framework 
of prudent and effective internal controls, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and risk management 
systems. These are required to identify and manage the risks  
and their potential effect whilst ensuring that material changes  
are reported to the Board in a timely fashion. The Board reviews 
the effectiveness of those controls and systems and is assisted  
by the Audit and Risk Committees. 
 
The controls by their nature are designed to manage, rather than 
eliminate, risk and can only provide reasonable but not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. Details of the 
processes and controls are set out below. The Board reviews 
matters reserved to itself and the performance of management in 
achieving agreed goals and objectives at its meetings. The Board 
timetable ensures that the Board receives regular reports and 
presentations from the Executive Directors, operational managing 
directors and key functions. Directors receive agendas and Board 
papers generally five days before each Board meeting; minutes 
are circulated as soon as possible after the meeting. The Board 
reviews progress on implementing actions arising from the Board 
and its Committee meetings each month. 
There is also a defined procedure for dealing with urgent matters 
between Board meetings. 
Any Director can request additional information from management 
at any time. All Directors have direct access to the advice and 
services of the General Counsel and Company Secretary who  
is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed. 
The Board decides the appointment and removal of the  
Company Secretary. 
Board evaluation and effectiveness review 
The Board and each of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit 
Committees completed an evaluation of their performance in May 
2011. The Risk Committee was evaluated by the Board. The 
process involved completion of questionnaires which focused on 
process, structure, behaviours and key issues, such as strategy 
and succession, against delivery of the Board’s objectives and 
addressing any issues identified during the previous review or 
which became relevant during the year. 
The Chairman and each Committee Chairman has discussions 
with each Director or Committee member based on the responses 
and each Director’s own views regarding effectiveness of the 
Board or Committee as a whole and the individual Director’s 
performance. The Senior Independent Director is responsible 
for appraising the Chairman’s performance in discussions with 
the Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman. 
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors also meet in the 
absence of the Executive Directors. The results are discussed 
by the Board and individual Committees and the final report 
highlighting any areas for improvement agreed by the Board. 
Conflicts of interests
Directors have a duty to avoid a direct or indirect interest which 
conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Group 
unless that conflict has been authorised by the Board. Such 
conflict may arise by reason of a situation or a specific transaction. 
The Board has established a process to review at least annually 
and, if thought appropriate, authorise any conflict of interest and 
has carried out such review and authorised all Directors’ situational 
conflicts. Any transactional conflicts are reviewed as they arise. 
Directors are asked to review and confirm reported conflicts of 
interests as part of the year end process.
Indemnity
To the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the  
UKLA Listing Rules the Company indemnifies certain officers so 
that the Company may advance defence costs in civil or regulatory 
proceedings on such terms as the Board may reasonably 
determine but any advance must be refunded if the Director  
or officer is subsequently convicted.
The indemnity will not provide cover where the Director or officer 
has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
 
Corporate governance statement continued 39 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Details of attendance at Board and Committee meetings 
The number of Board meetings and Committee meetings attended 
by each Director during the year was as follows:
Directors’ attendance  Audit  Nomination Remuneration 
2010/11 Committee Board Committee Committee
Number of 
meetings held 4 33 6 10
Nicholas Brookes – 33 6 10
Colin Child 
(appointed 1 June 2010) – 31/31* – –
Tim Cobbold
†
 
(appointed 1 January 2011) – 6/6* 1/1* –
Warren East 4 25 5 –
Sir Jeremy Greenstock – 27 5 9
Sir Julian Horn-Smith 3 26 5 8
James Hussey 
(resigned 12 August 2010) – 9/9* 1/1* –
Victoria Jarman
(appointed 22 April 2010) 4 33 6 –
Gill Rider 3 30 6 10
Simon Webb 
(resigned 31 May 2010) – 2/2* – –
† 
Appointed to the Nomination and Risk Committees 1 January 2011
*
 
Number of meetings held during the year while a serving Director
Role of Non-executive Directors 
The Non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered 
by the Board to be independent as at 26 March 2011, have 
an appropriate range of business, financial and international 
experience which is relevant to the Company’s activities. None  
of the Non-executive Directors holds a material shareholding  
in the Company. Under the Combined Code, Nicholas Brookes 
ceased to be independent after his appointment on 22 July 2004  
as Chairman but the Board considers that his contribution and  
objectivity in Board and Committee discussions were fully 
consistent with those of an independent Director. 
Sir Jeremy Greenstock was appointed the Senior Independent 
Director on 1 January 2010. Shareholders may contact the Senior 
Independent Director if they feel their concerns are not being 
addressed through normal channels. 
Non-executive Directors confirm on appointment and any 
reappointment that they are able to allocate sufficient time to 
enable them to discharge their duties properly. Directors who have 
been unable to attend Board or Committee meetings have made 
known their views on pertinent matters before the meeting.
Induction and training 
All new Directors receive an induction on joining the Company,  
for which the Chairman is responsible. This covers such matters 
as the strategy, operation and activities of the Group (including 
key financial data, and business, social and environmental risks to 
the Group’s activities), corporate governance matters such as the 
role of the Board and individual Committees, and the Company’s 
corporate governance procedures as outlined in this report. They 
are advised on the duties and obligations of directors of a listed 
company. Site visits and meetings with senior management 
are also arranged. Any newly appointed Director, who has not 
previously been a director of a listed company, is invited to attend 
external training covering such duties and responsibilities. Directors 
are briefed, where appropriate, by the Company’s internal and 
external advisers, on changes to legislation, regulation or market 
practice, as well as receiving briefings from individual businesses 
throughout the year. The Board received specific briefing on the 
key issues of the UK Bribery Act and on its implementation during 
the year. The Directors, especially Committee Chairmen, have the 
opportunity of attending appropriate training sessions. 
The Board visits an operational site at least annually (Overton 
in 2010). Directors are also encouraged to visit other sites and 
meet with staff. The General Counsel and Company Secretary, 
in conjunction with the Chairman, ensures that there is proper 
communication between the Board and its Committees and senior 
management and that Non-executive Directors receive appropriate 
information. The Chairman reviews and the General Counsel and 
Company Secretary facilitates induction and other professional 
development as required. 
Directors may take independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense, although no such advice was sought during 
the year.
Appointments 
Following a decision by the Board in 2010, all Directors are 
required to submit themselves for annual reelection. New Directors 
are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after 
their appointment. Non-executive Directors are appointed for an 
initial period of two years with the expectation of three two year 
terms subject to satisfactory performance. 
The Board may invite a Non-executive Director to serve a further 
term after six years following a detailed review at the end of this 
period, subject to reelection. 
The Board, having carried out the effectiveness and evaluation 
process, considers the performance of each of the Directors 
standing for election and reelection at this year’s AGM to be fully 
satisfactory and is of the opinion that they have demonstrated 
continued commitment to the role. The Board strongly supports 
their election and reelection and recommends that shareholders 
vote in favour of the resolutions at the AGM. 
Corporate responsibility 
Information on the Group’s initiatives and commitment to corporate 
responsibility can be found in the Corporate responsibility report 
on pages 27 to 31.
  40 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Business ethics
De La Rue delivers high profile products to customers across 
the world, offering them security, confidence and efficiency. It is 
essential that the Group maintains the trust and confidence of its 
customers, and everyone it deals with, both inside and outside  
De La Rue, by demonstrating complete integrity in the way the 
Group and its business partners behave.
De La Rue has clear core values and principles which govern how  
the Group does business and which everyone within De La Rue  
must follow. The way De La Rue delivers these will be reflected  
in the way the Group competes for business and delivers  
its services. 
All employees are required to follow the Code of Business 
Principles approved by the Board when performing their duties as 
employees or where they are representing De La Rue. In addition, 
all business partners worldwide must follow this Code of Business 
Principles when they are representing De La Rue.
More detailed policies and procedures supplement the Code of 
Business Principles. The main principles are that employees and 
where relevant business partners must:
• Not accept, offer or encourage bribes
•  Comply with health and safety requirements and protection  
for the environment
• Comply with employment and data protection law 
• Comply with competition/anti trust law
•  Conduct business dealings with customers, suppliers and third 
parties honestly 
• Avoid conflicts of interests in any business dealings
• Comply with the Company’s Share Dealing Code 
The policies and procedures related to the appointment and 
reappointment of and management of distributors, sales agents 
and consultants were strengthened during the year to further 
improve the management of bribery and corruption risks. The 
Group Third Party Partner team continues to develop and refine 
the processes and procedures for the appointment of distributors, 
sales agents and consultants. All applications for appointment and 
reappointment of Third Party Partners (TPPs) are managed by this 
central team which reports directly to the General Counsel and 
Company Secretary.
Due diligence undertaken on TPPs will be extended during 
2011/12. An online training module dedicated to issues 
surrounding working with TPPs was launched during the year  
for mandatory completion by relevant employees involved in  
this activity. 
Committees of the Board 
The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, 
General Business and Risk Committees with appointed Chairmen 
and fixed terms of reference which are reviewed annually. 
The terms of reference and duties of the Audit, Nomination, 
Remuneration and Risk Committees appear on the Group’s 
website and are also available on request. The Board is satisfied 
that the Committees discharged their responsibilities satisfactorily. 
Membership of these Committees is given in the Directors’ 
biographies on page 33. Further details of Committees and key 
activities performed during the year are given in this Annual Report. 
 
Nomination Committee 
The Committee consists of five independent Non-executive 
Directors at the date of this report together with the Chairman  
and the Chief Executive. 
The Committee meets at least once a year and otherwise as 
necessary and makes recommendations to the Board with 
regard to any vacancies for Executive or Non-executive Directors 
or changes that are considered necessary. The Committee has 
the power to employ the services of such advisers as it deems 
necessary in order to carry out its responsibilities. The Committee 
also reviews the time commitment required of Non-executive 
Directors at least once a year. The Board, as a whole, approves 
the appointment and removal of Directors and retains appropriate 
executive search consultants, having prepared a job specification 
for the particular role to be filled. The principal activity of the 
Committee during 2010/11 was succession planning and the 
recruitment of a new Group Finance Director and Chief Executive.
Remuneration Committee 
Gill Rider was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in  
July 2006 and she has been the Committee Chairman since  
26 July 2007. Details of the Committee and of the remuneration 
policy can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 42 to 50. 
General Business Committee 
The Committee meets when necessary to deal with routine 
matters arising between scheduled Board meetings. Only 
independent Non-executive Directors may decide matters relating 
to the administration or the implementation of the Company’s 
share schemes (other than for the purpose of allotting shares  
on exercise).
Risk Committee 
The terms of reference and the composition of the Risk Committee 
were amended in 2009. Core responsibilities of the Risk 
Committee are to:
•  Assist the Board by assessing and reporting on the effectiveness 
of the Company’s internal control and risk management systems
•  Assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities by reviewing the 
framework for managing risks throughout the Group
•  Provide an appropriate level of reporting on the status of risk 
management within the Group
•  Promote awareness of internal control issues and risk 
management 
•  Provide an appropriate level of reporting to the Board, which 
retains the overall responsibility, on the status of internal risk 
management 
The Committee, chaired by the General Counsel and Company 
Secretary, meets and reports to the Board at least twice a year. 
Other members of the Committee include the Chief Executive, 
Group Finance Director, heads of the principal functions, all 
divisional managing directors and the Group Director of Business 
Continuity. Any Director is entitled to attend any meeting. At the 
year end, following review by the Audit Committee of internal 
financial controls and of the processes covering these controls,  
the Board evaluates the results of the risk management 
procedures conducted by senior management.
The Committee is assisted by Group wide committees which 
deal with specific areas of risk such as the Health, Safety and 
Environment Committee and the Security Committee. 
Details of risk management and particular risks within the Group 
are set out on pages 20 to 23. 
 
Corporate governance statement continued 41 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Audit Committee of the Board 
Warren East is Chairman of the Audit Committee having been 
appointed on 1 April 2009. He is the chief executive of a listed 
company with strong financial experience. In addition, Victoria 
Jarman had relevant financial experience with Lazard Corporate 
Finance and before that KPMG. All members of the Audit 
Committee are independent Non-executive Directors. The external 
auditors, Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, 
General Counsel and Company Secretary and the internal 
auditors, Ernst & Young LLP , attend each meeting at the invitation 
of the Committee Chairman. Ernst & Young LLP and KPMG Audit 
Plc each meet the Committee without Executive Directors or 
employees of the Company being present.
The Audit Committee provides an independent overview of the 
effectiveness of the internal financial control systems and financial 
reporting processes. Its principal responsibilities include: 
•  The appointment of the external auditor and the agreement  
of terms of engagement at the start of each audit
•  Approving and reviewing progress on audit plans across  
the businesses
•  Reviewing the integrity of the interim and full year financial 
statements
•  Reviewing and monitoring the external auditor’s independence 
and objectivity
•  Reviewing reports on the effectiveness of the Group’s 
whistleblowing procedures and arrangements, details of which 
are set out on pages 22 and 28
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness 
of the internal audit function and of the external audit and KPMG 
Audit Plc’s role in performing it.
Internal audit 
The Board through the Audit Committee monitors the internal 
control systems through reports received from the internal audit 
function during the year. The internal audit function is outsourced 
to Ernst & Young LLP . For 2010/11, the focus of internal audit 
continued to ensure that efforts were better aligned to the risks 
that De La Rue faces whilst maintaining an emphasis on reviewing 
the adequacy and effectiveness of general finance and IT controls 
across the Group on a cyclical basis. Internal audit acts as a 
service to businesses by assisting with the ongoing improvement 
of controls and procedures. There is a system of internal control 
reviews, which includes a self assessment programme covering 
both financial and IT controls, and actions agreed are followed up 
by management to ensure that satisfactory control is maintained. 
The internal audit plan is set and reviewed by the Audit Committee, 
together with reports from the external auditors (KPMG Audit Plc) 
on internal control matters noted as part of their audit work. 
Auditors 
The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, expertise 
and resources and independence of the external auditors and 
the effectiveness of the audit process. The Audit Committee’s 
assessment is performed by an audit satisfaction questionnaire 
completed by the Chairman, relevant senior management and 
Audit Committee members. 
KPMG Audit Plc have been the Company’s auditors since 
11 October 2006. The Audit Committee considers that the 
relationship with the auditors is working well and remains satisfied 
with their effectiveness. During the year, the Audit Committee 
considered the tenure, performance and audit fees of the  
external auditor, and the level of non audit work undertaken,  
and recommended to the Board that a resolution for the 
reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc for a further year as the 
Company’s auditor be proposed to shareholders at the AGM  
in July 2010. The resolution was passed and KPMG Audit Plc  
was reappointed for a further year. 
 
The Audit Committee places great emphasis on the objectivity 
of the Group’s auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, in reporting to 
shareholders.
The KPMG audit partner is present at Audit Committee meetings 
to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit. This 
activity also forms part of KPMG’s own system of quality control. 
The Audit Committee has discussions with the auditors, without 
management being present, on the adequacy of controls and 
on judgemental areas and receives and reviews the auditors’ 
highlights reports and management letters which are one of the 
main outputs from the external audit.
The scope and key focus of the forthcoming year’s audit is 
discussed with, and approved by, the Audit Committee. 
Independence of auditors
The Audit Committee has a detailed policy specifying which 
services the external auditor is allowed to perform on behalf of the 
Group and the relevant procedures to be followed by the Group. 
Briefly, the procedures cover: 
• Selecting the statutory auditor and approving the audit fee
•  Being satisfied that there are no relationships between the 
auditor and the Group (other than in the ordinary course  
of business)
• Commissioning non audit work
•  Circumstances in which it is appropriate for incumbent auditors 
to provide non audit work
De La Rue has procedures for procuring audit and consulting 
services from external sources as follows: 
•  Audit related services, covering regulatory and statutory reporting 
•  Non audit related services, covering the nature and extent of non 
audit services whilst seeking to maintain the balance between 
objectivity and value for money 
The allocation of non audit work is considered in accordance with 
the Group’s policy on the engagement of external auditors and 
the commissioning of non audit services. The external auditors 
are prohibited from performing certain non audit related services 
including remuneration consultancy and advice and the design, 
development or implementation of financial information or internal 
control systems.
Incumbent auditors may, but only with the prior approval of the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, provide some non audit related 
services, where the selection criteria include detailed proposals, 
timescales, local resource and cost. During 2010/11 the amount 
of non audit fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc was £0.3m.
The external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid their 
objectivity and independence being compromised. They report  
to the Audit Committee on how they comply with professional and 
regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their 
independence. Key members of the KPMG Audit Plc audit team 
rotate and the firm ensures, where appropriate, that confidentiality 
is maintained between different parts of the firm providing services 
to De La Rue.
A copy of the Corporate governance statement will be made 
available on the Group’s website.
By order of the Board
Edward Peppiatt
Company Secretary 
24 May 2011 42 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
 
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 26 March 2011, for 
which the Company will be seeking approval from shareholders  
at the AGM on 21 July 2011.
This report:
•  Explains the policy under which the Executive Directors, the 
Chairman and the Non-executive Directors are remunerated 
•  Gives details of the remuneration, fees and share interests  
of the Directors, including share awards 
•  Informs you of some important decisions made in respect  
of the remuneration of Tim Cobbold, the new Chief Executive, 
and Colin Child, the Group Finance Director
•  Provides a graph comparing the performance of the Company 
against the FTSE 250, its comparator group
The 2010 Performance Share Plan and Annual Bonus Plan were 
approved by shareholders at the July 2010 AGM. The intention 
continues to be that both plans will be used to make annual, 
performance linked awards to executives. Further information  
on the plans is on pages 47 and 48.
De La Rue has undergone a great deal of change this year. 
James Hussey stepped down as Chief Executive and De La Rue 
was subject to a number of well publicised internal and external 
challenges, including entering into an offer period as a result of a 
takeover approach and undertaking an investigation into the paper 
production issues. 
It was in this challenging environment that the Company began the 
search for a new Chief Executive and for the five months prior to 
Tim Cobbold’s appointment, Colin Child ran the Company as Chief 
Operating Officer as well as managing his usual responsibilities. 
These exceptional circumstances have required the Remuneration 
Committee to make some decisions to structure remuneration 
packages in a way that it believes is both appropriate and 
necessary taking all the circumstances into account. 
We believe that the difficult decisions we have made during this 
year are in the best interests of our shareholders and we ask our 
shareholders to support us in these exceptional circumstances.
The Remuneration Committee will be reviewing the policy and 
the principles outlined in this report to ensure that its executive 
remuneration framework serves the best interests of shareholders.
Gill Rider
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
 
Introduction to the Remuneration report 
The Remuneration report provides the information required by 
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) Regulations 2008 and describes how the Company 
applied the principles of the Combined Code and it also explains 
the reasons where it did not do so. 
Constitution of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists entirely of Non-executive 
Directors all of whom are considered to be independent (as 
defined by the Combined Code), except the Chairman of the 
Company, who was independent until his appointment as 
Chairman on 22 July 2004. The Remuneration Committee 
comprises: Gill Rider (Chairman), Nicholas Brookes, Sir Jeremy 
Greenstock and Sir Julian Horn-Smith. Their biographical details 
appear on page 33. The Committee meets as required: 10 
meetings were held during the year and attendance details are 
set out on page 39. Its remit is to determine the Group’s policy 
for executive remuneration, to determine the remuneration 
packages of the Chairman, Executive Directors and certain other 
senior executives who report to the Chief Executive, including 
pension rights and compensation payments, and to oversee the 
implementation and operation of share incentive schemes. Details 
of how the Committee has carried out these responsibilities are set 
out in this report. Terms of reference for the Committee are set out 
in full on the Group’s website.
Advisers
The Committee is authorised to use independent consultants. 
During 2010/11 Towers Watson was appointed by the 
Remuneration Committee to advise on executive remuneration. 
Towers Watson has also provided ad hoc pensions advice. Hewitt 
New Bridge Street advised on whether the performance targets 
which determine the vesting of share options were achieved.
The Chief Executive and the Group Director of Human Resources 
are normally invited by the Remuneration Committee to attend 
meetings of the Committee. The General Counsel and Company 
Secretary, who is also Secretary to the Committee, advised on 
governance issues.
No one is present when his or her own remuneration or 
contractual terms are discussed and no one is involved in the 
decision making on their own remuneration. The Chief Executive  
is consulted on the remuneration of executives directly reporting  
to him and other senior executives and seeks to ensure a 
consistent process across the Group.
Remuneration report 43 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
General policy
The Group’s remuneration policy aims to align the interests of 
the Executive Directors and other senior executives with those of 
shareholders. The Committee believes that performance related 
pay and incentives should account for a significant proportion of 
the overall remuneration package of Executive Directors so that 
the remuneration of Executive Directors is aligned with the Group’s 
performance. Performance related elements of remuneration 
therefore form a significant proportion of total remuneration 
packages. 
In setting the Group’s executive remuneration policy, the 
Remuneration Committee believes that the Group should provide:
•  Competitive rewards, which will attract and retain high calibre 
employees with the skills and commitment to drive performance 
and which reflect individual responsibilities and experience
•  Incentive arrangements which are fair, competitive, simple  
to understand and transparent. They should also be subject  
to challenging performance targets reflecting the Group’s 
objectives to motivate executives to focus on both annual  
and longer term performance
When assessing salaries in the market place, the Remuneration 
Committee makes prudent use of the survey data supplied 
by Towers Watson, focusing on companies of similar size and 
complexity in the FTSE 250. Performance targets set for the 
incentive schemes are designed to provide maximum awards  
for exceptional performance.
The Committee adopted a policy in 2002 that certain key 
executives (being Executive Directors and other members of the 
Executive Committee) should be encouraged to hold and retain 
a personal shareholding in the Company equivalent to one times 
salary over a period of five years. The Directors’ share interests 
table is on page 44.
The new Performance Share Plan (PSP), the Annual Bonus 
Plan (ABP) and special awards
A new long term incentive plan, the PSP was approved by 
shareholders in 2010 and replaced the 2005 Deferred Bonus and 
Matching Share Plan for awards from 2010 onwards. The purpose 
of the PSP is to provide executives and selected senior managers 
with a long term incentive award that promotes long term value 
creation for shareholders and reinforces the alignment of interest 
between the participants and shareholders.
Shareholders also approved in 2010 the new ABP under which 
a proportion of the annual bonus earned may be paid in deferred 
shares or restricted stock units with a mandatory holding period 
of three years. No awards have been made under the ABP to 
Executive Directors during the year. 
As part of his recruitment arrangements, Tim Cobbold received 
an award of shares under the PSP to the value of 100 per cent 
of salary. The performance criteria are as previously approved by 
shareholders. In addition, Tim Cobbold also received an award 
of shares on appointment with a face value on award of 100 per 
cent of salary, the terms of which are described later in this report. 
This was an integral part of his recruitment arrangements and 
necessary to secure his appointment which was being negotiated 
at a time of great uncertainty. 
Colin Child also received an award under the new PSP with a face 
value on award of 100 per cent of salary. In addition, a special 
award of deferred shares was made to him. This award was 
designed to encourage him to remain with the Company during 
this difficult period. The Remuneration Committee is mindful that 
shareholders advise against ’retention’ awards on the basis that 
they are often unsuccessful but the Committee’s judgement was 
that, if Colin Child was not retained, no cost would be incurred  
by shareholder but, if his services are retained, then shareholders 
will benefit.
The Remuneration Committee believes that these awards were 
important in order to recruit and retain two exceptional Executive 
Directors and maintain the Group’s position against competitors 
for senior talent.
Further details about the recruitment and retention share awards, 
PSP and ABP are set out on pages 47 to 48.
Special arrangements under the Performance Share Plan 
for 2011/12
The Remuneration Committee agreed some important changes 
to the PSP . For 2011/12 – on an exceptional basis – share based 
awards will be made under the PSP with a maximum face value 
on grant of 150 per cent of salary for both Tim Cobbold and Colin 
Child. At the same time, the proportion of shares that vest at 
threshold will be reduced from 50 per cent of the award to zero at 
threshold. To ensure absolute focus on delivering the Improvement 
Plan, the Remuneration Committee has decided that operating 
profit should be the sole performance measure that determines  
the vesting of awards made in 2011/12. 
For 2011/12, threshold performance will be operating profit of  
£85m at the end of the three year performance period. This is 
expected to equate to approximately 30 per cent compound annual 
EPS growth. Vesting will start at zero for threshold performance. 
Target performance will be linked to the Improvement Plan target 
(£100m of operating profit) and for Executive Directors shares  
to the value of 100 per cent of salary on grant will vest at target. 
The shares will only vest in full for operating profit performance  
of £115m which is expected to be the equivalent of a compound 
annual growth in EPS in excess of 45 per cent. The Remuneration 
Committee believes this is extremely challenging.
Components for Executive Directors 
Executive Directors’ remuneration is provided in the form of  
a combination of basic salary, annual bonus (cash) and award  
of shares, currently under the ABP and PSP .
The 2011/12 remuneration policy will be set to maintain the 
Group’s position against competitors for senior talent, allowing 
the Group to recruit and retain a high calibre management team 
with appropriately challenging performance targets that will deliver 
shareholder value. 
The incentive schemes are designed to enhance the alignment 
between Executive Directors and shareholders with due 
consideration to business requirements and shareholder interests.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to consider other 
factors, such as ethical behaviours, corporate responsibility, 
environment and health and safety matters as it sees fit when 
determining the final outcome of the ABP .
Details of the emoluments of the Executive Directors during the 
year are in the table on page 46.
Salaries for Executive Directors 
The Remuneration Committee, taking into account performance, 
experience and responsibilities, determines the basic salary for 
each Executive Director. Executive Directors’ salaries are reviewed 
annually by the Remuneration Committee and managed generally 
having regard to employees’ pay and conditions elsewhere in  
the Group.
The Remuneration Committee benchmarks key roles against 
similar positions in comparable companies and obtains detailed 
information from external and internal sources about current 
market practices. Key roles include Executive Directors and 
members of the Executive Committee. The Remuneration 
Committee is, however, sensitive to the fact that the market  
data can be inflationary and uses the data carefully.
Tim Cobbold joined the Company on 1 January 2011 with a salary  
of £450,000. His salary will be reviewed in 2012. The salary reflects 
both the calibre of the new Chief Executive and the recruitment 
‘premium’ necessary to attract him. Colin Child was appointed 
with effect from 1 June 2010 and currently receives a salary of 
£315,000. The Remuneration Committee believes that these levels 
of salary were necessary given the circumstances which called for 
appropriate remuneration packages.
Benefits
All Executive Directors and senior employees are eligible for 
a range of taxable benefits which include provision of a car 
allowance, cash payments in lieu of pension, membership of  
a private medical scheme and life assurance and reimbursement 
of the annual subscription to an appropriate professional body. 
In addition, the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are 
provided with permanent health insurance. 44 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Annual Bonus Plan
The annual bonus, which is paid in a combination of cash and 
share based elements, is calculated as a percentage of salary and 
is based on achieving targets for the year set by the Remuneration 
Committee. The maximum bonus opportunity as a percentage  
of salary is 135 per cent for the Chief Executive, Tim Cobbold 
(which comprises a cash element of 100 per cent of salary and  
a deferred share element with a maximum of 35 per cent of salary) 
and 115 per cent for the Group Finance Director, Colin Child 
(80 per cent cash and a maximum 35 per cent in share bonus). 
The cash portion of the award is paid immediately subject always 
to the achievement of the performance criteria and the payment  
of the share based portion of the award is made at the end 
of three years if the individual remains in employment. The 
Committee considers each year the appropriate performance 
measures to align the reward strategy with the business plan.
The specific measures for 2010/11 were set against Group 
operating profit and Group cash flow targets for the full year.  
These measures are key business drivers for De La Rue that 
reflect the underlying financial performance of the Group. The 
annual bonus plan is structured so that there is no payment unless 
a minimum performance threshold has been achieved and the 
maximum payout will only be made if stretching and challenging 
targets are met. No payouts were made in respect of 2010/11  
as the minimum performance thresholds were not reached.  
In 2011/12, the ABP will have a single performance criterion  
of earnings per share.
Executive Directors’ service agreements
Tim Cobbold and Colin Child have rolling service agreements 
respectively allowing 12 months’ notice period from the Company 
and six months’ notice from the executives. Both contain 
provision, at the Company’s sole discretion, for payment in lieu  
of notice by the Company not exceeding 12 months’ basic salary, 
excluding bonus but including benefits.
Tim Cobbold’s service agreement dated 12 December 2010  
has a provision which allows him, in the event of certain corporate 
actions, to give the Company not less than one month’s notice 
and, subject to such notice, the Company will make a payment  
in lieu of notice of one year’s salary (excluding bonus) and the cost 
of providing contractual benefits for a period of 12 months. This 
provision was negotiated as part of Tim Cobbold’s recruitment 
arrangements and was deemed to be necessary to secure his 
agreement to join the Company.
Colin Child’s service agreement dated 20 May 2010 has a 
provision, which expires on 10 November 2011, which entitles  
him in the event of a change of control to give the Company 
not less than one month’s notice. In these circumstances the 
Company will make a payment in lieu of notice equivalent to his 
annual base salary (excluding bonus) less any salary or contractual 
benefits paid during the notice period. The provision was agreed 
as part of the recruitment arrangements for Colin Child effective 
from May 2010.
Simon Webb left the Board on 31 May 2010 and James Hussey 
resigned from the Board on 12 August 2010. James Hussey 
received no compensation for loss of office.
In determining compensation for early termination of a service 
contract, the Remuneration Committee carefully considers the 
specific circumstances, the Company’s commitments under the 
individual’s contract and the individual’s obligation to mitigate loss.
External directorships of Executive Directors
The Board considers whether it is appropriate for an Executive 
Director to serve as a non-executive director of another company. 
Tim Cobbold was entitled to a fee of £12,262 (1 January 2011  
to 26 March 2011) in respect of his non-executive directorship  
of Drax Group plc, which he was permitted to retain. 
Directors’ share interests (audited information)
The interests in ordinary shares of 44
152
/175p of Directors holding 
office at the end of the financial year are set out below.
   27 March  26 March 
   2010 2011 
   Total number  Total number 
   of shares of shares
Nicholas Brookes   7,780 37,408
Tim Cobbold (appointed 1 January 2011)  – 14,813
Colin Child (appointed 1 June 2010)    – 14,813
Warren East   2,093 4,314
Sir Jeremy Greenstock   – 1,492
Sir Julian Horn-Smith   – 1,500
Victoria Jarman (appointed 22 April 2010)  – 1,481
Gill Rider   454 454
There have been no changes in Directors’ interests in ordinary shares since  
26 March 2011. All interests of the Directors and their families are beneficial.
Pension
All Executive Directors and senior executives in the UK may 
join the HM Revenue & Customs registered De La Rue Defined 
Contribution Pension Plan (the Plan). Executives who are members 
of the closed defined benefit sections of the De La Rue Pension 
Scheme (the Scheme) may, instead of joining the Plan, remain  
in that Scheme until it closes to future accrual in 2013.
The current normal retirement age is 65 although pension accrued 
on service before 1 June 2007 may be drawn in full from age 60. 
Defined benefit pension accrued after 1 June 2007 is subject to a 
variable accrual rate which is adjusted annually to reflect changes 
to life expectancy. As part of the Scheme closure agreement, 
the variable accrual rate will be removed and will revert to the 
underlying unadjusted rate for those employees who remain  
in service after 1 April 2013.
The arrangements provide a lump sum death in service benefit 
and additional benefits for dependants of members on their death. 
Executive Directors and senior executives who reach the Lifetime 
Allowance will be offered the option of leaving the Scheme at that 
point and receiving a cash allowance in lieu of pension provision, 
or remaining in the Scheme and incurring a personal tax charge, 
known as the Lifetime Allowance Charge, on any excess benefits. 
Executive Directors and senior executives who are entitled to 
pension contributions in excess of the Annual Allowance will be 
offered the option of receiving the balance of their entitlement 
above the Annual Allowance as a cash allowance in lieu of pension 
provision. The Committee has decided that the Group will not 
compensate any Executive Director or employee for any additional 
tax which may be payable as a result of a member reaching the 
Lifetime Allowance or exceeding the Annual Allowance. 
Remuneration report continued 45 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Details of each Executive Director’s pension arrangements  
are detailed below.
James Hussey (resigned 12 August 2010) was entitled to a 
pension from the senior section of the Scheme. His accrual  
rate was approximately 1/60th of his notional pensionable salary 
for each year of pensionable service. He was required to make 
a contribution of 8 per cent of his notional pensionable salary 
towards the cost. He was covered for a lump sum on death  
in service of four times his basic salary and a widow’s pension  
of 60 per cent of his prospective pension. He left service on  
12 August 2010. His pension under the defined benefit Scheme 
as at 12 August 2010 was £98,943 per annum. His notional 
pensionable salary for 2010/11 was £231,525. James Hussey 
received a cash allowance of 20 per cent on the difference 
between his basic salary and his notional pensionable salary.  
He received no other payments.
Simon Webb (resigned 31 May 2010) was entitled to a pension 
from the retirement plan section of the Scheme. The accrual 
rate from 1 April 2011 allowing for adjustments for mortality was 
1⁄102.85 for each year of pensionable service. He was required 
to make a contribution of 3.5 per cent of his basic salary towards 
his defined benefit pension and elected to pay additional top up 
contributions of 3 per cent to the defined contribution section 
which were matched by the Group. In the event of death in service 
he was covered for a lump sum of four times his basic salary and 
a widow’s pension of 25 per cent of basic salary. He ceased to 
be a Director on 31 May 2010 and left service on 30 June 2010. 
His defined benefit pension as at 31 May 2010 was £2,946 per 
annum. Under the rules of the Scheme he is required to take a 
refund of his own contributions, less tax, or transfer the value 
of his pension to an alternative registered pension scheme on 
leaving service. The Group also made a payment to a self invested 
pension plan for him of 10 per cent of his basic salary.
Colin Child was appointed on 1 June 2010. He is covered for a 
lump sum on death in service of four times his salary. The Group 
makes a contribution to his self invested personal pension plan  
of 25 per cent of his basic salary.
Tim Cobbold is eligible for a pension contribution of 30 per cent 
of his basic salary. He received a cash payment of £33,750 in 
lieu of a pension contribution from January 2011 to March 2011 
and this is included in the benefits column shown in the Directors’ 
emoluments table on page 46. He joined the Plan from April 2011. 
Contributions up to the Annual Allowance will be made into the 
Plan; contributions in excess of the Annual Allowance will be paid 
to him as a cash allowance. He is covered for a lump sum on death 
in service of four times his basic salary; in addition, in the event of 
death in service the accrued value of the contributions made to the 
Plan will be used to provide further benefits for his dependants.
Directors’ pension entitlements (audited information)
The table below sets out the pension benefits to which each 
Executive Director is entitled. It shows:
•  The accrued pension entitlement at the end of the year, including 
pension accrued before appointment as a Director, if applicable, 
payable from normal retirement age
•  The additional pension accrued during the year, payable at 
normal retirement age
•  The transfer value amounts as at 27 March 2010 and 26 March 
2011 and the increase in transfer value between the two periods 
net of Directors’ contributions. The transfer values have been 
calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11
 
Directors’ pension entitlements (£’000)
    Transfer 
    value of the Transfer Transfer 
 Pension  Increase increase value of value of Change in 
 accumulated  in pension in pension accumulated accumulated transfer value Contributions 
 at Increase during year (excluding pension at pension at (excluding to a Defined 
 26 March in pension (net of Directors’ 27 March 26 March Directors’ Contribution 
 2011 during year inflation) contributions) 2010 2011 contributions) Scheme
Tim Cobbold (appointed 1 January 2011) – – – – – – – –
Colin Child (appointed 1 June 2010) – – – – – – – 66
James Hussey (to date of resignation of 12 August 2010) 99 1 1 6 1,295 1,390 88 –
Simon Webb (to date of resignation of 31 May 2010) 3 0.4 0.4 2 25 29 2 5 46 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Remuneration report continued
Directors’ emoluments (audited information)
       Total to 
       26 March 
      2011 2011 
    2011  Compensation (or date of 
    Salary 2011 for loss resignation 2010 
    and fees Benefits of office if sooner) Total 
    £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive Directors     
Tim Cobbold (appointed 1 January 2011)    113 40 – 153 –
Colin Child (appointed 1 June 2010)    246 16 – 262 –
James Hussey (resigned 12 August 2010)    133 19 – 152 451
Simon Webb (resigned 31 May 2010)*    39 3 333 375 301
    531 78 333 942 752
Non-executive Chairman
Nicholas Brookes
#
    165 – – 165 163
Non-executive Directors     
Warren East    47 – – 47 47
Sir Jeremy Greenstock    40 – – 40 40
Sir Julian Horn-Smith    40 – – 40 23
Victoria Jarman (appointed 22 April 2010)    38 – – 38 –
Gill Rider     47 – – 47 35
Aggregate emoluments    908 78 333 1,319 1,060
*Simon Webb was entitled, under his service contract, to compensation for early termination. Further detail on the early payment was contained in the Annual Report 2010
#
Nicholas Brookes took on the role of Executive Chairman from 12 August 2010 to 31 December 2010
Payments made to former Directors of the Company
Lord Wright, who retired as a Director on 19 July 2000, provides up to 20 days’ consultancy each year pursuant to an agreement with  
the Company dated 20 July 2000 and which expired on 19 July 2010. He was paid a fee of £5,000 in 2010/11.
Directors’ share options (audited information) 
The awards over De La Rue plc shares held by Executive Directors under the PSP , Recruitment Share Award and Retention Share  
Award during the period are detailed below:
       Mid market 
  27 March     share price Market 
  2010    Awards preceding price at    Average 
  (or date of  Awarded Lapsed held at date of exercise Performance Date from  fair value 
 Date of appointment Exercised during during 26 March award date targets which Expiry per share
(a)
 
 award if later) during year year year 2011  (pence) (pence) (see below) exercisable date (pence)
Tim Cobbold
(appointed 1 January 2011)            
Recruitment 
Share Award Jan 11 – – 65,549 – 65,549 686.50 – –
 (b)
  Jan 14 Jan 21 687
Performance 
Share Plan Jan 11 – – 65,549 – 65,549 686.50 – –
 (c)
  Jan 14  Jan 21 597
            
Colin Child
(appointed 1 June 2010)            
Retention 
Share Award Jan 11 – – 45,884 – 45,884 686.50 – –
 (b)
  Jan 14  Jan 21 687
Performance 
Share Plan Jan 11 – – 45,884 – 45,884 686.50 – –
 (c)
 Jan 14  Jan 21 597
Notes
(a) Estimated value of award at time of grant (see also note 21 to the Financial Statements)
(b) No performance conditions are attached to the awards under the Recruitment Share Award and the Retention Share Award
(c) Details of the performance conditions attached to the PSP are set out on page 48
The closing mid market price of De La Rue plc shares at 26 March 2011 was 794.5p and the highest and lowest mid market prices  
during the year were 984.0p and 549.5p respectively.
  47 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Deferred Bonus and Matching Share Plan (audited information)
Allocation of shares held by former Executive Directors is as follows:
  Total    Total 10 day 
  allocation    allocation average 
  as at    as at mid market 
  27 March    26 March share price Market 
  2010    2011 preceding price at  Average 
  (or date of  Allocation Lapsed (or date of date of date of  fair value 
 Date of appointment Allocation vesting during resignation allocation vesting Vesting per share
(a)
 
 allocation if later) during year during year year if sooner) (pence) (pence) date (pence)
James Hussey 
(resigned 12 August 2010)         
Deferred Allocation Jun 07 9,691 – 9,691 – – 758.40 942.56 Jun 10 792
 Jun 08 8,494 – – 8,494 – 908.50* – Jun 11 889
 Jun 09 13,249 – – 13,249 – 858.55 – Jun 12 880
          
Maximum Matching  Jun 07 19,380 – 19,380 – – 758.40 942.56 Jun 10 552
Allocation
(b)
 Jun 08 16,988 – – 16,988 – 908.50* – Jun 11 639
 Jun 09 26,498 – – 26,498 – 858.55 – Jun 12 665
  94,300  29,071
(1)
 65,229     
Simon Webb
(resigned 31 May 2010)         
Deferred Allocation Jun 09 9,172 – 9,172 – – 858.55 673.50 Jun 12 880
          
Maximum Matching
Allocation
(b)
 Jun 09 13,758 – 2,416 11,342 – 858.55 673.50 Jun 12 665
  22,930  11,588
(2)
 11,342     
Notes
*Mid market value of an ordinary share on the dealing day immediately preceding date of allocation
(a) Estimated value of award at time of grant (see also note 21 to the Financial Statements)
(b)  Details of the performance conditions attached to Matching Shares are set out on page 49. The performance conditions for the 2007 awards under the Plan were met in full 
and the shares vested on 6 June 2010
Dividend Shares
An additional award of shares was released on the vesting date in respect of all Deferred Shares released equal in value to the amount of dividends which would have been 
payable on the Deferred Shares over the performance period. Dividend shares released were as follows:
James Hussey: 1,405 ordinary shares 
Simon Webb: 401 ordinary shares 
(1) James Hussey retained the shares acquired on vesting of the June 2007 award under the Plan after selling sufficient number of shares to meet his PAYE and NI liability
(2) The total value of Simon Webb’s award of shares at vesting was £80,746
Current schemes
Sharesave Scheme
All UK employees may join the Company’s HM Revenue & Customs 
approved SAYE Scheme. Options are granted over De La Rue plc  
shares, at the prevailing market price at the time of grant (with a 
discretionary discount to the market price), to employees who 
agree to save between £5 and £250 per month over a period of 
three or five years. A grant was made in December 2010 at a price 
of 444.14p which was at a 20 per cent discount and 58 per cent 
of eligible employees participated.
US Employee Share Purchase Plan
The US Employee Share Purchase Plan (USESPP), established 
under Section 423 of the US Internal Revenue Code, provides 
a competitive incentive for US employees to invest up to 10 per 
cent of basic salary each year in the Company’s shares, subject 
to the statutory limit (currently US$25,000 worth of shares). 
No performance conditions are attached to options under the 
USESPP . The Ninth Offering under the Plan began on 1 January 
2011 and 28 per cent of eligible employees participated. The 
purchase price is 85 per cent of the lower of the market value of  
a De La Rue share either at the beginning (819.50 pence) or end  
of the offering period on 31 December 2011.
 
New Share Plans
The Company established the ABP and the PSP in July 2010.  
The plans are designed to provide rewards that align the interests 
of executives with those of shareholders and which are in line with 
both the Group’s short term and long term performance goals.
Annual Bonus Plan 
Awards under the ABP are made to Executive Directors and 
selected senior executives on achievement of the annual bonus 
targets set at the beginning of the financial year, and comprise 
both a cash element and a share element. 
The maximum market value of all shares over which any individual 
may be granted a share award in any financial year under the ABP 
shall not exceed an amount equal to 35 per cent of salary.
Share based awards under the ABP may only vest after three 
years from the date of grant while the award holder remains 
an employee within the Group. Awards may vest early where 
employment ceases in specified good leaver circumstances  
and awards in these circumstances will vest in full.
Additional awards may be made equivalent in value to the amount 
of dividends that would have been received since the award date 
in respect of the number of shares that the participant acquires 
under the ABP .
No awards were made to Executive Directors during 2010/11.
  48 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Performance Share Plan
The PSP was approved by shareholders in 2010. Awards 
are made annually to Executive Directors and selected senior 
executives generally following the announcement of results.
The maximum market value of all shares over which any individual 
may be granted awards in any financial year under the PSP shall 
not exceed an amount equal to one times his or her salary at time 
of award other than in exceptional circumstances. It is currently 
intended that all share awards for UK participants will be made 
as nil cost options (which may be exercised by the participant 
following the third anniversary of the award date up to a date  
no later than the tenth anniversary of the award date) although 
awards may take the form of either a conditional allocation or 
forfeitable shares.
As noted on page 43 both Tim Cobbold and Colin Child received 
awards under the PSP in 2010/11 to the value of 100 per cent  
of salary. 
For the financial year 2010/11, awards under the PSP are 
subject to two performance measures in accordance with the 
existing policy. The award date marks the start of the three year 
performance period. Over the performance period, 60 per cent of 
the award is subject to achievement of an annual rate of increase 
in earnings per share (EPS) in the Retail Price Index (RPI) of a 
minimum of 3 per cent per annum. Where EPS exceeds inflation 
by 3 per cent compound per annum, 50 per cent of the award 
will vest, rising on a straight line basis to full vesting at 5 per cent 
compound per annum. If the minimum target is not achieved,  
the proportion of awards subject to the EPS test will not vest.  
EPS will be measured from the Company’s half year announcement 
in November 2010, when the last accounts prior to the award 
were published. 
The remaining 40 per cent of the award is based on the 
Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) relative to the TSR of 
the companies in the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts 
over the three year performance period, with 50 per cent of this 
portion of each award vesting if the Company’s TSR is at least at 
the median in the comparator group, rising on a straight line basis 
to full vesting for upper quartile performance. 
There will be no retesting of either of the performance targets.
Under normal circumstances, awards may only vest after three 
years and if the relevant post grant performance targets have  
been met. Awards may be allowed to vest early where employment 
ceases in specified good leaver circumstances and in these 
circumstances performance conditions and apportionment for the 
time that the award has been held shall be applied.
If there is a change of control of the Company by way of a general 
offer, or if there is a general offer following a change of control 
or there is a voluntary winding up, awards will vest early. Under 
the ABP , awards vesting early will vest in full. Under the PSP , 
unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, 
apportionment for the time that the award has been held shall  
be applied, subject to the extent to which the performance targets 
have been fulfiled.
Dividend shares may also be awarded on similar terms to the ABP .
At the time the PSP was introduced and following consultation 
with major shareholders on the principal features of the PSP , 
the Remuneration Committee placed a reduced emphasis on 
relative TSR because management had little influence over TSR 
performance.The greater emphasis on EPS performance was 
considered to be fair and appropriately challenging with a range 
intended to require stretching performance for all awards to vest, 
aligning shareholder and management interests. 
The Remuneration Committee has decided that PSP awards 
made in 2011/12 should be subject to a single performance 
measure as described on page 43 of this report.
Special arrangements
Recruitment Share Award and Retention Share Award
Tim Cobbold (as part of his appointment) and Colin Child received 
a recruitment and retention award of shares respectively. The date 
of these awards was 31 January 2011.
Features common to both awards are as follows:
• The value of the awards on grant was 100 per cent of salary
•  Shares will normally vest three years after the award date and  
in Colin Child’s case provided he remains with the Company
• There are no performance criteria attached to vesting
• The shares will vest in the event of a change of control
• The awards are not pensionable
Specific to Recruitment Share Award: The award will vest after 
a termination of service, provided that the termination was not 
for cause (ie misconduct or in any of the circumstances allowing 
for summary dismissal under Tim Cobbold’s service agreement). 
Vesting after termination would take place on the third anniversary 
of grant, although the Remuneration Committee has the power  
to accelerate. 
Specific to Retention Share Award: In the event that Colin Child  
ceases employment under the good leaver provision, the 
Remuneration Committee will consider pro rating awards for time 
from the award date to cessation of employment.
The Remuneration Committee is of the view that the special share 
awards were fully justified for the recruitment of Tim Cobbold as 
Chief Executive and the retention of Colin Child as Group Finance 
Director given the internal and external challenges facing the 
Group and that shareholders will benefit from these exceptional 
arrangements. The terms of the special share awards together 
with awards under the PSP will enhance the alignment between 
the Executive Directors and shareholders and these decisions 
were taken with due consideration to business requirements  
and shareholder interests. 
The terms of both awards will be available for inspection from 
14 June 2011 at the registered office of the Company and at the 
offices of Herbert Smith LLP , Exchange House, Primrose Street, 
London, EC2A 2HS and at the place of the AGM from 10:15  
on the day of the AGM until the conclusion of the AGM.
The Board may choose to satisfy an award with either new  
or existing shares. Accordingly, no firm commitment has been 
entered into to issue shares, nor has any decision to do so yet 
been made. The choice need not be made until the time at which 
an award is exercised, but the authority to allot any such new 
shares on a non pre emptive basis would be that conferred  
by shareholders on 22 July 2010. 
Long Term Incentive Plan
The Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) was introduced in 2006 to 
retain key individuals who were not eligible for the Deferred Bonus 
and Matching Share Plan. The LTIP is a cash based plan under 
which participating employees may, subject to the performance 
measure being met, receive up to 20 per cent of their annual salary 
as a cash payment at the end of three years after an allocation is 
made. Executive Directors do not participate in this plan.
The performance measure is EPS. The test is achievement of  
an annual rate of increase in earnings per share which is at least 
3 per cent over the annual rate of increase in the RPI. At the 
minimum achievement a cash payment equivalent to 15 per cent 
of annual salary is payable whilst an earnings per share increase  
of 5 per cent or more above the annual rate of increase in RPI  
will result in 20 per cent of annual salary being payable.
 
Remuneration report continued 49 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Superseded schemes
Deferred Bonus and Matching Share Plan
The Company established the Deferred Bonus and Matching 
Share Plan (the Plan) in July 2005 which, following a review in 
2007, was extended until 2010 although no awards were made  
in 2010.
Awards of deferred allocations of shares (Deferred Shares) were 
made to Executive Directors and selected senior executives based 
on the achievement of annual performance targets to be satisfied 
before the awards were made.
The maximum potential value of the Deferred Shares based on 
the market value of a share at the date of allocation was 50 per 
cent of salary. The number of Deferred Shares will be matched 
by additional free shares (Matching Shares) which will be released 
on the third anniversary of the allocation of the Deferred Shares 
provided predetermined performance targets are satisfied and  
the participant is still employed within the Group.
There are two performance targets, each one of which applies to 
allocations of up to 50 per cent of the Matching Shares. Fifty per 
cent is based on the achievement of an annual rate of increase in 
EPS of a De La Rue share over the annual rate of increase in RPI 
of a minimum of 3 per cent per annum. If the minimum target is 
not achieved, no matching share allocation subject to the EPS test 
will be awarded. If EPS increases by 5 per cent or more above the 
annual rate of increase in RPI, the eligible participant will receive 
100 per cent of Matching Shares subject to the EPS test, with 
intermediate straight line vesting.
The remaining 50 per cent of the Matching Share element is 
based on De La Rue’s TSR relative to the TSR of the companies 
comprising the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts over 
the relevant period. The proportion of any matching allocation 
subject to this test will be 50 per cent for median performance, 
and 100 per cent for upper quartile performance, with intermediate 
straight line vesting.
Up to two Matching Shares may be allocated for each Deferred 
Share. No Matching Shares will be released for performance below 
that which qualifies for the minimum number of Matching Shares. 
An additional award of shares will be released on the vesting 
date in respect of all Deferred Shares released equal in value to 
the amount of dividends which would have been payable on the 
Deferred Shares over the performance period. At the time the Plan 
was introduced in 2005 the EPS and TSR performance measures 
were adopted following consultation with shareholders as being 
the most transparent and appropriate. Before making any award 
the Remuneration Committee considers the appropriateness 
of the performance targets for matching awards, recognising in 
particular that the average earnings per share growth target of RPI 
plus 3 to 5 per cent is the minimum. The Plan was replaced with 
the PSP and ABP as detailed on pages 47 to 48 of this report.
Executive Share Option Plan
The Executive Share Option Plan, which expired on 17 July 2006 
for the purpose of grants of options, provided for the grant of 
options at a price equal to the average market value of a  
De La Rue plc ordinary share over the three dealing days 
immediately preceding the date of grant, with a performance 
condition based on the achievement of an earnings per share 
growth target. This is a legacy plan with five participants,  
none of whom are Executive Directors or senior executives, 
holding 10,562 subsisting options.
The Plan was replaced by the LTIP .
Dilution limits
The ABP , PSP , Executive Share Option Plan and Deferred Bonus 
and Matching Share Plan incorporate the current (December 2009) 
Association of British Insurers Guidelines on headroom which 
provide that over a 10 year period in relation to the Company’s 
issued share capital (including any reissue of treasury shares):
•  No more than 10 per cent should be issued to satisfy options 
granted under both executive share option schemes and any 
other employee share scheme of the Company
•  No more than 5 per cent can be allocated to satisfy executive 
(discretionary) share option schemes or share awards
The Remuneration Committee monitors regularly the effect of 
potential vesting of share options or share awards to ensure that 
the Company remains within these dilution limits. Options for 
which a market purchase of shares has been made are excluded 
from the headroom calculations.
As at 26 March 2011, the headroom in relation to all outstanding 
share options or deferred share awards was as shown below:
 
 
Shareholder return
The graph below shows the value, on 26 March 2011, of £100 
invested in De La Rue plc on 25 March 2006 compared with 
the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 index excluding 
investment trusts, assuming in each case the reinvestment of 
dividends. The other points plotted are the values at intervening 
financial year ends. The FTSE 250 has been chosen as the index 
as De La Rue is a constituent. 
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Total shareholder return 
£ 
 De La Rue plc 
 FTSE 250 index excluding 
 investment trusts
Source: Thomson Financial
122.1
130.3
105.0
164.2
69.3
182.8
188.4
116.1
185.7
116.8
2006
100.0
100.0
Scheme limits headroom
Shares (million) 
 Headroom 
 SAYE subsisting 
 Executive schemes subsisting
5% in 10 years 10% in 10 years
1.57
2.00
3.39 3.39
4.53 50 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts and have 
letters of appointment specifying fixed terms of office. Terms of 
appointment are initially for two years with the expectation of three 
two year terms. The Board may invite Non-executive Directors 
to serve a further term after a six year term following a detailed 
review. The Non-executive Directors’ current terms of appointment 
are detailed below:
 Current expiry Date of first 
Non-executive Director of appointment appointment
Warren East 8 January 2013 9 January 2007
Sir Julian Horn-Smith 31 August 2011 1 September 2009
Sir Jeremy Greenstock 29 February 2012 1 March 2005
Victoria Jarman 21 April 2012 22 April 2010
Gill Rider 21 June 2012 22 June 2006
Nicholas Brookes was initially appointed as a Non-executive 
Director on 19 March 1997 and as Chairman of the Company  
on 22 July 2004.
Remuneration for Non-executive Directors
The Board determines the fees paid to Non-executive Directors 
taking into account market norms, comparator companies and the 
duties required of Non-executive Directors. Details of fees to the 
Chairman and other Non-executive Directors are set out on page 
46. The fees for Non-executive Directors were last increased in 
2008 and the Board agreed that the fees should remain unchanged 
for the time being. The Chairman’s fee, at his request, was not 
adjusted to reflect his additional role and workload as Executive 
Chairman pending appointment of the new Chief Executive and 
remains unchanged for 2011/12. The Chairmen of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees each receive an additional fee of £7,000 
per annum for their work. Non-executive Directors are not eligible 
for pension scheme membership and do not participate in any  
of the Group’s bonus or share option schemes.
By order of the Board
Gill Rider
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
24 May 2011
Remuneration report continued 51 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
 
We have audited the Financial Statements of De La Rue plc for 
the 52 week period ended 26 March 2011 set out on pages 52 
to 92. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial 
Statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards  
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities  
Statement set out on page 35, the Directors are responsible for  
the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied  
that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit,  
and express an opinion on, the Financial Statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing  
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements
A description of the scope of an audit of Financial Statements  
is provided on the APB’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion:
•  The Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state  
of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at  
26 March 2011 and of the Group’s profit for the 52 week period 
then ended
•  The Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU
•  The Parent Company Financial Statements have been  
properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice
•  The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and,  
as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the  
IAS Regulation
 
 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
•  The information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Financial Statements; and
•  The information given in the Corporate governance statement 
set out on pages 37 to 41 with respect to internal control  
and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting 
processes and about share capital structures is consistent  
with the Financial Statements
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion:
•  Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•  The Parent Company Financial Statements and the part  
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not  
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•  Certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified  
by law are not made; or
•  We have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit; or
•  A Corporate governance statement has not been prepared  
by the Company
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•  The Directors’ statement, set out on page 57, in relation  
to going concern
•  The part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 37 to 
41 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions  
of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and
•  Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board  
on Directors’ remuneration
A J Sykes 
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London E14 5GL
24 May 2011
 
Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the Members of De La Rue plc 52 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Group Income Statement
For the year ended 26 March 2011
       2011 2010 
      Notes £m £m
Revenue      1 463.9  561.1
Operating expenses – ordinary      2 (423.5) (451.9)
Operating expenses – exceptional      3 (15.6) (7.5)
Total operating expenses       (439.1) (459.4)
Operating profit       24.8  101.7
Comprising:   
Operating profit before exceptional items       40.4 109.2
Exceptional items       3 (15.6) (7.5)
Profit on sale of associated undertaking      3 55.1 –
Share of profits of associated companies after taxation      –  6.3 
Profit before interest and taxation       79.9  108.0 
Interest income      4 0.9  0.3 
Interest expense      4 (4.7) (5.4)
Retirement benefit obligation finance income      24 35.7 26.4 
Retirement benefit obligation finance expense      24 (39.0) (32.7)
Net finance expense       (7.1) (11.4)
Profit before taxation       72.8  96.6 
Comprising:   
Profit before tax and exceptional items       33.3 104.1
Exceptional items       3 39.5 (7.5)
   
Taxation      5 (5.4) (26.2)
Comprising:   
Tax on profit before tax and exceptional items      5 (9.0) (28.6)
Tax on exceptional items       5 3.6 2.4
   
Profit for the year       67.4  70.4 
Comprising:   
Profit for the year before exceptional items       24.3 75.5
Profit/(loss) for the year on exceptional items       3 43.1 (5.1)
   
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company      66.9  69.9 
Profit attributable to non controlling interests       0.5  0.5 
       67.4 70.4
Earnings per share attributable to the Company’s equity holders   
On profit for the year   
Basic      6 67.6p  71.0p 
Diluted      6 67.2p  70.5p 
  53 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 26 March 2011
       2011 2010 
      Notes £m £m
Profit for the financial year       67.4 70.4 
Other comprehensive income   
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations      (1.3) 0.1 
Actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations      24 (31.0) (72.3)
Effective portion of change in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of amount recycled to the Income Statement 14 6.8 6.6 
Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income    5 5.3 21.4 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax      (20.2) (44.2)
Comprehensive income for the year       47.2 26.2 
Comprehensive income for the year attributable to:   
Equity shareholders of the Company       46.7 25.7 
Non controlling interests       0.5 0.5 
       47.2 26.2 
  54 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Group Balance Sheet
At 26 March 2011
       2011 2010 
      Notes £m £m
Assets   
Non current assets   
Property, plant and equipment      8 162.0 165.6 
Intangible assets      9 23.3 19.3 
Investments in associates and joint ventures      10 0.1 0.1 
Deferred tax assets      16 27.8 36.5 
Derivative financial instruments      14 0.3 0.8 
       213.5 222.3 
Current assets   
Inventories      12 67.5 61.0 
Trade and other receivables      13 89.7 76.5 
Current tax assets       6.7 3.9 
Derivative financial instruments      14 15.5 20.4 
Cash and cash equivalents      15 32.6 41.6 
Non current assets held for sale      11 –  20.5 
       212.0 223.9 
Total assets       425.5 446.2 
Liabilities   
Current liabilities   
Borrowings      18 (63.8) (51.7)
Trade and other payables      17 (164.4) (164.2)
Current tax liabilities       (33.1) (34.5)
Derivative financial instruments      14 (13.5) (24.7)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges      19 (27.0) (26.1)
       (301.8) (301.2)
Non current liabilities   
Borrowings      18 –  (0.9)
Retirement benefit obligations      24 (102.9) (127.1)
Deferred tax liabilities      16 (1.0) (0.3)
Derivative financial instruments      14 (0.6) (2.1)
Other non current liabilities      17 (2.4) (5.1)
       (106.9) (135.5)
Total liabilities       (408.7) (436.7)
Net assets       16.8 9.5 
Equity   
Share capital      20 45.6 45.5 
Share premium account       29.1 28.4 
Capital redemption reserve       5.9 5.9 
Hedge reserve       1.0 (3.9)
Cumulative translation adjustment       2.5 3.8 
Other reserves       (83.8) (83.8)
Retained earnings       13.0 10.4 
Total equity attributable to shareholders of the Company      13.3 6.3 
Non controlling interests       3.5 3.2 
Total equity       16.8 9.5 
Approved by the Board on 24 May 2011
Nicholas Brookes Colin Child
Chairman Group Finance Director
  55 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Group Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 26 March 2011
  Non controlling Total 
 Attributable to equity shareholders interest equity
   
  Share Capital  Cumulative 
 Share premium redemption Hedge translation Other Retained 
 capital account reserve reserve adjustment reserve earnings 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 28 March 2009 45.0  26.5  5.9  (8.6) 3.7  (83.8) 29.0  2.9  20.6 
Comprehensive income  
for the year – – – 4.7  0.1  –  20.9  0.5  26.2 
Share capital issued  0.5  1.9  – – – – – – 2.4 
Employee share scheme:         
– value of services provided – – – – – – 1.5  – 1.5 
Income tax on income and  
expenses recognised directly  
in equity – – – – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Dividends paid – – – – – – (40.9) (0.2) (41.1)
Balance at 27 March 2010 45.5  28.4  5.9  (3.9) 3.8  (83.8) 10.4  3.2  9.5 
Comprehensive income  
for the year – – – 4.9  (1.3)  –  43.1  0.5  47.2 
Share capital issued  0.1 0.7 – – – – – – 0.8
Employee share scheme:         
– value of services provided – – – – – – 1.9  – 1.9
Income tax on income and  
expenses recognised directly  
in equity – – – – – – (0.5) – (0.5)
Dividends paid – – – – – – (41.9) (0.2) (42.1)
Balance at 26 March 2011 45.6 29.1 5.9 1.0 2.5 (83.8) 13.0 3.5 16.8
Nature and purpose of other reserves
(a) Share premium account
This reserve arises from the issuance of shares for consideration in excess of their nominal value.
(b) Capital redemption reserve
This reserve represents the nominal value of shares redeemed by the Company.
(c) Hedge reserve
This reserve records the portion of any gain or loss on hedging instruments that are determined to be effective cash flow hedges.  
When the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is transferred out of equity to the Income Statement.  
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss on the related hedging instrument previously recognised in  
equity is transferred to the Income Statement. An analysis of the movements in the hedge reserve is shown in note 14.
(d) Cumulative translation adjustment
This reserve records cumulative exchange differences arising from the translation of the Financial Statements of foreign entities since 
transition to IFRSs. Upon disposal of foreign operations, the related accumulated exchange differences are recycled to the Income 
Statement. This reserve also records the effect of hedging net investments in foreign operations.
(e) Other reserve
On 1 February 2000, the Company issued and credited as fully paid 191,646,873 ordinary shares of 25p each and paid cash of 
£103.7m to acquire the issued share capital of De La Rue plc (now De La Rue Holdings plc), following the approval of a High Court 
Scheme of Arrangement. In exchange for every 20 ordinary shares in De La Rue plc shareholders received 17 ordinary shares plus  
920p in cash. The other reserve of £83.8m arose as a result of this transaction and is a permanent adjustment to the consolidated 
Financial Statements.
  56 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Group Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 26 March 2011
       2011 2010 
      Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities   
Profit before tax       72.8 96.6 
Adjustments for:   
Finance income and expense       7.1 11.4 
Depreciation and amortisation       24.4 23.0 
(Increase)/decrease in inventory       (7.9) 4.3 
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables       (11.6) 16.6 
Decrease in trade and other payables       (9.9) (9.9)
Decrease in reorganisation provisions       (1.4) (5.0)
Special pension fund contributions       (42.5) (17.0)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment       1.4 0.9 
Share of income from associates after tax       – (6.3)
Non operating exceptional items       (55.1) – 
Other non cash movements       2.4 1.5 
Cash generated from operating activities       (20.3) 116.1 
Tax received/(paid)       4.8 (21.0)
Net cash flows from operating activities       (15.5) 95.1 
Cash flows from investing activities   
Disposal of subsidiary undertakings      22 – (1.0)
Net proceeds from sale of investment in associate       75.4 –
Purchases of property, plant, equipment and software intangibles      (30.7) (33.1)
Development assets capitalised        (4.3) (2.3)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment      0.3 0.5 
Loans made to associates       – (0.6)
Dividends received from associates       – 6.8 
Net cash flows from investing activities       40.7 (29.7)
Net cash inflow before financing activities       25.2 65.4 
Cash flows from financing activities   
Proceeds from issue of share capital       0.8 2.4 
Proceeds from /(repayments of) borrowings       6.0 (32.9)
Finance lease principal payments       (0.2) (3.1)
Interest received       0.9 0.4 
Interest paid       (4.5) (3.7)
Dividends paid to shareholders       (41.9) (40.4)
Dividends paid to non controlling interests       (0.2) (0.2)
Net cash flows from financing activities       (39.1) (77.5)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the year      (13.9) (12.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year      37.8 50.1 
Exchange rate effects       (0.5) (0.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year      23.4 37.8 
Cash and cash equivalents consist of:   
Cash at bank and in hand      15 31.9 35.1 
Short term bank deposits      15 0.7 6.5 
Bank overdrafts       (9.2) (3.8)
      22 23.4 37.8  57 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
 
De La Rue plc (the Company) is a public limited company 
incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address  
of its registered office is disclosed on page 94 of this Annual 
Report. The consolidated Financial Statements of the Company  
for the year ended 26 March 2011 comprise the Company and  
its subsidiaries (together referred to as the Group) and the Group’s 
interest in associates. The Parent Company Financial Statements 
present information about the Company as a separate entity  
and not about its Group. The principal activities of the Group  
are described in note 1. The principal accounting policies adopted 
in the preparation of these consolidated Financial Statements are 
set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to  
all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Statement of compliance
European Union (EU) law (IAS Regulation EC 1606/2002) requires 
that the consolidated Financial Statements, for the year ended  
26 March 2011, be prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU 
(Adopted IFRSs). These consolidated Financial Statements have 
been approved by the Directors and prepared in accordance with 
Adopted IFRS including interpretations issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company 
Financial Statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (UK GAAP).
The following standards, amendments and interpretations to 
existing standards, issued by the IASB, are applicable to the 
Group for the first time in the current year and have been adopted 
by the Group in these consolidated Financial Statements with no 
impact on the Group’s accounting policies or on its results or net 
assets included within these consolidated Financial Statements: 
•  IFRS 1 (Revised), First-time Adoption of International Financial 
Reporting Standards, which is effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 July 2009, simplifies the structure of  
IFRS 1 without making any technical changes
•  Amendments to IFRS 2, Group Cash Settled Share based 
Payments Transactions, which is effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2010, provides a clear basis to 
determine the classification of share based payment awards  
in both consolidated and separate Financial Statements
•  IFRS 3 (Revised), Business Combinations, which is effective 
for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, 
harmonises business combination accounting with US GAAP . 
The standard continues to apply the acquisition method to 
business combinations, but with some significant changes. 
For example, all payments to purchase a business are to 
be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with some 
contingent payments subsequently re measured at fair value 
through profit or loss; goodwill and non controlling interests may 
be calculated on a gross or net basis; and all transaction costs, 
which under previous practice were treated as part of the cost  
of a business combination, are to be expensed
•  IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements,  
which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 
1 July 2009, requires the effects of all transactions with non 
controlling interests where there is no change in control to be 
recorded in equity. Such transactions will no longer result in 
goodwill or gains and losses
•  Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement, for Eligible Hedged Items, which is effective for 
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, clarifies 
how to apply the principles that determine whether a hedged  
risk or portion of cash flows is eligible for designation
•  Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, 
which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after  
1 February 2010, addresses the accounting for rights issues that 
are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency 
of the issuer
•  IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, 
which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after  
1 July 2009, clarifies which currency exposures qualify for hedge 
accounting; which entity within a group can hold the hedging 
instrument; and how to determine the amounts to be reclassified 
from equity to profit or loss for both the hedging instrument and 
the hedged item when an investment in a foreign operation is 
disposed of
Basis of preparation
The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under 
the historical cost convention with the exception of certain items 
which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting 
policies below. The accounts have been prepared as at 26 March 
2011, being the last Saturday in March. The comparatives for the 
2010 financial year are for the year ended 27 March 2010.
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out 
on pages 16 to 19 of the Business Review. The accounting policies 
used in the preparation of the financial position are described in 
pages 58 to 62. In addition, pages 71 to 75 include the Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for financial risk management, 
details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its 
exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk and commodity pricing risk. 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities are described on pages 24 to 26 of the 
Business Review. 
As described on page 25, the Group meets its funding 
requirements through cash generated from operations and a 
revolving credit facility which expires in September 2013. The 
Group’s forecasts and projections, which cover a period of more 
than twelve months, taking into account reasonably possible 
changes in normal trading performance, show that the Group 
should be able to operate within its currently available facilities. 
The Group has sufficient financial resources together with assets 
that are expected to generate cash flow in the normal course of 
business. As a consequence and not withstanding the uncertainty 
as to the outcome of the paper production issues noted on page 
5, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and the Group are well placed to manage their business risks and 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the  
Financial Statements of the Company and entities controlled  
by the Company (its subsidiaries) up to 26 March 2011. Control 
exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from  
its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that  
are currently exercisable are taken into account. The results  
of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are 
included in the consolidated Financial Statements from the  
date that control commences or until the date that control ceases. 
The majority of the subsidiaries prepare their Financial Statements 
up to 26 March except for certain subsidiaries whose year end 
is 31 December. In the case of the subsidiaries whose Financial 
Statements are made up to 31 December 2010, results for  
the period to 26 March 2011 and the Balance Sheet as at  
26 March 2011 have been consolidated.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of 
acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair 
values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as 
goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the  
fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired (ie discount  
on acquisition) is credited to the Income Statement in the period 
of acquisition. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the 
Financial Statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting 
policies used into line with those used by the Group. 
All intra Group transactions, balances, income and expenses  
are eliminated on consolidation.
Accounting policies 58 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Significant accounting policies and judgements applied
Foreign currency
Foreign currency transactions
These Financial Statements are presented in sterling, which  
is the functional and presentational currency of the Company.  
The functional currency of Group entities is principally determined 
by the primary economic environment in which the respective 
entity operates. 
Transactions in foreign currencies entered into by Group entities 
are translated into the functional currencies of those entities at  
the rates of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the 
balance sheet date are translated at the rate of exchange ruling  
at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation 
are recognised in the Income Statement.
Foreign currency non monetary items measured in terms of 
historical cost are translated at the rate of exchange at the date 
of the transaction. Exchange differences on non monetary items 
are recognised in line with whether the gain or loss on the non 
monetary item itself is recognised in the Income Statement  
or in equity. 
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, 
the Group enters into forward contracts (refer to the accounting 
policy on derivative financial instruments below for details of the 
Group’s accounting policies in respect of such derivative  
financial instruments).
Financial Statements of foreign operations
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and 
intangible assets, are translated at the exchange rate prevailing 
at the balance sheet date. Income and expenses are translated 
at average exchange rates (which approximate to actual rates). 
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised in 
the Group’s translation reserve, which is a component of equity. 
When a foreign operation is sold, exchange differences that were 
recorded in equity are recognised in the Income Statement as part 
of the gain or loss on sale.
Exchange differences in respect of foreign operations that arose 
before 27 March 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs, 
are presented as part of retained earnings, as permitted by IFRS 1.
Net investment in foreign operations
Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a 
financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in 
foreign operations are recognised in the translation reserve to 
the extent the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is 
ineffective, such differences are recognised as finance income or  
costs in the Income Statement. Cumulative gains or losses in equity 
arising since the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs are taken to 
the Income Statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
Financial instruments
The Group’s operating activities expose it to financial risks of 
changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. 
The Group uses a range of derivative instruments, including 
forward contracts and swaps to hedge its risk to changes in 
foreign exchange rates and interest rates. Derivative financial 
instruments are only used for hedging purposes. The use of 
financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s risk management 
policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written 
principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the 
Group’s risk management strategy.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at the 
date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date. The 
gain or loss on subsequent fair value measurement is recognised 
in the Income Statement unless the derivative qualifies for hedge 
accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends 
on the nature of the item being hedged. 
Cash flow hedges
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that 
are designated and are effective as hedges of future cash flows 
are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is 
recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Amounts 
accumulated in equity are recycled to the Income Statement in the 
period in which the hedged item also affects the Income Statement. 
However, if the hedged item results in the recognition of a non 
financial asset or liability, the amounts accumulated in equity on 
the hedging instrument are transferred from equity and included 
in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that time, for forecast transactions, any 
cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised 
in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction 
occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, 
the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred 
to the Income Statement. Changes in the fair value of derivative 
financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
recognised in the Income Statement as they arise.
Fair value hedges 
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value of  
a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, 
the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to 
the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in net income. 
Gains or losses from re measuring the derivative, or for non 
derivatives, the foreign currency component of its carrying value, 
are recognised in net income.
Embedded derivatives 
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other non 
financial host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when 
their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the 
host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value. 
Any unrealised gains or losses on such separated derivatives are 
reported in the Income Statement.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations
Gains or losses on instruments used to hedge net investment  
in foreign operations that are effective hedges are recognised  
in equity. Ineffective hedges or portions thereon are recognised  
in the Income Statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative 
financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised 
immediately in the consolidated Income Statement.
Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related 
to operating activities are included in operating profit when 
recognised in the consolidated Income Statement.
Revenue recognition
Group revenue predominantly represents sales to external 
customers of manufactured products which fall within the Group’s 
ordinary trading activities. This excludes VAT and other sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised in the Income Statement to the extent 
that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the 
transaction will flow into the Group and the amount can be reliably 
measured. In practice this means that revenue is recognised when 
goods are supplied to external customers in accordance with the 
terms of sale.
When goods are supplied, this is when the significant risks and 
rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer.
Revenues and costs on project based contracts are recognised by 
reference to the stage of completion, based on the work performed 
to date and the overall contract profitability. The assessment of the 
stage of completion is dependent on the nature of the contract 
and is assessed by reference to reviews of work performed, 
achievement of contractual milestones and costs incurred. 
Revenue on service based contracts is recognised as services  
are provided.
Accounting policies continued 59 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the 
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, 
which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that 
asset’s net carrying amount.
Intangible assets
All intangible assets, except goodwill, are stated at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. Goodwill 
is not amortised and is stated at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses.
Goodwill 
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the  
fair value of consideration transferred in a business combination 
over the Group’s share of the fair value of identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities of the business acquired  
at the date of acquisition. 
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. At the date of acquisition, the 
goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose 
of impairment testing and is tested annually for impairment and 
when there are indications of impairment. Any impairment loss 
is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and is not 
subsequently reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the 
carrying amount of goodwill relating to the business. Goodwill 
arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is presented in goodwill 
and goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is presented 
in investments in associates. Internally generated goodwill is not 
recognised as an asset.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 27 March 2004 (the date 
of transition to IFRS) has been retained at the previous UK GAAP 
amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Development costs
Expenditure incurred in the development of products or 
enhancements to existing product ranges is capitalised as 
an intangible asset only when the future economic benefits 
expected to arise are deemed probable and the costs can be 
reliably measured. Development costs not meeting these criteria 
are expensed in the Income Statement as incurred. Capitalised 
development costs are amortised on a straight line basis over  
their estimated useful economic lives once the product or 
enhancement is available for use. Product research costs  
are written off as incurred.
Other intangible assets
Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software 
licences that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are 
capitalised at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment 
losses. Software intangibles are amortised on a straight line basis 
over the shorter of their useful economic life or their licence period 
at rates which vary between three and five years.
Distribution rights are capitalised at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses and are amortised over their 
useful economic lives as determined by the life of the products  
to which they relate.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or valuation,  
less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated provision  
for impairment in value. Assets in the course of construction  
are included in property, plant and equipment on the basis  
of expenditure incurred at the balance sheet date.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land. Freehold and 
long leasehold buildings are depreciated over their estimated 
useful economic lives of 50 years. Other leasehold interests are 
depreciated over the lesser of the unexpired period of the lease 
and 50 years.
The Group’s policy is to write off the cost or valuation of all other 
plant and equipment evenly over their estimated remaining useful 
life at rates which vary between eight per cent and 50 per cent  
per annum. The principal annual rate of depreciation used is  
10 per cent on plant and machinery and on fixtures and  
fittings. No depreciation is provided for assets in the course  
of construction.
Depreciation methods, residual values and useful lives are 
reviewed at least at each financial year end, taking into account 
commercial and technical obsolescence as well as normal wear 
and tear, provision being made where the carrying value exceeds 
the recoverable amount. 
Borrowing costs
Where borrowing costs are attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of a qualifying asset, such costs  
are capitalised as part of the specific asset.
Impairment
Financial assets
A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine 
whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired. A 
financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence 
indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on 
the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at 
amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying 
amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows 
discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Individually significant assets are tested for impairment on an 
individual basis. The remaining financial assets are assessed 
collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics. 
All impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement.
Non financial assets
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non financial assets, other 
than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each 
balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication 
of impairment. If any such indication exists then the asset’s 
recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill and intangible 
assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet ready for 
use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment 
whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. In addition, goodwill is tested at 
least annually for impairment. Impairment tests are performed 
for all Cash Generating Units (CGUs) to which goodwill has been 
allocated at the balance sheet date or whenever there is indication 
of impairment. For all other intangible assets, an impairment test  
is performed whenever an indicator of impairment exists.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Income 
Statement for the amount by which the asset’s carrying value 
exceeds its recoverable amount, the latter being the higher of  
the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use and, in the 
case of goodwill, is not subsequently reversed. In assessing value 
in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their 
present value using a pre tax discount rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows 
have not been adjusted.
For other intangible assets, at each balance sheet date an 
assessment is made to determine whether there is any indication 
that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods may no longer 
exist or has decreased. Where such an indication exists, an 
impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the asset’s carrying 
value does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment 
loss had been recognised.
  60 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Associated companies
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position 
to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, 
through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions 
of the investee. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the 
Group holds between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting power of 
another entity. 
The Group’s share of the results, assets and liabilities of associated 
companies are included in these Financial Statements using the 
equity method of accounting, except when classified as held 
for sale. The results are presented after interest, tax and non 
controlling interest. Investments in associates are carried in the 
Balance Sheet at cost as adjusted by the post acquisition changes 
in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate, less any 
impairment in the value of the individual investment. Losses of the 
associate in excess of the Group’s interest in that associate are not 
recognised unless the Group has a legal or constructive obligation 
to fund those losses. 
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the 
identifiable net assets at the date of acquisition of the associate  
is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition 
below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired  
(ie discount on acquisition) is credited to the Income Statement  
in the period of acquisition. 
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the 
Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the 
Group’s interest in the associate. Losses may provide evidence  
of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case 
appropriate provision is made for impairment. 
Associated companies prepare their financial information as  
at 31 December. Results for the period to 26 March and the  
Balance Sheet as at 26 March have been included in the  
consolidated statements.
Leasing
A lease is defined as an agreement whereby the lessor conveys  
to the lessee the right to use a specific asset for an agreed period 
of time in return for a payment or a series of payments.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the 
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as 
property, plant and equipment at an amount equal to the fair value 
of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease 
payments at the inception of the lease, and then depreciated 
over their useful economic lives. Lease payments are apportioned 
between repayment of capital and interest. The capital element  
of future lease payments is included in the Balance Sheet as  
a liability. Interest is charged to the Income Statement so as  
to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance  
of the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income 
Statement on a straight line basis over the lease term. Benefits 
received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating 
lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term. 
Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sublet under terms  
such that the rental income is less than the head lease rental 
cost, provision is made for the best estimate of unavoidable lease 
payments during the vacancy or on the anticipated future shortfall 
of sub lease income compared with the head lease expense.
 
Taxation
The tax expense included in the Income Statement comprises 
current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected tax payable 
on the taxable income for the year, including adjustments in 
respect of prior periods, using tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax is recognised in the Income Statement except to the extent 
that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case  
it is recognised in equity.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, 
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is measured 
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted 
by the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply when 
the asset is realised or the liability is settled. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be 
available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. 
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary 
difference arises from goodwill, not deductible for tax purposes,  
or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) 
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither  
the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising  
on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, 
except where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal 
of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow  
all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are only offset to the 
extent that there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax 
assets and current tax liabilities, they relate to taxes levied by the 
same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current 
tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise an asset and 
settle a liability simultaneously.
Inventories
Inventories and work in progress are valued at the lower of  
cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a weighted 
average cost basis and comprises directly attributable purchase 
and conversion costs, including direct labour and an allocation  
of production overheads based on normal operating capacity that 
have been incurred in bringing those inventories to their present 
location and condition. Net realisable value is the estimated selling 
price less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash 
held by the Group and short term deposits with an original maturity 
of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on 
demand and form part of the Group’s cash management are 
included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the 
purpose of the Cash Flow Statement.
Loans
Interest bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value  
less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any 
difference between cost and redemption value being recognised  
in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on  
an effective interest basis.
Accounting policies continued 61 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Employment benefits
Pensions
The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes. 
The major schemes are defined benefit pension funds with assets 
held separately from the Group. The cost of providing benefits 
under each scheme is determined using the projected unit credit 
actuarial valuation method.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and 
curtailments are included in operating costs in the Group Income 
Statement. Past service costs are similarly included where the 
benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight 
line basis over the vesting period. The expected return on assets 
of funded defined benefit pension schemes and the imputed 
interest on pension scheme liabilities are disclosed as retirement 
benefit obligation finance income and retirement benefit obligation 
finance expense respectively in the Income Statement.
Differences between the actual and expected return on assets, 
changes in the retirement benefit obligation due to experience and 
changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the statement of 
comprehensive income in full in the period in which they arise.
The liability recognised in respect of defined benefit pension plans 
is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair 
value of the scheme assets, as determined by actuarial valuations 
carried out at the balance sheet date.
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are 
charged to the Income Statement in the period to which the 
contributions relate.
Share based payments
The Group operates various equity settled and cash settled option 
schemes. For equity settled share options, the services received 
from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of 
the share options. The fair value is calculated at grant date and 
recognised in the consolidated Income Statement, together with 
a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity, on a straight 
line basis over the vesting period, based on the numbers of 
shares that are actually expected to vest, taking into account non 
market vesting conditions (including service conditions). Vesting 
conditions, other than non market based conditions, are not taken 
into account when estimating the fair value.
For cash settled share options, the services received from 
employees are measured at the fair value of the liability for options 
outstanding and recognised in the consolidated Income Statement 
on a straight line basis over the vesting period. The fair value 
of the liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at the 
date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the 
consolidated Income Statement. 
Share option schemes
The De La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust is a separately 
administered trust. Liabilities of the Trust are guaranteed by the 
Company and the assets of the Trust mainly comprise shares  
in the Company. 
The own shares held by the Trust are shown as a reduction in 
shareholders’ funds. The shares will be held at historical rates 
until such time as they are disposed of. Any profit or loss on the 
disposal of own shares is treated as a movement in reserves rather 
than as an Income Statement item.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation in respect of a past event, it is probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and where  
the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are measured  
at the Directors’ best estimate of the amount required to settle  
the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted  
where the time value of money is considered material.
Dividends
Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid 
at the year end are not recognised in the Financial Statements 
until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting. Interim dividends are recognised in the period 
that they are paid.
Non current assets held for sale
Non current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the 
lower of the asset’s previous carrying amount and fair value less 
costs to sell. No depreciation is charged on assets classified as 
held for sale. Non current assets are classified as held for sale if 
their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction 
rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as 
met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available 
for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be 
committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for 
recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date  
of classification.
New accounting standards and interpretations
The following revised and amended standards and interpretations 
have been issued but are not yet effective and therefore have  
not been adopted by the Group in these consolidated  
Financial Statements:
•  IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, which has not yet been endorsed 
by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2013, is the first part of a new 
standard on classification and measurement of financial assets 
that will replace IAS 39
•  IAS 24 (Revised), Related Party Disclosures, which has been 
endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, removes the 
requirement for government related entities to disclose details of 
transactions with the government and other government related 
entities and clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party
•  Amendment to IFRIC 14, Prepayments of a minimum funding 
requirement, which has been endorsed by the EU and which  
is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2011, applies to companies that are required to make 
minimum funding contributions to a defined benefit pension plan
•  IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity 
Instruments, which has been endorsed by the EU and  
which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or 
after 1 July 2010, clarifies the accounting treatment for equity 
instruments that are used to extinguish financial liabilities
•  Amendments to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International 
Financial Reporting Standards, Limited Exemption from 
Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters,  
which has been endorsed by the EU and which is effective  
for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010
•  Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, 
which has not yet been endorsed by the EU and which is 
effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011
•  Amendments to IAS 12, Deferred tax: Recovery of Underlying 
Assets, which has not yet been endorsed by the EU and which 
is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after  
1 January 2012
None of these revised and amended standards and interpretations 
is expected to have a material impact on the Group’s net cash 
flows, financial position, total comprehensive income or earnings 
per share.
On 12 May 2011 the IASB issued its new suite of consolidation 
and related standards, including IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial 
Statements, IAS 27 (2011) Separate Financial Statements, 
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, and IAS 28 (2011) Investments in 
Associates and Joint Ventures and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests 
in Other Entities. It also issued IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement.
The Group is currently assessing these new requirements in order 
to determine the likely impact on the Financial Statements. 62 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Critical accounting judgements and key sources  
of estimation uncertainty
The Group’s accounting policies are set out above. Management 
is required to exercise significant judgement in the application of 
these policies. Areas which management believe require the most 
critical accounting judgements or which involve estimation are  
as follows: 
Critical accounting judgements in applying the Group’s 
accounting policies
Cash flow hedge accounting
The Group enters into forward contracts to hedge the risk 
of movements in foreign exchange and interest rates. These 
contracts fall within the definition of derivative financial instruments 
and accordingly have to be recorded at fair value. Accounting 
for these contracts as cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the 
hedges are effective, the change in values of the derivatives to 
be recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated 
in equity. In order to achieve cash flow hedge accounting it is 
necessary for the Group to determine, on an on going basis, 
whether a forecast transaction being hedged is highly probable 
and whether the hedge is effective.
Exceptional items
The Directors consider items of income and expenditure which 
are both material by size and/or by nature and non recurring 
should be disclosed separately in the financial statements so as 
to help provide an indication of the Group’s underlying business 
performance. The Directors label these items collectively as 
‘exceptional items’. Determining which transactions are to be 
considered exceptional in nature is often a subjective matter. 
However, circumstances that the Directors believe would give rise 
to exceptional items for separate disclosure would include: gains 
or losses on the disposal of businesses (other than those within 
the scope of IFRS 5), curtailments on defined benefit pension 
arrangements, restructuring of businesses and asset impairments. 
All exceptional items are included on the appropriate Income 
Statement category to which they relate. 
Income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions 
and significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide 
provision for those taxes. The level of current and deferred tax 
recognised is dependent on subjective judgements as to the 
outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities in the 
various tax jurisdictions around the world in which the Group 
operates. It is necessary to consider which deferred tax assets 
should be recognised based on an assessment of the extent 
to which they are regarded as recoverable, which involves 
assessment of the future trading prospects of individual statutory 
entities. The actual outcome may vary from that anticipated. 
Where the final tax outcomes differ from the amounts initially 
recorded, there will be impacts upon income tax and deferred  
tax provisions and on the Income Statement in the period in  
which such determination is made.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Impairment of assets
The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that 
have indefinite useful lives are impaired. Other assets are reviewed 
for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its 
recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of an asset or 
a cash generating unit is determined based on value in use 
calculations prepared on the basis of management’s assumptions 
and estimates of future cash flows, discounted at suitable rates.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges
The Group measures provisions at the Directors’ best estimate of 
the amount required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet 
date, discounted where the time value of money is considered 
material. These estimates take account of available information, 
historical experience and the likelihood of different possible 
outcomes. Both the amount and the maturity of these liabilities 
could be different from those estimated. 
Pension obligations
Pension costs within the Income Statement and the pension 
obligations as stated in the Balance Sheet are both dependent 
upon a number of assumptions chosen by management. These 
include the expected long term rate of return on the relevant plan 
assets, the rate used to discount future liabilities, the expected 
longevity for current and future pensioners and estimates of future 
rates of inflation.
The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined 
on a uniform basis, taking into consideration long term historical 
returns, asset allocation and future estimates of long term 
investment returns. The discount rate is the interest rate that 
should be used to determine the present value of estimated 
future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension 
obligations. In determining the appropriate discount rate, the 
Group considers the interest rates of high quality corporate bonds 
that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be 
paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms 
of the related pension liability. 
Accounting policies continued 63 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Notes to the accounts
1 Segmental analysis
The Group’s operations are managed and reported internally on a divisional basis that reflects the different characteristics of each 
business. These divisions have been disclosed as reportable segments because they are the components that the Board monitors 
regularly in making decisions about operating matters such as allocating resources to businesses and assessing performance. Each 
division has its own managing director who reports directly to the Chief Executive. The principal financial information reviewed by the 
Board, which is the Group’s chief operating decision maker, is revenue and operating profit before exceptional items, measured on  
an IFRS basis. The Group’s segments are:
• Currency – provides printed banknotes, banknote paper and banknote security features
• Cash Processing Solutions – primarily focused on the production of large sorters for central banks, complementing the Currency business
• Security Products – produces security documents, including authentication labels and tax stamps
• Identity Systems – involved in the production of passports, including ePassports, together with other secure identity products
    Cash 
    Processing Security Identity Exceptional 
   Currency Solutions Products Systems items Total 
2011   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total revenue   289.0 57.4 63.3 62.8 – 472.5
Less: Inter segment revenue   (0.6) – (8.0) – – (8.6)
Revenue   288.4 57.4 55.3 62.8 – 463.9
Operating profit before exceptional items   28.5 0.5 9.0 2.4 – 40.4
Exceptional items – operating (note 3)    (29.0) – – – 13.4 (15.6)
Operating profit/(loss)   (0.5) 0.5 9.0 2.4 13.4 24.8
Profit on sale of associated undertaking        55.1
Net interest expense         (3.8)
Retirement benefit obligations net finance expense         (3.3)
Profit before taxation         72.8
Segment assets   197.1 35.3 23.9 53.7 – 310.0
Unallocated assets        115.5
Total assets        425.5
Segment liabilities   (106.2) (22.6) (10.8) (28.2) – (167.8)
Unallocated liabilities        (240.9)
Total liabilities        (408.7)
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment  6.1 0.8 1.7 14.6 – 23.2
Capital expenditure on intangible assets   2.3 2.7 – 2.0 – 7.0
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment   15.8 2.1 2.4 2.9 – 23.2
Amortisation of intangible assets   0.4 0.6 – 0.2 – 1.2
Inter segmental transactions are carried out on an arms length basis and eliminated upon consolidation.
    Cash 
    Processing Security Identity Exceptional 
   Currency Solutions Products Systems items Total 
2010   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total revenue    411.2   56.9   74.9   32.0  –  575.0 
Less: Inter segment revenue   (1.1) –  (12.8) – – (13.9)
Revenue   410.1  56.9  62.1  32.0  – 561.1 
Operating profit/(loss) before exceptional items    95.3  (3.5)  14.8   2.6  –  109.2 
Exceptional items – operating (note 3)    – (7.5) – – – (7.5)
Operating profit/(loss)    95.3  (11.0)  14.8   2.6  –  101.7 
Share of profits of associated companies after taxation        6.3 
Net interest expense        (5.1)
Retirement benefit obligations net finance expense         (6.3)
Profit before taxation          96.6 
Segment assets    194.4   39.5   24.9   30.2  –  289.0 
Unallocated assets         157.2 
Total assets         446.2 
Segment liabilities   (120.3) (20.9) (13.4) (14.6) – (169.2)
Unallocated liabilities        (267.5)
Total liabilities        (436.7)
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment   31.5   1.7   0.9   7.2  –  41.3 
Capital expenditure on intangible assets    3.2  –  0.2   0.7  –  4.1 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment    14.4   2.7   2.3   0.8  –  20.2 
Amortisation of intangible assets    1.5   1.0   0.1   0.2  –  2.8  64 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Notes to the accounts continued
1 Segmental analysis continued
Unallocated assets principally comprise centrally managed property, plant and equipment, associates and other investments, deferred 
tax assets, current tax assets, derivative financial instrument assets and cash and cash equivalents which are used as part of the Group’s 
financing offset arrangements. Unallocated liabilities comprise borrowings, derivative financial instrument liabilities, current and non current 
tax liabilities, deferred tax liabilities, retirement benefit obligations, and centrally held accruals and provisions.
Geographic analysis of revenue by origin
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
UK        369.7  466.0 
Other countries        94.2  95.1 
       463.9  561.1 
Geographic analysis of non current assets
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
UK        104.0  104.9 
Malta        37.5  37.6 
Sri Lanka        21.7  18.9 
Other countries        22.2  23.6 
       185.4  185.0 
Deferred tax assets and derivative financial instruments are excluded from the analysis shown above.
Major customers
There were no major customers from whom the Group derived revenues of greater than 10 per cent in the year (2010: one customer  
of £78.0m in the Currency segment).
2 Operating profit
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Operating profit is arrived at after charging/(crediting):   
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense        99.9 125.5 
Net impairment of inventories        0.2  3.5 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment:   
– purchased        23.2  18.4 
– leased        –  1.8 
Amortisation of other intangibles        1.2  2.8 
Impairment of trade receivables        – –
Operating leases:   
– hire of plant and equipment        2.2  1.9 
– hire of property        3.5 3.6
Auditor’s remuneration:   
– Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s consolidated Financial Statements  0.2 0.2
–  Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services:   
– audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation      0.4 0.5 
– tax services       0.1 0.2 
– other services       0.2 –
Research and non capitalised development expense       10.3  9.9 
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment        1.4  0.9 
Reorganisation costs (see note 3: exceptional items)       –  4.8 
Foreign exchange (losses)/gains        1.0 (8.4)
Auditor’s remuneration relates to fees paid to the Company’s current auditors KPMG Audit Plc. 65 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
3 Exceptional items
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Curtailment gain on closure of defined benefit scheme to further accrual     16.0 –
Costs relating to paper production quality issues       (29.0) –
Corporate costs       (2.6) –
Reorganisation of CPS       – (4.8)
Legacy overseas indirect tax       – (2.7)
Exceptional items in operating profit       (15.6) (7.5)
Profit on sale of associate undertaking       55.1 –
Total exceptional items       39.5 (7.5)
Tax on exceptional items        3.6  2.4 
The curtailment gain is a result of the closure, to further accruals from 2013, of the defined benefit pension scheme and the freeze  
in pensionable salary increases from the current year. These changes result in a reduction in the pension liabilities.
The Group has identified paper production quality and certification issues as more fully described in note 27: Contingent liabilities. 
Provision has been made for the costs associated with the issues identified at this stage and which include the write off of inventories 
and trade receivables and other costs relating to the investigation and rectification of these matters. Provision has not been made for the 
potential costs of resolutions or for potential fines from regulatory authorities. The nature and extent of these resolutions and potential 
fines will be the subject of ongoing discussion, the outcome of which cannot be estimated reliably at present.
Corporate costs of £2.6m were incurred in relation to the engagement of legal and professional advisors following a takeover approach 
for the Group.
The profit arising on the sale of an associated undertaking is in respect of the sale of the Group’s share in Camelot, the UK national 
lottery operator, which was completed on 8 July 2010. The gain shown represents the consideration received of £77.6m, net of 
expenses, and the cost of investment.
Exceptional charges of £7.5m in the prior year represent the resolution of a legacy overseas indirect tax issue and the reorganisation  
of CPS. Reorganisation costs principally comprised redundancy charges and rationalisation of products and site capabilities.
Tax credits relating to exceptional items arising in the year were £1.1m (2010: £1.0m). In addition, there was also an exceptional tax 
credit of £2.5m in respect of the determination of the tax treatment of prior year exceptional items (2010: £1.4m prior year credit).
4 Interest income and expense
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Recognised in the Income Statement   
Interest income:  
– Cash and cash equivalents       0.9 0.3
Interest expense:  
– Bank overdrafts       (0.9) (0.5)
– Bank loans       (2.8) (2.9)
– Finance leases       – (0.1)
– Other including amortisation of finance arrangement fees      (1.0) (1.9)
Total interest expense calculated using the effective interest method     (4.7) (5.4)
Retirement benefit obligation net finance expense (note 24)      (3.3) (6.3)
All finance income and expense arises in respect of assets and liabilities not restated to fair value through the Income Statement.
The gain to the Income Statement in respect of the ineffective portion of derivative financial instruments was £0.2m (2010: £0.3m charge) 
and is included within interest expense under the ‘Bank loans’ heading. 66 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Notes to the accounts continued
5 Taxation
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Consolidated Income Statement  
Current tax  
UK Corporation tax:  
– Current tax       0.7 19.5 
– Adjustment in respect of prior years       (4.2) (4.3)
       (3.5)  15.2 
Overseas tax charges:  
– Current year       2.9  5.2 
– Adjustment in respect of prior years       3.4 (0.7)
       6.3  4.5 
Total current income tax expense       2.8 19.7 
Deferred tax:  
– Origination and reversal of temporary differences, UK      3.3 6.1 
– Origination and reversal of temporary differences, Overseas      (0.7)  0.4 
Total deferred tax expense       2.6  6.5 
Total income tax expense in the consolidated Income Statement      5.4  26.2 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income  
– On pension actuarial adjustments       (7.7) (20.3)
– On cash flow hedges       1.9  1.9 
– On foreign exchange on quasi equity balances       0.5 (3.0)
Income tax credit reported within comprehensive income      (5.3) (21.4)
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  
– On share options       0.5  0.1 
Income tax credit reported within equity       0.5  0.1 
The tax on the Group’s consolidated profit before tax differs from the UK tax rate of 28 per cent as follows:
      2011   2010
     
    Before Exceptional  Before Exceptional 
    exceptionals items Total exceptionals items Total 
    £m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit before tax   33.3 39.5 72.8  104.1  (7.5)  96.6 
Tax calculated at UK tax rate of 28 per cent   9.3 11.1 20.4  29.1  (2.1)  27.0 
Effects of overseas taxation   (1.4) – (1.4) (1.9) – (1.9)
Non taxable disposal of investment in Camelot   – (15.4) (15.4) – – –
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes   1.2 1.5 2.7  1.1  1.1   2.2
Adjustment for tax on profits of associate   – – – (1.8) – (1.8)
(Utilisation)/increase in unutilised tax losses   (0.7) 1.7 1.0 (0.2) – (0.2)
Adjustments in respect of prior years   0.7 (2.5) (1.8)  2.3 (1.4) 0.9
Change in UK tax rate   (0.1) – (0.1) – – –
Tax charge/(credit)   9.0 (3.6) 5.4  28.6  (2.4)  26.2 
The underlying effective tax rate excluding exceptional items was 27.0 per cent (2010: 27.5 per cent). 67 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
6 Earnings per share
       2011 2010 
       pence per pence per 
       share share
Earnings per share   
Basic earnings per share       67.6 71.0 
Diluted earnings per share       67.2 70.5 
Headline earnings per share  
Basic earnings per share       24.0 76.2 
Diluted earnings per share       23.9 75.7 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number  
of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted for the impact of all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares.
The Directors are of the opinion that the publication of the headline earnings per share, before exceptional items, is useful to readers  
of the accounts as it gives an indication of underlying business performance.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below:
Earnings
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Earnings for basic and diluted earnings per share       66.9 69.9 
Exceptional items       (39.5) 7.5 
Less: Tax on exceptional items       (3.6) (2.4)
Earnings for headline earnings per share       23.8 75.0 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
       2011 2010 
       Number Number 
       m m
For basic earnings per share       99.0 98.4 
Dilutive effect of share options       0.6 0.7 
For diluted earnings per share       99.6 99.1 
7 Equity dividends
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Final dividend for the year ended 27 March 2010 of 28.2p paid on 5 August 2010    27.9 –
Interim dividend for the period ended 25 September 2010 of 14.1p paid on 12 January 2011   14.0 –
Final dividend for the year ended 28 March 2009 of 27.4p paid on 31 July 2009    – 27.0
Interim dividend for the period ended 26 September 2009 of 14.1p paid on 13 January 2010   – 13.9
       41.9 40.9
A final dividend per equity share of 28.2 pence has been proposed for the year ended 26 March 2011, payable on 4 August 2011.  
In accordance with IFRS accounting requirements, this dividend has not been accrued in these consolidated Financial Statements.
  68 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Notes to the accounts continued
8 Property, plant and equipment
    Land and Plant and Fixtures and In course of 
    buildings machinery fittings construction Total 
    £m £m £m £m £m
Cost     
At 28 March 2009     53.6 282.0 16.0 14.5 366.1
Exchange differences     (0.1)  0.3   0.1  (0.5) (0.2)
Additions     –  17.9   0.6   22.8  41.3 
Transfers from assets in the course of construction    –  13.2   1.7  (14.9) –
Disposals     – (6.9) (0.6) (1.9) (9.4)
At 27 March 2010     53.5   306.5   17.8   20.0   397.8 
Exchange differences     (0.4) (2.1) (0.2) (0.1) (2.8)
Additions     – 8.8 0.9 13.5 23.2
Transfers from assets in the course of construction    1.1 11.8 0.6 (13.5) –
Reclassifications    – (3.5) 3.5 – –
Disposals     (0.1) (6.6) (1.9) (0.7) (9.3)
At 26 March 2011    54.1 314.9 20.7 19.2 408.9
Accumulated depreciation      
At 28 March 2009     20.0   186.2   11.6  –  217.8 
Exchange differences     –  0.3   0.1  – 0.4 
Depreciation charge for the year      1.2   17.4   1.6  – 20.2 
Disposals     – (5.8) (0.4) – (6.2)
At 27 March 2010     21.2   198.1   12.9  –  232.2 
Exchange differences     (0.1) (1.3) (0.2) – (1.6)
Depreciation charge for the year     1.5 20.1 1.6 – 23.2
Reclassifications    – (3.2) 3.2 – –
Disposals     (0.1) (5.6) (1.2) – (6.9)
At 26 March 2011    22.5 208.1 16.3 – 246.9
Net book value at 26 March 2011    31.6 106.8 4.4 19.2 162.0
Net book value at 27 March 2010     32.3   108.4   4.9   20.0   165.6 
Net book value at 28 March 2009    33.6 95.8 4.4 14.5 148.3
Included within plant and machinery are assets held under finance leases with net book value of £0.2m (2010: £0.2m). Additions include 
£nil (2010: £0.1m) for plant and machinery held under finance leases. Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease 
liabilities.
Land and buildings includes £4.1m (2010: £4.3m) of land that is not subject to depreciation.
Property, plant and equipment do not include any capitalised interest.
  69 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
9 Intangible assets
     Development Software Distribution 
    Goodwill costs assets rights Total 
    £m £m £m £m £m
Cost     
At 28 March 2009    8.3 10.4 5.8 0.4 24.9
Exchange differences      0.2  (0.2) – – –
Additions     –  2.3   1.8  – 4.1 
At 27 March 2010     8.5   12.5   7.6   0.4   29.0 
Exchange differences     (0.1) (0.5) – – (0.6)
Additions     – 5.6 1.4 – 7.0
Disposals    – (1.6) (0.6) – (2.2)
At 26 March 2011    8.4 16.0 8.4 0.4 33.2
Accumulated amortisation     
At 28 March 2009     0.3  1.2 4.7 0.4 6.6
Exchange differences      0.1  – – –  0.1 
Amortisation for the year     –  1.5   1.3  – 2.8 
Impairment     0.2  – – – 0.2 
At 27 March 2010     0.6   2.7   6.0   0.4   9.7 
Exchange differences     – (0.1) – – (0.1)
Amortisation for the year    – 1.1 0.1 – 1.2
Disposals    – (0.9) – – (0.9)
At 26 March 2011    0.6 2.8 6.1 0.4 9.9
Carrying value at 26 March 2011    7.8 13.2 2.3 – 23.3
Carrying value at 27 March 2010     7.9   9.8   1.6  –  19.3 
Carrying value at 28 March 2009    8.0 9.2 1.1 – 18.3
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s Cash Generating Units (CGUs) identified according to business segment and country of operation.
A segment level summary of the goodwill allocation is presented below:
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Currency       4.3  4.3 
Cash Processing Solutions       3.5  3.6 
       7.8  7.9 
The majority of the goodwill relates to the acquisition of CSI Inc in 2001 which was allocated to Currency and Cash Processing Solutions 
on the basis that the acquired business generated synergies for both CGUs. The estimates of recoverable amount are based on value in 
use calculations which are based on cash flow projections covering a five year period based on the 2011/12 budget plus a terminal year. 
The key assumptions underlying these projections are summarised below:
(a) Currency: The volume and price of orders secured, particularly in respect of banknotes and banknote papers, are based  
on a combination of the current order book and past experience, taking into account: 
(i) Expectations in respect of economic growth and central banks’ banknote circulation policies
(ii) The Group’s knowledge of its customer base, gained through its long standing relationships with them
Material input prices and foreign exchange rates are also factors but are not considered significant in the context of the headroom 
available in the calculations.
(b) Cash Processing Solutions: Unit sales of large sorters and the extent of maintenance income generated from these sales are based 
on a combination of orders on hand and past experience 
The pre tax discount rate used for both Currency and Cash Processing Solutions was 13.4 per cent (2010: 13.4 per cent). The discount 
rates applied take into account the Group’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and the relative risks associated with the CGUs’ 
operations. The post tax discount rate used is unchanged compared to the prior year, reflecting the fact that the Group’s WACC has not 
changed and the risks associated with the CGUs in question have not materially changed. Cash flows beyond the period covered by the 
projections have been held constant.
Sensitivity analysis has been performed and management do not consider there to be any reasonably possible change in assumptions 
that could result in the assets’ recoverable amounts falling below their book values. 
  70 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Notes to the accounts continued
10 Investments
        Associated companies
     
       Equity Redeemable 
       shares shares Total 
       £m £m £m
At 28 March 2009      11.1  10.0 21.1
Share of post tax profits        6.3  –  6.3 
Dividends paid       (6.8) – (6.8)
Reclassification as non current assets held for sale      (10.5) (10.0) (20.5)
At 27 March 2010 and 26 March 2011       0.1  – 0.1
At 27 March 2010, the principal associate of the Group was Camelot Group plc, in which the Group had a 20 per cent equity holding. 
The Group held 10,000,000 redeemable shares of £1 each in Camelot Group plc. The redeemable shares did not carry any voting  
rights but ranked equally with ordinary shares for dividend and return of capital purposes. On 25 March 2010, the Group announced  
the proposed sale of its investment in Camelot Group plc and the investment was reclassified as a non current asset held for sale  
from that date.
11 Non current assets held for sale
The sale of the Group’s investment in Camelot to Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan was completed on 8 July 2010, for a consideration  
of £77.6m. 
12 Inventories
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Raw materials        21.2  19.5 
Work in progress        26.6  23.0 
Finished goods        19.7  18.5 
       67.5  61.0 
The replacement cost of inventories is not materially different from original cost.
Provisions of £3.6m recognised in pre exceptional operating expenses were made against inventories in 2011 (2010: £5.2m). The Group 
also reversed provisions of £3.4m (2010: £1.7m), being part of an inventory write down that was not subsequently required. 
13 Trade and other receivables 
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Trade receivables        75.3  71.1 
Provision for impairment        (4.7) (3.9)
Net trade receivables        70.6  67.2 
Amounts due from associated companies and joint ventures      0.3  0.6 
Other receivables        13.2  4.8 
Prepayments        5.6  3.9 
       89.7  76.5 
The carrying value of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair value.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the Group has a large number of customers, internationally 
dispersed.
  71 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
14 Financial instruments
Financial risk management
Overview
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
• Credit risk
• Liquidity risk
• Market risk
 – Currency risk
 – Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, its objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk and the 
management of capital are set out below.
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The Board has 
established the Risk Committee, which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Group’s risk management policies. The 
Committee reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits 
and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect 
changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, 
aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Group’s overall financial risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise 
potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk 
exposures. Financial risk management is carried out by Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Group’s operating units. Group Treasury 
provides written principles for overall risk management as well as policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest 
rate risk, use of derivative financial instruments and the investment of excess liquidity.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures  
and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The Audit Committee is 
assisted in its oversight role by the Internal Audit function. The Internal Audit function undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews  
of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers and investment securities.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the 
Group’s customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, has less of an influence on 
credit risk. Geographically, there is no concentration of credit risk. Where appropriate, letters of credit are used to mitigate the credit risk 
from customers.
The Group has established a credit policy that ensures that sales of products are made to customers with an appropriate credit 
history. The Group has a policy to procure advance payments during order negotiation which further reduces credit risk. Derivative 
counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high credit quality financial institutions and the Group has policies that limit the 
amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both 
normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an 
adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying 
businesses, Group Treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Group’s income 
or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk 
exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return.
Currency risk
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with 
respect to the US dollar and the euro. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities, 
unrecognised firm commitments and net investments in foreign operations.
To manage their foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in the 
Group use forward contracts, transacted with Group Treasury. Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or 
recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. Group Treasury is responsible  
for managing the net position in each currency via foreign exchange contracts transacted with financial institutions.
The Group’s risk management policy aims to hedge firm commitments and between 60 per cent and 100 per cent of forecast exposures 
in each major currency for the subsequent 12 months to the extent that forecast transactions are highly probable.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. The Group’s 
policy is to manage the currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations primarily through borrowings 
denominated in the relevant foreign currencies and through foreign currency swaps.
  72 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Notes to the accounts continued 
14 Financial instruments continued
Interest rate risk
All material financial assets and liabilities are maintained at floating rates of interest. Where the Group has forecast average levels of debt 
above £50m on a continuing basis, floating to fixed interest rate swaps will be used to fix the interest rate on a minimum of 50 per cent 
of the Group’s debt for a period of at least 12 months.
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. The Group finances its operations through a mixture of equity funding and debt financing. The Board of 
Directors monitors earnings per share, which the Group defines as the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. The Board also monitors the level of dividends to ordinary 
shareholders. There were no changes to the Group’s approach to capital management during the year.
Fair values
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the Balance Sheet, are as follows:
    Fair value  Total fair Carrying Total fair Carrying 
    measurement  value amount value amount 
    basis  2011 2011 2010 2010 
     £m £m £m £m
Financial assets     
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments)     84.1 84.1  72.6   72.6 
Cash and cash equivalents      32.6 32.6  41.6   41.6 
Derivative financial instruments:      
– Forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges    Level 2 4.0 4.0  3.6   3.6 
– Forward exchange contracts not designated as cash flow hedges   Level 2 3.5 3.5  3.0   3.0 
– Embedded derivatives     Level 2 8.3 8.3  14.6   14.6 
Total financial assets     132.5 132.5 135.4  135.4 
Financial liabilities     
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts      (63.7) (63.7) (52.4) (52.4)
Finance lease liabilities      (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) (0.2)
Trade and other payables (excluding accruals)      (47.2) (47.2) (58.4) (58.4)
Derivative financial instruments:     
– Forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges   Level 2 (2.5) (2.5) (3.3) (3.3)
– Forward exchange contracts not designated as cash flow hedges  Level 2 (5.4) (5.4) (14.5) (14.5)
– Embedded derivatives    Level 2 (6.1) (6.1) (8.4) (8.4)
– Interest rate swaps    Level 2 (0.1) (0.1) (0.6) (0.6)
Total financial liabilities     (125.1) (125.1) (137.8) (137.8)
The ineffective portion of fair value hedges that was recognised in the Income Statement amounted to a gain of £0.2m (2010: £0.3m 
loss). The ineffective portion of cash flow hedges that was recognised in the Income Statement was a gain of £0.5m (2010: nil).
Fair value measurement basis for derivative financial instruments
The valuation bases are classified according to the degree of estimation required in arriving at the fair values. Level 1 valuations are 
derived from unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets, level 2 valuations use observable inputs for  
the assets or liabilities other than quoted prices, while level 3 valuations are not based on observable market data and are subject  
to management estimates.
Determination of fair values of derivative financial instruments
Fair value is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest  
at the reporting date.
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging
The fair value of forward exchange contracts has been determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Interest rate swaps
Interest rate swaps are measured by reference to third party bank confirmations and discounted cash flows using the yield curves  
in effect at the balance sheet date.
Embedded derivatives
The fair value of embedded derivatives is calculated based on the present value of forecast future exposures on relevant sales  
and purchase contracts and using quoted forward foreign exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The movement in fair value  
of embedded derivatives is shown within revenue or operating expenses as appropriate, depending on the nature of the transaction.
Determination of fair values of non derivative financial assets and liabilities
Trade and other receivables and payables
Due to their short maturities, trade and other payables, and trade and other receivables have been stated at their book values which 
approximate their fair values.
Non derivative financial liabilities
Fair value is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest  
at the reporting date. The interest rates used to discount estimated cash flows, where applicable, are based on sterling LIBOR.  
At 26 March 2011 the discount rate used was 1.0 per cent (2010: 1.0 per cent). 73 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
14 Financial instruments continued
Hedge reserves
Net movements in the hedge reserve are shown in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity. The hedge reserve balance at  
27 March 2010 was £3.9m.
Comprehensive income for 2010/11 was £4.9m comprising £1.2m of fair value movements on new and continuing cash flow hedges, 
and a £5.9m charge transferred to the Income Statement on maturing cash flow hedges, less £0.3m ineffectiveness on derecognition  
of cash flow hedges. Deferred tax on the net income of £6.8m amounted to £1.9m.
The hedge reserve balance on 26 March 2011 was £1.0m.
Credit risk
Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting 
date was:
         Carrying amount
     
        2011 2010 
       Notes £m £m
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments)      14 84.1 72.6 
Cash and cash equivalents       16 32.6 41.6 
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging        7.5 6.6 
Embedded derivatives        8.3 14.6 
       132.5  135.4 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was:
         Carrying amount
     
        2011 2010 
        £m £m
UK and Ireland        18.9 8.8 
Rest of Europe        8.5 6.2 
The Americas        10.0 12.6 
Rest of world        46.7 45.0 
       84.1 72.6 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables at the reporting date by type of customer was:
         Carrying amount
     
        2011 2010 
        £m £m
Banks and financial institutions        41.0 32.2 
Government institutions        21.1 22.8 
Distributors        3.0 4.1 
Retail customers        1.6  1.3 
End user customers        7.3 4.1 
Other       10.1 8.1 
       84.1 72.6 
Impairment losses
The ageing of trade and other receivables at the reporting date was:
     Gross Impairment Gross Impairment 
     2011 2011 2010 2010 
     £m £m £m £m
Not past due      55.2 –  58.0  (0.2)
Past due 0-30 days      18.7 –  9.8  –
Past due 31-120 days      11.0 (2.0)  4.6  (0.8)
Past due more than 120 days      3.9 (2.7)  4.1  (2.9)
     88.8 (4.7) 76.5  (3.9)
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Balance at beginning of year        (3.9) (4.1)
Impairment losses recognised       (1.5) (0.7)
Impairment losses utilised        0.7 0.9 
Balance at end of year       (4.7) (3.9)
The allowance accounts in respect of trade receivables are used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that  
no recovery of the amount owing is possible; at that point the amounts considered irrecoverable are written off against the financial  
asset directly.
At 26 March 2011, the Group does not have any collective impairments on its trade receivables (2010: nil).
Based on past experience, the Group believes that no further impairment is required for financial assets that are neither past due  
nor impaired. 74 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Notes to the accounts continued 
14 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The following are the contractual undiscounted cash flow maturities of financial liabilities, including contractual interest payments and 
excluding the impact of netting agreements.
      Total Impact of 
   Due within Due between Due between undiscounted discounting Carrying 
   1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years cash flows and netting amount 
26 March 2011   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non derivative financial liabilities       
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts    63.7 – – 63.7 – 63.7
Finance lease liabilities    0.1 – – 0.1 – 0.1
Derivative financial liabilities       
Forward exchange contracts used for cash flow hedging:       
– Gross amount payable from currency derivatives    179.3 11.5 – 190.8 (183.0) 7.8
Interest rate swaps    0.2 – – 0.2 (0.1) 0.1
   243.3 11.5 – 254.8 (183.1) 71.7
      Total Impact of 
   Due within Due between Due between undiscounted discounting Carrying 
   1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years cash flows and netting amount 
27 March 2010   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non derivative financial liabilities       
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts     52.4  – –  52.4  –  52.4 
Finance lease liabilities     0.2  0.1  –  0.3   (0.1)   0.2 
Derivative financial liabilities       
Forward exchange contracts used for cash flow hedging:       
– Gross amount payable from currency derivatives     173.8   53.1   2.1   229.0  (211.2)  17.8 
Interest rate swaps     1.1   0.2  –  1.3  (0.7)  0.6 
    227.5   53.4   2.1   283.0  (212.0)  71.0 
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more 
than 12 months and as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Forward foreign exchange contracts
The net principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 26 March 2011 are US dollar 35.0m, euro 69.7m, 
Swiss franc (16.1m), Canadian dollar (0.4m), and South African rand 4.3m.
The net principal amounts outstanding under forward contracts with maturities greater than 12 months are euro 10.3m. These forward 
contracts are designated as cash flow hedges or fair value hedges as appropriate. 
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts at 26 March 2011 will be released 
to the Income Statement at various dates between one month and 36 months from the balance sheet date. 
Cash management swaps
The Group uses currency swaps to manage the level of borrowings in foreign currencies. The fair value of cash management currency 
swaps at 26 March 2011 was nil (2010: nil). Gains and losses on cash management swaps are included in the consolidated Income 
Statement.
The principal amounts outstanding under cash management currency swaps at 26 March 2011 are US dollar 8.1m, euro (4.7m), 
Canadian dollar 0.9m, Swiss franc (0.7m), South African rand 26.2m, Japanese yen 5.3m and Australian dollar (0.8m).
Embedded derivatives
Embedded derivatives relate to sales and purchase contracts denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the 
customer/supplier, or a currency that is not deemed to be a commonly used currency of the country in which the customer/supplier  
is based. The net fair value of embedded derivatives at 26 March 2011 was £2.2m (2010: £6.2m).
Balance sheet swaps
The Group uses currency swaps to manage the translational exposure of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies. The fair value of balance sheet swaps as at 26 March 2011 was £0.2m (2010: nil). Gains and losses on balance sheet swaps 
are included in the consolidated Income Statement.
The principal amounts outstanding under balance sheet swaps at 26 March 2011 are US dollar 34.8m, euro 3.9m, Canadian dollar 
0.8m, Swiss franc (5.7m), South African rand 3.8m, Mexican peso (53.7m), and Hong Kong dollar 2.2m. 75 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
14 Financial instruments continued
Market risk: Currency risk
Exposure to currency risk
Net investment hedging
The Group’s policy is not to hedge net investments in subsidiaries or the translation of profits or losses generated in overseas subsidiaries.
Translation of monetary assets and liabilities
Where individual Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, the net exposure, where material, is hedged 
in order to minimise translational gains and losses in the Income Statement.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:
       Average rate Reporting date spot rate
       
      2011 2010 2011 2010
US dollar     1.55 1.58 1.61 1.49
Euro     1.17 1.13 1.14 1.11
Sensitivity analysis
A 10 per cent strengthening of sterling against the following currencies at 26 March 2011 and 27 March 2010 would have increased/
(decreased) profit or loss by the amounts shown below, based on the Group’s external monetary assets and liabilities excluding hedging 
transactions. The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. The analysis is performed on the 
same basis for 2010.
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
US dollar       0.2 (1.7)
Euro       (0.5)  0.8 
A 10 per cent weakening of sterling against the above currencies at 26 March 2011 and 27 March 2010 would have had the equal but 
opposite effect to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
Transactional exposure
To manage their foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in the 
Group use forward contracts, transacted with Group Treasury. Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or 
recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. Group Treasury is responsible  
for managing the net position in each currency via foreign exchange contracts transacted with financial institutions.
The Group’s risk management policy aims to hedge firm commitments and between 60 per cent and 100 per cent of forecast exposures 
in each major currency for the subsequent 12 months to the extent that forecast transactions are highly probable.
Market risk: Interest rate risk
Interest rate profile
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest bearing financial instruments was:
         Carrying amount
     
        2011 2010 
        £m £m
Variable rate instruments   
Financial assets        32.6  41.6 
Financial liabilities        (63.8) (52.6)
       (31.2) (11.0)
As at 26 March 2011 the Group does not hold any fixed rate instruments.
Where the Group has forecast average levels of net debt above £50m on a continuing basis, Group policy is to maintain a minimum  
of 50 per cent of the Group’s average net debt fixed for a period of at least 12 months. 
The Group has reduced its exposure to cash flow interest rate risk through interest rate swaps with notional principal amounts of £50m, 
which have the effect of fixing the interest cost on £50m of borrowings under the Group’s committed bank facility until May 2011 at an 
average rate of 1.74 per cent against receipt of 1 month LIBOR. As at 26 March 2011 £50m of the interest rate swaps were treated as  
ineffective because of reduced levels of sterling debt. The cumulative fair value of these swaps has been shown in the Income Statement.
Sensitivity analysis
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit and loss by the 
amounts shown below. The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. The analysis  
is performed on the same basis for 2010.
       Profit and Loss  Equity
       
      100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 
      increase decrease increase decrease 
      £m £m £m £m
Variable rate instruments cash flow sensitivity (net)    
26 March 2011     (0.2) 0.2 – –
27 March 2010      0.3  (0.3)  0.3  (0.3)
  76 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Notes to the accounts continued 
15 Cash and cash equivalents 
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand       31.9  35.1 
Short term bank deposits       0.7  6.5 
       32.6  41.6 
The effective interest rate on short term bank deposits was 0.5 per cent (2010: 1.0 per cent) and subject to one day notice for repayment.
An analysis of cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts is shown in the Group Cash Flow Statement.
All cash and deposits are of a floating rate nature, earn interest based on the relevant national LIBID equivalents and are recoverable 
within three months.
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 14.
16 Deferred taxation
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The offset amounts are as follows:
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Deferred tax assets       27.8 36.5
Deferred tax liabilities       (1.0) (0.3)
       26.8 36.2
The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows:
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Beginning of the year       36.2 29.3
Exchange differences       (0.2) (0.2)
Income statement charge        (2.6) (6.5)
Tax credited to equity        (6.6) 13.6
End of the year       26.8 36.2
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the 
same tax jurisdiction, is as follows:
    Property, 
    plant and Fair value Development 
    equipment gains costs Other Total 
    £m £m £m £m £m
Liabilities     
At 28 March 2009    7.4 0.4 0.8 1.4 10.0
Recognised in the Income Statement    0.9 – 0.5 (0.8) 0.6
At 27 March 2010    8.3 0.4 1.3 0.6 10.6
Recognised in the Income Statement    0.5 – 0.6 (0.1) 1.0
Recognised in equity    – – – 0.4 0.4
At 26 March 2011    8.8 0.4 1.9 0.9 12.0
    Share Retirement 
    options benefits Tax losses Other Total 
    £m £m £m £m £m
Assets     
At 28 March 2009    (2.9) (19.4) – (17.0) (39.3)
Recognised in the Income Statement    1.4 (0.5) (0.3) 5.3 5.9
Recognised in equity     0.1  (15.6) –  1.9  (13.6)
Exchange differences    – – – 0.2 0.2
At 27 March 2010    (1.4) (35.5) (0.3) (9.6) (46.8)
Recognised in the Income Statement    (0.3) 3.6 (0.7) (1.0) 1.6
Recognised in equity    0.5 4.2 – 1.5 6.2
Exchange differences    – – – 0.2 0.2
At 26 March 2011    (1.2) (27.7) (1.0) (8.9) (38.8) 77 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
16 Deferred taxation continued
Other deferred assets and liabilities predominantly relate to tax associated with provisions (£4.1m), and overseas tax credits (£4.1m).
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax losses available to carry forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax 
benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
The Group has not recognised deferred income tax assets of £3.2m (2010: £2.5m) in respect of losses amounting to £12.6m  
(2010: £9.8m) that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
Unremitted earnings totalled £429.3m at 26 March 2011 (2010: £558.9m). Deferred income tax liabilities have not been recognised  
for the withholding tax and other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries where the timing  
of the reversal can be controlled and it was considered unlikely that dividends would be paid from those subsidiaries.
UK capital losses of £337.0m are carried forward at 26 March 2011 (2010: £337.0m). No deferred tax asset has been recognised  
in respect of these losses. 
UK tax rate
Finance (No 2) Act 2010 was substantively enacted on 27 July 2010 and included legislation to reduce the main rate of UK corporation 
tax from 28 per cent to 27 per cent from 1 April 2011. For the year ended 26 March 2011, as the reduction in statutory rate by 1 per cent  
has been substantively enacted, deferred tax has been recognised on the Balance Sheet at 27 per cent and therefore the UK deferred 
tax liabilities/assets have been reduced accordingly.
A further reduction to the main rate was announced in the 2011 Budget on 23 March 2011 reducing the rate by an additional 1 per cent  
to 26 per cent from April 2011. This will be substantively enacted after 26 March 2011 and therefore has not been reflected in the deferred 
tax figures on the Balance Sheet. 
17 Trade and other payables
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Current liabilities  
Payments received on account        54.6  42.9 
Trade payables        23.8  26.9 
Amounts owed to associated companies        1.9  1.1 
Social security and other taxation        3.4  2.0 
Deferred income        5.1  3.7 
Accrued expenses        59.8  63.2 
Other payables        15.8  24.4 
       164.4  164.2 
Non current liabilities  
Payments received on account       –  1.1 
Other payables       2.4  4.0 
       2.4  5.1 
The Directors consider the carrying amounts of trade and other payables to approximate to their fair values.
Payments received on account relate to monies received from customers under contract prior to commencement of production  
of goods or delivery of services.
The Group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 14.
  78 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Notes to the accounts continued 
18 Borrowings 
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest bearing loans and borrowings, which are measured  
at amortised cost. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risk, see note 14.
     Face Carrying Face Carrying 
     value amount value amount 
   Nominal Year of 2011 2011 2010 2010 
  Currency interest rate maturity £m £m £m £m
Current liabilities        
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts  CHF 1.60% 2011 0.3 0.3 – –
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts  EUR 2.63% 2011 1.6 1.6 0.2 0.2
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts  LKR 12.50% 2011 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts  INR 15.50% 2011 0.2 0.2 – –
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts  GBP 2.64% 2011 37.1 37.1 25.0 25.0
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts   USD  2.34% 2011 21.7 21.7  22.9   22.9 
Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts   BRL  16.90% 2011 2.5 2.5  3.4   3.4 
Finance leases   GBP  1.00% 2011 0.1 0.1  0.1   0.1 
     63.8 63.8  51.7   51.7 
Non current liabilities       
Unsecured bank loans repayable by instalments  EUR 0% 2011 – –  0.8   0.8 
Finance leases  GBP 1.00% 2011 – –  0.1   0.1 
     – – 0.9 0.9
Total interest bearing liabilities     63.8 63.8  52.6   52.6 
In 2011, bank loans and overdrafts of £109.1m (2010 £107.9m) were pooled for interest purposes against cash and cash equivalents.
As at 26 March 2011, the Group has a total of undrawn committed borrowing facilities, all maturing in more than two years, of £120.9m 
(2010: £125.2m).
Finance lease liabilities 
Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows:
     Present   Present 
   Future  value of Future  value of 
   minimum  minimum minimum  minimum 
   lease  lease lease  lease 
   payments Interest payments payments Interest payments 
   2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year    0.1  – 0.1  0.2  (0.1)  0.1 
Between one and five years   – – –  0.1  –  0.1 
    0.1  – 0.1  0.3  (0.1)  0.2  79 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
19 Provisions for liabilities and charges
     Business 
    Restructuring disposals Warranty Other Total 
    £m £m £m £m £m
At 27 March 2010     5.8   1.1   13.9   5.3   26.1 
Exchange differences    – – – (0.3) (0.3)
Charge for the year     – – 22.6 0.9 23.5
Utilised in year    (3.4) – (11.0) (2.0) (16.4)
Released in year    – – (5.6) (0.3) (5.9)
At 26 March 2011    2.4 1.1 19.9 3.6 27.0
Restructuring provisions relate to exceptional amounts set aside for various reorganisations, principally within CPS. Most of the utilisation 
of these provisions is likely within the next year.
Business disposal provisions represent amounts provided for warranties and indemnities in respect of businesses sold by the Group.  
The majority of these provisions are expected to be utilised within one year.
Warranty provisions relate to present obligations for defective products and include known claims as well as anticipated claims that  
had not been reported at the balance sheet date. The provisions are management judgements based on information currently available, 
past history and experience of the products sold. However, it is inherent in the nature of the business that the actual liabilities may differ 
from the provisions. The precise timing of the utilisation of these provisions is uncertain but is generally expected to fall within the year.
Warranty provisions include £5.0m in respect of the paper production quality issues described in note 3: Exceptional items, which are 
expected to be utilised within twelve months.
Other provisions comprise a number of liabilities with varying expected utilisation rates. There are no individually material provisions  
within this total.
20 Share capital 
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Issued and fully paid  
99,202,592 ordinary shares of 44
152
/175 p each (2010: 98,882,856 ordinary shares of 44
152
/175 p each)  44.5  44.4 
111,673,300 deferred shares of 1p each (2010: 111,673,300 deferred shares of 1p each)   1.1  1.1 
       45.6 45.5
       2011  2010
       
         B shares/ 
      Ordinary Deferred Ordinary Deferred 
      shares shares shares shares 
      ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000
Allotments during the year    
Shares in issue at 27 March 2010/28 March 2009     98,883 111,673  97,787   111,673 
Issued under executive share option plans     18 –  49  –
Issued under savings related share option scheme     163 –  415  –
Issued under US employee share purchase plan     14 –  16  –
Issued under deferred bonus and matching share plan    125 –  616  –
Shares in issue at 26 March 2011/27 March 2010     99,203 111,673  98,883  111,673
The deferred shares carry no voting rights and are unlisted.
  80 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Notes to the accounts continued 
21 Share based payments 
At 26 March 2011, De La Rue plc has a number of share based payment plans, which are described below. These plans have been 
accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2, Share Based Payments, which means that IFRS 2 has 
been applied to all grants of employee share based payments granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested at 1 January 2005 
and cash settled awards outstanding at 1 January 2005. 
The compensation cost and related liability that have been recognised for De La Rue’s share based compensation plans are set out in 
the table below:
      Expense recognised for the year Liability at end of year
       
      2011 2010 2011 2010 
      £m £m £m £m
Annual bonus plan     0.1 – – –
Deferred bonus and matching plan     0.5 0.9 – –
Performance share plan     0.1 – – –
Recruitment share award     0.6 – – –
Retention share award     0.4 – – –
Savings related share option plan     0.2 0.6 – –
US employee share plan     – 0.1 – –
     1.9 1.6 – –
The fair value of share options is estimated at the date of grant using a lattice based option valuation model. The significant assumptions 
used in the valuation model are disclosed below.
 Annual bonus Deferred bonus Executive share Performance 
Arrangement  plan and matching plan option plan share plan
Dates of current year grants 26 Nov 2010 n/a n/a 26 Nov 2010
    31 Jan 2011
Number of options granted 92,939 n/a n/a 137,263
    111,433
Exercise price n/a n/a n/a n/a
Contractual life (years) 3 n/a n/a 3
Settlement  Shares Shares Shares Shares
Vesting period (years) 3 n/a n/a 3
Dividend yield n/a n/a n/a n/a
Fair value per option at grant date £5.60 n/a n/a £4.87
    £5.97
 Recruitment  Retention Savings related US employee 
Arrangement share award share award share option plan share plan
Dates of current year grants 31 Jan 2011 31 Jan 2011 23 Dec 2010 01 Jan 2011
Number of options granted 65,549 45,844 1,515,182 17,644 
    (estimated)
Exercise price n/a n/a 444.14 See below
Contractual life (years) 3 3 3 or 5 1
Settlement  Shares Shares Shares Shares
Vesting period (years) 3 3 3 or 5 1
Dividend yield n/a n/a 4.5% n/a
Fair value per option at grant date £6.87 £6.87 £1.28 for  n/a
   3 year plan 
   £1.38 for 
   5 year plan 
An expected volatility rate of 30 per cent (2010: 25 per cent) has been used for grants in the period. This rate is based on historical 
volatility over the last three years. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate of return is the yield on 
zero coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. The rate applied during the year was in the region 
of 1.5 or 2.4 per cent depending on exact grant date.
Reconciliations of option movements over the year to 26 March 2011 for each class of options are shown below:
Annual Bonus Plan
For details of the Annual Bonus Plan, refer to the Remuneration report on pages 42 to 50.
       2011 2010 
       Number of Number of 
       options options 
       ‘000 ‘000
Options outstanding at start of year       – –
Granted       93 –
Forfeited        – –
Exercised       – –
Expired       – –
Outstanding at end of year       93 –
Exercisable at year end       – –
The shares have been allocated based on a share price of 559.5p. 81 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
21 Share based payments continued
Deferred Bonus and Matching Plan
The Plan is open to eligible senior executives around the Group. The Plan is a combination of three elements: deferred allocation, 
dividend allocation and matching allocation. The matching allocation is linked to the deferred allocation and is subject to the following 
performance condition: up to 50 per cent of the award is released subject to an earnings per share test and up to 50 per cent is released 
based on the performance of the total shareholder return test (TSR) against the companies in the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts. 
The performance conditions are described in more detail on page 49. The TSR performance condition has been incorporated into the 
Monte Carlo simulation model used to estimate the fair value of these options.
       2011 2010 
       Number of Number of 
       options options 
       ‘000 ‘000
Options outstanding at start of year       422  887 
Granted – deferred shares        –  82 
Granted – matching shares       –  117 
Forfeited        (70) (72)
Exercised       (118) (592)
Expired       – –
Outstanding at end of year       234  422 
Exercisable at year end       – –
In 2010 the deferred and matching shares were based on a share price of 858.55p.
Executive Share Option Plan
The Executive Share Option Plan was open to eligible senior executives around the Group. Options were granted at a price equal to the 
average market price of a share over the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant with a performance condition based 
on the achievement of an earnings per share growth target. The performance condition relates to the achievement over three years of  
3 per cent per annum earnings per share growth over the rate of increase in the Retail Price Index. If this condition is not met at the end 
of the performance period the options will lapse. For grants of options before April 2004 retesting of the performance target was allowed 
twice, on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date. A pre vesting forfeiture rate of 5 per cent per annum has been assumed.
       2011  2010
       
       Weighted  Weighted 
       average  average 
      Number of exercise price Number of exercise price 
      options pence per options pence per 
      ‘000 share ‘000 share
Options outstanding at start of year      10   388.05   40   373.59 
Granted     – – – –
Forfeited     – – – –
Exercised     – – (30)  368.59 
Expired     – – – –
Outstanding at end of year      10   388.05   10   388.05 
Exercisable at year end      10   388.05   10   388.05 
The range of exercise prices for the share options outstanding at the end of the year is 340.50p - 407.42p (2010: 340.50p - 407.42p).
The remaining contractual life of the outstanding share options is up to 5 July 2015 (2010: up to 5 July 2015).
Executive Share Option Scheme
The Company operated an Executive Share Option Scheme with a HM Revenue & Customs approved section and unapproved section 
which expired on 31 December 2004. Options granted under the Scheme since July 1996 can only be exercised if performance targets 
are met. The performance condition that has been applied to the 1997 grant and to all subsequent grants of options up to and including 
2001 is that options can only be exercised if the total return of a share over a consecutive three year period exceeds the total return of 
the median ranked company in the FTSE 250 Index over the same period. Options granted in 1996 are normally exercisable only if the 
total return of a share over a rolling three year period exceeds the average total return of the FTSE All Share Index. A pre vesting forfeiture 
rate of 5 per cent per annum has been assumed.
       2011  2010
       
       Weighted  Weighted 
       average  average 
      Number of exercise price Number of exercise price 
      options pence per options pence per 
      ‘000 share ‘000 share
Options outstanding at start of year      18   487.88   37   505.56 
Exercised     (18) 487.49 (19)  522.30 
Expired     – – – –
Outstanding at end of year     – 522.30  18   487.88 
Exercisable at year end     – 522.30  18   487.88 
200 options remain outstanding and exercisable as at 26 March 2011. The exercise price for the share options outstanding at the end  
of the year was 522.30p (2010: 482.33p - 522.30p).
The remaining contractual life of the outstanding share options is up to 3 July 2011. 82 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Notes to the accounts continued
21 Share based payments continued
Performance Share Plan
For details of the Performance Share Plan, refer to the Remuneration report on pages 42 to 50.
       2011 2010 
       Number of Number of 
       options options 
       ‘000 ‘000
Options outstanding at start of year       – –
Granted       249 –
Forfeited        – –
Exercised       – –
Expired       – –
Outstanding at end of year       249 –
Exercisable at year end       – –
The shares have been allocated based on a share price of 559.5p for the 26 November 2010 grants, and 686.5p for the  
31 January 2011 grants.
Retention and Recruitment Share Award
For details of the Recruitment Share Award and Retention Share Award, refer to the Remuneration report on pages 42 to 50.
      Retention share award Recruitment share award
       
      2011 2010 2011 2010 
      Number of Number of Number of Number of 
      options options options options 
      ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000
Options outstanding at start of year     – – – –
Granted     46 – 66 –
Forfeited      – – – –
Exercised     – – – –
Expired     – – – –
Outstanding at end of year     46 – 66 –
Exercisable at year end     – – – –
The shares have been allocated based on a share price of 686.5p.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme
The Scheme is open to all UK employees. Options are granted at the prevailing market price at the time of the grant (with a discretionary 
discount to the market price) to employees who agree to save between £5 and £250 per month over a period of three or five years. 
There are no performance conditions attaching to the options. After the three or five year term has expired, employees normally have  
six months in which to decide whether or not to exercise their options. A pre vesting forfeiture rate of 5 per cent has been assumed.
       2011  2010
       
       Weighted  Weighted 
       average  average 
      Number of exercise price Number of exercise price 
      options pence per options pence per 
      ‘000 share ‘000 share
Options outstanding at start of year      1,107   686.87   1,225   565.31 
Granted     1,515 444.14  348   819.55 
Forfeited     (397) 754.58 (42)  691.21 
Exercised     (163) 379.31 (415)  443.54 
Expired     (12) 647.72 (9)  475.50 
Outstanding at end of year     2,050 519.01  1,107   686.87 
Exercisable at year end     155 720.31  12   470.74 
The range of exercise prices for the share options outstanding at the end of the year is 357.00p – 819.55p (2010: 303.31p – 819.55p). 
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the outstanding share options is 1 September 2014 (2010: 1 September 2012).
US Employee Share Purchase Plan
De La Rue operates a US Employee Share Purchase Plan for US employees. Under the plan, employees have an option to purchase 
De La Rue plc shares at the end of each 12 month savings period at a price which is the lower of the market value of the De La Rue 
plc share either at the beginning or the end of the offering period, less a 15 per cent discount. In 2010/11, 14,014 shares (2009/10: 
16,110 shares) were allotted pursuant to the plan. It is estimated that 17,644 shares will be required to satisfy the Company’s 2011/12 
obligations in respect of employees’ savings under the plan as at 26 March 2011. 
Market share purchase of shares by the De La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust 
The De La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust was established to administer shares granted under the various De La Rue Executive 
Share Option Schemes (ESOS) and the De La Rue Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP) (or any other share option plan established by 
the Company) to Executive Directors and senior employees. Ardel Trust Company (Guernsey) Limited is the Trustee. The Trustee held  
no shares at 26 March 2011. 83 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
22 Notes to the Group Cash Flow Statement
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Disposal of subsidiary undertakings  
Consideration received, satisfied in cash       – 1.9 
Net cash disposed of       – –
Disposal costs paid       – (2.9)
Disposal of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash disposed)      – (1.0)
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Analysis of net debt  
Cash at bank and in hand       31.9 35.1 
Short term bank deposits       0.7 6.5 
Bank overdrafts       (9.2) (3.8)
Total cash and cash equivalents       23.4 37.8 
Borrowings due within one year       (54.6) (47.9)
Borrowings due after one year       – (0.9)
Net debt       (31.2) (11.0)
23 Group operating leases
      2011  2010 
     2011 Plant and 2010 Plant and 
     Property equipment Property equipment 
     £m £m £m £m
Total commitments due:    
– Within one year      3.2 0.2  3.4   0.2 
– Between one and five years      5.1 0.2  9.6   0.1 
– Over five years      26.4 –  34.2   0.1 
     34.7 0.4  47.2   0.4 
24 Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates pension plans throughout the world covering the majority of employees. These plans are devised in accordance 
with local conditions and practices in the country concerned. The assets of the Group’s plans are generally held in separately 
administered trusts or are insured.
(i) Defined benefit pension plans
     Overseas Gross  Net 
    UK defined defined defined  defined 
    benefit benefit benefit Deferred benefit 
    pension pension pension tax pension 
    £m £m £m £m £m
At 28 March 2009    (67.5) (2.2) (69.7) 19.4  (50.3)
Exchange differences    – 0.1 0.1  – 0.1 
Current service cost included in operating profit    (4.5) (0.2) (4.7)  1.3  (3.4)
Net finance expense    (6.2) (0.1)  (6.3)  1.7  (4.6)
Actuarial gains and losses arising over the year    (72.4) 0.1 (72.3)  20.3  (52.0)
Cash contributions and benefits paid     25.9  – 25.9  (7.3) 18.6 
Transfers    (0.1) – (0.1)  0.1  –
At 27 March 2010    (124.8) (2.3) (127.1) 35.5  (91.6)
Exchange differences    – 0.1 0.1 –  0.1
Current service cost included in operating profit    (7.6) (0.2) (7.8) 2.2  (5.6)
Curtailments    16.0  – 16.0 (4.5) 11.5
Net finance expense    (3.2) (0.1) (3.3) 0.9 (2.4)
Actuarial gains and losses arising over the year    (31.1) 0.1 (31.0) 8.7 (22.3)
Cash contributions and benefits paid    50.2 – 50.2 (14.1) 36.1
Change in tax rate    _ – – (1.0) (1.0)
At 26 March 2011    (100.5) (2.4) (102.9) 27.7 (75.2) 84 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Notes to the accounts continued
24 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Amounts recognised in the consolidated Balance Sheet:
   2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 
   UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of plan assets   638.5 0.3 638.8 569.2  0.3  569.5 
Present value of funded obligations   (732.0) (0.4) (732.4) (687.3) (0.4) (687.7)
Funded defined benefit pension plans   (93.5) (0.1) (93.6) (118.1) (0.1) (118.2)
Present value of unfunded obligations   (7.0) (2.3) (9.3) (6.7) (2.2) (8.9)
Net liability   (100.5) (2.4) (102.9) (124.8) (2.3) (127.1)
Amounts recognised in the consolidated Income Statement: 
   2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 
   UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Included in employee benefits expense:      
– Current service cost   (7.6) (0.2) (7.8) (4.5) (0.2) (4.7)
Included in profit from operations:      
– Curtailments   16.0 – 16.0 – – –
Included in net finance expense:      
– Expected return on plan assets   35.7 – 35.7 26.4  – 26.4 
– Interest expense   (38.9) (0.1) (39.0) (32.6) (0.1) (32.7)
Net finance expense   (3.2) (0.1) (3.3) (6.2) (0.1) (6.3)
Total recognised in the consolidated Income Statement  5.2 (0.3) 4.9 (10.7) (0.3) (11.0)
Actual return on plan assets   46.4 – 46.4 143.8  – 143.8 
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income:
   2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 
   UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Actuarial gain on plan assets   10.7 – 10.7 117.4  – 117.4 
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension obligations  (41.8) 0.1 (41.7) (189.8) 0.1 (189.7)
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (31.1) 0.1 (31.0) (72.4) 0.1 (72.3)
Major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets:
   2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 
   UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total 
   % % % % % %
Equities   56.7 – 56.7 58.9 – 58.9
Bonds   22.1 – 22.1 19.4 – 19.4
Gilts   19.3 – 19.3 19.0 – 19.0
Other   1.9 100.0 1.9 2.7 100.0 2.7
Other UK assets comprise cash. Categories of plan assets for overseas plans have not been disclosed as these plans are not 
considered sufficiently material to warrant such disclosure.
Principal actuarial assumptions:
     2011 2011 2010 2010 
     UK Overseas UK Overseas 
     % % % %
Future salary increases     – 3.00 4.10  3.00 
Future pension increases – past service     3.80 0.43 3.70  0.43 
Future pension increases – future service     3.50 – 3.50  –
Discount rate     5.60 5.30 5.80  5.80 
Inflation rate     3.60 2.00 3.50  2.00 
Expected return on plan assets:    
– Equities     8.50 – 8.25  –
– Bonds     5.60 – 5.80  –
– Gilts     4.20 – 4.60  –
– Other     – 5.30 – 2.80 
The expected rate of return on plan assets has been determined following advice from the plans’ independent actuary and is based  
on the expected return on each asset class together with consideration of the long term asset strategy.
The mortality assumptions used to assess the defined benefit obligation for the UK plan are based on tables issued by the Continuous 
Mortality Investigation Bureau. At 26 March 2011 and 27 March 2010 mortality assumptions were based on the PxA92 birth year tables 
multiplied by a rating of 125 per cent and allowance for medium cohort mortality improvements in future, with a 0.5 per cent mortality 
improvement underpin. The resulting life expectancy for a 65 year old pensioner is 20.6 years (2010: 20.5 years).
In July 2010, the UK government announced changes to the inflation index used for statutory pension increases (both for pensions  
in payment and pensions in deferment) to apply to private sector pension schemes. This has resulted in a small actuarial gain during  
the period in respect of the De La Rue pension plans in the UK.  85 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
24 Retirement benefit obligations continued
History of experience gains and losses:
    2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 
    £m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of plan assets     638.8  569.5  428.1 523.2 537.6
Present value of defined benefit pension obligations     (741.7) (696.6) (497.8) (548.5) (645.7)
Net liability     (102.9) (127.1) (69.7) (25.3) (108.1)
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Statement  
of Comprehensive Income    (121.1) (90.1) (17.8)  57.2  (16.3)
Experience (losses)/gains arising on defined benefit pension obligations:     
– Amount     (7.7) (38.3) (0.1)  0.3   16.2 
– Percentage of present value of defined benefit pension obligations  1.0%  5.5%  – 0.1% 2.5%
Experience gains/(losses) arising on plan assets:      
– Amount     10.7  117.4  (123.7) (43.6) (9.6)
– Percentage of plan assets     1.7% 20.6% 28.9% 8.3% 1.8%
The largest defined benefit pension plan operated by the Group is in the UK. A full actuarial valuation of the plan was carried out by  
a qualified actuary as at 5 April 2009 and updated to 26 March 2011. The plan is valued formally every three years, the next valuation 
being as at April 2012.
Changes in the fair value of UK plan assets:
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
At 27 March 2010/28 March 2009       569.2 427.3 
Expected return on plan assets (before expenses)       38.1 26.4 
Plan administration and investment management expenses      (2.4) (2.4)
Actuarial gains       10.7 117.4 
Employer contributions       50.2 25.4 
Plan participant contributions       3.1 3.1 
Claims from insurance policy       0.5 0.5 
Benefits paid       (30.0) (28.0)
Life assurance premiums       (0.5) (0.4)
Transfers       (0.4) (0.1)
At 26 March 2011/27 March 2010       638.5 569.2 
Changes in the fair value of UK defined benefit pension obligations:
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
At 27 March 2010/28 March 2009       (694.0) (494.8)
Current service cost       (7.6) (4.5)
Curtailments       16.0 –
Interest cost       (38.9) (32.6)
Actuarial losses       (41.8) (189.8)
Plan participant contributions       (3.1) (3.1)
Benefits paid       29.5 28.0 
Plan administration and investment management expenses       – 2.4 
Life assurance premiums       0.5 0.4 
Transfers       0.4  –
At 26 March 2011/27 March 2010       (739.0) (694.0)
Movements in the fair value of plan assets and defined benefit pension obligations for overseas plans have not been disclosed  
as these plans are not considered sufficiently material to warrant such disclosure. The Group expects to contribute around £18m  
to its UK pension fund in 2011/12.
(ii) Defined contribution pension plans
The Group operates a number of defined contribution plans for which the charge in the consolidated Income Statement for the year  
was £1.8m (2010: £1.4m). 86 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Notes to the accounts continued
25 Employees
       2011 2010 
       number number
Average number of employees   
United Kingdom and Ireland        2,061  2,021 
Rest of Europe        685  688 
The Americas        252  302 
Rest of World        999  935 
       3,997  3,946 
Average number of employees  
Currency       2,469  2,440 
Cash Processing Solutions       698  739 
Security Products       563  606 
Identity Systems       267  161 
       3,997  3,946 
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Employee costs (including Directors’ emoluments)   
Wages and salaries        128.9  133.9 
Social security costs        9.0  7.8 
Share incentive schemes        1.6  1.0 
Sharesave schemes        0.3  0.6 
Pension costs        9.6  6.1 
       149.4  149.4 
26 Capital commitments
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
The following commitments existed at the balance sheet date:   
– Contracted but not provided for in the accounts        4.0 22.1
27 Contingent liabilities
De La Rue has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those covering taxation 
matters. While the outcome of litigation and other disputes can never be predicted with certainty, having regard to legal advice received 
and the insurance arrangements of the Company and its subsidiaries, the Directors believe that adequate provision has been made to 
cover these matters.
In July 2010 the Board commissioned an investigation by external lawyers into issues that had been brought to its attention internally. 
The investigation, which was completed in October 2010, found nothing of substance to support the matters raised other than in 
respect of some paper production issues where it was found that a small number of the many detailed specification parameters of 
some paper had fallen marginally short of specification. It was also established that certain paper specification test certificates had been 
deliberately falsified. The Board reported the findings of the investigation to the appropriate authorities, who are considering the matter, 
and is implementing a number of measures arising from the findings of the investigation.
Provision, as described in note 3: Exceptional items, has been made for the costs associated with the paper production issues identified 
at this stage, including the write off of inventories and trade receivables and other costs relating to the investigation and rectification of 
these matters.
Provision has not been made for the potential costs of resolutions or for potential fines from regulatory authorities. The nature and  
extent of these resolutions will be the subject of ongoing discussions, the outcome of which cannot be estimated reliably at present.  
The timing, response and outcome of the consideration by the authorities of the reported findings of the investigation and rectification  
is also uncertain and the financial consequences, if any, cannot be estimated reliably at present. 87 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
28 Related party transactions
During the year the Group traded on an arms length basis with the associated company Fidink (33.3 per cent owned). The Group’s 
trading activities with this company included £22.8m (2010: £12.7m) for the purchase of ink and other consumables. At the balance 
sheet date there were creditor balances of £1.9m (2010: £1.1m) with Fidink. Intra Group transactions between the parent and the fully 
consolidated subsidiaries or between fully consolidated subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation. Such transactions were contracted 
on an arms length basis.
Key management compensation 
       2011 2010 
       £’000 £’000
Salaries and other short term employee benefits        2,267.3 2,661.4
Termination benefits        333.0 1,578.9
Retirement benefits:   
– Defined contribution        24.5 31.2
– Defined benefit        113.4 422.8
Share based payments        1,051.3 801.0
       3,789.5 5,495.3
Key management comprises members of the Board (including fees of Non-executive Directors) and the Executive Committee.  
Key management compensation includes compensation for loss of office, ex gratia payments, redundancy payments, enhanced 
retirement benefits and any related benefits in kind connected with a person leaving office or employment. 88 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Company Balance Sheet
At 26 March 2011
       2011 2010 
      Notes £m £m
Fixed assets   
Investments in subsidiaries      4a 152.4 152.4 
       152.4 152.4 
Current assets   
Debtors receivable within one year      5a 63.8 100.2 
Cash at bank and in hand       1.7 2.2 
       65.5 102.4 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year   
Borrowings      6a (28.4) (26.4)
Other creditors      7a (7.2) (8.8)
       (35.6) (35.2)
Net current assets       29.9 67.2 
Total assets less current liabilities       182.3 219.6 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year     8a (9.0) (100.0)
Net assets       173.3 119.6 
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital      10a 45.6 45.5 
Share premium account      11a 29.1 28.4 
Capital redemption reserve      11a 5.9 5.9 
Retained earnings      11a 92.7 39.8 
Total shareholders’ funds       173.3 119.6 
Approved by the Board on 24 May 2011
Nicholas Brookes Colin Child
Chairman Group Finance Director
  89 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
 
Basis of preparation
The Financial Statements of De La Rue plc (the Company) have 
been prepared under the historical cost convention and have  
been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006  
and applicable UK accounting standards. 
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company  
is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss 
account. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption 
in Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 29 (IFRS 7), Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures, not to prepare a financial instrument 
note as the information is available in the published consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Group.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from 
preparing a Cash Flow Statement under the terms of FRS1,  
Cash Flow Statements.
The accounts have been prepared as at 26 March 2011, being  
the last Saturday in March. The comparatives for the 2010 financial 
year are for the year ended 27 March 2010.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently  
in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to 
the Company Financial Statements. 
Foreign currencies
Amounts receivable from overseas subsidiaries which are 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling  
at the appropriate year end rates of exchange. Exchange gains 
and losses on translating foreign currency amounts are included 
within the interest section of the profit and loss account except for 
exchange gains and losses associated with hedging loans that are 
taken to reserves.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional 
currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the 
individual transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies are subsequently retranslated at the rate 
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Such exchange 
differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Other receivables
Other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any 
provision for impairment. Trade and other receivables are 
discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Investments
Investments are stated at cost or valuation in the Balance Sheet, 
less provision for any permanent diminution in the value of the 
investment.
Retirement benefits
The pension rights of the Company employees are dealt with 
through a self administered scheme, the assets of which are 
held independently of the Group’s finances. The scheme is a 
defined benefit scheme that is funded partly by contributions from 
members and partly by contributions from the Company and its 
subsidiaries at rates advised by independent professionally qualified 
actuaries. In accordance with FRS 17, De La Rue plc accounts for 
its contributions as though it were a defined contribution scheme. 
This is because the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme 
cover the Company and a number of its subsidiaries and those 
assets and liabilities cannot be split between each subsidiary  
on a consistent and reasonable basis. Full details of the scheme 
and its deficit (measured on an IAS 19 basis) can be found in  
note 24 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Share based payments
The Company operates various equity and cash settled option 
schemes although the majority of plans are settled by the issue 
of shares. The services received from employees are measured 
by reference to the fair value of the share options. The fair value 
is calculated at grant date and recognised in the profit and loss 
account, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ 
funds, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an 
estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. Vesting 
conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken into 
account when estimating the fair value. FRS 20 has been applied 
to share settled share options granted after 7 November 2002.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to 
the employees of its subsidiary undertakings these awards are 
accounted for by the Company, as an additional investment in its 
subsidiary. The costs are determined in accordance with FRS 20 
share based payments. Any payments made by the subsidiary 
undertaking in respect of these arrangements are treated as a 
return of this investment.
Share based payments recharged to subsidiaries are recorded  
via the intercompany loan account.
Dividends
Under FRS 21, final ordinary dividends payable to the shareholders 
of the Company are recognised in the period that they are 
approved by the shareholders. Interim ordinary dividends are 
recognised in the period that they are paid.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and 
takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences 
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting 
purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of 
all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for 
taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not 
reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required 
by FRS 19.
Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to 
guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, 
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and 
accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats 
the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as  
it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make  
a payment under the guarantee.
 
Accounting policies – Company 90 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Notes to the accounts – Company
1a Employee costs and numbers
Employee costs are borne by De La Rue Holdings plc. For details of Directors’ remuneration, refer to disclosures in the Directors’ Report 
on pages 42 to 50.
       2011 2010 
       Number Number
Average employee numbers        2 2
2a Auditor’s remuneration
Auditor’s remuneration is borne by De La Rue Holdings plc. For details of auditor’s remuneration, see note 2 to the consolidated  
Financial Statements.
3a Equity dividends
For details of equity dividends, see note 7 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
4a Investments
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Investments comprise:  
Investments in subsidiaries        152.4 152.4 
       £m £m
Cost  
At 26 March 2011 and 27 March 2010        152.4 152.4
For details of investments in Group companies, refer to principal subsidiaries, branches and associated companies on page 92.
5a Debtors
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Amounts due within one year   
Amounts owed by Group undertakings        63.8 100.2
6a Borrowings
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Short term borrowings   
Bank loans and overdrafts        28.4 26.4
The carrying amounts of the Company’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
US dollar        24.0  22.8 
Euro       0.2  0.2 
Sterling       0.7 –
Other currencies       3.5  3.4 
       28.4  26.4 
7a Other creditors
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year   
Amounts due to Group undertakings        3.6  5.3 
Accruals and deferred income        3.6  3.5 
Other creditors        7.2  8.8 
8a Creditors: Amounts due after more than one year
       2011 2010 
       £m £m
Amounts due to Group undertakings        9.0 100.0 91 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
9a Deferred taxation
A deferred tax asset of £1.1m (2010: nil) has not been recognised in respect of timing differences relating to tax losses amounting  
to £3.8m (2010: nil) as there is insufficient evidence that the asset will be recovered. The asset would be recovered if suitable taxable 
profits arise in the future.
10a Share capital
For details of share capital, see note 20 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
11a Other reserves
     Share Capital 
    Share premium redemption Retained Total 
    capital account reserve earnings equity 
    £m £m £m £m £m
At 28 March 2009    45.0 26.5 5.9  75.7 153.1
Share capital issued      0.5   1.9  – –  2.4 
Profit for the financial year     – – –  3.5   3.5 
Dividends paid     – – – (40.9) (40.9)
Employee share scheme:      
– value of services provided     – – –  1.5   1.5 
At 27 March 2010     45.5   28.4   5.9   39.8   119.6 
Share capital issued      0.1   0.7  – – 0.8 
Profit for the financial year     – – – 92.9   92.9 
Dividends paid     – – – (41.9) (41.9)
Employee share scheme:      
– value of services provided     – – –  1.9 1.9
At 26 March 2011    45.6 29.1 5.9 92.7 173.3
12a Share based payments
For details of share based payments, see note 21 to the consolidated Financial Statements and the Remuneration Report on pages 42 
to 50.
13a Related party transactions
The Company has no transactions with or amounts due to or from subsidiary undertakings that are not 100 per cent owned either 
directly by the Company or by its subsidiaries.
For details of key management remuneration, see note 28 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
  92 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Principal subsidiaries, branches  
and associated companies
As at 26 March 2011
The trading companies and branches listed below include those which principally affect the profits and assets of the Group.  
A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be filed with the Company’s Annual Return.
   De La Rue interest 
   in ordinary shares 
Country of incorporation and operation  Activities %
Europe   
United Kingdom DLR (No.1) Limited Holding company 100
 DLR (No.2) Limited Holding company 100
†
 De La Rue Holdings plc Holding and general commercial activities 100
 De La Rue International Limited Security paper and printing, sale and  
  maintenance of CPS products and services,  
  identity systems, brand protection  
  and holograms 100
 De La Rue Overseas Limited Holding company 100
 De La Rue Investments Limited Holding company 100
 Portals Group Limited Holding company 100
 Portals Property Limited Property holding company 100
Channel Islands The Burnhill Insurance Company Limited Insurance 100
Malta De La Rue Currency and Security Print Limited Security printing 100
The Netherlands De La Rue BV Holding company and distribution and  
  marketing of CPS products 100
Russia De La Rue CIS Manufacturing, distribution,  
  service and marketing 100
Switzerland Thomas De La Rue A.G. Holding company 100
North America   
USA De La Rue North America Holdings Inc. Holding company 100
USA De La Rue North America Inc. Security printing 100
South America   
Brazil De La Rue Cash Systems Limitada Distribution, service and marketing 100
Mexico De La Rue Mexico, S.A. de C.V . Distribution, marketing and identity systems 100
Africa   
Kenya De La Rue Currency and Security Print Limited Security printing 100
Far East   
China De La Rue Trading (Shenzhen) Co Limited Distribution, service and marketing 100
Hong Kong De La Rue Systems Limited Distribution, service and marketing 100
Sri Lanka De La Rue Lanka Currency and  
 Security Print (Private) Limited Security printing 60
†
Held directly by De La Rue plc 93 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements
Five year record
Profit and Loss Account
    2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 
   Note £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue       
– Continuing operations     401.8 467.0 502.4  561.1  463.9 
– Discontinued operations    (a) 285.7 286.6 121.6 – –
Total     687.5 753.6 624.0  561.1  463.9
Operating profit       
– Continuing operations     61.3 79.2 96.5  109.2  40.4
– Exceptional items – operating     – – (8.9) (7.5) (15.6)
Total     61.3 79.2 87.6  101.7  24.8
Share of profits of associated companies     6.6 7.1 8.9  6.3  –
Exceptional items – non operating     – 2.6 – – 55.1
Profit on continuing operations before interest     67.9 88.9 96.5  108.0  79.9
Net interest income/(expense)    3.6 2.0 1.4 (5.1) (3.8)
Retirement benefit obligation net finance income/(expense)   1.8 0.3 (1.8) (6.3) (3.3)
Profit on continuing operations before taxation    73.3 91.2 96.1  96.6  72.8
Taxation    (21.9) (24.7) (28.5) (26.2) (5.4)
Profit on continuing operations after taxation     51.4 66.5 67.6  70.4  67.4
Discontinued operations     20.4 21.9 296.5 – –
Equity non controlling interests     (1.6) (0.3) (1.1) (0.5) (0.5)
Profit for the financial year     70.2 88.1 363.0  69.9  66.9
Dividends    (28.3) (105.4) (376.7) (40.9) (41.9)
Retained profit/(loss) for the period      41.9  (17.3) (13.7)  29.0  25.0
      
Earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations    33.1p 43.4p 50.9p  71.0p  67.6p
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations    32.4p 42.7p 50.4p  70.5p  67.2p
Headline earnings per ordinary share (before exceptional items)    33.1p 41.7p 57.0p  76.2p  24.0p
Dividends per ordinary share    (b) 19.1p 21.4p 41.1p 42.3p 42.3p
Profit on continuing operations before taxation and exceptional items  73.3 88.6 105.0  104.1  33.3
Balance Sheet
    £m £m £m £m £m
Non current assets      235.1   226.0   228.6   222.3  213.5
Net current liabilities    (96.0) (87.3) (87.6) (67.2) (58.6)
Net cash/(debt)      137.3   106.7  (33.1) (11.0) (31.2)
Other liabilities     (111.5) (29.9) (87.3) (134.6) (106.9)
Equity non controlling interests     (5.0) (2.3) (2.9) (3.2) (3.5)
Equity shareholders’ funds      159.9   213.2   17.7   6.3  13.3
Notes
(a) Discontinued operations include all businesses discontinued between 2007 and 2011. Thus continuing operations are those businesses continuing as at 26 March 2011.
(b) Includes proposed final dividend which, in accordance with IFRS accounting requirements, has not been accrued.
  94 De La Rue Annual Report 201 1
 
Registered office
De La Rue House 
Jays Close, Viables, Basingstoke 
Hampshire RG22 4BS
Telephone: +44 (0)1256 605000 
Fax: +44 (0)1256 605336
Registered Number: 3834125 
Company Secretary: Mr E H D Peppiatt
Registrar
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
Telephone: +44 (0)870 703 6375 
Fax: +44 (0)870 703 6101
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held at 10:30 on 
Thursday 21 July 2011 at De La Rue House, Jays Close, Viables, 
Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG22 4BS. Each shareholder is entitled 
to attend and vote at the meeting, the arrangements for which  
are described in a separate notice to shareholders. The Notice  
of Meeting can also be found in the investors section on the 
Group’s website.
Electronic shareholder communications
Shareholders can register online at www.investorcentre.co.uk/ecomms  
to receive statutory communications electronically rather than 
through the post. Shareholders who choose this option will 
receive an email notification each time the Group publishes new 
shareholder documents on its website. Shareholders will need 
to have their Shareholder Reference number (‘SRN’) available 
when they first log in. This 11 character number (which starts 
with the letter C or G) can be found on share certificates and 
dividend tax vouchers. Shareholders who subscribe for electronic 
communications can revert to postal communications or request  
a paper copy of any shareholder document at any time in the future.
Electronic voting
All shareholders can submit proxies for the AGM electronically  
by logging onto Computershare’s website at  
www.eproxyappointment.com
Shareholder enquiries 
Enquiries regarding shareholdings or dividends should, in the first  
instance, be addressed to Computershare Investor Services PLC.  
Details of shareholdings and how to make amendments to 
personal details can be viewed online at www.investorcentre.co.uk 
Shareholder helpline telephone: +44 (0)870 703 6375.
Dividends
Shareholders are encouraged to have dividends paid directly into 
their bank accounts to ensure an efficient payment method on the 
payment date. Shareholders selecting this payment method will 
receive a tax voucher in respect of each dividend payment.
Consolidation of shares 
Where registered shareholdings are represented by several 
individual share certificates, shareholders may wish to have these 
replaced by one consolidated certificate. De La Rue will meet 
the cost for this service. Share certificates should be sent to the 
Company’s registrar together with a letter of instruction.
Internet
The Group has a wide range of information that is available  
on its website www.delarue.com including:
•  Finance information – annual and interim reports, financial news 
and events
• Share price information
• Shareholder services information
• Press releases
Analysis of shareholders at 26 March 2011
  Shareholders  Shares
  
By range of holdings Number % Number %
0 – 1,000 5,453 76.72 1,817,332 1.83
1,001 – 5,000 1,249 17.57 2,471,847 2.49
5,001 – 10,000 112 1.57 812,900 0.82
10,001 – 100,000 186 2.62 6,674,152 6.73
100,001 – 500,000 73 1.03 17,918,023 18.06
500,001 and above 35 0.49  69,508,338 70.07
Total 7,108 100.00 99,202,592 100.00
Share dealing facilities
Computershare Investor Services PLC
Computershare, the Company’s registrar, provides a simple way  
to sell or purchase De La Rue plc shares.
Internet share dealing 
Available 24 hours a day/seven days a week with real time 
pricing in market hours. Commission is charged at 0.5 per cent, 
subject to a minimum charge of £15, with no set up or annual 
management fees. Further information can be obtained by logging 
on to: www.computershare.com/dealing/uk
Telephone share dealing 
Commission is charged at 1 per cent subject to a minimum charge 
of £25, with no set up or annual management fees. The telephone 
share dealing service is available from 8:00 to 16:30 Monday to 
Friday, excluding bank holidays on telephone number: 
+44 (0)870 703 0084.
Stocktrade
An execution only telephone dealing service has been arranged 
with Stocktrade which provides a simple way for buying or selling 
De La Rue plc shares. Basic commission is 0.5 per cent, with 
a minimum charge of £15 up to £10,000 and then 0.2 per cent 
thereafter with no maximum. For further information, please call 
+44 (0)845 601 0995 and quote reference Low Co103.
Capital gains tax
March 1982 valuation
The price per share on 31 March 1982 was 617.5p.
Shareholders are advised to refer to their brokers/financial advisers 
for detailed advice on individual capital gains tax calculations.
Financial calendar
Preliminary results announcement 24 May 2011
Ex dividend date for 2010/11 final dividend 6 July 2011
Record date for final dividend 8 July 2011
Payment of 2010/11 final dividend 4 August 2011
Interim results announcement November 2011
 
Shareholders’ information Cornerstone™, Flexycoin ™ 
ECM™ Business Intelligence,  
are trademarks of De La Rue International Limited
This Report is printed on Hello Silk paper. This paper has been 
independently certified as meeting the standards of the Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC), and was manufactured at a mill that  
is certified to the ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards. 
Designed and produced by 
Langsford Corporate Design
Printed at
Fulmar Colour Printing Company which is ISO14001 certified, 
CarbonNeutral®, Alcohol Free Printer, FSC and PEFC chain  
of custody certified. The inks used are all vegetable oil based. De La Rue plc
De La Rue House 
Jays Close 
Viables 
Basingstoke 
Hampshire 
RG22 4BS
T +44 (0)1256 605000 
F +44 (0)1256 605004 
www.delarue.com
