 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 DEBENHAMS
1 Highlights
2 Debenhams at a glance
5 Chairman’s statement
7 Chief Executive’s review
11 Finance Director’s review
17 Corporate social responsibility
24 Board of directors
26 Directors’ report
34 Corporate governance
35 Nomination Committee
36 Audit and internal control
39 Remuneration report
49 Directors’ responsibilities
50 Auditors’ report
52 Consolidated income statement
53 Consolidated statement of recognised
income and expenses
54 Consolidated balance sheet
55 Consolidated cash flow statement
56 Notes to the financial statements
108 Five year record
110 Independent auditors’ report to the
members of Debenhams plc (Company)
112 Company balance sheet
113 Company statement of recognised 
gains and losses
114 Notes to the Company financial statements
120 Store list
121 New store openings
122 Notice of Annual General Meeting
125 Shareholder information
CONTENTS
Cover:
Jaime Murray chosen as 
The Face of Debenhams 
for Autumn/Winter 2006 models 
John by John Richmond red tartan coat.
Inside front cover:
Debenhams added designer menswear 
by Nigel Cabourn late in 2005. 
This shot features his Utility Navy Coat.
  HIGHLIGHTS
1
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
DEBENHAMS IS A LEADING DEPARTMENT 
STORE GROUP WITH A STRONG PRESENCE IN
WOMENSWEAR, MENSWEAR, HOMEWARES, 
HEALTH AND BEAUTY, ACCESSORIES, LINGERIE 
AND CHILDRENSWEAR.
OUR EXCLUSIVE OWN BRANDS, INCLUDING
DESIGNERS AT DEBENHAMS, AND THIRD-PARTY
BRANDS DIFFERENTIATE DEBENHAMS 
FROM ITS COMPETITORS.
+6.6%
Gross transaction value
Operational highlights
• 15 new department stores opened including nine former Roches stores 
in the Republic of Ireland.
• Accelerated pipeline of 24 contracted new department store openings.
• Four new Desire by Debenhams stores opened.
• 30 international stores open with a pipeline of 16 stores in ten countries.
• Own-bought mix increased by 0.6 per cent.
• Market share up across all categories.
• Continued investment in refits generate good returns; 14 refits completed during the year.
• Continued success with Designers at Debenhams ranges, new ranges launched from 
Jasper Conran, Julien Macdonald and Betty Jackson.
2.4p
Final dividend per share
+21.2%
Underlying operating profit before exceptional items
£190.3m
Net cash generated from operating activities
Financial highlights DEBENHAMS AT A GLANCE
2
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
History
The Debenhams name was first used in 1813 when Thomas Clark and William Debenham began retail
operations as the Clark and Debenham partnership on Wigmore Street in central London. The business
grew to include a number of retail outlets across the UK and in 1905 Debenhams opened its first
department store. In 1928 Debenhams listed its shares on the London Stock Exchange and traded as an
independent company until 1985, when it was acquired by The Burton Group. By 1985 Debenhams had
a portfolio of 65 department stores.
In the late 1980s and early 1990s Debenhams began to reposition its business, introducing exclusive
ranges of own-bought merchandise in key product areas and significantly increasing its portfolio of
stores. In 1997, Debenhams introduced its first international franchise store in the Middle East.
Debenhams was demerged from The Burton Group and listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1998.
In December 2003 Debenhams was acquired by Baroness Retail Limited, a company owned indirectly 
by a group of funds managed or advised by CVC Capital Partners, Merrill Lynch Global Private Equity and
Texas Pacific Group, other institutional investors and the management team and ceased trading on the
London Stock Exchange.  In May 2006 Debenhams returned to the stock market.
Financial track record: 
IFRS UK GAAP
2006 2005 2005 2004 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Gross transaction value 2,192.9 2,086.8 2,086.8 1,902.9 1,810.2 1,695.8
Operating profit before 
exceptional items and 
goodwill amortisation 238.2 228.0 250.9* 201.7* 175.8 163.8
Underlying operating profit
before exceptional items 267.4 220.7
(Financial year end August)
* Excluding goodwill amortisation on the 2003 acquisition of £30.6 million in 2004 and £63.2 million in 2005.
Strategy
Debenhams’ strategy is to maintain and build on its core strengths and to leverage these further
through organic, new space and other channel growth:
Organic growth
• Sales and margin growth from design, buying and merchandising initiatives: Increasing customer
differentiation through further growth of Designers at Debenhams, enhancing own brands and making
logical extensions to existing ranges.
• Supply chain transformation: rationalisation to fewer, better suppliers driving improved margins and
payment terms alongside shortening lead times to improve customer availability and lower markdown.
• Store refurbishment programme: 14 stores completed in 2006 and roll-out across the portfolio 
is continuing.
New space growth
• New department store openings: extending the reach of the brand, increasing availability of the 
offer to customers with the potential for 240 stores.
• New small store format Desire by Debenhams: unique concept of “one-stop shop” for women 
focusing on own-brands and designers with the potential for 100 stores.
Other channel growth
• International franchise roll-out: high growth potential with plans for 70 stores by the end of 2010.
• Multi-channel and web growth: significant investment to upgrade Debenhams’ internet site 
improving the offer content and functionality. 3
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Sales and product mix
The majority of Debenhams’ business, 97.2 per cent, is from retail stores in the United Kingdom and 
the Republic of Ireland. However, while the international and web businesses are relatively small 
they are growing rapidly and increasing in terms of sales participation.
Debenhams annual turnover is broadly 70 per cent own-bought brands and 30 per cent concession
brands. The own-bought share includes a portfolio of over 55 exclusive brands with 25 Designers at
Debenhams ranges such as Jasper Conran and John Rocha and other own brands such as Red Herring,
Maine New England and Debut. Alongside these Debenhams uses popular international brands and
concession brands to increase customer visits to its stores.
Product category Mix (approx.)
Womenswear (including accessories and lingerie) 45%
Menswear 17%
Home (including gift and furniture) 16%
Cosmetics 14%
Childrenswear 5%
Other (including food services) 3%
Customer base
Debenhams is a family department store that caters for all ages. However, its target market is women
aged between 25-55. Our customers want to be stylish and expect Debenhams to offer fashionable,
stylish clothes; Debenhams also appeals to women shopping for their families on more of a budget 
with Debenhams offering catwalk trends from designers at high street prices. 
Debenhams has a loyal customer base with over 2 million store card holders; the store card is owned
and administered by GE Money. The Nectar loyalty programme also plays a role in developing 
customer loyalty and there are over 7 million customers who have used a Nectar card in Debenhams.
Store opening programme
Debenhams has an aggressive new store opening programme with eight stores opened during the
2006 financial year, including three new Desire by Debenhams small format stores. Following the year
end, Debenhams acquired nine department stores in the Republic of Ireland and opened two new
stores in the UK taking the current store portfolio to 137.
Debenhams is currently contracted to open 28 stores (four re-sites) within the UK and 16 international
stores over the next five years and is actively pursuing additional suitable sites. Debenhams continues 
to grow as we build the portfolio towards a target of 240 department stores and 100 Desire by
Debenhams stores.
Management team
John Lovering – Chairman Rob Templeman – Chief Executive
Chris Woodhouse – Finance Director Michael Sharp – Chief Operating Officer
Nikki Zamblera – Human Resources Director Nigel Palmer – Retail Operations Director DEBENHAMS
4
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Our Desire by Debenhams store in Birmingham Fort
(opened September 2006) CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
5
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
We also have plans to increase our international
store franchises from 30 to over 70 stores by the
end of the 2010 financial year.
Debenhams changed its culture under its new
management team with an increased emphasis
on the needs of our customers. It is no coincidence
that we had our best ever years in the wake of this
change. 
Our management style places the focus on
leadership and trading in a structure of rigid
uncompromising cost and capital control. 
We encourage sensible risk-taking, trial new ideas,
measure and evaluate them and then act quickly.
We believe in incentives, which means we reward
success and encourage those who deliver and
challenge, not those who present well or adopt
conventional wisdom. 
We also want to be a good citizen, to help create
a stable prosperous economy in which our
business can grow while supporting sensible 
CSR and environmental initiatives.
The management of Debenhams believes that
there is no difference between a well-run private
or public company. We are committed to our
culture. We know it gives us the best chance 
to succeed in an increasingly tough and
demanding marketplace. 
We really value the contribution of our 25,000
people, including the many new employees 
who joined us during the year, and thank them 
for their continuing hard work and enthusiasm. 
We are committed to the Debenhams culture 
of customer focus and individual responsibility.
The board is recommending a final dividend 
of 2.4 pence per share in line with the progressive
dividend policy outlined at IPO.
John Lovering
Chairman
24 October 2006
These first full-year results as a re-listed
company once again demonstrate the
strength and resilience of Debenhams as 
we continue to deliver on our plans to grow
the business profitably.
During the year Debenhams has enhanced its
position as one of the leading department store
groups in the world, offering stylish products at
affordable prices.
Against a challenging retail backdrop, we have
again increased profits, sales and market share
while accelerating our store opening plans,
improving the supply chain and successfully
refurbishing our existing stores.
There is still significant growth potential to 
come from our Designers at Debenhams and
own-label brands, while our unique mix of own,
international and concession brands gives this
business huge flexibility. 
In addition, we are accelerating plans to expand
our portfolio of department stores, either by
acquisition or new store openings, and believe
there is potential to increase our portfolio from
132 up to 240 stores in the UK and Republic 
of Ireland.
Separately, we have successfully trialled our new
concept women’s store, Desire by Debenhams,
with five stores open and another four contracted
to open. We have also invested in a new
distribution centre and in upgrading our website.
John Lovering
“DURING THE YEAR DEBENHAMS HAS ENHANCED 
ITS POSITION AS ONE OF THE LEADING
DEPARTMENT STORE GROUPS IN THE WORLD” 6
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Crochet mini dress and cream dolly coat from 
Red Herring, one of our many exclusive own-brands 7
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
7
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
One of Debenhams’ key strengths is our multi-
category product strategy which enables us to
differentiate ourselves from traditional single-
brand high street retailers and widens our appeal
to a larger consumer audience. We have a strong
presence in key product categories such as
womenswear, menswear, accessories, lingerie,
childrenswear and homewares. The continued
development of our exclusive own-brand
products such as Red Herring, Maine New England,
Debut and Thomas Nash alongside our exclusive
Designers at Debenhams ranges has resulted in
our own-bought sales continuing to increase
market share and become a greater proportion 
of our overall sales.
Performance last year
For the year to 2 September 2006 gross
transaction value increased by £106.1 million 
to £2,192.9 million. As a result of these sales
increases, together with margin gains and a firm
focus on our cost base, our underlying operating
profit before exceptional items for the year
increased by 21.2 per cent to £267.4 million.
Group profit before tax and exceptional 
charges rose by 67.9 per cent to £112.8 million.
Like-for-like sales increased by 0.5 per cent for 
the year, compared to a 2.8 per cent increase 
in the previous year. Sales were adversely 
affected during June, this was predominantly
caused by a combination of a delay in the launch
of our summer sale due to the unfavourable
weather, the World Cup and the lack of a 
strong fashion trend across the summer. 
Sales progressively improved during the latter
months of the year.
The year under review has been a period 
of both transformation and expansion for
Debenhams. The Company re-listed its shares
on the London Stock Exchange in May 2006,
completed the conversion of the eight former
Allders stores that were purchased in the
previous year and agreed to acquire nine
department stores from Roches Stores in 
the Republic of Ireland.
Expansion of our store portfolio continued with
the opening of five new department stores in
Hemel Hempstead, Ayr, Newbridge, Doncaster
and Workington. We also opened three new
Desire by Debenhams stores, our exciting small
store format, in South Shields, Orpington and
Falkirk along with 11 new international franchise
stores in five countries which helped extend 
the global reach of the Debenhams brand.
Our new distribution centre in Peterborough is
now fully operational which positions us well in
terms of our store expansion programme.
At the time of the IPO in May 2006, we outlined
our strategy for growth which revolved around
three main growth drivers: space expansion,
supply chain and store portfolio initiatives as well
as new routes to market. As we enter the new
financial year, our strategy remains firmly on track
and our space expansion programme has been
accelerated with the recent acquisition of nine
department stores from Roches Stores in the
Republic of Ireland, a further department store in
Llandudno and a Desire by Debenhams store in
Birmingham Fort.
Rob Templeman
“AS WE ENTER THE NEW FINANCIAL YEAR OUR
STRATEGY REMAINS FIRMLY ON TRACK” CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
8
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
We are extremely proud of our products and
brands and during the year Debenhams was
pleased to receive the Department Store of the
Year Award, voted by 6,000 readers of Company
Magazine and the following Prima High Street
Awards:
• Retailer of the Year
•
Best Evening Wear
• John Rocha – Best Designer
A key objective is to shorten the lead time for 
our products. This is being achieved by improved
product development, more efficient logistics 
and merchandising processes and increased
frequency of our buying cycles. We believe that
these initiatives will help Debenhams continue to
improve stock availability, reduce markdowns and
drive faster stock-turns.
The £27 million investment in a new 700,000 sq ft
distribution centre in Peterborough has also
improved our logistics operations and will
underpin the growth of the Company as new
stores open over the next few years.
Store portfolio
New department stores
Although Debenhams is a well established and
respected brand, we only have 132 stores in the
UK and Republic of Ireland, which is substantially
less than some of our competitors. We believe
that there is the potential to increase the number
of our department stores up to 240. Since 
4 September 2005, in addition to the Roche
acquisition (see below), we have opened six new
department stores. Currently we have 24 contracts
signed for new department stores which will
increase our trading space by 17.5 per cent to 
11.8 million sq ft.
Our property team continues to focus on
developing new opportunities for our expansion
programme and negotiations are progressing on 
a strong pipeline of new sites.
Products and supply chain
Our exclusive Designers at Debenhams ranges are
a key differentiator for our Company. Consumers
today are more stylish and design conscious than
ever before. Our strategy of working closely with
the designers who create leading collections 
enables us to bring exciting and stylish products
with designer branding straight from the catwalk
to a wider audience at affordable prices. During
the year, we have continued to extend our
exclusive designer ranges into more stores and
into new product areas. New ranges have been
developed with a number of our established
designers such as the J by Jasper Conran Ten Year
Limited Collection which showcases some of the
finest fabrics and designs in limited quantities. 
The arrival of these new limited collections allows 
us to stretch our pricing architecture and to test
new boundaries for Debenhams.
We continue to extend our Designers at
Debenhams collection with a new accessory 
and home range from Betty Jackson, a children’s
range from Julien McDonald and an exciting new
menswear range from Jeff Banks.
Our focus on developing our own exclusive
brands alongside our Designers at Debenhams
ranges has led to a stronger sales participation
from our own-bought merchandise which in 
turn has had a positive impact on our margins 
for the year.
The strengthening of our internal design office
and our buying teams, together with the opening
of a new sourcing office in Turkey, will allow us 
to continue to build on our existing own-brand
collections. We will source more of our own
product direct from suppliers improving both 
our speed to market and stock availability.
Jasmine Guinness models latest designs from the J by
Jasper Conran Ten Year Limited Collection 9
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Acquisition from Roches stores
Since the year end, Debenhams has completed
the acquisition of nine department stores in the
Republic of Ireland. These leasehold stores were
bought from Roches Stores for a consideration 
of 129.0 million, payable in three instalments over 
a two-year period. We also purchased the trading
stock.
This acquisition, alongside our existing stores in
the Republic of Ireland, gives us a strong presence
in the country. Over the next year we will convert
these stores into the Debenhams trading format.
Desire by Debenhams
Debenhams opened its first Desire by Debenhams
store in Truro in June 2005. This is a new smaller
concept store featuring a mix of women’s fashion,
accessories, lingerie and cosmetics which offers 
a differentiated proposition in locations which
would not sustain a full department store.
Five Desire by Debenhams stores are now trading
in Falkirk, Orpington, South Shields, Truro and
Birmingham Fort. They have been tested in
challenging markets and are delivering higher
margins and sales densities than the main chain.
Contracts for an additional four stores have also
been signed and ultimately Debenhams believes
there is potential for up to 100 of these stores
across the UK.
International
Debenhams is expanding internationally with 
a franchise model and has 30 stores in 14 different
countries. A further 16 stores are contracted to
open by the end of the 2009 financial year.
Debenhams has business plans with franchisees
for a large number of additional stores, 12 of
which are in an advanced stage of negotiation. 
By 2010 we anticipate that we will have 70
international franchise stores, with the further
potential to develop the Debenhams and Desire
by Debenhams concept overseas.
Our store portfolio now consists of:
132 department stores
5 Desire by Debenhams 
30 international stores
Refurbishment programme
During the year we completed the refurbishment
of 14 stores. The programme is designed to
improve both the linear conversion and visual
merchandising across the store as well as
establishing strong delineation of our brands.
Results achieved from these refits and the
customer feedback have been very positive. 
We plan to continue to invest in our store
portfolio and at least another ten stores will 
be refurbished during this financial year.
Other sales/revenue channels
During the year, we have invested in a £7 million
upgrade of our website. We believe that this
investment will enable Debenhams to make
significant improvements compared to our
existing site and allow us to capture a greater
share of this ever-growing market. Our
development programme for multi-channel
retailing will extend the availability of our ranges
to a wider audience and provide the necessary
platform for the development of niche micro-sites
for our products.
Debenhams already has one of the UK’s leading
wedding gift services, which can be further
enhanced by the developments being made 
to our website.
Outlook
Debenhams has over the past ten years
consistently grown its profits, sales and market
share. These results demonstrate that, even in a
challenging market, our Company can continue 
to grow.
We have an excellent business, have invested in
our infrastructure and, with our store opening
programme and other growth initiatives, remain
confident about the outlook for our Company.
Rob Templeman
Chief Executive
24 October 2006
Kuwait Souk Sharq. One of our inernational franchise stores
in Kuwait
9
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006 Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet
consectetuer adipiscing elit. Praesent
viverra ullamcorper leo. Suspendisse
potenti. Duis vitae mi vitae enim
aliquam blandit. Ut risus nunc,
ullamcorper id, commodo at, eleifen
Celebrity model Jade Jagger was chosen 
to promote the new Adore Moi lingerie collection 
launched in September 2006
10
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006 Basis of reporting
The results for the year ended 2 September 2006
(“2006”) have been prepared in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”).
This is the first year that the Group has reported
its results in accordance with IFRS. The biggest
impact arises from changes in treatment 
of operating lease costs and incentives, business
combinations and share-based payments. The
Group has, therefore, restated its results for the
year ended 3 September 2005 (“2005”) to reflect
these changes. In relation to financial instruments
the Group has taken an exemption under IFRS not
to restate comparatives.
Summary of results 
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Revenue 1,707.7 1,608.7
Operating profit before 
exceptional items 238.2 228.0
Leases with fixed annual 
increments in rent 14.9 9.7
Share-based payments 14.3 5.5
Impact of 53rd week – (8.4)
Lease cost adjustment – (14.1)
Underlying operating profit
before exceptional items 267.4 220.7
Interest adjustment (67.1) (72.8)
Underlying profit before
taxation and exceptional items 200.3 147.9
Note
Underlying operating profit is used by management as a
measure of profitability within the Group. It is defined as
operating profit before exceptional items and the impact of
leases with fixed annual increments in rent and charges relating
to share-based payments. The results for 2005 have been
adjusted to remove the impact of week 53 and the lease cost
adjustment for the period prior to the British Land Company
property transaction which took place in February 2005. In
addition, in both 2005 and 2006 the Group underwent
significant refinancing. In consequence, the statutory interest
and related financing costs are not comparable year on year.
The above adjustment for interest assumes that the 2006
refinancing, which took place after the date of Admission, 
was effective at the beginning of the year ended 3 September
2005 and that the proceeds of shares issued on Admission 
(£700 million) were available at that date.
11
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
11
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
The comparison of performance year on year 
has been made complex by costs incurred as 
a result of: 
• the Company’s Admission to the London Stock
Exchange on 9 May 2006; and
• the refinancing of its debt facility on 
30 May 2006.
These changes principally increase the number 
of shares issued by the Company, reduce the level
of borrowings held by the Group, and reduce the
interest charged on the lower levels of borrowings
since 30 May 2006. 
Sales and margins
During the 52 weeks ended 2 September 
2006, our retail business achieved like-for-like 
sales growth of 0.5 per cent. This together 
with strong performance from our new stores
resulted in gross transaction value growing by 
5.1 per cent to £2,192.9 million (53 weeks ended
2005: £2,086.8 million). 
The international business has also continued to
grow with a year-on-year sales growth of 21.1 per
cent being achieved through a combination of
like-for-like improvement and the addition of 11
new franchise stores. Week 53 in 2005 accounted
for 1.5 per cent of the comparative sales for the
Group. Debenhams continued to improve its
market share across key product categories.
Improvements in the efficiency of the supply
chain together with continued cost control
throughout the business have enabled us to
generate a gross profit margin of £331.4 million
(2005 before exceptional items: £315.3 million).
1,600
2,500
2,300
2,400
2,200
2,100
2,000
1,900
1,800
1,700
Gross transaction value (£ million)
Sales 
6.6% CAGR
2003 2004 2005 2006
Chris Woodhouse 12
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Interest
Net interest before exceptional items for the 
52 weeks ended 2 September 2006 year was
£125.4 million, a £35.4 million reduction when
compared to the 53 weeks in 2005. The reduction
is principally due to:
• a futher refinancing in May 2005 which allowed
the repayment of the more expensive debt,
being deep discounted bonds and high-yield
bonds; and
•
the new lower-cost finance structure which
was put in place in May 2006 after the Group’s
Admission to the London Stock Exchange.
Taxation
The effective tax rate on profit before exceptional
items for the year ended 2 September 2006 
is 29.0 per cent. The Group’s tax charge has been
adjusted for the resulting credit on the deductible
element of exceptional items, which has given rise
to an overall tax charge of £18.4 million and an
effective tax rate of 29.6 per cent. 
Earnings 
The basic and diluted earnings per share reflect
the weighted average number of shares in issue
during the course of the financial year and
similarly for the comparative period. As a result of
significant changes in the Group’s capital structure
associated with Admission to the London Stock
Exchange an underlying earnings per share figure
has been calculated. The underlying earnings per
share reflects the underlying earnings figure and
for both financial periods the number of shares in
issue following the re-listing. The figures are set
out below.
2006 2005
Pence Pence
per share per share
Basic EPS 7.4 26.2
Underlying EPS 16.5 11.0
Underlying operating profit before exceptional
items increased by 21.2 per cent during the 
year to £267.4 million (52 weeks ended 2005:
£220.7 million). Operating profit 2006: £223.6
million; 2005: £341.3 million.
Reporting results in accordance with IFRS has 
had a significant impact on operating leases 
with annual fixed increments in rent. The adverse
profit impact from adopting this standard is 
£14.9 million (2005: £9.7 million).
Exceptional items
Total exceptional items for 2006 were £50.7 million
(2005: income £20.4 million). These comprise costs
associated with Admission to the London Stock
Exchange, the cost of distributing restricted cash
held by an employee trust and costs associated
with the refinancing which took place on 
30 May 2006.
Costs relating to the Company’s Admission to the
London Stock Exchange include taxation and
restructuring advice, legal and professional fees,
employee bonuses and other advisory services
concerning Admission; this also includes printing
costs, marketing and public relations. 
Following Admission to the London Stock Exchange
the restricted cash held by Debenhams Retail
Employee Trust 2004 is being distributed to the
beneficiaries of the Trust in accordance with the
Trust rules. This has generated an exceptional cost
of £10.0 million in the 2006 income statement.
On 30 May 2006 the Group refinanced its 
debt position, which resulted in the repayment 
of senior credit facilities. As a result of this
repayment the Group wrote-off all unamortised
debt issue costs of £33.5 million and suffered an
early repayment interest penalty of £2.1 million.
All fees in respect of the new term loan facility are
being amortised over the term of that facility.
The refinancing also resulted in the restructuring
of the Group’s interest rate swap portfolio. An
interest rate cap was closed out and two forward
start interest rate swaps restructured at a cost 
of £0.5 million.
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW The adjustments to earnings made in calculating
underlying EPS are set out in the table below.
They concern the removal of non-comparable
items in arriving at an underlying earnings figure.
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Profit for the financial year 43.7 123.7
Exceptional items 50.7 (20.4)
Leases with fixed 
annual increments in rent 14.9 9.7
Share-based payments 14.3 5.5
Impact of 53rd week – (8.4)
Lease cost adjustment – (14.1)
Interest adjustments 58.3 88.0
Tax effect on the adjusted 
items above (40.5) (89.2)
Underlying earnings 141.4 94.8
Dividends
The directors are proposing a final dividend in
respect of the financial year ended 2 September
2006 of 2.4 pence per share. It will be paid on 
4 January 2007 to shareholders who are on the
register of members at close of business on 
24 November 2006.
Capital expenditure
We continue to invest for the long-term growth 
of the Group. Cash outflow from net capital
expenditure for the year was £88.5 million (2005:
£100.1 million). During the year under review we
invested £42.1 million in eight new stores, 
£10.3 million in refurbishing existing stores with
the balance being invested in improving the
infrastructure of the business.
We are committed to investing £7.0 million in 
the development of a new Debenhams website
which is expected to launch shortly.
13
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
A central distribution centre at Peterborough 
was opened in July 2005, at a cost of £27 million
and has become fully operational during the year.
The Group will generate savings through the
introduction of this centralised distribution centre
and through improving the efficiency of logistics
operations. Importantly the Peterborough facility
contains capacity to deal with future expansion 
over a number of years to come. 
Cash flow
Net cash flow from operating activities after
outflows on capital expenditure has shown a
strong increase year on year and is derived from
the financial statements as follows:
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Cash flow from operating activities 317.0 381.9
Net interest paid (139.6) (328.9)
Net capital expenditure (88.5) (100.1)
Tax received/(paid) 12.9 (10.4)
Cash flow from operating
activities after capital expenditure 101.8 (57.5)
The cash flow from operating activities of £317.0
million reflects operating profits of £223.6 million,
adjusted by non-cash items of £95.2 million,
reduced by £26.2 million of pension contributions
in excess of service charges and an inflow from
working capital of £24.4 million.
This inflow from working capital principally
reflects an increase in trade and other payables.
Borrowings and refinancing
During the year the Group’s net debt position has
reduced by £763.3 million to £1,112.3 million.
The Group’s net debt position on Admission was
£1.9 billion. £700 million of new equity was issued
and the funds used to repay; part of the senior
credit facility, a contribution of £18.0 million to 
the Group pension schemes and costs associated
with Admission and refinancing of £26.8 million. 
On 30 May 2006 the Group refinanced its existing
£2.05 billion senior credit facilities with the
proceeds of a new term loan of £1.05 billion 
and a revolving credit facility (“RCF”) of £0.3 billion.
Issue costs of £17.2 million are being amortised
over the term of the facility. On 3 July 2006 the
RCF was reduced to £0.25 billion. 
0
40
80
120
160
Capital spend (£ million)
Capital expenditure guidance
2003 2004 2005 2006
Forecast
2007
New stores Modernisation Roches stores Other 14
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Group agreed to deal with the past service deficit 
by contributing £5.3 million per annum to the
pension schemes, payable monthly, increasing 
on each subsequent 1 April in line with 
price inflation. 
Post balance sheet events
On 12 September 2006, the Company completed
the acquisition of nine leasehold stores in 
the Republic of Ireland. The consideration on
acquisition amounted to €29.0 million payable 
in three instalments over two years.
Chris Woodhouse
Finance Director
24 October 2006
Financial risk and treasury management
The board has established an overall treasury policy
and has approved authority levels within which the
treasury function must operate. Treasury policy is
to manage risks within the agreed framework
whilst not taking speculative positions.
The polices and strategies for managing financial
risk are summarised in note 3 of the Group
financial statements.
Balance sheet
Year-end net assets of £53.3 million have
increased by £734.0 million when compared 
to 2005. The increase is principally due to the
proceeds of the new share issue of £700 million,
the impact of the triennial pension scheme
valuation and new debt structure.
Pensions
The Group provides a number of pension benefit
arrangements for its employees, which include
the Debenhams Retirement Scheme and
Debenhams Executive Pension Plan (together the
“pension schemes”). The Debenhams Retirement
Scheme has a defined benefit section and a career
average earnings section. The Debenhams
Executive Pension Plan is also a defined benefit
plan which was closed to new entrants from 
1 September 2002.
During the year, the board reached agreement
with the pension schemes’ trustees regarding 
the future structure of those pension schemes.
Following consultation with all employees from 
July 2006 the outcome is that the pension 
schemes will close for future service accrual from
31 October 2006. The closure to future accrual will
not affect the pensions of those who have retired
or the deferred benefits of those who have left
service or opted out before 31 October 2006.
Future pension arrangements will be provided for
Debenhams employees by a Prudential stakeholder
pension scheme. 
The last actuarial valuation of the defined benefit
schemes was carried out as at 31 March 2005 
and showed a combined deficit of £42.5 million.
The Group has paid additional contributions 
of £29.4 million in May 2005 together with 
£18.0 million following the Company’s Admission
to the London Stock Exchange in May 2006. 
These payments were in addition to service
contributions of 13.7 per cent and 35.0 per cent 
of pensionable salaries for the Debenhams
Retirement Scheme and Debenhams Executive
Pension Plan respectively. From 1 April 2006 the
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW Mustard Coat from Betty Jackson.Black 
range launched late in 2005
15
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006 Preston wears sweater, trousers, shirt, tie, shoes and holdall
all by St George by Duffer, exclusive to Debenhams
16
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
17
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
The results of the audit programme are reviewed
by Debenhams, the results highlighted with
suppliers, and the standards are then monitored. 
If it is found that any factory does not come up 
to the standards expected, where possible
Debenhams will work with that supplier and
factory to resolve the issues within an agreed
timeframe. This approach of working with
suppliers on corrective action planning and
sustainable improvement is better for the
suppliers’ workforce than “walking away” from
problems. However such an approach is not
always possible and Debenhams will (and did
during 2006) disengage a supplier for serious
breaches of its Code of Conduct. The 2006 
breach related to a south China lighting factory
and Debenhams was not satisfied with the
approach of the supplier or factory management
in engaging in a remediation programme. On 
a more positive note Debenhams along with
other ETI members are involved in two successful
remediation programmes in northern China.
Debenhams joined the ETI in November 2001 
and has fully adopted the ETI base code. The ETI 
is a tri-partite alliance of commercial companies
(major retailers and suppliers to UK markets), 
trade unions (representing millions of workers
worldwide) and non-governmental organisations
(who work to promote human rights and
equitable development worldwide). The ETI’s 
aim is to improve conditions of employment and
therefore the lives of workers and their families 
in global supply chains that deliver goods to
consumers in Britain. 
There are a number of working groups within 
the ETI and Debenhams is currently active in the
China Working Group, the China Occupational
Health and Safety pilot project, the Purchasing
Practices pilot project and the Impact Assessment
Steering Group.
At least once a year the board considers the
importance of social, environmental and ethical
matters to the business of the Company. The
directors are particularly concerned to ensure 
that the processes set out in this section of the
report are adhered to as significant risks to the
Company’s business rest with the practices 
of suppliers and the factories making goods 
for the Company.
Corporate social responsibility issues are
important in and integral to all aspects of the
Company’s operations. Although it publicises
its activities in this area less than some other
retailers, Debenhams places great emphasis 
in its business on social, environmental 
and ethical matters. The cornerstone of
Debenhams’ policy is the action taken to
establish and improve practices in its supply
chain (suppliers, products and distribution).
Debenhams’ focus on CSR is also evident in
such diverse areas as waste management,
human resources, health and safety and
customer accessibility to its stores. Details of
its work in all these areas, and of Debenhams’
charitable activities, are set out below.
Supplier selection and monitoring
The basis of Debenhams’ approach to sourcing 
is to work with reputable suppliers who show the
same commitment to ethical trade as Debenhams.
The Company has a complex supply chain as a
result of the breadth of product in its stores and 
it is important that Debenhams fully understands
its supplier and factory base. A review of suppliers
and sourcing hubs is currently being carried out,
including social and technical mapping of the
factory base, and it is intended to complete this
exercise by the end of 2006.
All suppliers and factories are required to comply
with the Debenhams Supplier Code of Conduct.
The code covers all aspects of working conditions,
including a decent and safe working environment.
The code was strengthened in 2001 and is fully
compliant with the requirements of the Ethical
Trading Initiative (“ETI”). 
All own-brand suppliers must complete a factory
self-evaluation (based on the Code of Conduct)
for all of their factories that will be making
products for Debenhams. The Company then
monitors its suppliers and the standards in their
factories on an ongoing basis in two ways,
through an independent audit programme and
through assessments by Debenhams’ own
employees and representatives. 
Debenhams audit programme is based on 
two-day audits and more focused one-day gap
analysis audits, carried out by independent
auditors. In addition Debenhams accepts social
audit reports completed for other retailers.
Debenhams will also be reviewing the SEDEX
initiative over the coming months and, subject 
to such evaluation, intends to support its focus
upon continuing to carry out independent audits
and where necessary implementing sustainable
improvement programmes with groups 
of suppliers. 18
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
with a lower fat and salt content. The baby food
range is 100 per cent organic and a range of
organic products are offered in all our stores.
Debenhams is currently in discussion with the Fair
Trade Foundation and other similar groups and
intends to introduce such products during 2007.
Distribution
The Company continues to appraise ways of
minimising fuel consumption within its supply
chain and distribution operations. Ocean
containers are one of the most environmentally
friendly means of transport, drawing less on
environmental resource than almost any other
means of transportation. Over the last three years
Debenhams has reduced the use of airfreight by
almost 35 per cent replacing this in almost every
case with ocean container freight. The main ocean
container freight forwarders are also replacing a
significant number of their vessels with a new
fuel-efficient fleet and are committed to working
to further reduce the environmental impact of
their existing vessels.
Most of Debenhams’ road transport relates to
deliveries to the stores. The Company has been
focusing on reducing the number of vehicle 
trips by combining routes and consolidating 
stock from the three distribution centres. The
consolidation of the distribution centres from
Daventry and Bedford to the new distribution
centre in Peterborough will result in an annual 
net decrease in distribution transport of 320,000
kms, a saving of 48 metric tonnes of CO
2
(based
on emissions of 150g/km). The backhaul
operation, to reduce the number of vehicles
returning empty after making store deliveries 
to the distribution centres, has been extended
during the year. These programmes of combining
routes, consolidating stock and backhauling,
together with the ongoing programme of vehicle
replacement, have improved the Company’s fuel
efficiency in the year. For example, the increase
during the year in the nominated carrier scheme
(under which Debenhams manages on behalf of
suppliers the consolidation of deliveries so that
collections are made from a number of suppliers
with therefore better vehicle utilisation on
deliveries to the warehouse) will on an annual
Debenhams’ products
Debenhams has published its ethical and
environmental trading policies covering various
aspects of product sourcing:
•
Animal testing – Debenhams does not sell any
products or product ingredients that were
tested on animals after 1 January 1998. 
•
Leathers, hides and furs – Debenhams does
not allow the use of any snake, crocodile,
alligator or endangered species in its products.
All the leather used is a by-product of the food
industry and Debenhams supports the
humane treatment of animals throughout the
supply chain. Debenhams does not allow the
use of real fur in any of its products.
•
Sustainable timber sources – only timber 
from sustainable sources is used and suppliers
are required to keep records so that this can
be verified.
• Genetically modified organisms – Debenhams
requires all its products to be GMO free.
• Conflict diamonds – rough diamonds sourced 
for Debenhams’ production must have been
procured and certified in compliance with the
Kimberley Process, and finished diamonds
must have been purchased from legitimate
sources, not involved in funding conflict, in
compliance with United Nations resolutions.
• Safer chemicals – the Company has evaluated
the chemicals used in its products. Certain
chemicals have been banned. A policy has
been established in relation to the use of other
chemicals, covering own-bought merchandise,
packaging and equipment on which product
is displayed in stores. Following its chemical
evaluation Debenhams also stipulates safer
alternative product constituents to be used by
suppliers. Debenhams has been participating,
with the BRC Product Stewardship Group and
Acona, in maintaining records and developing
best practice for the implementation of the
safer chemicals policy. 
The Food Services division continues to focus on
improving the quality of and information about 
its food. As stated above all its products are GMO
free. The restaurants have new Allergy Advice 
Files which provide to customers easy access to
information on the most common allergens so
that informed choices can be made and allergic
dangers highlighted. On the Kids Pick and Mix
counters specific items are promoted for the “Five
a Day” fruit/vegetable requirement and sausages
have been specially produced for Debenhams
Our new distribution centre in Peterborough
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 19
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Over the last three years the Company has
streamlined the styles and colours of its garment
hangers from over 250 options to under 80. 
This allows for significantly better recycling
opportunities in store and approximately 92,000
hangers a week are sent to the hanger recycling
provider.
A new waste management contract was signed
this year and Debenhams is actively exploring
with them ways to further reduce the amount 
of waste being sent to landfill.
Employees
The Company is committed to supporting all
employees in their balance between work and
personal life. Depending on the area and role in
which they work, Debenhams offer various
flexible contracts to suit their individual needs. 
Debenhams recognises that there may be times
when an employee needs to take time off from
work or change their pattern of working due to
personal situations. There are a number of policies
in place to support employees through such
events, including parental, maternity, paternity
and adoption leave, flexible working and a career
break scheme.
All employees have free access to the Retail Trust
Helpline.
All employees are required to adhere to the Code
of Business Conduct (senior employees confirm
compliance in writing). This sets out the ethical
standards expected by the Company, covering
matters such as the acceptance of gifts and
hospitality and other areas where a conflict 
of interest could appear to arise. Debenhams 
is concerned to ensure that its directors and
employees act with the greatest integrity and 
will not tolerate any shortfall from its standards.
The Company has put in place a number of
avenues through which any employee who 
has a concern about any aspect of the Company’s
operations, or who is being victimised or
inappropriately treated or believes a colleague 
is being so treated, may bring this concern on 
a confidential basis to the attention of a senior
executive of the Company. Further details of these
“whistle blowing” processes are set out in the
internal control section of this report. 
Debenhams provides equality of opportunity for
all its employees. The Company’s policy is to
ensure that individuals are treated fairly and that
decisions on recruitment selection, training,
promotion and career management are based
solely on objective and job-related criteria.
basis reduce transport mileage by 65,000 kms
equating to a saving of 9.75 metric tonnes of CO
2
.
As well as collecting stock from our UK suppliers
the backhaul operation is used to return store
waste to the distribution centres. Thirteen stores
are currently participating in this scheme which
we estimate will divert 470 tonnes of waste from
the stores. When received it will be combined
with the waste from the distribution centres and
where possible recycled; it is estimated that this
will enable the Company to efficiently recycle
more than 2,000 tonnes of card and plastic in the
in the 2006/07 year. 
In July 2005 Debenhams opened a new
distribution centre at Peterborough. This has been
designed to the highest environmental standards
and is situated on a brown field site in-filled with
PFA (pulverised fuel ash). Thousands of trees 
have been planted and before building could
commence £64,000 was spent on relocating the
rare reptiles on the site. Energy saving measures
have been incorporated into the building and the
700,000 sq ft of internal roof lighting are controlled
with light sensors. The offices have PIR controlled
lighting that ensures lights are only on in areas
when they are in use.
In the same way as the Peterborough distribution
centre, stockroom, staff and office areas in new
stores are fitted with PIR lighting. The new store 
at Westwood Cross has light sensors in the 
fitting rooms; these will be fitted as standard in 
all future new store constructions and where
possible light sensors will also be incorporated
into store refurbishments. Debenhams has
recently appointed an Energy Manager specifically
to minimise energy usage across all its existing
stores and to advise on the configuration and
equipment used in all new and refurbished stores.
Waste management
Debenhams works with its suppliers to minimise
the amount of transit packaging. Where packaging
is needed consideration is given to the appropriate
materials; for example foam and polystyrene are
not used as they do not easily recycle. 
Stores which are not part of the backhauling
programme referred to in the earlier paragraph
are able to recycle their card and plastic and 
some dispose of it in mill-sized bales. This year
Debenhams also appointed a recycling house 
to dispose of faulty or unsaleable stock from 
the stores, which previously would have been
destroyed or compacted and removed as waste. 20
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
employees at all levels on new initiatives and
developments, promotional activity, product
ranges, the effectiveness of processes, key
issues and reactions to key messages.
•
Every senior manager in head office participates
in the adopt-a-store scheme. This enhances
communication and the appreciation of key
issues between the stores and head office,
focuses a head office manager on improving
the performance of a particular store, and
provides to head office employees the
opportunity to work more closely with
customers and understand their needs.
Health and safety
Nigel Palmer, Retail Operations Director, chairs the
Company Health and Safety Committee, which
meets quarterly and is made up of representatives
from all areas of the business. The findings of
these meetings are communicated throughout
the business. In addition there are interim
meetings of a smaller group (also every quarter)
on operational issues.
Debenhams employs an Environmental Health
and Safety Manager, a Food Quality Assurance
Manager and product technologists to manage
the application of policies and procedures in
general health and safety, food safety and product
safety. In relevant circumstances the Company
also appoints consultants, with appropriate
expertise, to advise on specific safety-related
matters.
Debenhams has specific partnership
arrangements with two local authorities; Luton
Borough Council on matters of general health 
and safety and Westminster Council on matters 
of food safety and trading standards.
In addition to the Company committee, every
store also has a health and safety committee. 
The minutes from these meetings are published
to the store and reviewed by the Environmental
Health and Safety Manager. Each store also has 
an elected store safety representative, who is a
member of the committee.
The maintenance of safety standards and the
performance of key health and safety tasks form 
a major part of the risk management review,
which is conducted at least once every two years,
in every store. The outcome and remedial actions
required after risk management inspections are
followed up by the store manager, sales director
and the risk management team.
The opportunity for all employees to learn and
develop is a crucial factor in the Company’s future
success. The learning and development team is
committed to a vision of inspiring and enabling
individuals to reach their full potential. Through
offering a wide mix of training courses and
programmes Debenhams encourages its employees
to enhance their skills and excel in their jobs. 
Two Debenhams employees were recognised 
by Retail Week in their 2006 Rising Star awards.
Marcus Appleton was awarded winner of the
Store Management Star of the Year and Jane Exon
Store Support Manager of the Year. 
The Company encourages communication with 
its employees and promotes opportunities for
regular feedback in a number of ways, including:
• The Employee Consultation Forum; the
employee representatives on the forum are
consulted and gather information and views
from the employees they represent on
business initiatives and issues including
Company structure, new working methods and
changes in policy and practice. Discussions on
these matters then take place at meetings
with senior executives of the Company.
• The intranet site sets out Company and HR
policies and procedures and gives information
on departmental and individual objectives and
achievements. In addition it provides regular
updates on “What’s New” and a calendar of
events.
• Business News, a quarterly magazine, keeps
employees up to date on key business
performance and initiatives, divisional priorities
and product launches.
• The executive directors hold regular sessions
with a cross-section of volunteers from around
the business who sit on the Chief Executive’s
Feedback Forum. The forum provides an
informal opportunity for the directors to
receive open and honest feedback from 
Jane Exon collecting her Store Support Manager of the 
Year award
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 21
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Each year one specific week of the stores’ trading
calendar has a focus on health and safety. Last
year emphasis was placed on the control of
contractors working in stores and on matters of
working at height. This year the focus will be on
fire safety and slips, trips and falls.
Debenhams records and reviews its performance
in relation to the number and nature of the
accidents reportable to the enforcement
authority. Despite the increasing customer
numbers in the Company’s premises each year 
(in excess of 15 million) the results set out below
demonstrate an encouragingly low level of and
improving trend in major accidents/incidents. 
Store accessibility
The Company, having provided in June of this
year all the data required, is now featured on the
“Direct Access” website. This provides information
about the facilities available to disabled customers
including:
• Designated parking spaces – proximate to
accessible entrances.
• Details of accessible entrances – either
automatic doors or mall entrances.
• Passenger lift facilities including disabled
hoists.
• Accessible restaurant facilities.
• Accessible toilets.
• Personal shopper facilities.
• Collect-by and carry-to-car arrangements.
• Details of accessible customer collection
points.
• Induction loops and/or arrangements for
confidential conversations.
Debenhams believes that the key to maintaining 
a safe environment for both employees and
customers is through training on general safety
for all employees when they are initially employed
and through a programme of training on new
developments, policies and trends. In addition,
Debenhams recognises the training needs of
specific roles and accordingly provides bespoke
training; training is provided for:
• Technical service advisors and selling support
managers on the management and
supervision of health and safety through
attendance on approved Chartered Institute 
of Environmental Health courses.
• Foodservices sales managers through
intermediate food hygiene courses and 
in-house training on the principles of Hazard
Analysis of Critical Control Points and its
implementation in Debenhams food
operations.
• All food handlers on basic food safety – 
a computer-based programme accredited 
by the RIPH.
• Technical services advisors on basic electrical
competence delivered by the Institute of
Electrical Engineers. 
• Basic electrical safety for employees working 
in the lighting department.
• Those working in the loading bay on safety
considerations associated with their work
environment.
• The loss prevention teams on conflict
resolution, restraint and personal safety.
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
Number of people
Reportable accidents to staﬀ and customers
2003 2004 2005 2006
StaﬀC ustomers Debenhams has since 1995 designed every 
new store and modernisation on the basis 
of full accessibility. Certain older stores (in total 
17 stores) not subject to such modernisation had
mezzanine levels without lifts or ramps which
were an impediment to access. Measures have
now been taken in all these stores so as to
provide accessibility to all mezzanine areas. 
Charitable activities
Debenhams supports the Breast Cancer
Campaign. In 2005/06 over £300,000 was raised
through the sale of selected products and by
locating pink ribbon pin badges with money
boxes at all till points. 
The store volunteer committees support local
fundraising events such as fashion shows.
The Give As You Earn scheme provides employees
with the opportunity to make regular tax-efficient
donations to the charity of their choice through
the payroll system, without incurring any
administration charges.
22
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Debenhams has supported the Breast Cancer Campaign 
for five years. Oxford Street, one of the 14 stores 
that was modernised during the year
23
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
24
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
a division of Kingfisher plc. Mr Woodhouse is a Fellow
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
England and Wales and an Associate of the
Association of Corporate Treasurers.
4. Michael Sharp 
Chief Operating Officer (49) 
From 1997 to 2004, Mr Sharp was Trading Director
of Debenhams Limited and was appointed its
Chief Operating Officer in January 2004 and Chief
Operating Officer of the Company in May 2006.
He previously worked from 1985 to 1997 
in various capacities within The Burton Group,
including as Managing Director of Principles and
Racing Green and Buying and Merchandising
Director of Top Shop and Top Man. Prior to 
joining The Burton Group Mr Sharp worked 
for Littlewoods and Sears.
5. Philippe Costeletos 
Non-Executive Director (41) 
Philippe Costeletos became a director of Baroness
Holdings UK Limited in September 2003 and 
a director of the Company in May 2005. He is a
partner of Texas Pacific Group Limited, which he
joined in 2003. From 1995 to 2002, Mr Costeletos
was a member of the Management Committee 
at Investcorp Limited. Prior to joining Investcorp,
he worked at JPMorgan Capital. Mr Costeletos is
also currently Chairman of TIM Hellas SA, Vice
Chairman of Q Telecom SA and a Director of
Sparkle Fashion Limited.
6. Adam Crozier 
Independent Non-Executive Director u l (42)
Adam Crozier became a director of the Company
in May 2006. Mr Crozier has been Chief Executive
of the Royal Mail since 2003. From 2000 to 2003
he was Chief Executive of the Football Association
Limited. He joined Saatchi & Saatchi UK Limited in
1988 and his roles there included Media Director,
Vice Chairman and, from 1995 to 1999, Joint Chief
Executive.
1. John Lovering
Chairman n (56)
John Lovering became Chairman of Debenhams
Limited in December 2003 and Chairman of 
the Company in May 2006. He was Chairman 
of The Peacock Group PLC from 1997 to 2004,
Odeon Cinemas Limited from 2000 to 2003,
Homebase Group Limited from 2000 to late 
2002 and Fitness First Limited from 2003 to 2005.
From 1992 to 1995, Mr Lovering was Chief
Operating Officer of Tarmac Limited and, from
1988 to 1992, he was Finance Director of Sears
Limited. In addition to Debenhams Mr Lovering’s
other major current commitment is with
Somerfield Ltd, where he was appointed
Chairman in March 2006. Mr Lovering is also
currently a director of Ermes Department Stores
Public Limited (Debenhams’ franchisee in Cyprus). 
2. Rob Templeman 
Chief Executive (48)
Rob Templeman became Chief Executive of
Debenhams Limited in December 2003 and 
Chief Executive of the Company in May 2006. 
Mr Templeman also served as Chairman of
Halfords Group Plc from February 2003 to March
2006. From March 2001 to February 2003, he
served as Chief Executive Officer of Homebase
Group Plc and between 1990 and 2000 he was
Chief Executive Officer of Harveys Furnishing plc.
3. Chris Woodhouse 
Finance Director (45)
Chris Woodhouse became Finance Director 
of Debenhams Limited in December 2003 and
Finance Director of the Company in May 2006. 
He was Deputy Chairman of Halfords Group plc
from 2003 to 2005, and from 2001 to 2003 he was
Commercial Director and Deputy Chief Executive
Officer of Homebase Limited. Previously, 
Mr Woodhouse was Finance Director of various
companies including Birthdays Group Limited 
and Superdrug Stores plc, which was then 
1 23
456 25
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
10. Dennis Millard 
Independent Non-Executive Director u n l (57)
Dennis Millard became a director of the Company
in May 2006. He was Group Finance Director of
Cookson Group plc from 1996 until 2005 and was
Finance Director of Medeva plc from 1994 to
1996. He was a non-executive director and
chairman of the audit committee of both Exel plc
(2003 to 2005) and Arc International (2000 to 2003)
and is currently a non-executive director of
Xchanging UK Limited and Smiths News plc,
where he is Deputy Chairman. Mr Millard is 
a member of the South African Institute of
Chartered Accountants. 
11. Guido Padovano 
Non-Executive Director (50)
Guido Padovano became a director of Baroness
Holdings UK Limited in September 2003 
and a director of the Company in May 2005. 
He is a managing director in the Merrill Lynch
Global Private Equity Division. In that capacity, 
Mr Padovano has served on various boards, 
and is currently also a director of Cremer
Holdings, L.L.C., Despegar.com, Inc. and Rexel S.A.
12. Paul Pindar 
Independent Non-Executive Director u n (47)
Paul Pindar became a director of the Company 
in May 2006.  He has been Chief Executive of 
The Capita Group plc since 1999, was a managing
director between 1991 and 1999 and Finance
Director prior to that. From 1985 to 1987, he was
an investment controller of 3i plc. He is currently
Chairman of the Corporate Development Board 
of the NSPCC. 
u Member of the Audit Committee
n Member of the Nomination Committee
l Member of the Remuneration Committee 
7. Jonathan Feuer
Non-Executive Director (44)
Jonathan Feuer became a director of Baroness
Holdings UK Limited in September 2003 
and a director of the Company in May 2005. 
He is a managing partner of CVC Capital Partners. 
He joined CVC in 1988, having previously worked
in the Corporate Finance Department of Baring
Brothers & Co Ltd and for Ernst & Winney Capital
Partners Ltd and IG Group Limited.
8. Richard Gillingwater
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
u n l (50)
Richard Gillingwater became a director of the
Company in May 2006 and has been appointed
the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Mr Gillingwater is currently a director of Faber
Music Holdings Limited, Faber Music Limited,
Rights Worldwide Limited and Tomkins plc. 
He is also Chairman of the Shareholder Executive,
the body responsible for the Government’s
shareholdings in major publicly-owned
businesses. He was previously Chairman,
European Investment Banking, of CSFB (between
1998 and 2003) and from 1990 to 1997 he was
Joint Head of Global Corporate Finance at BZW. 
9. Peter Long 
Independent Non-Executive Director u l (54)
Peter Long became a director of the Company 
in May 2006. Mr Long has been Chief Executive 
of First Choice Holidays plc since 1999 and 
was Managing Director from 1996 to 1999. 
He established Sunworld Holidays Limited in 
1991 (he was Chief Executive from 1991 to 
1996). He is currently a non-executive director 
of Rentokil Initial plc. 
789
10 11 12 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
26
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Principal activities 
Debenhams is a leading multi-category retailer in the UK, with a unique mix of own brands (including
Designers at Debenhams), international brands and concessions. Its main product categories are women’s,
men’s and children’s clothing and accessories, products for the home, health and beauty, lingerie and food
services. At the end of the financial year (2 September 2006) Debenhams traded from 122 department
stores and four Desire by Debenhams stores. It also makes direct sales via the internet and had a further 
30 international franchise stores in 14 countries.
Business review 
Debenhams is the second largest department store chain in the UK. Its department store market share has
increased from 12 per cent in 1996 to 18.6 per cent in 2005. The growth in market share has accelerated
over the last few years.
Debenhams has a successful business model and a strong sales and profit track record over the last 
ten years. During the 2005/06 financial year this trend continued. The key performance indicators are
summarised below and explained in greater detail in the narrative of this business review:
Total sales growth
(1)
6.6 per cent (vs 52-week last year comparative) 
Total sales growth
(1)
5.1 per cent (vs 53-week last year comparative)
Like-for-like sales growth
(1)(2)
0.5 per cent increase on last year
Underlying operating profit 
before exceptional items £267.4 million an increase of 21.2 per cent on last year 
Net cash generated from
operating activities £190.3 million an increase of 346.7 per cent on last year
Trading space 10.1 million total sq ft (as at 24 October 2006) + 11 per cent
Labour turnover 2.3 per cent lower (2005/06 vs 2004/05)
1) Gross transaction value.
2) Like-for-like growth in gross transaction value represents the current period’s gross transaction value (including VAT) for the internet and stores that have
traded for the last 12 months less the prior period’s gross transaction value for the same grouping.
Debenhams offers a unique and differentiated customer proposition through its product mix of exclusive
own brands, including Designers at Debenhams, own-bought, international brands and concessions. Its
portfolio of over 55 exclusive brands includes 25 Designers at Debenhams ranges such as Jasper Conran
and John Rocha and other own brands such as Red Herring, Maine New England and Debut. Alongside
these own brands, international and concession brands increase customer visits to its stores.
During the year Debenhams brought new designers such as Betty Jackson into its portfolio, expanded the
sales of existing designers into new stores through the Designer Boutique concept and extended designers’
ranges across product categories (for example the further development of Jasper Conran products in home
and lingerie).
Total sales, as measured by gross transaction value, grew in the year by 6.6 per cent against the
comparative 52-week period in the previous financial year, like-for-like sales grew by 0.5 per cent. 
Underlying operating profit before exceptional items increased by 21.2 per cent during the year 
from £220.7 million to £267.4 million. 27
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Debenhams benefits from an inherent flexibility in optimising product/brand mix and space allowing it to
flex its multi-category offer into growth and out of declining product categories. This increases its ability to
provide rapid response to customer trends, gives greater consistency of performance and lowers business
risk, making the business more resilient and better able to exploit trends than its competitors. During the
year Debenhams increased its own-bought mix from 68.1 per cent to 68.7 per cent. As own-bought margins
are higher than concession margins this had a favourable impact on the achieved margin percentage. The
own-bought mix change combined with general supply chain improvements resulted in an overall growth
in the margin percentage of 0.3 per cent over the year.
Debenhams continues to leverage its core strengths  through new space,  new channel and organic growth.
Since 3 September 2005 Debenhams has opened six new department stores, four Desire by Debenhams
stores, 11 international franchise stores, acquired nine stores from Roches Stores in the Republic of Ireland
and is in the process of investing £7 million in its transactional website. Total trading space across all formats
in the UK and the Republic of Ireland is now 10.1 million sq ft, an increase of 11 per cent since the end of
2004/05. Contracts have also been signed for a further 24 department stores, four Desire by Debenhams
stores and 16 international stores. UK and Republic of Ireland expansion from the 28 contracted openings will
add a further 17.9 per cent to the total department store and Desire by Debenhams trading space by the end
of the 2011 financial year. In addition to these contracted openings negotiations are in progress on other sites
and the pipeline is expected to continue to grow. The directors believe that Debenhams has the potential to
increase the portfolio to up to 240 department stores and 100 Desire by Debenhams stores.
Sales mix 2006
Own bought
68.7%
Other
0.1%
Concession
28.4%
International
1.9%
Direct
0.9%
Sales mix 2005
Own bought
68.1%
Other
0.1%
Concession
29.5%
International
1.4%
Direct
0.9%
Sales mix 2006
Own bought
68.7%
Other
0.1%
Concession
28.4%
International
1.9%
Direct
0.9%
Sales mix 2005
Own bought
68.1%
Other
0.1%
Concession
29.5%
International
1.4%
Direct
0.9%
110
120
130
140
150
160
Number of stores
Historic and projected new store openings
2005 end Stores opened
in 2006
2006 end Roches
openings
Stores to be
opened in 2007
Current
position
Contracted to
open in 2007
Contracted to
open in 2008
Contracted to
open in 2009
Contracted to
open in 2010
onwards
1
1
1
Desire by Debenhams Department stores
170
117
3
5
4
122
9
5
132
4
2
10
5
7 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
28
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Capital expenditure in the year, on the projects shown in the pie chart below, was £88.5 million. Significant
reductions have been made in capital spend on new stores; the capital cost per sq ft to build a new store
has reduced from £178 in 2002/03 to £108 in 2005/06. This has the effect of improving the return on
capital and so more new store opportunities are viable. 
Refurbishing stores is a key strategy in driving organic growth. During the financial year 14 stores were
refurbished and a further ten stores are planned during 2006/07. The focus is on improving the customers’
shopping experience and increasing the gross transaction value, including through improved visual
merchandising, increased linear conversion (ie. improving the efficiency of the space used in store 
to display merchandise) and strengthening individual brand identity.  
Progress has also been made during the year in shortening product lead times, which has the benefit of
faster responsiveness to fashion trends, improved availability of product and enables lower stock levels to
be held and therefore lower markdowns actioned. In terms of sourcing strategy Debenhams is focusing 
on three main hubs: China, Turkey and India. During the year a new sourcing office was opened in Turkey
which will result in further supply chain benefits in future years.
Since the business was taken private in December 2003 there has been a strong focus on cash generation.
This touches all areas of the business; for example in improved supplier terms, shorter buying lead times,
lower stock investment, a “clear as you go” markdown policy and  the robust management of costs. 
As a consequence the Group generates strong operating cash flows and has a negative working capital
position. Cash generated from operating activities, after pension contributions in excess of past service
charges totalling £26.2 million, amounted to £190.3 million in 2006, an increase of 346.7 per cent.
In addition to its Styling the Nation advertising, which is aimed at a wider audience, targeted promotions
form a key element of Debenhams’ marketing approach. In September 2005 the Debenhams-branded
credit card was launched which has a graded but lower APR rate than the store card. The Company now
has some 2 million active store and credit card holders. 
An ownership and trading culture (rather than an employee mentality) has been fostered since 2003. 
More than 600 employees participate in the Company’s share schemes. All store employees are incentivised
based on sales and cash profit; design, buying and merchandising employees on cash margin, stock turn
and sales. Other head office employees are incentivised on Group sales and profit. These schemes ensure
that all employees are focused on improving shareholder returns. The Company seeks to foster 
a rewarding and satisfying working environment, both through its reward and benefit structures and
through consideration of and flexibilty to meet employee requirements. The key performance indicators
are the rate of labour turnover and employee absence, which respectively improved by 2.3 per cent 
and 0.2 per cent in 2006.
An Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) of the Debenhams Group (which had previously been listed until it was
acquired in December 2003) was successfully completed on 9 May 2006. During the year the business
restructured pursuant to which the Company (formerly Debenhams Retail Holdings Limited) became 
the parent of the Group. The Company was re-registered as Debenhams plc on 18 April 2006 and then
Admitted to the London Stock Exchange on 9 May when unconditional dealings in the shares commenced
(conditional dealings began on 4 May). Subsequently the business refinanced its senior credit facilities.
Total net spend: £88.5 million
New stores
47%
Other
14%
Modernisations
12%
Systems
12%
Store
maintenance
15% 29
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Principal business risks and uncertainties
The major business risks and uncertainties for the Debenhams business relate to; 
i) its ability to predict or fulfil customer demands or preferences;
ii) competitive pressures; Debenhams’ competitors include not just other general retailers but specialist
retailers, supermarkets and other low-price, high-volume retailers, and internet operators;
iii) new store opening and modernisation implementation and performance; 
iv) factors outside Debenhams’ control such as adverse economic conditions, a downturn in the retail
industry, adverse weather or terrorist activity; these could particularly have a major impact during peak
selling periods;
v) events that negatively impact the Debenhams brand, for example in areas such as product quality,
supply chain practices and health and safety;
vi) the departure of key personnel;
vii) matters affecting Debenhams’ relationship with or the performance of its suppliers, designers or
concessionaires; for example certain designers are very important to its business, a large number 
of Debenhams’ merchandise is manufactured by a small number of suppliers etc;
viii) risks associated with Debenhams’ properties, all of which are now held through leasehold interests;
ix) loss of business or additional expenditure from regulation; 
x) currency and hedging risks (a substantial proportion of Debenhams’ imports are paid for in US dollars),
interest rate risks, credit risks and financial covenant risks under the credit facilities;
xi) damage or interruption due to operational disruption, natural disaster, war, terrorist activity, work
stoppages, slowdowns or strikes; and
xii) the effectiveness of Debenhams’ brand awareness and marketing programmes.
The principal risk factors relating to Debenhams’ business and its shares were set out on pages 12 to 20 
of the prospectus issued in April 2006 (a copy of the prospectus can be obtained on request from the
Company Secretary). The process for identifying and managing operational risks is set out in the report 
on financial controls on pages 36 to 38. 
The corporate social responsibility report, on pages 17 to 22, details the key environmental performance
indicators and risks. The key performance indicator is the standards of the factories making products for
Debenhams, as evidenced by the factory self-evaluation (based on the Debenhams Supplier Code of
Conduct) and the supplier audit programme and the major risks relate to the practices of suppliers and
factories making goods for the Company.
Events since the year end
On 12 September 2006 the acquisition from Roches Stores of nine stores in the Republic of Ireland was
completed. The acquisition, an asset purchase by Debenhams Retail (Ireland) Limited, was for a consideration
of €29.0 million plus the value of the stock. The €29.0 million is payable in three instalments, €15.0 million 
at completion, €5.0 million on the first anniversary and €9.0 million on the second anniversary following
completion. These further nine stores, the new Desire by Debenhams store at Birmingham Fort which
opened on 5 September 2006 and the new department store in Llandudno which opened on 11 October
2006, bring the total number of Debenhams stores in the UK and the Republic of Ireland to 137.
In July 2006, the Company entered into a consultation period about proposed changes to its two defined
benefit pension plans. All active and prospective members of the Debenhams Retirement Scheme and all
active members of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan were consulted. Following the consultation
period and some amendments to the proposals reflecting views expressed during the consultation, the
board of directors approved the changes to each plan. With effect from 31 October 2006, the Debenhams DIRECTORS’ REPORT
30
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Retirement Scheme and the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan will close to future accrual of pensionable
service. From 1 November 2006, the pension arrangements will be provided by the Prudential Stakeholder
Pension Plan for Debenhams Employees.
The results for the financial year are set out in the accounts and notes to the accounts on pages 52 to 119.
Detailed information about the Group’s activities and the main trends and factors likely to affect the future
development, performance and position of the Group’s business are included in the Chairman’s statement,
Chief Executive’s review and Finance Director’s review on pages 5 to 14.
Profit for the financial year and the dividend
The profit for the financial year ended 2 September 2006 after taxation was £43.7 million (2005: 
£123.7 million). The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 2.4 pence per ordinary share,
to be paid on 4 January 2007 to members on the Register at the close of business on 24 November 2006.
As set out in the prospectus, the final dividend is based on one-third of a full-year dividend. It is envisaged
that the Company will pay in the future an interim dividend in July and a final dividend in the following
January of each year.
Share capital
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with details of the shares allotted
during the period, are shown in note 28 to the financial statements.  
Major shareholders
As at 24 October 2006, the following notifications have been received from holders of material interests
in 3 per cent or more of the Company’s issued share capital: 
Percentage 
Number of issued 
of shares share capital
TPG Shareholder Group 113,135,197 13.2
CVC Shareholder Group 79,498,424 9.3
Merrill Lynch Shareholder Group 61,739,512 7.2
Merrill Lynch Investment Managers 50,000,000 5.8
Wellington Management Company, LLP 43,761,213 5.1
Maverick Capital Ltd 31,000,000 3.6
Lehman Brothers International (Europe) 27,670,584 3.2
Directors
The following were directors during the year:
J D Lovering (appointed 9 May 2006) J Feuer (appointed 12 May 2005)
R W Templeman (appointed 9 May 2006) R Gillingwater (appointed 9 May 2006)
C K Woodhouse (appointed 9 May 2006) P Long (appointed 9 May 2006)
M J Sharp (appointed 9 May 2006) D H Millard (appointed 9 May 2006)
P M Costeletos (appointed 12 May 2005) G Padovano (appointed 12 May 2005)
A Crozier (appointed 9 May 2006) P Pindar (appointed 9 May 2006)
All the directors, as required by the Articles of Association, offer themselves for election at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting.
Directors’ interests
The interests of the directors in shares of the Company are contained in the directors’ remuneration
report on pages 39 to 48.
In accordance with the Underwriting Agreement entered into between the Company and others on 
3 May 2006, John Lovering, Rob Templeman, Chris Woodhouse, Michael Sharp, Richard Gillingwater, 
Paul Pindar, Adam Crozier, Dennis Millard and Peter Long have undertaken that they will not, during the
period of 365 days from the date of Admission (9 May 2006), without the prior written consent of the
Global Co-ordinators, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any shares held by them in the
Company. Jonathan Feuer, as a director appointed by the original shareholders, has undertaken the
same but for a period of 180 days from the date of Admission. 31
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
The directors (excluding Richard Gillingwater, Paul Pindar, Adam Crozier, Dennis Millard and Peter Long)
were also party to the Share Exchange Agreement dated 24 May 2005 between Baroness Group
Holdings Limited, its shareholders and the Company which contained the terms by which the Company
acquired all of the shares in Baroness Group Holdings Limited. As a consequence of the Share Exchange
Agreement the Company became the parent company of the Group. 
Other than the Underwriting Agreement and the Share Exchange Agreement, no director had, during 
or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Group’s
business.
A third-party indemnity provision as defined in Section 309B(1) of the Companies Act 1985 is in force for
the benefit of each of the directors and the Company Secretary.
Employees
Business information and key messages are cascaded to all employees in a consistent way so that
employees have a regular and reliable source of information on how their roles support the Company’s
values and business priorities. Senior managers in head office participate in the “adopt-a-store” programme,
improving the link between stores and the centre. This mutual exchange of ideas is also fostered 
at product review days which are held with buying and merchandising teams and store sales staff. 
A business-wide Feedback Forum has also been launched to improve communication. Regular 
briefings complement existing communication processes, including the Company’s regular newsletter
“Debenhams Business News” . The Group has also established an Employee Consultation Forum,
attended by elected representatives from stores and head office, and senior managers. The forum’s
purpose is to inform and consult with employees about the Company and its business activities. 
Debenhams is committed to promoting policies to ensure that employees or applicants for
employment are treated equally regardless of gender, marital status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic 
or national origin, religion, disability, sexual orientation or age, and are not disadvantaged by conditions
or requirements which cannot be shown to be justified. It applies employment policies that are fair and
equitable and which ensure that entry into and progression within the Company are determined solely
by job criteria, personal ability and competence. The Company’s policy is to apply best practice in the
employment and training of disabled persons. Full and fair consideration is given to every application
for employment from disabled persons whose aptitude and skills can be utilised in the business and 
to their training and career development, including, wherever practicable, the retraining and retention
of staff who become disabled during their employment. 
Payment of suppliers
It is the Company’s policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the agreed payment terms provided that
the invoice is properly presented and not subject to dispute.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts owed by the Company to trade creditors at the end
of the year and the amounts invoiced by suppliers in the financial year ended 2 September 2006 was 
53 days (2005: 50 days).
Financial instruments
Debenhams does not enter into financial instruments for speculative trades. Details of financial
instruments entered into for underlying risks are set out in note 23 on pages 80 to 84.
Political donations
It is the Group’s policy not to make donations to political parties. Consequently there were no
disclosable expenses made during the financial year which fall within the definition of a political
donation under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Charitable giving
Money is raised for charities by volunteer committees in the stores, who organise events such as fashion
shows. Employees have the opportunity to make personal contributions to the charities of their choice
through the Company’s Give as You Earn scheme. The Group made direct donations for charitable
purposes in the financial year ended 2 September 2006 of £150,000 to the Breast Cancer Campaign
(2005: £185,000) and further monies have been raised as a result of the charitable activities of the
Company. Further details of the Company’s charitable activities are given in the corporate social
responsibility report on pages 17 to 22. DIRECTORS’ REPORT
32
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operation for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements.
Audit information
The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the
auditors are unaware and that each director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of the information.
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution
concerning their reappointment as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) will be held at 1 Welbeck Street, London W1G 0AA on Tuesday 
12 December 2006 at 11.00am (the notice of meeting is set out on pages 122 to 124 at the end of 
the annual report). The board recommend that you vote in favour of all the proposed resolutions. 
Items 1 to 18 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions. More than 50 per cent of shareholders’ votes must
be in favour for these resolutions to be passed. Items 19 and 20 will be proposed as special resolutions. At
least 75 per cent of shareholders’ votes must be in favour for these resolutions to be passed.
Ordinary business
The ordinary business at that meeting will be the laying before the Company of the report and
accounts, the approval of the remuneration report (which is on pages 39 to 48 of the accounts), 
the approval of the final dividend (which if approved will be paid on 4 January 2007 to shareholders 
on the register of members on 24 November 2006), the re-election of directors, the re-election 
of auditors and the setting of their fees.
In accordance with the provision of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued by the UK
Listing Authority, all of the directors are seeking re-election by shareholders at the Company’s first
Annual General Meeting since listing on the London Stock Exchange. The directors have all confirmed
that they will stand for reappointment. Biographical information on each of the directors is contained
on pages 24 to 25 of the accounts. Details of the recruitment process, their skills and experience and 
the terms of appointment are set out in the report of the Nomination Committee and the remuneration
report. The board believes that the skills and experience of the Chairman, the three executive directors,
the five independent non-executive directors Adam Crozier, Richard Gillingwater, Peter Long, Dennis
Millard and Paul Pindar, who provide the balance between independent non-executive and other
representation on the board, and the three other non-executive directors, Philippe Costeletos, Jonathan
Feuer and Guido Padavano (who represent the three largest shareholders in Debenhams plc and whose
advice has been very helpful during the successful period for the Company since it was taken private 
in December 2003) will continue to be invaluable to the Company and the board believe that they
should be re-elected. The Chairman has confirmed, following performance evaluation, that the
performance of all directors, including the non-executive directors, is effective and demonstrates
commitment to the role. 
Auditors must be appointed at every general meeting at which accounts are presented to shareholders.
It is normal practice for the Audit Committee of the Company to be authorised to determine the auditors’
fees. Resolutions 16 and 17 cover these matters. 33
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Special business
Resolution 18 allows the directors to issue, in addition to the Company’s obligations under its employee
share schemes, up to 286,320,000 shares which is equal to 33.3 per cent of the Company’s issued share
capital as at 24 October 2006 being the latest practicable date before the publication of this annual
report. This is in line with the guidelines produced by the main investor protection committees. The
directors have no specific intention at the moment of exercising this authority, which will lapse 15
months from the date of the AGM or at the 2007 AGM if earlier. Subject to this authority being passed,
resolution 19 allows the directors to issue, in addition to the Company’s obligations under its employee
share schemes, up to 42,940,000 shares in exchange for cash without first having to offer the shares to
existing shareholders. This is 5 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital as at 24 October 2006, the
latest practicable date before the publication of this annual report.
Although a member’s written resolution to purchase shares was passed on 3 May 2006, it extended for
18 months and therefore would have expired before the planned date of the 2007 AGM. Accordingly
resolution 20 replaces that authority. The resolution sets out the maximum number of shares which the
Company can buy, the highest and lowest price at which they can be bought and when this authority
expires. This resolution follows the rules set down by the Companies Act 1985, the UK Listing Authority
and is in line with the guidelines produced by the main investor protection and pension fund
committees. The directors have no current intention to use this authority.
The directors are committed to managing the Company’s capital effectively and keep under review the
possibility of buying back the Company’s shares either for cancellation or for holding in treasury (it is
currently the directors’ intention were shares to be bought back for them to be cancelled unless bought
for the purposes of employee share schemes when they may be retained in treasury). The directors will
only buy back shares if they believe that it is in shareholders’ best interests and will increase earnings 
per share. No shares were bought during the 2005/06 financial year and there are currently no treasury
shares held by the Company.
By order of the board
Guy Johnson
Company Secretary
24 October 2006 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
34
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
The Company’s shares were admitted to listing on the London Stock Exchange on 9 May 2006
(“Admission”). Since Admission the Company has complied with the provisions of the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance set out in the Rules of the UK Listing Authority (“the Combined
Code”) except in relation to the independence (based on the criteria in the Combined Code) of
certain directors and the number of independent non-executive directors about which further
information is given below. The auditor’s report on the Company’s compliance with those items
of the Combined Code specified for their review is set out on pages 50 and 51.
The board of Debenhams plc is chaired by John Lovering. The Chief Executive is Rob Templeman 
and the other executive directors are Chris Woodhouse (Finance Director) and Michael Sharp (Chief
Operating Officer). There are five independent non-executive directors, Richard Gillingwater (the Senior
Independent Director), Adam Crozier, Peter Long, Dennis Millard and Paul Pindar. These independent
directors are free from any material business or other relationship which could interfere with the
exercise of their judgement, are not also directors of the same companies as any other directors, were
not previously employed by the Company and do not participate in any Company bonus, share option
or pension scheme. There are three further non-executive directors, Philippe Costeletos (a partner 
of Texas Pacific Group Limited), Jonathan Feuer (a managing partner of CVC Capital Partners) and 
Guido Padavano (managing director in the Merrill Lynch Global Equity Division). The Combined Code
recommends that at least half the board of directors of a UK listed company, excluding the chairman,
should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent. As three of the
non-executive directors, Philippe Costeletos, Jonathan Feuer and Guido Padavano, are not independent
as they represent the three largest shareholders in the Company, the Company does not comply with
this recommendation of the Combined Code. In addition the Combined Code recommends that the
Chairman should on appointment meet the independence criteria set out in the Code; John Lovering
was appointed Chairman of Debenhams plc on Admission but has been Chairman of the Debenhams
Group since December 2003, is a substantial shareholder and does not meet the independence criteria.
However these four directors have made a valued contribution to the board and the Company since
December 2003, and as the board has five strong independent non-executive directors the board is
satisfied that no individual dominates the board’s decision taking, no undue reliance is placed on 
a particular individual and the board is operating effectively.
The board approved at its meeting on 7 July 2006 the schedule of matters specifically reserved for the
board’s attention and the statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the
Chief Executive. The types of decisions taken by the board include approval of the Company’s strategy
and annual budget, acquisitions or disposals, documents sent to the Company’s shareholders, changes
in capital structure, dividends and matters relating to its committees. Operational decisions are
delegated to the Company’s management. 
The executive directors, the Store Operations Director and HR Director who also attend the meetings,
prepare a report which is circulated in advance of each meeting and then report at the meeting on the
performance of the areas of the business for which they are responsible. In the preparatory period prior
to and since Admission until the end of the year the board has met on five occasions; the meetings
have been attended by all the directors on the board at the relevant date except that, due to holiday 
or other commitments, Jonathan Feuer, Michael Sharp and Adam Crozier were not able to attend the
board meeting in August and Jonathan Feuer could not attend the board meeting in July.
As the Company has only been listed since May of this year, and the new directors were appointed
following a full recruitment process using an independent external search consultancy, further performance
evaluation would be premature at this time but the board intends to undertake a formal and rigorous
annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.  
All members of the board, including the non-executive directors, develop an understanding of the
views of the major shareholders about the Company. Three of the directors represent the three largest
shareholders and communicate their views to all board members. Analysts’ or brokers’ briefings are
circulated to the board and all directors are briefed on the issues raised by major shareholders.
  NOMINATION COMMITTEE
35
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
The Company recognised, prior to the Admission of Debenhams plc to the London Stock
Exchange in May 2006, that the board should be restructured to reflect the requirements for
listed companies. In accordance with the Combined Code the recruitment process was carried
out using an external search consultancy. A brief was given to that consultancy based on the
balance of skills and experience then on the board and the roles and capabilities required for
the new appointments. A full search was carried out and a number of candidates were then
interviewed by the Chairman. Appointments were made on merit and against the objective
criteria provided as part of the brief. 
Five new non-executive directors were appointed to the board of Debenhams plc in April 2006, Adam
Crozier, Richard Gillingwater, Peter Long, Dennis Millard and Paul Pindar, taking up their appointments
on Admission. Their skills and experience are broad and diverse, and include running market leading
companies, the establishment and expansion of new businesses, change management, human
resources including changing working practices, marketing including advertising, investment banking,
corporate finance, treasury and accounting. A full Debenhams induction programme was arranged,
including meetings with external advisers (including the Company’s solicitors, auditors and financial
advisers), key personnel and store visits. All of the new non-executive directors are independent; 
none has a material business relationship with the Company, has close ties with any of the Company’s
advisers, directors or senior employees, holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other
directors, or represents a significant shareholder. They receive a fee as set out in the remuneration report
but no other remuneration from the Company and do not participate in any Company share plan or
pension scheme. The Nomination Committee is chaired by Paul Pindar and its other members are
Richard Gillingwater, John Lovering and Dennis Millard. The committee was established in May 2006 
and met once during the year, in August, a meeting attended by all members except Adam Crozier.
In view of the evaluation that was carried out prior to the Admission of Debenhams to the London
Stock Exchange it is not yet appropriate for the recently appointed Nomination Committee to report on
its wider remit of considering the board structure and evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and
experience on the board. A fuller report on these areas will be made in next year’s annual report. AUDIT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
36
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Dennis Millard and its other members are Adam Crozier, 
Richard Gillingwater, Peter Long and Paul Pindar. All members of the committee have business 
and financial expertise. The Chairman is a chartered accountant with recent and relevant financial
experience. The committee has written terms of reference which have been published on the
Company’s website. 
The committee will meet three times a year and a detailed rolling agenda for each meeting has been
prepared. It will meet at least once a year with the external and internal auditors, without management
present. At its first meeting in July of this year, which was attended by all members, the Audit Committee
carried out a review of the Group’s systems of internal controls, reviewed the Group’s risk management
register, framework, and processes, reviewed the internal financial control processes, the internal and
external auditors’ plans and the “whistle blowing” arrangements. At the second meeting of the Audit
Committee in October, attended by all members except Paul Pindar (due to other commitments), 
the particular focus was the review of the Company’s annual financial statements including a report
from the external auditors identifying accounting or judgemental issues requiring the committee’s
attention. In addition the committee received an assessment by senior management and the internal
auditor of the effectiveness of internal controls and the control environment, considered the objectivity
and independence of the external auditors and met with the external auditors and internal auditor
separately without management present. 
At all meetings, the committee receives reports from the Finance Director, internal auditor, the external
auditor and reports on material litigation, health and safety matters and treasury risks and controls. The
report of the internal auditor covers not only risk management and internal control matters but also on
its profit protection roles which cover areas that are specifically germane to the Company’s retail activities.
Internal control
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the
Company. The board is responsible for the Company’s system of internal control (further details of which
are given in the following sections) and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee carried out a  review at its first meeting of the Group’s system of internal controls.
This system is made up of the following elements:
Risk identification
The Company has a dedicated department whose focus is on both internal audit and profit protection
including the detection of fraud. This internal audit team identifies annually and monitors, as part of 
its control environment review, the significant risks facing the business and prepares a risk register. 
The Company strengthened, in March of this year, its risk management strategy and policy. As part 
of this policy each head of function within the Group submits a control environment review annually,
which identifies the function’s key performance indicators, business risks and controls to address them.
Risks are then ranked, initially by the functional head and then by internal audit. These risks are classified
as critical, serious, moderate and low, and rated as frequent, common, occasional and unlikely. A matrix
is prepared based on this classification which is presented to the Audit Committee and used to assess
the main areas on which focus should be placed and to form the basis of the risk management and
internal audit plans. The Company also considered the risks relating to Debenhams’ business and 
its shares as part of its preparations for the Admission of the Company to the London Stock Exchange 
in May 2006 (this assessment was also used by the internal audit team in identifying the significant risks
facing the business). Those risk factors are set out on pages 12 to 20 of the prospectus issued at the
time of Admission, a copy of which can be obtained from the Company Secretary of Debenhams plc.  37
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Risk control 
The control environment review identifies the controls that prevent or mitigate the impact of the risk.
The internal audit work plan is designed to audit the risk management processes across the Company
and measure the effectiveness of each division’s controls and management of its key risks. The audit
work plan for the year is presented to the Audit Committee. 
Reviews are then carried out by the internal audit team. All are risk scored, key actions are agreed with
the head of function, and follow-up reviews are carried out on any area with an unacceptable result.
Where necessary, external resources are employed to assist in the review of the controls and control
environment in specialist areas such as IT and treasury. With regards to individual stores, the relevant
sales directors are involved in follow-up reviews and stores are assessed, in part, based on their audit
results. Training and support is provided where necessary, and disciplinary action will be taken where
unacceptable results persist. Employees can access all risk management policies and procedures on 
the Company’s intranet.
Financial control
A budget is prepared for each year, with significant input from senior management as well as store
managers and central functions. The board determines the key planning assumptions in the budget,
planning meetings are then held with key executives on sales and margin, and a number of meetings
are held attended by the head of each function and cost centre controllers. The final budget is approved
by the board in August of each year. Results are compared monthly against this budget and a reforecast 
is then done every month by store, division and for the Group against this budget. Variance analysis
against both budget and the latest forecast form a core part of the regular management information. 
A monthly financial review pack (which is reviewed by the executive directors and is made available to
the non-executive directors) is issued two weeks after the end of each month which contains the key
financial and operating performance indicators. In addition, a separate finance report from the Finance
Director is made to each board meeting.
In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) carried
out an assessment, in May 2006, of the high-level financial controls, budgeting and forecasting, financial
accounting procedures, accounting policies, management reporting framework, treasury operations
and the IT environment of the Company. In addition to its submission to the Sponsor of the Listing, 
that report has been reviewed internally by the Company and was also presented to the first meeting 
of the Audit Committee.
Arrangements for employees to raise matters in confidence (“whistle-blowing procedures”)
The Audit Committee has also reviewed the arrangements by which employees may raise in confidence
possible improprieties, namely:
i) The Code of Business Conduct, which applies to all employees (all senior employees are required 
to confirm compliance in writing) which includes details of how matters can be raised in strict
confidence. 
ii) Problem solving guidelines, which are published on the intranet, and set out the process for raising
any issues that may be affecting an employee at work.
iii) A confidential crime line for all staff in stores. 38
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
AUDIT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Non-audit services
The fees paid to PwC for audit and non-audit services are set out in note 7 on page 69. There were
substantial non-audit services during the year due to the financial information requirements of 
the listing of Debenhams’ shares on the London Stock Exchange, which involved, inter alia, PwC:
a) carrying out an assessment of the Company’s financial controls, procedures and systems;
b) reviewing the financial information prepared in accordance with UK GAAP for the 2003, 2004 
and 2005 financial years; and
c) reporting its opinion on consolidated financial information for the 26 weeks ended 26 February 2005
and 4 March 2006 and year ended 3 September 2005 prepared in accordance with accounting
standards adopted for use in the EU.
It was cost effective for the Company to acquire services from PwC in such areas (and in areas such 
as taxation advice) because of their knowledge of the Group’s affairs.
The Audit Committee has developed a policy on the provision by the external auditor of non-audit
services. The objective of the Audit Committee’s policy is to ensure that the provision of such service
does not impair the external auditor’s independence or objectivity. In this context, the Audit Committee
will consider:
• whether the skills and experience of the audit firm make it a suitable supplier of the non-audit service;
• whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to objectivity and independence
in the conduct of the audit resulting from the provision of such services by the external auditor;
• the nature of the non-audit services, the related fee levels and the fee levels individually and in
aggregate relative to the audit fee; and
• the criteria which govern the compensation of the individuals performing the audit. 
The policy covers amongst other things:
a) monitoring the external auditors’ independence (eg that the auditors and their immediate family
have no family, financial or employment relationship with the Company), and checking that the
Group engagement partner and audit senior manager do not work on the audit for a period in
excess of that permitted;
b) the identification of three categories of accounting services: audit-related services, which the
Company’s auditors provide (such as interim and full-year reporting); prohibited services, which 
the Company’s auditors may never provide; and potential services, which the Company’s auditors
may in certain circumstances provide, subject to the policy (such as tax advisory services or services
where the auditors are acting as the Company’s reporting accountants).  Prohibited services are
those which would result in:
• the external auditors auditing their own firm’s work;
• the external auditors making management decisions for the Company;
• a mutuality of interest being created; or
• the external auditors being put in the role of advocate for the Company.
c) reporting at each meeting of the Audit Committee on non-audit services being provided 
by the auditors. 39
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
REMUNERATION REPORT
This report for the year ended 2 September 2006 has been prepared in accordance with 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the requirements of the Listing Rules 
of the UK Listing Authority and the provisions of the Combined Code relating to directors’
remuneration. At the Annual General Meeting on 12 December 2006 shareholders will be asked
to approve the report.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is comprised exclusively of independent non-executive directors of the
Company. It is chaired by Richard Gillingwater and its other members are Adam Crozier, Peter Long and
Dennis Millard. The members of the committee have no personal financial interest, other than as
shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
The committee keeps itself informed of all relevant developments and best practice in the field of
remuneration and corporate governance and seeks advice where appropriate. KPMG LLP has been
appointed as external adviser to the Remuneration Committee and has provided advice on directors’
remuneration and share plans. The committee has appropriate policies and procedures to monitor 
the size of potential remuneration awards and KPMG verify the methodology used to model potential
outcomes. KPMG have no other connection with the Company except that they advise on matters
relating to the Company’s share and pension plans. The Chairman, Human Resources Director and
Group Company Secretary also assist the committee by providing advice, except in relation to their 
own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee’s remit is set out in its terms of reference, which are published on the
Company’s website. Its delegated responsibilities include setting the remuneration of all executive
directors and the Chairman. Since Admission (the re-listing of the Company on the London Stock
Exchange on 9 May 2006) there have been two meetings of the Committee attended by all members
except that due to holiday commitments Adam Crozier did not attend the meeting on 24 August.
The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by the board and is made up of an annual
fee for acting as a non-executive director of the Company and fees for chairing and for membership 
of a board committee. The non-executive directors do not take part in discussions on their own
remuneration. The fees are set to reflect the time which they are required to commit to their duties, 
their experience and the amounts paid to non-executive directors in comparable companies.
Remuneration policy
The Company’s policy is to provide competitive remuneration packages that will attract, retain 
and motivate directors and other individuals of the quality required to successfully run the business. 
The remuneration policy is designed to support the business strategy, align executives’ interests with
shareholders and be cost effective. In constructing the remuneration packages, the committee aims 
to achieve an appropriate balance between fixed and variable compensation for each executive.
Accordingly a significant proportion of the remuneration package depends on the attainment of
demanding performance objectives, both short- and long-term. The annual bonus is designed to
incentivise and reward the achievement of demanding financial and non-financial corporate and
individual objectives. Long-term share plans are designed to align the interests of executives with 
the longer-term interests of shareholders. The Performance Share Plan, in which the executive directors
participate, has performance measures that reflect both shareholder value (total shareholder return) and
underlying financial performance (through the earnings per share measure).
Excellent results have been achieved in the three years when the Company was able to motivate its
directors and employees within a private company environment and the Remuneration Committee
considers it important that this approach to remuneration should be maintained so far as possible. 
Basic salary
The committee normally reviews the executive directors’ and other senior executives’ remuneration
annually against companies similar in size and sector. This year that review was carried out at the time of
Admission as well as at the year end and KPMG provided data for the purpose of the review.
The committee sets salaries at levels to reflect the individual’s position, responsibilities, experience and
performance. The committee also considers executive salary increases in the context of salary increases
across the Group's wider employee population. REMUNERATION REPORT
40
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Annual bonus
Executive directors and other senior executives participate in a discretionary annual bonus plan that
provides for payment of cash bonuses subject to achieving pre-determined annual performance 
targets. In normal circumstances, executive directors could potentially earn an annual bonus of up to 
100 per cent of salary subject to the achievement of stretching sales, profit and cash flow targets, and
specific strategic objectives. In the year under review an additional bonus was paid to Michael Sharp
following the Admission of the Company to the London Stock Exchange.
In determining the bonus targets each year the committee takes into consideration the business
strategy, the long-term business plan, prevailing trading and economic conditions, shareholder
expectations and competitor forecasts.
The following sections relating to long-term share plans (including the former incentive arrangements),
directors’ emoluments, pension, the share schemes, total shares/options outstanding and directors’
shareholdings have been audited.
Long-term share plans
The Company gained approval in advance of Admission to put in place certain long-term share plans,
details of which are set out below in the section headed Debenhams current long-term incentive
arrangements.
When the Group was private share schemes were put in place for senior executives and managers and
details of those schemes are given in the section headed Debenhams former incentive arrangements.
No further awards will be made under these schemes. In order to maintain the retention element 
of the schemes, 70 per cent of the BELP shares and 50 per cent of the options will not be transferred 
or become exercisable until 365 days after Admission.
Debenhams current long-term Incentive arrangements
The Company has gained approval for and adopted this year the Debenhams Deferred Bonus Matching
Plan, Debenhams Performance Share Plan, the Debenhams 2006 Executive Share Option Plan, the
Debenhams 2006 Sharesave Sheme and the Debenhams 2006 Sharesave Scheme (Ireland) (the
“Debenhams share plans”). Awards were made following Admission under the Debenhams Performance
Share Plan and the Debenhams 2006 Executive Share Option Plan.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to grant awards under any one, a combination or all 
of the Debenhams share plans in any one year. When exercising their discretion to grant awards the
Remuneration Committee will take into consideration the overall quantum and structure of the
compensation package.
The Debenhams Performance Share Plan (the “PSP”) 
The PSP is intended to facilitate the retention of senior executives of the Company and to align their
interests with those of shareholders by enabling executives to receive shares (the number of which is
determined by the extent to which a performance condition is achieved on vesting) provided that they
remain employed in the Group. Awards under the PSP comprise an option to receive free shares or a nil
cost option. 
Awards under the PSP were made to 107 senior executives on 9 May 2006, over a total of 3,350,452
shares, including to the executive directors as follows: 
Market
price
3 September Date at date Number Exercised Lapsed 2 September 
Name 2005 of grant of award of shares in year in year 2006
Rob Templeman nil 9 May 2006 205p 468,750 – – 468,750
Chris Woodhouse nil 9 May 2006 205p 318,750 – – 318,750
Michael Sharp nil 9 May 2006 205p 296,250 – – 296,250 41
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
A further award was made on 6 June 2006 to one senior executive, over 3,113 shares.
These awards will normally vest on the preliminary announcement of the results in October 2008 and
the maximum value of the shares subject to these awards was accordingly reduced to recognise the
fact that they will vest over a period of two and a half years rather than the normal three-year period. 
No awards may be granted to an individual in any financial year over a maximum number of shares
whose market value is greater than 200 per cent of that individual’s gross annual rate of salary at the
date of grant although the Remuneration Committee has a discretion, in exceptional circumstances
(which include recruitment), to grant awards over shares with a market value of up to 250 per cent 
of gross annual salary at the date of grant.
An award will normally only vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant (two and a half years in
the instance of the first award) subject to performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee
at the time awards are granted and if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the underlying
financial performance of the Company over the performance period is sufficient to justify the vesting 
of the award. 
Half the initial PSP awards are subject to a performance target based on the adjusted earnings per share
(“EPS”) growth of the Company above the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index (“RPI”) over a
three-year performance period starting at the end of the 2004/05 financial year. Adjusted EPS was
chosen as the Remuneration Committee considers it to be a key underlying value driver of the business
that will focus management’s attention on continued growth and profitability. The remaining half 
of the initial PSP awards are based on the Company’s total shareholder return (“TSR”) against the
weighted TSR of each company in the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index over a three-year performance
period starting at the end of the 2004/05 financial year. The weighted TSR is the aggregate of the TSR 
of each company in the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index weighted by their respective market
capitalisations at the start of the relevant three-year performance period. A three-month average TSR 
at the start and end of the performance period will be used to mitigate the effect of any potential spot
share price volatility. The committee considers TSR to be an approximate proxy for shareholder value
and it chose this comparator group as Debenhams and its main listed general retail competitors are 
a constituent of the index. The committee determined that a weighted index is a fairer and more
reasonable method of determining relative performance (as opposed to a conventional TSR ranking) as
it factors in the size of each comparator company and therefore the absolute levels of value that each
company generates relative to its size. When determining the maximum TSR target, the committee took
into consideration the historical TSR performance of the comparator companies over the last ten years.
The current maximum target of 12 per cent per annum above the index broadly equates to upper
quartile TSR performance.
The initial awards granted on Admission will vest as follows:
Percentage growth over the performance Percentage of 
period of Debenhams’ underlying EPS award that vests
Below RPI + 14 per cent per annum None
RPI + 14 per cent per annum 30%
RPI + 21 per cent per annum 100%
Between 14 per cent and 21 per cent per annum Straight-line basis between 30% and 100%
Performance of Debenhams against the FTSE 350 Percentage of 
General Retailers Index of companies by reference to weighted TSR growth award that vests
Debenhams TSR is less than the weighted TSR 
of the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index 0%
Debenhams TSR is equal to the weighted TSR 
of the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index 30%
Debenhams TSR is equal or more than 
12 per cent per annum above the weighted TSR 
of the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index 100%
Between the latter two points Straight-line basis between 30% and 100% REMUNERATION REPORT
42
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
If one or both of the performance conditions are not met at the end of the performance period, 50 per cent
or 100 per cent (as appropriate) of the awards will lapse immediately and there will no opportunity to
re-test the relevant performance condition.
The Remuneration Committee may set different performance conditions for future awards and may
decide that different conditions should be applicable to different executives’ awards depending on their
job function.
The Remuneration Committee intends to make an award under the PSP during the 2006/07 
financial year.
The Debenhams 2006 Executive Share Option Plan (the “ESOP”)
The ESOP allows the Company to grant options to acquire shares to eligible employees. Options
granted under the ESOP may either be Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs approved options (up to 
the prescribed limit) or unapproved options.
Share options were granted over 2,916,251 shares on 9 May 2006 to 589 senior managers at an option
price of 205 pence (being the middle-market price at the close on the grant date). A further grant was
made on 6 June 2006 to 15 employees, over 58,870 shares, at an option price of 185 pence (the closing
price on that date). These options will normally become exercisable following the end of a three-year
performance period based on the end of the 2004/05 financial year (a period of two and a half years
from the date of grant).
The maximum market value of shares over which options may be granted to an employee under the
unapproved part of the ESOP in any financial year (as measured at the date of grant) may not be greater
than 100 per cent of the employee’s annual basic salary at the date of grant. However, the Remuneration
Committee has a discretion, in exceptional circumstances (which include recruitment), to grant awards
over shares with a market value in excess of this amount.
The exercise of options will be subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition, which will be
stated at the date of grant. For the initial grant of options the performance condition will require that
earnings per share growth will be at least equal to the percentage increase in RPI +14 per cent per
annum over a period of three years commencing with the 2004/05 financial year. There will be no 
re-testing of the performance condition.
No options under the ESOP were granted to executive directors during the year. The Remuneration
Committee intends to grant options under the ESOP during the 2006/07 financial year but not to
executive directors or other senior executives who participate in the PSP .
EPS
In both plans, the PSP and the ESOP , EPS growth is measured by comparing the Company’s annualised
EPS for the base year and for its final year on a compound annual growth basis. 
In determining the EPS targets, the committee takes into consideration the business strategy, the long-
term business plan, prevailing trading and economic conditions, shareholder expectations and
competitor forecasts.
Under the rules of both plans, to ensure comparability of financial years of the Company within 
the EPS performance period and for the base year, the Remuneration Committee may (following
consultation with its independent advisers and the Company’s external auditors) adjust the reported
figure for earnings per share as calculated in accordance with the relevant accounting standard
(including adjustments to achieve consistent measurements of performance during the transition 
to international accounting standards) to arrive at a figure that is a fair and reasonable reflection of 
the underlying business performance of the Group. Such adjustments to the base year for the initial
awards, on which the Remuneration Committee has consulted with its advisers and the external
auditors, shall include, but are not limited to, adjusting the issued share capital on a comparable 
basis, excluding exceptional items, adjusting for the effect of a 53rd week, adjusting for the effect 
of incremental costs or charges, adjusting for property profits no longer accruing, adjusting for the 
effect of interest on pre-Admission levels of borrowing and adjusting to reflect the underlying tax rate. 43
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Debenhams 2006 Sharesave Scheme (the “Sharesave Scheme”)
Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees may be granted an option to acquire shares at a fixed exercise
price. At the end of the savings period the employee may either exercise the option within six months
of the end of the savings period using the savings contributions and bonus which he has accumulated
or have the savings and bonus repaid to him. No options have been granted under this scheme
The Debenhams Deferred Bonus Matching Plan (the “DBMP”) 
Under the DBMP participants will be able to invest up to the full amount of their annual bonus (on 
an after-tax basis) in shares. If the participant remains in service for three years, he will, subject to the
satisfaction of a performance target, be eligible to receive a matching share award (based on the pre-tax
amount of the bonus that has been invested).The Remuneration Committee has not determined what
performance conditions will apply to awards under the DBMP although it is intended that they be
appropriately demanding and linked to the Company’s performance. If the performance target is 
not met at the end of the performance period, the awards will lapse immediately and there will be no
opportunity to re-test the performance condition. No awards have yet been made under the DBMP . 
Directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment
It is the Company’s policy to minimise the termination obligations of directors’ contracts recognising
however the market requirements for executive directors’ contracts. The arrangements set out below
reflect the Company’s policy.
The non-executive directors have each entered into a letter of appointment as set out below:
Date of joining Date of letter of
Position Annual fee the Group appointment
Philippe Costeletos Non-executive director £40,000 8 September 2003 24 April 2006
Adam Crozier Independent non-executive 
director £45,000 9 May 2006 18 April 2006
Jonathan Feuer Non-executive director £40,000 8 September 2003 24 April 2006
Richard Gillingwater Senior independent non-executive 
director £62,500 9 May 2006 20 April 2006
Peter Long Independent non-executive 
director £45,000 9 May 2006 24 April 2006
Dennis Millard Independent non-executive 
director £55,000 9 May 2006 10 April 2006
Guido Padovano Non-executive director £40,000 8 September 2003 24 April 2006
Paul Pindar Independent non- executive 
director £50,000 9 May 2006 19 April 2006
The appointments may be terminated by either party giving one month’s notice and are subject to the
provisions of the Company’s Articles. The terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM. 
Richard Gillingwater waived his fee during the financial year ended 2 September 2006; it has been paid
from 3 September 2006 as he then became part-time Chairman of the Shareholder Executive and as
such able to receive his non-executive fees. 
John Lovering’s appointment is terminable by either party giving not less than one month’s written
notice. He receives an annual engagement fee of £250,000.
Each executive director entered into a new service agreement with the Company on 3 May 2006. 
Each agreement is terminable by either party giving not less than 12 months’ written notice, save that
Michael Sharp is required to give the Company six months’ notice. The Remuneration Committee has
considered the financial consequences of early termination of directors’ service contracts. If the
Company terminates the employment of an executive director by exercising its right to pay in lieu 
of notice, or terminates the employment other than in accordance with the terms of his service
agreement, the Company is required to make a payment equal to the aggregate of the executive
director’s basic salary for the notice period, the value of his contractual benefits for the notice period
and an amount equal to the average of the annual bonus paid to the executive director in the two years
prior to the termination of his employment. REMUNERATION REPORT
44
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
The executive directors are entitled (as was the Chairman prior to Admission) to an additional 
annual allowance equal to 15 per cent (20 per cent for Michael Sharp) of their annual salary in lieu 
of pension benefits.
Executive directors are entitled, in addition to salary, to other benefits or equivalent cash allowances, 
the value of which is set out in the table of directors’ emoluments, including company car and fuel,
life, medical, dental and personal accident insurance. 
Rob Templeman and Chris Woodhouse are permitted to hold up to two non-executive directorships
in non-competing companies as well as their non-executive directorships of Halfords Holdings
Limited. The executive directors retain payments received in respect of their other directorships; there
were no such fees in 2005/06.
Directors’ emoluments
Audited information on the remuneration of each director for the full year is set out in the following
table:
Annual
allowance in
Salary / fees Benefits Bonus lieu of pension Total 2006 Total 2005
John Lovering 175,474 859 – 14,165 190,498 377,452
Rob Templeman 640,625 19,641 320,313 96,094 1,076,673 1,311,411
Chris Woodhouse 435,625 21,660 217,813 65,344 740,442 901,454
Michael Sharp 404,875 35,712 506,095* 33,740 980,422 861,594
Philippe Costleletos 12,615 – – – 12,615 –
Adam Crozier 14,192 – – – 14,192 –
Jonathan Feuer 12,615 – – – 12,615 –
Richard Gillingwater – – – – – –
Peter Long 14,192 – – – 14,192 –
Dennis Millard 17,346 – – – 17,346 –
Guido Padavano 12,615 – – – 12,615 –
Paul Pindar 15,769 – – – 15,769 –
Total 1,755,943 77,872 1,044,221 209,343 3,087,379 3,451,911
* This includes an IPO bonus of £303,657.
The directors of the Company until Admission were Philippe Costeletos, Jonathan Feuer and Guido
Padovano. They did not receive any remuneration from the Group in respect of their roles as
directors.
Pension
The directors are not members of a Company pension plan, except for Michael Sharp who is a
deferred member of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan. He ceased to accrue benefits in that
plan on 31 March 2006
The table below shows the pension accrued at the year end: 
Transfer Transfer
value as at value as at
Increase in Accumulated 3 September 2 September
Increase in accrued total 2005 2006
accrued pension accrued of accrued of accrued Increase in
pension during the pension at pension as at pension as at transfer value
during year (net 2 September 3 September 2 September during 
the year of inflation) 2006 2005 2006 the year
Director ££££££
Michael Sharp 9,299 5,215 160,555 1,625,374 1,905,117 279,743 45
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Performance graph
The performance graph below shows the Company’s total shareholder return against the FTSE 350
General Retailers Index over the period since a market first existed for the shares to 2 September 2006.
This index was chosen, as Debenhams is a constituent, and as it is made up of a broad spectrum of retail
competitors in the major product areas in which the Company trades and includes its major general
retail listed competitors.
Debenhams former incentive arrangements
Baroness Employee Limited Partnership (“BELP”)
In June 2004, senior management were invited to invest in the Group through the purchase of units in
the Baroness Employee Limited Partnership. This investment in BELP corresponds to a holding in shares
and loan notes issued by the Company.
In addition to Michael Sharp (whose details are given in the section headed directors’ shareholdings
below) there are 36 senior employees of the Group with an interest in BELP . During the year those 
36 employees received in total £13,338,730 on repayment of the loan notes and interest and in total
3,274,920 shares were distributed out of BELP to these individuals. Participants were entitled to sell 
these shares following the listing. The balance of 7,641,480 shares (70 per cent) continue to be held 
in BELP and they will not be transferred to and be capable of sale by the individuals until 365 days 
after Admission.
Although they have no beneficial interest in any units or other assets of BELP , Rob Templeman and 
Chris Woodhouse are the directors of the general partner of BELP .
The Debenhams Employee Option Plan
Options were awarded to certain managers of the Group under the Employee Option Plan. On exercise
participants acquire shares in the Company at a specified option price per share, and receive shares
representing the gain on a fixed-income loan note and the proceeds of redemption of a deep discount
bond (the “non-equity instrument”). 
On Admission an option became exercisable as to 100 per cent of the non-equity instrument and 
50 per cent of the shares comprised in an option. An option will be exercisable as to the remaining 
50 per cent of the shares 365 days after Admission.
Participants were required to pay the employer’s national insurance contributions arising on the exercise
of their options. In recognition of this cost, participants were awarded a bonus in the form 
of shares (“bonus shares”) on the exercise of their option. The bonus shares had a market value which on
a post-tax basis was equal to the cost to the participant of meeting the employer’s national insurance
contributions on the relevant exercise. 
Total shareholder return since 4 May 2006
Debenhams TSR                          FTSE 350 General Retailers Index TSR
90
95
105
100
4 May 2006 1 June 2006 1 July 2006 1 August 2006 2 September 2006 REMUNERATION REPORT
46
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 (the “Trust”) holds shares to satisfy the exercise of options
granted under the Employee Option Plan. A total of 8,699,610 shares were transferred from the Trust 
to satisfy the exercise of options exercisable on Admission and the award of bonus shares. The Trust
currently holds 3,290,535 shares.
At the end of the year however, there were 3,337,308 shares remaining under option under the plan,
held by 289 employees. These will become exercisable 365 days after Admission. 
Michael Sharp is the only director who held options under the Employee Option Plan, and details are set
out below: 
Number
of shares
allocated
represent
fixed-
Options income Options Market
Date Exercise held at gain and at value on
of Expiry price 3 September ERS NI Granted Exercised Lapsed 2 September date of
grant date (pence) 2005 costs in year in year in year 2006 exercise
Michael Sharp 31/01/05 30/01/15 0.2 121,515 94,660 – 155,417 – 60,758 195p
Note 
On 31 January 2005 Michael Sharp was granted rights to acquire up to 121,515 shares for 0.2 pence
each and to receive the gain (of £149,801) on a fixed-income loan note under the Debenhams
Employee Option Plan. The total gain on exercise of the option was £268,156.
The share schemes – total shares/options outstanding
In total the shares and options outstanding under all the share schemes are: 
Outstanding 
(as at
Price 24 October 
Grant date (pence) 2006)
Debenhams Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 09/05/06 205 2,788,759
06/06/06 185 58,870
Debenhams Performance Share Plan 09/05/06 n/a 3,324,767
06/06/06 n/a 3,113
Debenhams Employee Option Plan 03/09/04 0.2 2,811,500
10/12/04 0.2 22,500
10/01/05 0.2 15,500
31/01/05 0.2 254,233
05/04/05 0.2 8,500
28/10/05 0.2 23,000
22/11/05 120 104,175
25/04/06 0.2 90,900
All options were granted at the market price with the exception of awards granted under the
Performance Share Plan which consist of the right to acquire shares at nil cost.
The closing mid-market price of the Company’s shares on 2 September 2006 was 188 pence and ranged
from 171 pence to 207 pence during the period from 9 May 2006 to 2 September 2006.
Directors’ shareholdings
The Debenhams Group was acquired and taken private in December 2003. The acquisition was by 
funds managed or advised by subsidiaries and affiliates of CVC Capital Partners Group Sarl (“CVC”), 
Texas Pacific Group (“TPG”), by funds managed or advised by Merrill Lynch Global Private Equity
(“MLGPE”) and by three individual investors, John Lovering, Rob Templeman and Chris Woodhouse
(respectively the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director of the Company). In addition to their
investment in ordinary units the acquirers of Debenhams, including the three individual directors,
bought preferred units in the Group, corresponding to the deep discounted bonds by which the
acquisition was partly financed.  47
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
In June 2004, senior management were invited to invest in the Group through the purchase of units
(both ordinary units and preferred units corresponding to the deep discounted bonds) in the Baroness
Employee Limited Partnership which in turn invested in the Baroness Group Limited Partnership.
Michael Sharp purchased ordinary and preferred units at that time. 
The deep discounted bonds were repaid in part on the occurrence of certain events and were
redeemed in full on the refinancing of the Group on 26 May 2005. In 2004/05 the directors received the
following payments in relation to their preferred units/deep discounted bonds:
John Lovering £1,358,682
Rob Templeman £2,259,895
Chris Woodhouse £1,802,426
Michael Sharp £334,136
No payments under the preferred units/deep discounted bonds were made in the financial year ended
2 September 2006, as the deep discounted bonds were redeemed in full on 26 May 2005.
At the time of the original acquisition in 2003 Rob Templeman bought 33,578 ordinary units, 
Chris Woodhouse 32,854 ordinary units and John Lovering 17,151 ordinary units in Baroness Group
Limited Partnership. Michael Sharp bought in June 2004 15,000 ordinary units in Baroness Employee
Limited Partnership (corresponding to the same number of ordinary units in Baroness Group Limited
Partnership). On 16 May 2005 the Baroness Group Limited Partnership was dissolved and its members
received 9.9999 shares in Baroness Group Holdings Limited for each ordinary unit held. These shares 
were exchanged for shares and loan notes issued by Debenhams Retail Holdings Ltd (now Debenhams plc)
on 24 May 2005. Following a bonus issue of shares on 5 April 2006 and a share division on Admission, 
the issued share capital of the Company increased from 10 million to 500 million shares. On the listing 
of the Company a further 358,974,359 shares were issued.
On 24 May 2005, as part of its refinancing, shareholders in Baroness Group Holdings Limited received
shares and loan notes issued by the Company. A loan notes were issued to the major shareholders
(including part of the holding of Capital Investors 2002 Limited), and were repaid two days later. B loan
notes were issued to John Lovering, Rob Templeman, Chris Woodhouse and Capital Investors 2002
Limited (in relation to the balance of its holding). These were repaid on 21 March 2006 (Capital Investors
on 13 January 2006). C loan notes were issued to the investors in Baroness Employee Limited
partnership (including Michael Sharp which were repaid on 6 June 2006). The interests in and
repayments made to the directors during the year in relation to those loan notes were: 
Loan notes held Interest accrued Loan notes held 
at 3 September and paid during at 2 September At 24 October 
2005 the year 2006 2006
££££
John Lovering 10,102,988 342,782 0 0
Rob Templeman 19,779,550 671,096 0 0
Chris Woodhouse 19,353,065 656,626 0 0
Michael Sharp 8,835,936 304,441 0 0
Jonathan Feuer (Capital Investors 2002 Ltd) 236,216 5,897 0 0
The interests, all of which are beneficial, of the directors (and their immediate families) in the share
capital (excluding options and other share schemes) of the Company are as follows (note in order to
present a consistent comparison the shareholdings as at 3 September 2005 have been re-stated to take
account of the bonus issue and share division referred to above:  REMUNERATION REPORT
48
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
At 3 September At 2 September At 24 October 
2005 2006 2006
John Lovering 8,575,400 6,002,780 6,002,780
Rob Templeman 
(3)
16,788,850 12,591,638 12,591,638
Chris Woodhouse 
(3)
16,426,850 11,498,795 11,498,795
Michael Sharp 
(1)(3)(4)
7,500,000 5,358,791 5,358,791
Adam Crozier 0 25,641 25,641
Jonathan Feuer 
(2)
200,500 149,858 149,858
Richard Gillingwater 0 5,128 5,128
Peter Long 0 51,282 51,282
Dennis Millard 0 51,282 51,282
Paul Pindar 0 153,846 153,846
Notes:
1) Includes 5,250,000 shares held by Baroness Employee Limited Partnership.
2) Jonathan Feuer is the beneficial owner of 200,500 shares in the Company held in the name of Capital Investors 2002 Limited.
3) By virtue of being a member of the class of potential beneficiaries under the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 (“the Trust”) the executive directors
are also deemed to be interested in 3,290,535 shares of the Company held by Trust.
4) By virtue of being a limited partner of Baroness Employee Limited Partnership Michael Sharp is also deemed to be interested in 13,226,985 shares 
in the Company.
John Lovering and Chris Woodhouse sold 30 per cent of their shareholding and Rob Templeman sold 
25 per cent of his shareholding on Admission (all sales being at the admission price of 195 pence 
per share). Michael Sharp sold 2,141,209 shares (representing 30 per cent of his total holding including
his share option interests) on 14 June 2006 at 190 pence per share. 
The directors have undertaken, pursuant to the underwriting agreement entered into on the listing 
of the Company, not to sell any further shares within 365 days of the Admission on 9 May 2006 
(180 days in the instance of Jonathan Feuer as it is a holding of a director appointed by one of the
principal shareholders).
On behalf of the board
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
24 October 2006  DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
49
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the
financial year and of the profits or loss of the Group for that period. 
The directors are required to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors confirm that the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the EU. They also confirm the
Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards. 
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently except
where required to comply with the new accounting policies. They also confirm that reasonable and
prudent judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements for the year
ended 2 September 2006 and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of IAS Regulation. They
are also responsible for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and
the Group, and hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities. AUDITORS’ REPORT
50
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
We have audited the Group financial statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended 2 September
2006 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, 
the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and
expenditure and the related notes. These Group financial statements have been prepared 
under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Debenhams plc for the
year ended 2 September 2006 and on the information in the directors’ remuneration report that is
described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the Group financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by
the European Union are set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and
regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including
the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.  We do not, in giving this opinion,
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view 
and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We report to you whether in our opinion the
information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements. We also
report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions
is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the
nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the
board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with 
the audited Group financial statements. The other information comprises the Chairman’s statement,
Chief Executive’s review, Finance Director’s review, corporate social responsibility statement, corporate
governance statement, Nomination Committee statement, audit and internal control statement and 
the directors’ responsibilities statement. We consider the implications for our report if we become 
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued
by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to
the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements. It also includes an assessment of the
significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we
considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that
the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation
of information in the Group financial statements. 51
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Opinion
In our opinion:
•
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the
European Union, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 2 September 2006 and of its profit and cash
flows for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
•
the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Leeds
24 October 2006 52
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
For the financial year ended:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
Note £m £m
Revenue 5 1,707.7 1,608.7
Cost of sales (1,376.3) (1,296.0)
Analysed as:
Cost of sales before exceptional items (1,376.3) (1,293.4)
Exceptional cost of sales 8 – (2.6)
Gross profit 331.4 312.7
Distribution costs (53.0) (43.5)
Administrative expenses (54.8) (45.6)
Analysed as:
Administrative expenses before exceptional items (40.2) (43.8)
Exceptional administrative expenses 8 (14.6) (1.8)
Operating profit before deemed disposal of subsidiary 223.6 223.6
Profit on deemed disposal of subsidiary 8 – 117.7
Operating profit 7 223.6 341.3
Analysed as:
Operating profit before exceptional items 238.2 228.0
Exceptional operating items 8 (14.6) 113.3
Interest receivable and similar income 10 7.3 7.4
Interest payable and similar charges 11 (168.8) (261.1)
Analysed as:
Interest payable and similar charges before exceptional items 11 (132.7) (168.2)
Exceptional interest payable and similar charges 8, 11 (36.1) (92.9)
Profit before taxation 62.1 87.6
Taxation 12 (18.4) 36.1
Analysed as:
Taxation before exceptional items (32.7) (28.9)
Taxation credit on exceptional items 12 14.3 65.0
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders 29 43.7 123.7
Earnings per share attributable to the equity shareholders 
(expressed in pence per share)
Pence Pence
per share per share
Basic 14 7.4 26.2
Diluted 14 7.4 26.2
Underlying earnings per share (non-GAAP measures) 14 16.5 11.0
Dividends per share (expressed in pence per share)
Pence Pence 
per share per share
Proposed final dividend per share 13 2.4 –
All Group operations during the financial years were continuing operations. 53
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF 
RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSES
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
For the financial year ended:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
Note £m £m
Profit for the financial year 43.7 123.7
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the pension scheme 24 (3.0) 8.5
Movement on deferred tax relating to the pension scheme 25 0.9 (2.5)
Cash flow hedges
– net fair value gains (net of tax) 15.8 –
– recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the 
acquisition cost of inventory (0.2) –
– reclassified and reported in net profit 0.8 –
Net gains recognised directly in equity 14.3 6.0
Total recognised income attributable to the equity of the Group 58.0 129.7
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 (net of tax) 2 (11.6) – 54
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
Note £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 15 836.1 829.9
Property, plant and equipment 16 639.5 650.0
Financial assets 
– available-for-sale investments 17 8.2 7.2
– derivative financial instruments 23 7.8 –
Retirement benefit obligations 24 13.8 –
Deferred tax assets 25 51.1 58.9
1,556.5 1,546.0
Current assets
Inventories 18 207.8 197.2
Trade and other receivables 19 63.9 54.5
Cash and cash equivalents 20 34.0 76.1
305.7 327.8
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– bank overdraft and borrowings 22 (33.1) (75.0)
– derivative financial instruments 23 (5.3) –
Trade and other payables 21 (400.4) (388.6)
Current tax liabilities (18.8) (0.6)
Provisions 27 (4.7) (6.8)
(462.3) (471.0)
Net current liabilities (156.6) (143.2)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– bank overdraft and borrowings 22 (1,097.0) (1,839.1)
– derivative financial instruments 23 (2.3) –
Deferred tax liabilities 25 (84.8) (73.8)
Other non-current liabilities 26 (161.0) (158.8)
Provisions 27 (1.5) (2.4)
Retirement benefit obligations 24 – (9.4)
(1,346.6) (2,083.5)
Net assets/(liabilities) 53.3 (680.7)
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Share capital 28 0.1 –
Share premium 29 682.9 –
Merger reserve 29 1,200.9 1,200.9
Reverse acquisition reserve 29 (1,199.9) (1,199.9)
Hedging reserve 29 1.5 –
Other reserves 29 1.0 –
Retained earnings 29 (633.2) (681.7)
Total equity 53.3 (680.7)
The financial statements on pages 52 to 107 were approved by the board on 23 October 2006 and were
signed on its behalf by:
C Woodhouse
Director 55
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
For the financial year ended:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
Note £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 31 317.0 381.9
Interest received 7.8 8.1
Interest paid (147.4) (337.0)
Tax received/(paid) 12.9 (10.4)
Net cash generated from operating activities 190.3 42.6
Cash flows from investing activities
Net cash received on deemed disposal of subsidiary – 121.8
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (88.6) (114.2)
Purchase of stores 15 – (34.0)
Proceeds from sale of freehold properties – 22.0
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 31 0.1 26.1
Purchase of investments 17 – (4.2)
Net cash (used)/generated from investing activities (88.5) 17.5
Cash flows from financing activities
Drawdown of term loan facility 22 1,050.0 –
Drawdown of senior term loan 22 – 1,827.6
Repayment of senior term loan (1,827.6) –
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 700.0 –
Share issue costs (12.6) –
Mortgage facility repayment – (5.7)
Repayment of senior loan facilities – (621.0)
Appropriation – settlement of “A” loan notes – (516.8)
Appropriation – settlement of “B” loan notes 22 (50.1) –
Appropriation – settlement of “C” loan notes (22.1) –
Restricted cash held in Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 (“DRET”) 20 – 12.8
Purchase of shares by DRET (2.0) –
Appropriation by DRET (1.1) –
Repayment of deep discounted bonds – (514.3)
Repayment of high-yield bonds – (326.7)
Net cash used in financing activities (165.5) (144.1)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (63.7) (84.0)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 64.0 148.0
Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 20 0.3 64.0 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
56
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Introduction
The principal activity of Debenhams plc (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (together the “Group” or the
“Debenhams Group”) is the sale of fashion clothing and accessories, cosmetics and products for use in
the home. The Group trades from department stores in the UK and the Republic of Ireland, on the
internet and has international franchise stores. 
The Company (formerly Debenhams Retail Holdings Limited) was re-registered as Debenhams plc on 
18 April 2006.
The Group prepares its financial statements for the financial year ending on the nearest Saturday to 
31 August of a given calendar year.
The principal companies within the Group during the financial year ended 2 September 2006 are
disclosed in note 35.
The Company gained Admission to the London Stock Exchange on 9 May 2006.
Development of the Group
Debenhams plc was incorporated on 10 May 2005 and on 24 May 2005, acquired the entire share
capital of Baroness Group Holdings Limited (the “2005 Acquisition”). As a result of this transaction, the
ultimate shareholders in Baroness Group Holdings Limited (being principally funds managed or advised
by subsidiaries and affiliates of CVC Capital Partners Group Sarl (“CVC”), Texas Pacific Group (“TPG”) and
Merrill Lynch Global Private Equity (“MLGPE”)) received shares and loan notes in the Company in direct
proportion to their original shareholdings in Baroness Group Holdings Limited.
Under IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” , the acquisition of Baroness Group Holdings Limited by the
Company has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition and the consolidated IFRS financial
information of the Company is therefore a continuation of the financial information of Baroness 
Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries.
Prior to the 2005 Acquisition, the ultimate shareholders in Baroness Group Holdings Limited held their
shares in the company through ownership of ordinary units in the company’s immediate parent, the
Baroness Group Limited Partnership. On 16 May 2005, the Baroness Group Limited Partnership was
dissolved and its members received 9.9999 shares in Baroness Group Holdings Limited for each ordinary
unit held.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) (including International Accounting Standards (“IAS”)) and International
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) interpretations and with those parts of the
Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under accounting standards as adopted for 
use in the EU. The consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 3 September 2005 have
been prepared under the historical cost convention. The consolidated financial statements for 
the financial year ended 2 September 2006 have been prepared under the historical cost convention, 
as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments, which include available-for-sale
investments and derivatives. 
The preparation of the financial statements is in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reporting amounts of assets 
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenue and expenses
during the reporting period. Although these results are based on management’s best knowledge 
of the amounts, events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The directors believe that the underlying operating profit before exceptional items and underlying
earnings per share measures provide additional useful information for shareholders on the underlying
performance of the business, and are consistent with how business performance is measured internally.
It is not a recognised profit measure under IFRS and may not be directly comparable with “adjusted”
profit measures used by other companies.
1 Basis of preparation and general information
  57
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
1 Basis of preparation and general information continued
Non-GAAP measure
2 September 3 September 
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Operating profit before exceptional items 238.2 228.0
Impact of 53rd week – (8.4)
Lease cost adjustments – (14.1)
Leases with fixed annual increments in rent 14.9 9.7
Share-based payments 14.3 5.5
Underlying operating profit before exceptional items 267.4 220.7
2 Accounting policies
First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”)
In preparing these consolidated financial statements the Group has elected to apply certain exemptions
available under IFRS 1 “First-Time Adoption of International Reporting Standards” . These are set out in note 34.
In accordance with IFRS 1 “First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards” , the Group
has taken the exemption not to restate comparatives for IAS 32 “Financial Instruments: Disclosure and
Presentation” and IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement” . Comparative
information in respect of these items are presented on a UK GAAP basis as previously reported.
The Group’s principal accounting policies are described below.
Consolidation
The financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of Debenhams plc and all its
subsidiaries. Subsidiaries include all entities (including special purpose entities) over which the Group
has the power to govern the financial and operating policies. The existence and effect of potential
voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the
Group controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which the Group 
has the power to control. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies
are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an
impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where
necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Segmental reporting
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services 
that are subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of other business segments. 
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic
environment that are subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of segments operating 
in other economic environments.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents
amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of staff
discounts and the cost of loyalty scheme points, and is stated net of VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Revenue on department store sales of goods and commission on concession sales are recognised when
goods are sold to the customer. Retail sales are usually in cash or by credit or debit card. Internet sales
are recognised when the goods are delivered to the customer. Revenue from gift vouchers and gift
cards sold by the Group are recognised on the redemption of the gift voucher or gift card.
It is the Group’s policy to sell its products to the end customer with a right of return. Accumulated
experience is used to estimate and provide for such returns at the time of sale.
Interest recognition
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the
applicable interest rate. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
58
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Dividend distribution
A final dividend distribution to the Group shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s 
financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Group shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised as a liability when paid.
Retirement benefit costs
The liability recognised in respect of defined benefit schemes is the present value of the defined
obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets. The defined benefit obligation
is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present
value of the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash
outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in sterling, 
and that have terms to maturity which approximate to the terms of the related pension liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They are recognised
outside the income statement and presented in the statement of recognised income and expenses.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes in pension
plans are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting
period). In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The Group’s contributions to stakeholder pension schemes are charged to the income statement as
they fall due. Differences between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually paid
are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. A fair value for the equity-
settled share awards is measured at the date of grant. The Group measures the fair value using the
valuation technique most appropriate to value each class of award; either a Black-Scholes, Monte Carlo
or Binomial pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period,
based on the Group’s estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-
market-based vesting conditions.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are events or transactions that fall within the activities of the Group and which by
virtue of their size or incidence have been disclosed in order to improve a reader’s understanding of 
the financial statements.
Taxation
Taxation expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profits for the financial period using tax rates that have been enacted or
substantially enacted by the balance sheet date. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the
income statement because it excludes items of income or expenses that are taxable or deductible in
other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. 
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between 
the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. 
If deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is
not accounted for. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially
enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax
asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be
available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
2 Accounting policies continued 59
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where
the timing of the reversals of the temporary differences is controlled by the Group and it is probable
that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged 
or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Foreign exchange
a) Functional and presentational currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the
currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”).
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Group’s functional and
presentational currency.
b) Group companies
The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from 
the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
• assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet;
• income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate (unless this average is not a
reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction 
dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transaction); and
• all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
c) Transactions and balances
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currency at
average monthly rates. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated
into sterling at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Differences on exchange are taken to the
income statement. 
Leased assets
a) Finance leases
Leases of assets which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are
classified as finance leases. Finance leases are classified as a financial liability and measured at amortised
cost. Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the
leased property, plant and equipment or the present value of the minimum lease payments and
depreciated over the period of the lease. The resulting lease obligations are included in liabilities. 
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation 
so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
b) Operating leases
All other leases are classified as operating leases. Rentals payable under operating leases, net of lease
incentives, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. 
Where property lease contracts contain guaranteed fixed minimum incremental rental payments, the
total committed cost is determined and is calculated and amortised on a straight-line basis over the life
of the lease.
Intangible assets
a) Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the 
fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary. Goodwill on
acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortised, but tested annually
for impairment, or when trigger events occur, and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
2 Accounting policies continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
60
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
b) Other intangible assets
Acquired licences and trademarks are capitalised at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over
their useful life, not to exceed ten years. 
Internally-generated software costs, where it is clear that the software developed is technically feasible
and will be completed and that the software generated will generate economic benefit, are capitalised
as an intangible asset. The software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life,
being three to eight years.
Property, plant and equipment
It is the Group’s policy to hold properties at cost, subject to the requirement to test assets for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at the following rates per annum to write off the cost of property, plant and
equipment, less residual value, on a straight-line basis from the date on which they are brought into use:
Freehold land Not depreciated
Freehold buildings 1 per cent
Long leaseholds including landlords’ fixtures and fittings 1 per cent or life of lease if shorter
Short leaseholds including landlords’ fixtures and fittings Life of lease
Retail fixtures and fittings 5–20 per cent
Office equipment 10 per cent
Computer equipment 16
1
⁄ 2 – 33
1
⁄ 3 per cent
Vehicles 25 per cent or life of lease
The assets’ useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each
financial period end.
Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are
included in the income statement.
Included within property, plant and equipment are assets in the course of construction. These assets
comprise stores, which are under construction, including costs directly attributable to bring the asset
into use. Transfers to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment are made when the
store opens. No depreciation is provided on stores or other assets under construction.
Impairment testing
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for
impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. An impairment loss
is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the
purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped by store, which is the lowest level for which 
there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units).
Available-for-sale investments
The Group classifies its investments as available-for-sale financial assets in accordance with IAS 39.
Available-for-sale financial investments are non-derivative assets. They are included in non-current assets
unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Investments are recognised at fair value plus any transaction costs. If a fair value for an investment can
not be reliably measured, due to the variability in the range of reasonable fair value estimates being
significant, or the probabilities of the various estimates within the range not being able to be reasonably
assessed, that investment will be carried at cost.
An impairment test is performed annually on the carrying value of each investment. An impairment loss
is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
2 Accounting policies continued 61
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value using the retail method and represent
goods for resale. Concession stocks are not included within stocks held by the Group.
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables, defined as loans and receivables in accordance with IAS 39, are recorded initially at fair
value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method for any
doubtful amounts. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is evidence
that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the
receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and 
the present value of future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate. The movement in the
provision is recognised in the income statement.
Any other trade receivables are recognised at their original amount less an allowance for any doubtful
amounts. An allowance is made when collection of the full amount is no longer considered probable.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at the bank and other short-term liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings
in current liabilities.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are
subsequently stated at amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs)
and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings
using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer
settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs that are facility costs are recognised initially at fair value, and are amortised over the
term of the facilities at a constant rate on the carrying amount of the facility.
Trade payables
Trade payables, defined as financial liabilities in accordance with IAS 39, are recognised initially at fair
value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Any other trade payables are stated at cost. 
All of the trade payables are non-interest bearing.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of
past events and where it is more likely than not an outflow of resources will be required to settle the
obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are measured at management’s best
estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Share capital
Ordinary, governance and subscriber shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares in equity are shown as a deduction,
net of tax, from the proceeds.
2 Accounting policies continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
62
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Derivatives
The derivative instruments used by the Group to manage its interest rate and currency risk are interest
rate swaps, interest rate caps and forward currency contracts.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are
subsequently re-measured at fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends
on whether the derivative is designated as an effective hedging instrument and the nature of the item
being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly-probable forecast
transactions (cash flow hedges).
Derivatives are recognised using trade date accounting.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging
instruments and hedged items as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking
various hedge transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at the inception and on 
an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective 
in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
i) Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of the changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash
flow hedges are recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised
immediately in the relevant line of the income statement which will be affected by the underlying
hedged item.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the
underlying hedged item when the underlying hedged item is recognised on the balance sheet or 
in the income statement.
When a hedged instrument expires, is sold or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge
accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is immediately recognised in the
relevant line of the income statement which will be affected by the original underlying hedged item.
When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was
reported in equity is immediately transferred to the relevant line of the income statement which 
would have been affected by the forecasted transaction.
ii) Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in fair value of any derivative
instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income
statement as cost of sales. 
iii) Embedded derivatives
Where the risks and characteristics of derivatives embedded in other contracts are not closely related 
to those of the contracts, and the whole contract is not carried at fair value with gains or losses reported
in the income statement, the derivative is separated from that host contract and measured at fair value,
with fair value movements reflected in the account in the income statement which will be affected by
the underlying host contract.
Change in accounting policy – First-time adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39
In accordance with IFRS 1, the Group has elected not to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 to the financial year
ended 3 September 2005. Accordingly, the Group has continued to apply UK GAAP in the accounting
for and disclosure of financial instruments in that period.
i) Policies relating to UK GAAP comparatives
Comparative information in respect of these items are presented on a UK GAAP basis as previously reported.
2 Accounting policies continued 63
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
a) Available-for-sale investments
Investments are held at cost less any provision for diminution in value.
b) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised at their original amount less an allowance for any doubtful amounts.
An allowance is made when collection of the full amount is no longer considered probable.
c) Borrowings
All borrowings are initially stated at the fair value of the consideration received after the deduction of
issue costs. Issue costs together with finance costs, are charged to the income statement over the term
of the borrowings and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
d) Trade payables
Trade payables are stated at cost.
e) Derivatives
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for using hedge accounting to the extent that they are
held to hedge a financial asset or liability or future expenditure. When a derivative financial instrument
ceases to be a hedge, either as a result of the underlying asset or liability being extinguished, or because
a future event is no longer likely to occur, the derivative is accounted for in the income statement. The
Group policy is not to use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
ii) Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39
The adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 4 September 2005 results in a change in the Group’s
accounting policy for financial instruments. The impact of these standards on the Group’s balance sheet
is shown below.
The principal impacts of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on the Group’s financial statements relates to the recognition
of derivative financial instruments at fair value. Any derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
are held on the balance sheet at fair value with the changes in value reflected through the income
statement. The accounting treatment of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting depends on 
how they are designated.
Under IAS 39, derivative financial instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised on the
balance sheet at fair value with corresponding fair value changes deferred in equity. The Group hedges:
• foreign currency exposures on inventory purchases through forward currency contracts; and
• interest rate risk through using interest rate swaps.
Funding debt has previously been reported excluding interest, with interest being shown in accruals.
Following the adoption of IAS 32, funding debt includes all accrued interest. This reclassification of
accrued interest has decreased accruals and increased bank overdraft and borrowings.
2 Accounting policies continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
64
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
The adjustments to the balance sheet as at 4 September 2005 are as follows:
Opening
balance Effects of
sheet at adopting Position at
4 September IAS 32 and 4 September
2005 IAS 39 2005
£m £m £m
Non-current assets
Financial assets 
– available-for-sale investments 7.2 1.0 8.2
– derivative financial instruments – 0.8 0.8
Deferred tax assets 58.9 5.4 64.3
Current assets
Financial assets – derivative financial instruments – 1.4 1.4
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– bank overdraft and borrowings (75.0) (0.4) (75.4)
– derivative financial instruments – (1.5) (1.5)
Trade and other payables
– accruals (125.4) 4.5 (120.9)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– bank overdraft and borrowings (1,839.1) (1.5) (1,840.6)
– derivative financial instruments – (21.3) (21.3)
Impact on net assets (11.6)
Other reserve 1.0
Hedging reserve (14.9)
Retained earnings 2.3
Impact on shareholders’ equity (11.6)
The adjustment to “available-for-sale investments” relates to the increase in the carrying value of the
Group’s investment in BF Properties (No.4) Limited (see note 17). Adjustments to “derivative financial
instruments” and “deferred tax assets” relate to the recognition on the balance sheet of the fair value of
derivative financial instruments and the deferred tax impact thereof. Adjustments to “bank overdrafts
and borrowings” and “trade and other payables” relate to the reclassification of accrued interest.
2 Accounting policies continued 65
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
New standards and interpretations
During the year, the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) and International Financial
Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) issued the following standards and interpretations which
are effective for annual accounting periods beginning on or after the stated effective date. These
standards and interpretations are not effective for and have not been applied in the preparation of this
financial information:
Effective date
International Accounting Standards (IFRS/IAS)
IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources 1 January 2006
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007
IAS 1 Amendment – Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007
IAS 21 Amendment – Net investment in Foreign Operation 
(yet to be adopted by the EU) 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Fair value option 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 – Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast 
Intra-group Transactions 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 – Financial Guarantee Contracts 1 January 2006
IFRIC interpretations
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease 1 January 2006
IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and 
Environmental Rehabilitation Funds 1 January 2006
IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market – 
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment 1 December 2005
IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 – Financial Reporting 
in Hyperinflationary Economies (Yet to be adopted by the EU) 1 March 2006
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 1 May 2006
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives 1 June 2006
The Group does not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have 
a material impact on the Group’s financial statements on adoption.
3 Financial risk management
a) Financial risks and treasury management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks:
• funding and liquidity risk;
• credit risk;
• foreign exchange risk; and
• cash flow interest rate risk.
The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets
and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses
derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The board has established an overall treasury policy and has approved procedures and authority levels
within which the treasury function (“Group Treasury”) must operate. The Finance Director conducts a
treasury review at least monthly and the Treasury Committee meets and performs their review on a
quarterly basis. The board receives regular reports covering treasury activities. Treasury policy is to
manage risks within an agreed framework whilst not taking speculative positions. 
2 Accounting policies continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
66
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
3 Financial risk management continued
a) Financial risks and treasury management continued
The policies and strategies for managing these risks are summarised as follows:
i) Funding and liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of
funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market
positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury aims to maintain
flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
The Group finances its operations by a combination of debt finance, leases and retained profits. 
The objective is to ensure that there is sufficient cash or working capital facilities to meet the 
cash flow requirements of the Group for its current business plan. 
ii) Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Sales to retail customers are made in cash 
or by credit and debit cards, wholesale sales of products to franchisees are made to customers with 
an appropriate credit history. Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high 
credit-quality financial institutions. The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure 
to any one financial institution. Cash surpluses are placed on deposit for no longer than three months
and only with financial counterparties with a short-term credit rating of A1/P1 or better.
iii) Foreign exchange risk 
The Company’s functional currency is sterling. The Group operates internationally and is exposed to
foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions relating to imports.
To manage the foreign exchange transaction risk, entities in the Group use forward currency contracts
transacted by Group Treasury. Foreign exchange risk arises when commercial transactions are
denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. Group Treasury is responsible for
managing the exposure in each foreign currency by using external forward currency contracts with a
settlement of 12 months or less, up to 80 per cent of the first six months’ forecast purchases and up to
70 per cent of the second six months’ are hedged.
The Group does not hedge either economic exposure or the translation exposure arising from the
profits, assets and liabilities of non-sterling business. 
iv) Cash flow interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Borrowings are issued at variable rates
that expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The interest exposure of the Group is managed within the constraints of the Group’s business plan and
the financial covenants under its facilities. The Group’s exposure to floating-rate interest is within
financial covenants and planned expectation. The aim is to reduce exposure to the effect of interest rate
movements and to take advantage of low interest rates by hedging an appropriate amount of interest
rate exposure whilst maintaining the flexibility to minimise early termination costs. Following the
Group’s Admission to the London Stock Exchange the board approved an interest rate hedging strategy
of a target fixed percentage of 75 per cent, with a 15 per cent tolerance (60 – 90 per cent). 
The impact of movements in interest rates is managed through the use of floating-rate debt and
interest rate swaps and caps. These are usually matched with specific loans for a period of time 
up to their maturity or call date. 
The Group’s main interest rate exposure is from the floating rate loans under the credit facilities.
b) Fair value estimates
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of forward currency contracts has been determined based on market forward currency
exchange rates at the balance sheet date. 67
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
3 Financial risk management continued
b) Fair value estimates continued
The fair values of short-term deposits, loans and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are
assumed to approximate to their book values. In the case of the Group’s loans due in more than one
year, the fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future
contractual cash flows at the current market interest rates available to the Group.
Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and liabilities have been calculated
by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year-end
exchange rates.
4 Segmental reporting 
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that
are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments. A geographical
segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that
are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic
environments. 
Based on an analysis of risks and returns, the directors consider that the Group has only one identifiable
business segment, retailing. 
All material operations of the Group are carried out in the UK and therefore no geographical
segmentation is disclosed. Consequently, the Group has considered business segmentation as the
primary segmentation, with a single separately-reportable segment, retailing.
5 Gross transaction value
Revenue from concessions is required to be shown on a net basis, being the commission received
rather than the gross value achieved by the concessionaire on the sale. Management believes that 
gross transaction value, which presents revenue on a gross basis before adjusting for concessions, 
staff discounts and the cost of loyalty scheme points, represents a good guide to the value of the 
overall activity of the Group.
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Gross transaction value 2,192.9 2,086.8
6 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates
will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. Estimates and judgements are continually
evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future
events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The estimates and assumptions that
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
within the next financial period are discussed below.
Estimated impairment of goodwill
The Group tests whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting
policy stated in note 2. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based
on value-in-use calculations.
Income taxes
The Group is subject to income taxes in the UK and the Republic of Ireland. At each financial period end,
judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes. The Group recognises liabilities 
for anticipated tax issues based on the best estimates at the balance sheet date. Where the final tax
outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will
impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
68
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
6 Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued
Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. The fair value determined
at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The fair value is calculated
using the appropriate fair value model with the estimated level of vesting being reviewed annually by
management. The key assumptions of this model are set out in note 28.
Pension liability 
The Group’s defined benefit schemes pension liability, which is assessed each period by actuaries is
based on key assumptions including return on plan assets, discount rates, mortality rates, inflation,
future salary and pension costs. These assumptions, individually or collectively, may be different to
actual outcomes.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions;
additional information relating to this is disclosed in note 24.
Estimated useful life of property, plant and equipment
The Group estimates the useful life of property, plant and equipment and reviews this estimate 
at each financial period end. The Group also tests for impairment whenever a trigger event occurs.
7 Operating profit 
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit:
The amounts of inventory written down during the financial year 11.0 11.1
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 818.4 779.9
Employment costs (note 9) 276.2 267.5
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 16):
– owned assets 85.3 84.6
– assets held under finance leases 0.7 0.8
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 15) 5.1 3.8
(Profit)/loss on disposal of:
– property, plant and equipment (0.1) 2.7
– intangible assets – 0.3
Operating lease rentals:
– property 130.2 104.0
– other 1.6 1.8
Foreign exchange gains (2.6) (4.1)
Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 12.4 14.4
Auditors’ remuneration 1.1 0.4
Exceptional items (note 8) 14.6 (113.3)
Operating lease costs and incentives
As explained in note 34, the adoption of IFRS has a very significant impact on operating lease costs and
incentives. The changes relate to the treatment of leases with annual fixed increments in rent and the
accounting for both rent-free periods and developers’ contributions. The adverse impact on reported
profit of these changes is as follows:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Leases with fixed annual increments in rent 14.9 9.7
Rent-free periods 1.6 1.7
Developers’ contributions 6.1 9.2
Reduction in operating profit resulting from the adoption of IAS 17 “Leases”
and SIC 15 “Operating Leases – Incentives” 22.6 20.6 69
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
7 Operating profit continued
Services provided by the Group’s auditor
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Group’s auditor at costs as 
detailed below:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Charged to income statement
Compliance work
– audit services 0.2 0.2
Advisory services
– taxation services – 0.2
– Initial Public Offering 0.9 –
Capitalised debt issue costs
– advisory work relating to the refinancing – 0.2
Capitalised share premium costs
– advisory work relating to the Initial Public Offering 0.4 –
Fees paid to the auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , for both advisory and compliance work relating
to the Company’s Admission to the London Stock Exchange amounted to £1.3 million. In accordance
with the Companies Act 1985 £0.4 million of these fees has been set off against the share premium
account and £0.9 million has been charged as an exceptional administrative expense. 
It is cost effective for the Group that such services are provided by its auditors in view of their
knowledge of the Group’s affairs going back a number of years.
8 Exceptional items
Exceptional items are events or transactions that fall within the activities of the Group and which by
virtue of their size or incidence have been disclosed in order to improve a reader’s understanding 
of the financial statements.
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Operating exceptional items
Other exceptional costs of sales – 2.6
Admission to the London Stock Exchange 4.6 –
Other exceptional item 10.0 –
Refinancing – 1.8
Profit on deemed disposal of subsidiary – (117.7)
Total operating exceptional items 14.6 (113.3)
Write-off of capitalised debt costs on refinancing 33.5 22.3
Interest on refinancing (note 11) 2.6 70.6
Total exceptional items before tax 50.7 (20.4)
Financial year ended 2 September 2006
Admission to the London Stock Exchange
Costs relating to the Company’s Admission to the London Stock Exchange include taxation and
restructuring advice of £1.0 million, legal and professional fees of £1.0 million, bonuses of £1.1 million
and other advisory services of £1.5 million, relating to printing costs, marketing and public relations 
all of which related to the Admission. 
Other exceptional item
Restricted cash of £10.3 million is held by The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004. Following the
Company’s Admission to the London Stock Exchange the Trustees agreed to distribute £10.0 million 
of the restricted cash to the beneficiaries of the Trust in accordance with the Trust rules.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
70
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
8 Exceptional items continued
Interest on refinancing
On 30 May 2006 the Group refinanced its debt, which resulted in the repayment of the senior credit
facilities. As a result of this repayment the Group wrote-off all unamortised debt issue costs associated
with the senior credit facility, which amounted to £33.5 million. All fees associated with the new term
loan facility are being amortised over the term of the facility.
Additional interest expense of £2.1 million relating to the early repayment of the senior credit facility
was incurred on refinancing. As a result of the refinancing the interest rate hedging strategy required
the restructuring of the interest rate swap portfolio. This resulted in the close out of the interest rate 
cap and the restructuring of the two forward-start interest rate swaps at a cost of £0.5 million.
Financial year ended 3 September 2005
Other exceptional cost of sales
A payment of £2.6 million was paid to Red Letter Day (“RLD”). This payment guaranteed that all old RLD
experiences purchased by the Group prior to RLD going into administration were honoured by the new
management of RLD.
Refinancing
The Group incurred administrative costs totalling £1.8 million in relation to the refinancing in May and
June 2005. These costs include legal costs, taxation advice and professional costs associated with the
dissolution of the Baroness Group Limited Partnership which was the parent entity of the Group prior 
to the May 2005 refinancing.
Deemed disposal of subsidiary
The profit on the deemed disposal of BF Properties (No.4) Limited amounted to £117.7 million.
Interest on refinancing
In connection with the 2005 refinancing, the Group wrote-off unamortised debt issue costs associated
with the previous senior facility and high-yield bonds amounting to £18.3 million and £4.0 million
respectively. Furthermore, the repayment of the high-yield bond in June 2005 included a make-whole
premium of £70.6 million, which arose due to the early repayment of the high-yield bonds.
9 Employees 
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Wages and salaries 234.1 229.5
Social security costs 18.5 17.1
Pension costs 6.2 12.9
Share-based payments (note 28) 14.3 5.5
Short-term employee benefits 3.1 2.5
Total employment costs 276.2 267.5
Number Number
Average number of employees
Full time 8,358 7,845
Part time 16,358 15,495
Total 24,716 23,340
Included in pension costs in the employee cost table above is £0.3 million (2005: £0.3 million) of
contibutions payable to key management’s personal pension plans.
Information concerning directors’ remuneration, interest in shares and share options are included 
in the Remuneration report on pages 39 to 48. 71
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
9 Employees continued
Key management compensation
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Salaries and short-term benefits 3.3 4.4
Post-employment benefits 0.2 –
Share-based payments 3.2 2.2
6.7 6.6
10 Interest receivable and similar income
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Interest on bank deposits 7.3 7.4
11 Interest payable and similar charges 
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Interest payable and similar charges
Bank loans and overdrafts (124.1) (110.4)
Amortisation of issue costs on loans (note 22) (5.1) (9.6)
Interest payable on finance leases (3.5) (3.2)
Exchange losses on foreign currency borrowings – (2.3)
Deep discount bond charges – (42.7)
Interest payable before exceptional items (132.7) (168.2)
Exceptional items – interest payable and similar charges
Unamortised issue costs written off on repayment of the senior facility and 
high-yield bonds (note 8) – (22.3)
Make-whole premium payable on the repayment of the high-yield bonds (note 8) – (70.6)
Unamortised issue costs written off on repayment of the senior term loan (note 8) (33.5) –
Premium on early settlement of the senior term loan (note 8) (2.1) –
Cost of restructuring the interest swap portfolio (note 8) (0.5) –
Exceptional items – interest payable and similar charges (36.1) (92.9)
Interest payable and similar charges after exceptional items (168.8) (261.1)
Included within “amortisation of issue costs on loans” for the year ended 3 September 2005, is £4.3 million
which relates to the write-off of the fees associated with the mortgage facility. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
72
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
12 Taxation
Analysis of tax charge/(credit) in the year
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Current tax 
UK corporation tax charge on profit for the year 9.1 8.5
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (3.6) (0.1)
Current tax expense 5.5 8.4
Deferred taxation
Origination and reversal of timing differences 0.9 (47.0)
Pension cost relief in excess of pension cost charge 8.0 2.2
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 4.0 0.3
Deferred tax expense/(income) 12.9 (44.5)
Tax charge/(credit) in the financial year 18.4 (36.1)
The tax for the year is lower (2005: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 
(30 per cent). The differences are explained below:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 62.1 87.6
Profit on ordinary activities at standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 
of 30 per cent 18.6 26.3
Effects of:
Income not subject to tax (1.0) (0.2)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.5 9.5
Overseas items (1.1) (0.7)
Adjustments in relation to prior periods 0.4 0.2
Release of provision created for gain on assets held for sale – (18.2)
Release of provision created for deferred tax on qualifying depreciation – (17.7)
Fixed asset disposals – (35.3)
Tax charge/(credit) for the year 18.4 (36.1)
Tax relating to exceptional items as detailed in note 8 and included in the above tax charge/(credit)
amounted to:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Tax credit relating to:
Operating exceptional items 3.5 37.1
Interest exceptional items 10.8 27.9
14.3 65.0
13 Dividends
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 2 September 2006 
of 2.4 pence per share which will absorb an estimated £20.6 million of shareholders’ funds. It will be 
paid on 4 January 2007 to shareholders who are on the register of members at close of business 
on 24 November 2006.  73
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
14 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to
assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The Group has one class of dilutive potential
ordinary shares, those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the
market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year. At 3 September 2005, the performance
criteria for the vesting period of the share options had not been met and consequently the shares in
question are excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
Basic and diluted earnings per share
2 September 2006 3 September 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
Basic Diluted Basic Diluted
£m £m £m £m
Profit for the financial year 43.7 43.7 123.7 123.7
Number Number Number Number
mm mm
Weighted average number of shares 614.4 614.4 500.0 500.0
Shares held by ESOP (weighted) (25.6) (25.6) (27.7) (27.7)
Shares issuable (weighted) – 5.6 ––
Adjusted weighted average number of shares 588.8 594.4 472.3 472.3
Pence Pence Pence Pence
per share per share per share per share
Earnings per share 7.4 7.4 26.2 26.2
Underlying earnings per share
The underlying earnings per share reflects the underlying performance of the business compared with the
prior year and is calculated by dividing underlying earnings by the number of shares in issue at the year end.
2 September 3 September 
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Profit for the financial year 43.7 123.7
Exceptional items 50.7 (20.4)
Impact of 53rd week – (8.4)
Lease cost adjustments – (14.1)
Leases with fixed annual increments in rent 14.9 9.7
Share-based payments 14.3 5.5
Interest adjustments 58.3 88.0
Adjustment to tax charge to reflect the above items (40.5) (89.2)
Underlying profit for the year 141.4 94.8
Number Number
m m
Issued share capital at 2 September 2006 859.0 859.0
Pence per Pence per
share share
Underlying earnings per share 16.5 11.0
Underlying profit is used by management as a measure of profitability within the Group. It is defined as
operating profit before exceptional items, the impact of leases with fixed annual increments in rent and
charges relating to share-based payments. The results for 2005 have been adjusted to remove the impact
of week 53 and lease cost adjustments for the period prior to the British Land property transaction,
which took place in February 2005. In addition, in both 2005 and 2006 the Group underwent significant
re-financing. In consequence, the statutory interest and related financing costs are not comparable year
on year. The above adjustment for interest assumes that the 2006 refinancing, which took place after 
the date of Admission, was effective at the beginning of the year ended 3 September 2005 and that 
the proceeds of shares issued on Admission (£700 million) were available at that date. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
74
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
14 Earnings per share continued
The comparison of performance year on year has also been made complex by costs incurred as a result 
of the Company’s Admission to the London Stock Exchange on 9 May 2006 which increased the number 
of shares issued by the Company. The underlying earnings per share uses the capital structure as at 
2 September 2006 to eliminate the effect of these changes.  
15 Intangible assets 
Licences and
Goodwill trademarks Software Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 29 August 2004 799.7 0.3 12.4 812.4
Additions 12.0 – 15.1 27.1
Disposals and write offs – – (0.5) (0.5)
At 3 September 2005 811.7 0.3 27.0 839.0
Additions – – 11.3 11.3
At 2 September 2006 811.7 0.3 38.3 850.3
Accumulated amortisation
At 29 August 2004 – – 5.5 5.5
Charge for the year – 0.1 3.7 3.8
Disposals and write offs – – (0.2) (0.2)
At 3 September 2005 – 0.1 9.0 9.1
Charge for the year – 0.1 5.0 5.1
At 2 September 2006 – 0.2 14.0 14.2
Net book value
At 2 September 2006 811.7 0.1 24.3 836.1
At 3 September 2005 811.7 0.2 18.0 829.9
Goodwill 
Goodwill of £12.0 million arose on the acquisition of eight stores in 2005. The total consideration 
for the acquisition was £34.0 million, and goodwill was attributable to the leasehold sites acquired. 
The consideration was paid on completion of the acquisition, which was 21 March 2005.
Software development costs
The computer software capitalised principally relates to internally developed application software.
Externally developed application software as at 2 September 2006 amounted to £1.2 million.
Amortisation on the Group’s intangible assets has been charged to the income statement as follows 
for the financial years ended:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Included within cost of sales 3.5 2.1
Included within distribution costs 0.2 0.1
Included within administrative expenses 1.4 1.6
5.1 3.8 75
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
15 Intangible assets continued
Impairment test for goodwill
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Debenhams Group Holdings Limited (previously known as
Debenhams plc until 2 March 2004) by Baroness Group Holdings Limited on 4 December 2003, is not
being amortised but reviewed on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications that
goodwill may be impaired. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of 
cash-generating units according to the level at which management monitors that goodwill.
For the purposes of this impairment review, the recoverable amounts of the cash generating units
(“CGU”) are determined based on value-in-use calculations. These cash flow projections are based on
financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period. Cash flows beyond the five-year
period are extrapolated based on an estimated growth rate of 2.5 per cent. The growth rates do not
exceed the long-term average growth rate for the retail sector in which the CGUs operate. The pre-tax
discount rate used to calculate the value in use was 8.5 per cent and reflects the specific risks in the
retail business.
Management determined the gross margin for each CGU based on performance and its expectations
for the market development. The weighted average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts
included in industry reports. The discount rates used are pre tax and risk-free rates.
As at 2 September 2006, no impairment of goodwill has been required (2005: £nil).
16 Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings
Short-
leasehold Vehicles,
Long- fixtures and fixtures and
Freehold leasehold fittings equipment Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 29 August 2004 346.0 89.6 260.6 395.5 1,091.7
Additions 22.0 – 17.7 65.7 105.4
Reclassifications – – 2.8 (2.8) –
Disposals and write-offs (313.6) (80.0) (16.2) (122.4) (532.2)
At 3 September 2005 54.4 9.6 264.9 336.0 664.9
Additions – – 13.1 62.4 75.5
Disposals and write-offs – – (0.1) (19.0) (19.1)
At 2 September 2006 54.4 9.6 277.9 379.4 721.3
Accumulated depreciation
At 29 August 2004 1.5 0.7 8.0 49.5 59.7
Charge for the year 0.7 0.4 11.3 73.0 85.4
Disposals and write-offs (2.1) (1.0) (16.2) (110.9) (130.2)
At 3 September 2005 0.1 0.1 3.1 11.6 14.9
Charge for the year 0.4 0.3 11.6 73.7 86.0
Disposals and write-offs – – (0.1) (19.0) (19.1)
At 2 September 2006 0.5 0.4 14.6 66.3 81.8
Net book value
At 2 September 2006 53.9 9.2 263.3 313.1 639.5
At 3 September 2005 54.3 9.5 261.8 324.4 650.0
Assets in the course of construction included in property, plant and equipment at the financial year end
are as follows:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Assets in the course of construction 20.5 35.7 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
76
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
16 Property, plant and equipment continued
Property, plant and equipment includes the following assets held under finance leases:
Vehicles, fixtures Freehold land and
and equipment long leasehold buildings
2 September 3 September 2 September 3 September
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Cost 2.7 2.7 59.2 59.2
Aggregate depreciation based on cost (0.6) (0.3) (2.4) (2.0)
Net book value 2.1 2.4 56.8 57.2
17 Financial assets – available-for-sale investments 
£m
Cost
At 29 August 2004 –
Additions 7.2
At 3 September 2005 7.2
Adoption of IAS 32 (note 2) 1.0
At 4 September 2005 and 2 September 2006 8.2
Net book value
At 2 September 2006 8.2
At 3 September 2005 7.2
On 30 November 2004, the Group acquired 10 per cent of the issued share capital of Ermes Department
Stores Limited, a company registered in Cyprus. Consideration in cash of £4.2 million, included
associated legal costs of £0.1 million, was paid on acquisition of this investment.
Ermes Department Stores Limited is a private company in which the Group holds a minority interest.
The fair value is not materially different to the historic cost and the investment is therefore carried at 
a cost of £4.2 million.
The Group holds 100 per cent of the “A” ordinary shares, which cost £3.0 million and have a fair value 
of £4.0 million, which carry no voting rights, in BF Properties (No.4) Limited. The directors consider that
the ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party of BF Properties (No.4) Limited is The British Land
Company plc.
BF Properties (No.4) Limited was incorporated in Great Britain. The address of its principal place of
business is 10 Cornwall Terrace, Regent’s Park, London. 
BF Properties (No.4) Limited has changed its year end to 31 March (previously 22 February 2005) and it
continues to report in accordance with UK GAAP . The aggregate amount of the capital and reserves of
BF Properties (No.4) Limited at 31 March 2005 was £141,000,023. The profit of BF Properties (No.4)
Limited for the year ended 31 March 2005 was £600,740. This is the most recent set of published results
for the Company.
Following the adoption of IAS 39, the investment in BF Properties (No.4) Limited has been calculated by
discounting the future expected proceeds from the investment at the prevailing interest rate of 5.6 per
cent. The adoption of IAS 39 resulted in an increase of £1.0 million in the carrying value of the
investment in BF Properties (No.4) Limited.
There were no disposals or impairment provisions on available-for-sale financial assets during 
the years shown. 77
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
18 Inventories
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Items held for resale 207.8 197.2
Write downs of inventories are disclosed in note 7.
19 Trade and other receivables
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade receivables 21.5 19.6
Other receivables 0.5 0.4
Prepayments and accrued income 41.9 34.5
63.9 54.5
20 Cash and cash equivalents
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 17.2 22.9
Short-term bank deposits 16.8 53.2
34.0 76.1
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
Effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits (per cent) 4.6 4.5
Average maturity rate (days) 35.9 11.7
Included within short-term bank deposits at 2 September 2006 is £10.3 million (2005: £12.8 million) of
restricted cash which is held by the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 (see note 28). In accordance
with the Trust deed, and as stated in note 8, the restricted cash will be distributed to the beneficiaries
of the Trust after the year end.
Cash and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 34.0 76.1
Bank overdrafts and revolving credit facility (note 22) (33.7) (12.1)
0.3 64.0
21 Trade and other payables 
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
Current £m £m
Trade payables 198.9 189.7
Other payables 74.8 46.2
Other taxation and social security 29.1 22.1
Accruals 96.1 125.4
Deferred income 1.5 5.2
400.4 388.6 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
78
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
22 Bank overdraft and borrowings
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts 1.7 12.1
“B” loan notes – 50.1
Term loan facility 1,050.4 –
Revolving credit facility 32.0 –
Senior term loan – tranche A – 407.6
Senior term loan – tranche B – 560.0
Senior term loan – tranche C – 560.0
Senior term loan – tranche D – 300.0
Lease obligations 62.2 61.9
1,146.3 1,951.7
Less: unamortised issue costs (16.2) (37.6)
1,130.1 1,914.1
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
Maturity of debt £m £m
Amounts falling due:
In one year or less or on demand 33.1 75.0
In more than one year but not more than two years 98.8 24.9
In more than two years but not more than five years 952.2 184.9
In more than five years 46.0 1,629.3
1,130.1 1,914.1
Amounts falling due within one year (33.1) (75.0)
Amounts falling due after one year 1,097.0 1,839.1
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
% %
Bank loans and overdrafts 5.75 5.50
“B” loan notes – 7.05*
Term loan facility 6.09 –
Revolving credit facility 6.03 –
Senior term loan – tranche A – 6.85
Senior term loan – tranche B – 7.35
Senior term loan – tranche C – 7.85
Senior term loan – tranche D – 9.10
Lease obligations 5.11 5.25
* The effective interest rate on the “B” loan notes includes the interest rate on the guarantee of the tranche A of the senior term
loan which amounts to 2.25 per cent.
During the year the Group repaid £700 million of the £2.05 billion senior credit facilities, £683 million 
on 9 May 2006 and a further £17 million on 11 May 2006, funded by the proceeds from the issue of new
shares and cash. 
On 30 May 2006 the Group refinanced its existing £2.05 billion senior credit facilities with the proceeds
of a new term loan of £1.05 billion and a revolving credit facility (“RCF”) of £0.3 billion. On 3 July 2006
the RCF was reduced to £0.25 billion. The term loan facility is repayable in instalments with the loan
being repaid in full by 2011. Interest rates are based on LIBOR and denominated in sterling. The RCF 
is multicurrency with interest rates based on the relevant inter-bank market rate. 
Issue costs of £17.2 million which mainly relate to facility costs, were incurred primarily on utilisation of
the credit facilities and are being amortised over the term of the facility at a constant rate based on the
carrying amount of the term loan. The amortisation charge relating to the issue costs of the credit
facilities for the year ended 2 September 2006 was £1.0 million. The amortisation of issue costs prior 
to the refinancing was £4.1 million. 79
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
22 Bank overdraft and borrowings continued
During the year £0.9 million of the “B” loan notes was repaid on 13 January 2006 and the remaining
£49.2 million was repaid in full on 21 March 2006. Fixed interest on the “B” notes was charged at 
4.8 per cent per annum and the principal was guaranteed under the senior credit facilities.
Financial year ended 3 September 2005 
On 26 May 2005 the Group refinanced its debt structure through the draw down of the senior term loan
of £1.8 billion. The funds received from the new facility allowed the repayment of the former senior
facility, the high-yield bonds, the deep discounted bonds, the “A” loan notes and associated costs (see
note 8).
The senior term loan tranche A facility repayments were made in stages with the loan due to be repaid
in full during 2012. The senior term loan tranche B was repayable in full during 2013 with tranches 
C and D being repayable in full during 2014. Interest rates were floating and varied on each tranche 
of the senior facility, all were based on LIBOR and denominated in sterling. The loan was secured by 
a first ranking fixed security and a floating charge over the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries. 
As at 3 September 2005, £22.3 million of “C” loan notes issued by the Company were held by the
Baroness Employee Limited Partnership and were eliminated on the consolidation of the Limited
Partnership. The “B” loan notes were repayable on demand after 24 November 2005. Fixed interest on
the “B” and “C” loan notes was charged at 4.8 per cent per annum and the notes were guaranteed under
tranche A of the senior term loan facilities. 
Issue costs of £39.1 million, which mainly related to facility costs, were incurred upon the draw down of
the senior term loan and were being amortised over the term of the facilities at a constant rate on the
carrying amount of the loan. During the year ended 3 September 2005 £1.5 million of costs relating to
the senior term loan were amortised.
Following the property reorganisation on 22 February 2005 and the deemed disposal of BF Properties (No.4)
Limited, the obligation to repay the mortgage facility was transferred to The British Land Company plc. 
The amount outstanding on the mortgage facility at this date was £363.5 million.
The amortisation of issue costs prior to the 2005 Acquisition and the write-off of the mortgage facility
issue fees for the period to 24 May 2005 was £3.8 million and £4.3 million respectively.
As a result of the refinancing undertaken in May 2005 unamortised debt issue costs relating to the
senior facility and high-yield bond of £18.3 million and £4.0 million respectively were written off in full.
i) Finance lease obligations
In 1988 a number of properties with a market value of £42.7 million were sold to certain banks on 
125-year leases at peppercorn rentals. The Group subsequently entered into full tenant and landlord
repairing sub-leases for 125 years. At the year end the following amounts remained outstanding under
the leases:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Principal 42.7 42.7
Accrued interest 15.8 16.8
Outstanding liability 58.5 59.5
The rentals payable are structured so as to give the lessors a financing return linked to LIBOR in the first
25 years and, in the following ten years, a LIBOR-linked return together with the repayment of capital.
Thereafter, market rentals are payable subject to revision every five years. In the early years, the amounts
payable are below LIBOR and in the later years are in excess of LIBOR. The financing costs are, however,
allocated over the 25-year period so as to achieve an annual funding cost which is consistent with
LIBOR. The Group has limited rights up to the 25th year of the leases to vary the terms of the leases to
buy out the rental obligations based on the properties’ original sales proceeds. The leases are reflected
in fixed assets at their cost to the Group. These property lease obligations are secured by a fixed charge
over the corresponding Group properties. Other lease obligations relate mainly to computer software
and vehicles leased under hire purchase contracts. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
80
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
22 Bank overdraft and borrowings continued
ii) Maturity of finance leases
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
2 September 2006 3 September 2005
Property Other Property Other
leases leases leases leases
£m£m £m£m
Not later than one year 5.9 1.7 6.9 1.0
Later than one year but not more than five years 33.7 2.4 29.9 1.5
More than five years 53.6 0.2 60.3 0.3
93.2 4.3 97.1 2.8
Future charges on finance leases (34.7) (0.6) (37.6) (0.4)
58.5 3.7 59.5 2.4
23 Financial instruments
Transitional rules for financial instruments
The Group has elected to take advantage of the exemption in accordance with IFRS 1, which states that
a first-time adopter need not restate its comparative information in compliance with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The Group has adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 4 September 2005. For the year ended 
3 September 2005, the Group continued to apply UK GAAP , and the following financial instrument
disclosures have been provided in accordance with FRS13 “Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments:
Disclosures” . The impact of adopting IAS 32 and IAS 39 is shown in note 2.
Financial year ended 2 September 2006
As previously stated, the Group has adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 4 September 2005. 
The following disclosures for the financial year ended 2 September 2006 are made in accordance with
those standards.
The financial risks and treasury management information has been disclosed in note 3. 
The notional principal amounts and fair values of financial instruments used in interest risk management
were as follows:
2 September 2006
Notional
principal Book Fair
amount value value
£m £m £m
Primary financial instruments
Borrowings:
– due within one year (36.7) (37.0) (37.0)
– due after one year but no more than two years (102.6) (102.6) (102.6)
– due after more than two years but no more than five years (960.7) (960.7) (960.7)
– due after more than five years (46.0) (46.0) (46.0)
Cash and cash equivalents 34.0 34.0
Derivative financial instruments held to manage interest rate 
and currency risk
Interest rate swaps 957.1 5.5 5.5
Forward foreign currency contracts 120.5 (5.3) (5.3)
Net financial liabilities (1,112.1) (1,112.1) 81
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
23 Financial instruments continued
Net fair values of derivative financial instruments
2 September 2006
Assets Liabilities
£m £m
Current
Forward foreign currency contracts – cash flow hedges – (3.3)
Forward foreign currency contracts – held for trading – (2.0)
– (5.3)
Non-current
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hedges 7.8 (2.3)
Total 7.8 (7.6)
The net fair value losses at 2 September 2006 on open forward foreign exchange contracts that hedge the
foreign currency risk of anticipated future inventory purchases are £3.3 million. This will be recycled and
adjusted against the initial measurement of the acquisition cost of inventory over the next 12 months.
Forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges are reclassified to “assets held for trading”
when the underlying forecast transaction is crystallised on the balance sheet as inventory. During the
year there were no contracts reclassified to “assets held for trading” due to cash flow hedges being
ineffective.
Interest rate swaps 
The notional principal amount of interest rate swaps outstanding at 2 September 2006 was 
£957.1 million. The Group’s interest rate swaps swap from floating rates to fixed rates.
The fair value of interest rate swaps has been calculated as the present value of the estimated 
future cash flows.
The Group’s interest rate swaps mature as follows:
Notional Rate
£m % Maturity
Interest rate swap 957.1 4.477–6.040 30 November 2006 to 30 November 2011
The net losses on these swaps deferred in equity will reverse through interest in the income statement
over the life of the swaps. 
Fair value of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities
Where market values are not available, the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities have been
calculated by discounting future expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year-
end exchange rates. The carrying amounts of short-term borrowing is approximate to fair value. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
82
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
23 Financial instruments continued
Maturity and interest rate profiles of financial assets and liabilities
The maturity and interest rate profiles of financial assets and liabilities after taking account of interest
rate swaps, swapped from floating to fixed rates, used to manage interest were as follows:
2 September 2006
Non-interest
Fixed Floating bearing Total
£m £m £m £m
Sterling financial liabilities:
– due within one year (30.0) (7.0) – (37.0)
– due after one year but no more than two years (87.8) (14.8) – (102.6)
– due after more than two years but no more than five years (823.4) (137.3) – (960.7)
– due after more than five years (19.8) (26.2) – (46.0)
Financial liabilities (961.0) (185.3) – (1,146.3)
Sterling:
– cash at bank and in hand 6.8 12.6 2.0 21.4
– restricted cash 10.0 0.3 – 10.3
Euro:
– cash at bank and in hand – 2.0 0.1 2.1
US dollar:
– cash at bank and in hand – 0.2 – 0.2
Financial assets 16.8 15.1 2.1 34.0
Debt issue costs of £16.2 million are excluded from the financial liabilities above.
The weighted average interest rate on the fixed-rate borrowings as at 2 September 2006 was 5.9 per
cent, with the weighted average time for which rates are fixed being 2.6 years. Floating-rate borrowings
are interest bearing at interest rates based on LIBOR. Sterling and euro cash deposits are interest bearing
at rates based on base rates. Non-interest bearing cash refers to cash in stores. 
Floating-rate borrowings have been classified as fixed if there were derivative financial instruments
hedging the floating-rate interest for more than one year.
Borrowing facilities as at 2 September 2006
The term loan facility was fully drawn as at 2 September 2006. £218 million of the revolving credit facility
remains undrawn as at 2 September 2006. This facility expires on 19 April 2011.
Both of these facilities incur commitment fees at market rate. 
Market price risk
The Group monitors interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk by determining the effect on profit of 
a range of possible changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The range of changes chosen
reflects the Group’s view of changes that are possible over the financial year.
Assuming no changes in the borrowings and interest rate swaps described above, it is estimated that a
rise of 1 per cent in interest rates would have reduced pre-tax profits for the period 2 September 2006
by £2.2 million. Similarly, assuming no changes in the volumes of imports described above, it is
estimated that a 5 per cent decrease in the value of sterling against relevant foreign currencies would
have reduced profits for the year by £1.1 million before accounting for any offset from renegotiated
supplier contracts and alternative sourcing locations. 83
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
23 Financial instruments continued
Financial year ended 3 September 2005
i) Financial instrument information for the financial year ended 3 September 2005
The financial risks and treasury management information has been disclosed in note 3.
The maturity and interest rate profiles of financial assets and liabilities after taking account of interest
rate swaps, swapped from floating to fixed rates, used to manage interest were as follows:
3 September 2005
Non-interest
Fixed Floating bearing Total
£m £m £m £m
Sterling borrowings:
– due within one year (53.3) (27.1) – (80.4)
– due after one year but no more than two years (23.4) (6.8) – (30.2)
– due after more than two years but no more than five years (153.8) (45.6) – (199.4)
– due after more than five years (1,267.6) (374.1) – (1,641.7)
Financial liabilities (1,498.1) (453.6) – (1,951.7)
Sterling:
– cash and cash equivalents 40.4 19.7 2.0 62.1
– restricted cash 12.8 – – 12.8
Euro:
– cash and cash equivalents – 1.1 0.1 1.2
Financial assets 53.2 20.8 2.1 76.1
The weighted average interest rate on the fixed rate borrowings as at 3 September 2005 was 7.9 per cent
including the cost of the guarantee for the “B” and “C” loan notes, with the weighted average time for
which rates were fixed being 3.5 years. 
Floating-rate borrowings were interest bearing at interest rates based on LIBOR. Sterling and euro cash
deposits were interest bearing at rates based on base rates. Non-interest bearing cash refers to cash 
in stores.
Floating-rate borrowings have been classified as fixed if there were derivative financial instruments
hedging the floating-rate interest for more than one year. The notional principal amounts and fair 
values of financial instruments used in interest risk management were as follows:
3 September 2005
Notional
principal Book Fair
amount value value
£m £m £m
Primary financial instruments
Borrowings:
– due within one year (30.3) (30.3) (30.3)
– due after one year but no more than two years (30.2) (30.2) (30.2)
– due after more than two years but no more than five years (249.5) (249.5) (249.5)
– due after more than five years (1,641.7) (1,641.7) (1,643.3)
Cash and cash equivalents 76.1 76.1 76.1
Derivative financial instruments held to manage interest rate 
and currency risk
Interest rate swaps 995.6 – (21.3)
Interest rate cap 500.0 – 0.8
Forward foreign currency contracts 84.5 – (0.1)
Net financial liabilities (1,875.6) (1,897.8) NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
84
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
23 Financial instruments continued
ii) Derivative information for the financial year ended 3 September 2005
Fair values of derivative financial instruments have been calculated at the net present value of future
cash flows based on market rates.
The Group’s principal exposure to movements in exchange rates relates to foreign currency expenditure
made by the Group and foreign currency borrowings. The Group uses foreign currency forward
contracts, options and swaps to hedge this exposure. As at 3 September 2005, the Group had net
monetary liabilities of £19.8 million denominated in US dollars and net monetary assets of £0.4 million
denominated in euros.
Unrecognised gains and losses on instruments used for hedging, and the movements during the
financial year, were as follows:
3 September 2005
Total
Gains Losses net losses
£m £m £m
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 29 August 2004 5.3 (6.2) (0.9)
Gains and losses arising in previous years that were recognised 
during the year (5.3) 5.4 0.1
Gains and losses arising in previous years not recognised during the year – (0.8) (0.8)
Gains and losses arising during the year not recognised during the year 2.2 (22.0) (19.8)
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 3 September 2005 2.2 (22.8) (20.6)
Of which:
Gains and losses expected to be recognised within one year 1.4 (1.5) (0.1)
Gains and losses expected to be recognised after more than one year 0.8 (21.3) (20.5)
2.2 (22.8) (20.6)
All the unrecognised losses on the hedging instruments detailed above were expected to be fully
matched by gains on the hedged transactions.
iii) Borrowing facilities for the financial year ended 3 September 2005
The Group had £72.3 million under the senior term loan tranche “A” facility which was undrawn 
at 3 September 2005, this facility could only be drawn to repay the current outstanding “B” and “C”
loan notes.
Under the senior term loan agreement a £150 million multi-currency revolving credit facility existed. 
The facility was due to expire on 31 May 2012. As at 3 September 2005 £141.6 million remained
undrawn under this facility.
Both of these facilities incurred commitment fees at market rate.
24 Retirement benefit obligation
During the year under review those Debenhams employees who were eligible on the basis of age,
contractual hours and length of service were entitled to be members of the Group’s UK pension
schemes. These schemes are of the funded, defined benefit type, the assets of which are held in
separate trustee administered funds.
In May 2005, it was agreed that £47.4 million of additional contribution would be paid to the
Debenhams defined benefit pension schemes (“DDBPS”). A payment of £29.4 million was made 
on 26 May 2005, and the balance of £18.0 million was paid on 11 May 2006 following the Company’s
successful Admission to the London Stock Exchange. 85
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
24 Retirement benefit obligation continued
During the year it was agreed that the future benefit structure of the DDBPS would change. The Group
announced its proposals to all employees in July 2006 and issued details of the new arrangements for
consultation. Following consultation, the pension schemes will close for future service accrual from 
31 October 2006. Accrued benefits will be linked to RPI growth each year (capped at one per cent 
over RPI). The closure to future accrual will not affect the pensions of those who have retired or the
deferred benefits of those who have left service or opted out before 31 October 2006. This amendment
to the schemes has created a £4.4 million curtailment credit included within operating profit. Future
pension arrangements will be provided for Debenhams Employees by the Prudential Stakeholder
Pension Plan. 
The most recent actuarial valuations of the Debenhams Retirement Scheme and the Debenhams
Executive Pension Plan were at 31 March 2005. 
Actuarial valuations of the Group’s pension schemes using the projected unit basis were carried out at
31 March 2005, and updated as at each relevant year end for the purposes of IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” ,
by Watson Wyatt Limited, a qualified independent actuary. The major assumptions used by the 
actuaries were: 
2 September 3 September 28 August
2006 2005 2004
per annum per annum per annum
% %%
Inflation assumption 2.90 2.60 2.75
General salary and wage increase 3.90 3.60 4.25
Rate of increase in pension payments and deferred payments 2.90 2.60 2.75
Pension increase rate 2.90 2.60 2.75
Discount rate 5.10 5.00 5.75
The expected return on scheme assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the year for
return over the entire life of the defined benefit obligation.
2 September 2006 3 September 2005 28 August 2004
Long-term Long-term Long-term
rate of return rate of return rate of return
expected expected expected
per annum Value per annum Value per annum Value
% £m % £m % £m
Assets
Equities 8.3 325.6 8.00 287.0 8.40 217.8
Bonds 4.4 159.9 4.30 149.3 4.90 123.8
Cash and other assets 4.4 41.6 3.60 17.3 3.75 12.2
Total market value of assets 6.8 527.1 6.6 453.6 7.0 353.8
Present value of scheme liabilities (513.3) (463.0) (401.2)
Surplus/(deficit) in scheme 13.8 (9.4) (47.4)
Assumptions regarding future mortality experiences are based on the mortality tables shown below.
Allowance is made for future improvements to the assumed current rates of mortality which have 
a financial effect equivalent to a 0.25 per cent per annum reduction in the discount rate used to 
value liabilities.
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
Male and female Male and female
Debenhams Retirement Scheme PMA92C06+2 PMA92C05+2
Debenhams Executive Pension Plan PMA92C06+1 PMA92C05+1
The actual return on plan assets was as follows:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Return on plan assets 52.8 30.0 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
86
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
24 Retirement benefit obligation continued
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Current service cost 16.3 14.1
Past service cost – 0.4
Curtailment credit (4.4) –
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 22.7 22.7
Expected return on pension scheme assets (29.2) (24.7)
Total included within staff costs (note 9) 5.4 12.5
The total charge has been included as follows:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Cost of sales 3.1 10.6
Distribution costs 0.1 0.7
Administrative expenses 2.2 1.2
Total charge 5.4 12.5
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Present value of obligation at start of year 463.0 401.2
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 22.7 22.7
Current service cost 16.3 14.1
Actual member contributions 2.8 2.8
Actual benefit payments by the fund (13.7) (15.7)
Past service cost – 0.4
Curtailment credit (4.4) –
Losses on change of assumptions 22.9 34.7
Experience losses 3.7 2.8
Present value of obligation at end of year 513.3 463.0
Changes in the fair value of pension scheme assets are as follows:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Fair value in pension scheme assets at start of year 453.6 353.8
Benefits paid (13.7) (15.7)
Contributions 34.4 44.8
Expected return on pension scheme assets 29.2 24.7
Actuarial gains 23.6 46.0
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 527.1 453.6
Movement in deficit during the year
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Deficit in the schemes at start of year (9.4) (47.4)
Movement in year:
Pension charge (5.4) (12.5)
Contributions 31.6 42.0
Actuarial (loss)/gain (3.0) 8.5
Surplus/(deficit) in the schemes at end of year 13.8 (9.4) 87
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
24 Retirement benefit obligation continued
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
At the start of the year 26.6 18.1
Net actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the year (3.0) 8.5
Net actuarial gains recognised in the year 23.6 26.6
History of experience gains and losses
2 September 3 September 28 August 30 August
2006 2005 2004 2003
Difference between the expected and actual return 
on scheme assets £23.6m £46.0m £3.1m £(1.6)m
Percentage of scheme assets 4.5% 10.1% 0.9% (0.5)%
Experience losses on scheme liabilities £(3.7)m £(2.8)m £(1.9)m £(4.4)m
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (0.7)% (0.6)% (0.5)% (1.2)%
Total actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in statement 
of recognised income and expenses £(3.0)m £8.5m £11.2m £(20.0)m
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (0.6)% 1.8% 2.7% (5.3)%
The contributions expected to be paid during the year ended 1 September 2007 amounts to £7.2 million.
Debenhams stakeholder pension schemes
The Group contributions to the schemes during the year were £0.5 million (2005: £0.1 million). 
25 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate 
of 30 per cent.
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 51.1 58.9
Deferred tax liabilities (84.8) (73.8)
(33.7) (14.9)
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax
assets because it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below:
Developers
contribution Fair value Retirement Other Share-based
received gains benefit provisions payments Total
Assets £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 29 August 2004 35.1 2.6 14.2 4.6 0.8 57.3
(Charged)/credited to the income 
statement (1.5) (1.3) (2.2) 3.9 1.8 0.7
Charged to the statement of recognised 
income and expenses – – (2.5) – – (2.5)
Credited to equity – – – – 3.4 3.4
At 3 September 2005 33.6 1.3 9.5 8.5 6.0 58.9
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 – 5.4 – – – 5.4
At 4 September 2005 33.6 6.7 9.5 8.5 6.0 64.3
Credited/(charged) to the income 
statement 1.5 0.6 (8.1) 5.0 (0.9) (1.9)
(Charged)/credited to the statement  
of recognised income and expenses – (7.1) 0.9 – – (6.2)
Charged to equity – – – – (5.1) (5.1)
At 2 September 2006 35.1 0.2 2.3 13.5 – 51.1 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
88
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
25 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued
Accelerated
tax Fair value
depreciation Other gains Total
Liabilities £m £m £m £m
At 29 August 2004 (98.9) (0.4) (18.3) (117.6)
Credited to the income statement 25.1 0.4 18.3 43.8
At 3 September 2005 (73.8) – – (73.8)
Charged to the income statement (11.0) – – (11.0)
At 2 September 2006 (84.8) – – (84.8)
The deferred tax charged to equity during the year was as follows:
2 September 3 September 
2006 2005
£m £m
Fair value reserves in shareholders’ equity:
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 5.4 –
Hedging reserve (7.1) –
Deferred tax on pension schemes 0.9 (2.5)
Deferred tax on share-based payments (5.1) 3.4
(5.9) 0.9
26 Other non-current liabilities
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Other liabilities 161.0 158.8
Other liabilities comprise lease incentives received from landlords either through initial contributions 
or rent-free periods. These incentives are being credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis
over the term of the relevant lease.
27 Provisions for liabilities and charges 
Taxation Vacant Closure Other
provision properties provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 29 August 2004 2.6 0.5 5.4 4.5 13.0
Charged to the income statement – 0.7 0.8 – 1.5
Utilised during the financial year (2.6) – (1.3) (1.4) (5.3)
At 3 September 2005 – 1.2 4.9 3.1 9.2
Utilised during the financial year – (0.3) (1.3) (1.4) (3.0)
At 2 September 2006 – 0.9 3.6 1.7 6.2
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Current 4.7 6.8
Non-current 1.5 2.4
6.2 9.2
Taxation provision
The taxation provision represented potential liabilities surrounding the VAT treatment of intra-group
transactions. 
Vacant properties
Provision for vacant properties represents the residual lease commitments, after taking into account
existing sub-lease arrangements, in respect of three properties and will be utilised over the remaining
term of the leases which expire in March 2007, August 2009 and September 2009 respectively. 89
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
27 Provisions for liabilities and charges continued
Closure provision
The termination of a number of operations resulted in closure costs predominantly related to the
closure of all remaining own-bought media outlets, the cessation of the Group’s mail order catalogue
and the closure of distribution outlets. This provision is short-term in nature.
Other provisions
The majority of the Group’s other provisions relate to dilapidations on properties based upon the
directors’ best estimate of the Group’s future liability. The remainder of the other provisions, none 
of which are individually significant, represent the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle
present obligations in respect of other liabilities. These provisions are short-term in nature and are
expected to be utilised within the next 12 months. 
28 Share capital
2 September 2006 3 September 2005
£ Number £ Number
Authorised
Ordinary shares of £0.0001 (2005: £0.001) each 128,846 1,288,461,539 10,000 10,000,000
Governance shares of £0.01 each – – 1,000 100,000
Subscriber shares of £1.00 each – – 3 3
128,846 1,288,461,539 11,003 10,100,003
2 September 2006 3 September 2005
£ Number £ Number
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of £0.0001 (2005: £0.001) each 85,897 858,974,359 10,000 10,000,000
Governance shares of £0.01 each –– 1,000 100,000
Subscriber shares of £1.00 each – – 3 3
85,897 858,974,359 11,003 10,100,003
Ordinary shares
Number of
£ shares
Share issued on incorporation – –
Share-for-share exchange on acquisition of Debenhams 10,000 10,000,000
At 3 September 2005 10,000 10,000,000
Bonus issue of shares 40,000 40,000,000
Incremental shares on subdivision – 450,000,000
Allotted on Admission to the London Stock Exchange 35,897 358,974,359
At 2 September 2006 85,897 858,974,359
The Company was incorporated on 10 May 2005, at which time the subscriber shares were issued. 
On 26 May 2005 as part of the acquisition of the Baroness Group (“2005 Acquisition”), 10,000,000
ordinary shares and 100,000 governance shares were issued.
On 5 April 2006, the directors approved a bonus issue of four ordinary shares for one ordinary share
held. The new ordinary shares had a nominal value of £0.001. The increase in share capital was 
effected by a bonus issue of £40,000, using retained earnings to fully pay up the newly issued shares. 
On 3 May 2006, the authorised share capital of the Company was increased by £77,843.15 and 
each of the issued and unissued ordinary shares of £0.001 was subdivided into ten ordinary shares 
of £0.0001 each. 
On 9 May 2006 following the Company’s Admission to the London Stock Exchange 358,974,359 shares
were issued at £1.95 per share. The consideration received on issuing these shares was £700 million,
with costs of £17.1 million, which directly relate to the issue of new shares, being set off against the
share premium account. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
90
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
28 Share capital continued
On Admission the governance shares and the subscriber shares were transferred by the holders to 
the Company for nil consideration and cancelled.
Employee share trust – interest in share capital
The number of ordinary shares in the Company held by the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 and 
the Baroness Employee Limited Partnership, in connection with the Group’s employee ownership plan
described below, were as follows:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares
Number Number
Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 3,290,535 216,928
Baroness Employee Limited Partnership 13,226,985 377,913
16,517,520 594,841
The market value of the shares held by the two trusts on 2 September 2006 were £6.2 million for DRET
and £24.9 million for BELP . The cost of these shares were £548,000 for DRET and £26,000 for BELP .
Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of employee share ownership plans to grant options and shares to its
directors and employees.
The total income statement charge for the year recognised in respect of these share ownership plans 
is £14.3 million (2005: £5.5 million).
The Group had three share option schemes together with the Baroness Employee Limited Partnership 
in operation during the year.
i) The Debenhams Performance Share Plan (the “PSP”)
The PSP is intended to facilitate the retention of senior executives of the Company by enabling
executives to receive shares provided that they remain in the Group for a period of three years from 
the date of grant. No payment will be required for the grant of an award. An award under the PSP will
comprise an option to receive free shares or a nil cost option with performance conditions attached.
The vesting on half of the shares granted is dependent on earnings per share (“EPS”) growth. 
In accordance with IFRS 2 this is classified as a non-market condition and therefore the shares have
been fair valued at face value. The vesting of the remaining half of the shares is dependent upon total
shareholder return (“TSR”) over a three-year period when compared to total shareholder return of the
FTSE 350 General Retailers Index. The fair value of the PSP options granted for this proportion of the
award is calculated based on a Monte Carlo simulation model assuming the inputs shown below: 
EPS TSR
Grant date: 9 May 2006 9 May 2006
6 June 2006 6 June 2006
Number of shares under option (number): 
9 May 2006 1,662,383 1,662,384
6 June 2006 1,556 1,557
Expected term (years) 2.3 2.3
Share price at grant (pence): 
9 May 2006 205.0 205.0
6 June 2006 185.0 185.0
Exercise price (pence) – –
Risk free rate:
9 May 2006 4.8% 4.8%
6 June 2006 4.7% 4.7%
Expected volatility 21.0% 21.0%
Expected dividend yield 3.5% 3.5%
Fair value of option (pence):
9 May 2006 189.0 82.8
6 June 2006 171.1 76.4 91
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
28 Share capital continued
ii) Executive Share Option Plan (the “ESOP”)
The ESOP allows the Company to grant options to acquire shares to eligible employees. These options
will become exercisable following a three-year performance period beginning in September 2005 but
only if and to the extent that the performance conditions to which they are subject have been satisfied.
Options were granted with an exercise price equal to market value of the shares at the date the options
were granted. 
The vesting of options granted under this plan is dependent on EPS growth, the fair value of the share
options has been calculated using a binomial model. The key assumptions are as follows:
Grant date: 9 May 2006 6 June 2006
Number of shares under option (number) 2,834,929 58,870
Expected term (years) 6 6
Share price at grant (pence) 205 185
Exercise price (pence) 205 185
Risk free rate: 4.8% 4.7%
Expected volatility 24.0% 24.0%
Expected dividend yield 3.5% 3.5%
Fair value of option (pence) 45.2 40.5
iii) Debenhams Employee Option Plan (“DEOP”) 
The DEOP option scheme was introduced on 3 September 2004 options were awarded to certain
management of the Group. The DRET holds shares to satisfy the exercise options granted under DEOP .
Options were awarded at the discretion of the Group’s Remuneration Committee and were awarded 
to any employee within the Group at any point in time. The contractual life of the options is ten years.
The condition associated with the award of the options is that the recipients must be employed by the
Group when the options vest. Fifty per cent of the options vested on Debenhams plc Admission to the
London Stock Exchange, with the remaining options vesting 365 days after Admission. No further
awards will be made under this scheme.
At the date of grant in September 2004 the options were valued using a Black-Scholes option pricing
model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation were as follows:
Date of grant
Number of employees 327
Expected volatility 15.1%
Expected life (months) 51
Risk-free interest rate 4.7%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield –
Possibility of ceasing employment before vesting –
Fair value per ordinary unit in Baroness Group Limited Partnership (£) 105.75
Fair value per option – equity element (£ per option) 0.182 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
92
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
28 Share capital continued
The expected volatility is based on the FTSE All Share Consumer Service Index, which comprises 124
members, over the last three years. The risk-free interest rate is based on a 4.5-year gilt-rate bond at the
time the options were issued. The dividend yield is assumed to be nil as neither the equity component
nor the debt element of the underlying option securities are expected to pay out dividends or coupons
over their life. All of the options have an exercise price of 10 pence. The charge in respect of the equity-
settled element of the options was being recognised in the income statement over the vesting period
from the date of grant to the date of flotation, being 9 May 2006.
The value of the cash-settled element of the award is the value attributable to the “A” loan notes under
option. As part of the 2005 Acquisition the “A” loan notes of £12.8 million which were issued to the
Debenhams Retail Employee Trust (“DRET”) were immediately repaid in full on 26 May 2005. On
settlement of the options, the option holders will receive in cash an amount equivalent to the “A” loan
notes issued to DRET on the option holders’ behalf. The modification has resulted in a charge to the
income statement that relates to the “A” loan notes that have been allocated to employees, rather than
the total received by the Trust. The charge was being spread over the vesting period, being from the
date of the original grant to the date of flotation of Debenhams plc.
iv) Baroness Employee Limited Partnership (“BELP”)
In June 2004, senior management of the Group were invited by the Remuneration Committee to 
invest in the Group through the purchase of units in the BELP . Management purchased their holding 
in the Group at fair value and therefore no equity-based costs arose in relation to these awards. 
The partnership is closed to new entrants.
On 16 May 2005, the Group was reorganised with Debenhams plc (formerly Debenhams Retail Holdings
Limited) being the new parent company of the Group. The Group reorganisation involved shares being
exchanged for shares and loan notes issued by the Company. In the case of the BELP , a share was
exchanged for a share and a “C” loan note in the Company. 
In total, “C” loan notes of £22.3 million were issued to the BELP . For accounting purposes, this resulted 
in the modification of the original equity-settled share-based payment, with the newly created loan
note element of the award being treated as a cash-settled share-based payment. The total value of the
cash-settled element of the award is the value attributable to the “C” loan notes of £22.3 million issued
to BELP and the charge was spread over the vesting period, being from the date of the original
investment to the date of flotation of Debenhams plc. 
Outstanding options
The following table reconciled the number of share options outstanding at the year end:
PSP ESOP DEOP
Financial year ended 2 September 2006 Number Number Number
Outstanding at 4 September 2005 – – 142,954
Granted 3,353,565 2,975,121 550,271
Exercised – – (3,412,307)
Forfeited (25,685) (81,322) (85,750)
Share split – – 6,142,140
Outstanding at 2 September 2006 3,327,880 2,893,799 3,337,308
The share split occurred on 5 April 2006 following the bonus issue of four ordinary shares for every share
held and on 3 May 2006 when each ordinary share was subdivided into ten ordinary shares. 93
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
28 Share capital continued
DEOP
Financial year ended 3 September 2005 Number
Outstanding at 29 August 2004 –
Granted 15,652
Forfeited (1,332)
Outstanding at 15 May 2005* 14,320
Converted on 16 May 2005 143,189
Granted 4,615
Forfeited (4,850)
Outstanding 3 September 2005 142,954
* On 16 May 2005 one ordinary unit in Baroness Group Limited Partnership was exchanged for 9.9999 shares in Baroness Group
Holdings Limited. Prior to the conversion, certain employees held options over fractions of ordinary units in Baroness Group
Limited Partnership whereas following the exchange, options could only be held over a whole number of shares. On 16 May 2005
options over ordinary shares in Baroness Group Holdings Limited were exchanged for options over ordinary shares in Debenhams
plc (formerly Debenhams Retail Holdings Limited)
Share-based payments charge
The total charge to the operating profit relating to share-based payment transactions were:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
DEOP – equity-settled element 1.5 0.8
DEOP – cash-settled element 3.7 1.4
BELP – cash-settled element 8.5 3.3
Performance Share Plan 2006 – equity-settled element 0.5 –
Executive Share Option Plan – equity-settled element 0.1 –
Charge for the year 14.3 5.5
The following amounts were charged directly to equity as a result of the modification of the awards 
following the Group reorganisation in May 2005. 
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Cash-settled element – “A” loan notes – 3.7
Cash-settled element – “C” loan notes – 8.5
– 12.2 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
94
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
29 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity
Reverse
Share Share Retained Merger acquisition Hedging Other
capital premium earnings reserve reserve reserve reserve Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 29 August 2004 – 1.0 (249.5) – – – – (248.5)
Profit for the financial year – – 123.7 – – – – 123.7
Actuarial gain in pension schemes 
(note 24) – – 8.5 – – – – 8.5
Movement in deferred tax relating to 
pension schemes (note 25) – – (2.5) – – – – (2.5)
Total recognised income for the 
financial year – – 129.7 – – – – 129.7
Acquisition by Debenhams plc – (1.0) – 1,200.9 (1,199.9) – – –
Employee share ownership plans 
(net of tax) – – (7.8) – – – – (7.8)
26 May 2005 refinancing
– appropriation – – (589.2) – – – – (589.2)
– “A” loan notes held by DRET – – 12.8 – – – – 12.8
– “C” loan notes held by BELP – – 22.3 – – – – 22.3
At 3 September 2005 – – (681.7) 1,200.9 (1,199.9) – – (680.7)
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 (note 2) – – 2.3 – – (14.9) 1.0 (11.6)
At 4 September 2005 – – (679.4) 1,200.9 (1,199.9) (14.9) 1.0 (692.3)
Profit for the financial year – – 43.7 – – – – 43.7
Actuarial loss in pension schemes 
(note 24) – – (3.0) – – – – (3.0)
Movement in deferred tax relating to 
pension schemes (note 25) – – 0.9 – – – – 0.9
Cash flow hedges:
– net fair value gains (net of tax) – – – – – 15.8 – 15.8
– recycled and adjusted against the 
initial measurement of the acquisition 
cost of inventory – – – – – (0.2) – (0.2)
– reclassified and reported in net profit – – – – – 0.8 – 0.8
Total recognised income for the 
financial year – – 41.6 – – 16.4 – 58.0
Issue of shares 0.1 682.9 – – – – – 683.0
Share options
– value of employee services – – 2.1 – – – – 2.1
Purchase of treasury shares for DRET – – (2.0) – – – – (2.0)
“C” loan notes held by BELP – – (22.3) – – – – (22.3)
Value of employee services for loan 
notes issued (net of tax) – – 26.8 – – – – 26.8
Balance at 2 September 2006 0.1 682.9 (633.2) 1,200.9 (1,199.9) 1.5 1.0 53.3
Share premium account
On Admission to the London Stock Exchange the Company issued 358,974,359 shares at £1.95,
generating proceeds of £700 million. Costs directly associated with the issue of the new shares totalled
£17.1 million and in accordance with the Companies Act these costs have been set off against the
premium generated on issue of the new shares.  95
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
29 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity continued
Merger reserve
The merger reserve of £1,200.9 million exists as a result of the 2005 Acquisition. The merger reserve
represents the difference between both the nominal value of the share capital and loan notes issued by
the Company and the fair value of Baroness Group Holdings Limited Group at 24 May 2005, the date of
the 2005 Acquisition (note 32).
Reverse acquisition reserve
The reverse acquisition reserve exists as a result of the method of accounting for the 2005 Acquisition. 
In accordance with International Accounting Standards the 2005 Acquisition has been accounted for 
as a reverse acquisition. 
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve represents the change in fair value of all interest rate swaps and forward foreign
currency contracts which have been designated as cash flow hedges.
Other reserves
Other reserves represent the change in fair value in respect of the Group’s available-for-sale investments
(see note 17).
Retained earnings 
Financial year ended 2 September 2006
As at 2 September 2006, £0.2 million (2005: £22.3 million) of “C” notes issued by the Company were held
by the BELP and have been eliminated on consolidation of the Partnership. Fixed interest on the notes
were charged at 4.8 per cent and a collateral deposit guarantees the principal.
Financial year ended 3 September 2005
The appropriation of £589.2 million in the financial year ended 3 September 2005 represents the 
“A” , “B” and “C” loan notes issued as part of the 2005 Acquisition. In accordance with IFRS 3 “Business
Combinations” , the 2005 Acquisition has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition and the loan 
notes have been treated as an appropriation representing the value transferred outside of the Group 
as a result of the acquisition.
During the financial year ended 3 September 2005, employee share ownership plans were established.
The number of ordinary units or ordinary shares held by the Group in respect of these plans is disclosed
in note 28. On 24 May 2005 the ordinary units in Baroness Group Limited Partnership held by DRET were
converted into 216,928 shares in the Company and £12.8 million “A” loan notes and the ordinary units in
Baroness Group Limited Partnership held by BELP were converted into 377,913 shares in the Company
and £22.3 million “C” loan notes. The “A” loan notes were subsequently repaid resulting in a cash balance
of £12.8 million being held by the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust.
DRET and BELP are consolidated in the results of the Group.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
96
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
30 Operating lease and capital commitments
2 September 2006 3 September 2005
Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
£m £m £m £m
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring:
Within one year 113.0 1.4 105.6 1.6
Later than one year and less than five years 489.1 2.0 437.5 2.4
After five years 3,483.1 – 3,246.4 –
4,085.2 3.4 3,789.5 4.0
The Group leases departmental stores and warehouses under non-cancellable operating leases. The leases
have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The Group also leases vehicles and fixtures and
equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
31 Cash generated from operations
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Profit for the financial year 43.7 123.7
Taxation (note 12) 18.4 (36.1)
Depreciation (note 16) 86.0 85.4
Amortisation (note 15) 5.1 3.8
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.1) 2.7
Loss on disposal of intangible assets – 0.3
Profit on deemed disposal of subsidiary – (117.7)
Employee options granted during the year 2.8 –
Discretionary bonus granted during the year 1.1 –
Fair value gains on derivative instruments 1.9 –
Swap costs (0.8) –
Net movements in provisions for liabilities and charges (note 27) (3.0) (3.8)
Interest income (note 10) (7.3) (7.4)
Interest expense (note 11) 168.8 261.1
Difference between pension charge and contributions paid (note 24) (26.2) (29.5)
Net movement in other non-current liabilities 2.2 15.3
Changes in working capital
Increase in inventories (10.6) (29.8)
Increase in trade and other receivables (8.2) (6.8)
Increase in trade and other payables 43.2 120.7
Cash generated from operations 317.0 381.9
In the cash flow statement, proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment comprise:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Net book amount (note 16) – 402.0
Deemed disposal of subsidiary – (373.2)
Profit/(loss) on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 (2.7)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 26.1 97
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
31 Cash generated from operations continued
In the cash flow statement exceptional cash items are as follows:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Cash generated from operations includes payments for:
Admission to the London Stock Exchange 3.8 –
Additional pension contribution 18.0 29.4
Red Letter Day – 2.6
Other exceptional cash outflows – 0.7
Interest paid included:
2006 refinancing – premium on early repayment of senior term loan (note 8) 2.1 –
2006 refinancing – cost of restructuring interest rate swaps (0.3) –
2006 refinancing – debt issue costs 14.1 –
2005 refinancing – make-whole premium (note 8) – 70.6
2005 refinancing – debt issue costs – 39.1
Financial year ended 2 September 2006
Payments for professional advice, bonuses and advisory services relating to the Company’s Admission 
to the London Stock Exchange totalled £3.8 million. The remaining £0.8 million of exceptional costs
included in note 8 will be paid after the year end.
Additional pension contribution
As part of the refinancing in May 2005 it was agreed that £47.4 million of additional contribution would
be paid to the Debenhams defined benefit pension schemes (“DDBPS”). A payment of £29.4 million was
paid on refinancing on 26 May 2005, and the balance of £18.0 million was paid on 11 May 2006
following the Company’s successful Admission to the London Stock Exchange.
2006 refinancing
On refinancing £2.1 million was paid relating to the early repayment of the senior credit facility. 
As a result of the refinancing a number of interest rate swaps were either closed out or restructured,
generating cash of £0.3 million. 
Debt issue costs capitalised in respect of the refinancing on 30 May 2006 amounted to £14.1 million.
The remaining £3.1 million of debt issue costs included in note 22 will be paid after the year end.
Financial year ended 3 September 2005
Additional pension contribution on refinancing
On refinancing it was agreed that £47.4 million of additional contribution would be paid to the
Debenhams defined benefit pension schemes (“DDBPS”). A payment of £29.4 million was made to the
DDBPS on 26 May 2005. 
Red Letter Day
A payment of £2.6 million was paid to Red Letter Day after this supplier went into administration (see
note 8).
Other
The Group paid legal and professional costs totalling £0.7 million in relation to the 2005 refinancing (see
note 8). The remaining £1.1 million of exceptional costs included in note 8 were accrued at 3 September
2005 and paid in the year ended 2 September 2006.
2005 refinancing
The repayment of the high-yield bond in June 2005 included a “make-whole premium” of £70.6 million,
which arose due to the early repayment of the bonds (see note 8).
Debt issue costs capitalised in respect of the 2005 refinancing amounted to £39.1 million (see note 22).  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
98
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
31 Cash generated from operations continued
Non-cash transactions
Other non-cash changes comprise:
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Amortisation of issue costs relating to debt issues 5.1 30.5
Exceptional write off of issue costs on refinancing 33.5 –
Non-cash movements associated with finance lease obligations 0.3 0.4
Transfer of accrued interest to net debt on adoption of IAS 32 and 39 0.4 –
Transfer of mortgage facility on deemed disposal of subsidiary – (363.5)
Exchange rate movements – 0.3
Non-cash transactions 39.3 (332.3)
32 Acquisition and reorganisation
On 24 May 2005, the Company, being newly incorporated on 10 May 2005, acquired the entire share
capital of Baroness Group Holdings Limited by means of a share-for-share exchange. The shareholders 
in Baroness Group Holdings Limited received shares and loan notes in the Company in direct proportion
to their original shareholding in Baroness Group Holdings Limited. The loan notes issued on acquisition
amounted to £589.2 million, comprising, £516.8 million “A” loan notes, £50.1 million “B” loan notes and
£22.3 million “C” loan notes. 
In accordance with IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” , this transaction has been accounted as a reverse
acquisition. The key features of this basis of consolidation are:
• The consolidated IFRS financial statement is a continuation of the financial statement of Baroness
Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries and the retained earnings recognised are a continuation
of those of Baroness Group Holdings Limited immediately before the business combination.
• The consolidated income statement for the 53 weeks ended 3 September 2005 includes the results
of Baroness Group Holdings Limited for the 53 weeks ended 3 September 2005 and of Debenhams
plc from 24 May 2005, the date of the reverse acquisition.
• The assets and liabilities of Baroness Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries are measured based
on their pre-combination carrying amounts.
• The equity structure appearing in this consolidated financial statement reflects the equity structure
of the legal parent, Debenhams plc.
• Debenhams plc has been consolidated from the date of the reverse acquisition using the fair value
of its assets and liabilities at that date. The cost of the acquisition was £nil and no goodwill arose on
the acquisition.
At the date of the 2005 Acquisition, Debenhams plc held £3 of cash and had issued three £1 subscriber
shares. No other assets or liabilities existed on acquisition.
The issue of loan notes in connection with the 2005 Acquisition has been accounted for as an
appropriation of shareholders’ funds. 99
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
33 Related party disclosures
The controlling and related parties held deep discounted bonds, which were repaid in full on 26 May
2005. The payments and amounts owed to these related parties at each period end were as follows:
3 September 
2005
DDB repayments 
in the period
£m
CVC 192.7
TPG 225.5
MLGPE 123.1
C Woodhouse 1.8
R Templeman 2.2
J Lovering 1.4
BELP 1.1
DRET 9.2
As a result of the 2005 Acquisition the shareholders of Baroness Group Holdings Limited received shares
and loan notes in the Company in exchange for their shareholding in Baroness Group Holdings Limited.
The shares and loan notes received were in direct proportion to each party’s shareholding in Baroness
Group Holdings Limited. Funds managed or advised by CVC, TPG and MLGPE received loan notes to the
value of £178.8 million, £210.3 million and £114.8 million respectively on reorganisation. On 26 May
2005 the Group refinanced its debt structure and the loan notes to the controlling parties were repaid 
in full. Interest at a fixed rate of 4.8 per cent per annum was charged on the loan notes. On repayment
of the loan notes interest of £47,000, £55,000 and £30,000 was paid to funds managed by CVC, 
TPG and MLGPE respectively. The figures attributable to CVC, above, include warrants paid to CVC
Shareholder Group and third-party investment vehicles controlled by Standard Life (being European
Strategic Partners LP , European Strategic Partners Scottish B LP , European Partners Scottish C LP , ESP 
Co-Investment LP , European Strategic Partners 1-LP and ESP Conduit LP) and TCW (being TCW/Crescent
Mezzanine Partners III LP , TCW/Crescent Mezzanine Trust LP and TCW/Crescent Mezzanine Partners LP),
to which the CVC Shareholders Group syndicated a portion of its original investment.
34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS
The Group reported under UK GAAP in its previously published financial statements for the period
ended 3 September 2005. The analysis below shows a reconciliation of net assets and profit as reported
under UK GAAP as at 3 September 2005 to the revised net assets and profit under IFRS as reported in
these financial statements. In addition, there is a reconciliation of net assets under UK GAAP to IFRS at
the transition date for this Group, being 29 August 2004.
Exemptions from full retrospective application elected by the Group
IFRS 1 provides a number of optional exemptions to the general principles of full retrospective
application of IFRS. The Group has elected to take advantage of the following optional exemptions 
from full retrospective application at the date of transition.
Business combinations 
A first-time adopter may elect not to apply IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” retrospectively to business
combinations that occurred before the date of transition to IFRS. The Group has elected to take
advantage of this exemption. Business combinations that occurred before the date of transition 
have been consolidated in accordance with UK GAAP . Any unamortised goodwill at 29 August 2004 
has been recognised in the IFRS financial statement at amortised cost.
Financial instruments  
In its first financial statements a first-time adopter need not restate its comparative information 
in compliance with IAS 32 and IAS 39. The Group has elected to take advantage of this exemption. 
The Group has adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 4 September 2005.
Reconciliations of UK GAAP to IFRS
The Group has prepared reconciliations between the shareholders’ equity recognised under 
UK GAAP and under IFRS at 29 August 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, and as at 3 September 2005.
The UK GAAP financial statement has been extracted from the previously published UK GAAP financial
statement for the period ended 3 September 2005. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
100
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued
Debenhams plc (formerly Debenhams Retail Holdings Limited) was incorporated on 10 May 2005. 
As a result, there is no UK GAAP consolidated balance sheet for the Group at 29 August 2004. However,
under IFRS, the acquisition of the Debenhams Group on 24 May 2005 is treated as a reverse acquisition,
and therefore, an IFRS comparative balance sheet at this date has been presented. The adjustments
have been split into four different categories: IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” , effects of presentation
items, effects of measurement items, and other items.
Reconciliation of equity at 29 August 2004
UK GAAP Effects of Effects of IFRS
29 August presentation measurement 29 August
2004 IFRS 3 items items Other 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – 800.0 (b) 6.9 (d) – – 806.9
Property, plant and equipment – 1,038.9 (b) (6.9) (d) – – 1,032.0
Deferred tax asset – 3.9 (b) – 39.3 (k,l,m) 14.2 (n) 57.4
– 1,842.8 – 39.3 14.2 1,896.3
Current assets
Inventories – 167.4 (b) – – – 167.4
Trade and other receivables – 62.4 (b) – – (14.4) (n) 48.0
Cash and cash equivalents – 159.3 (b) – – – 159.3
– 389.1 – – (14.4) 374.7
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities 
– bank overdraft and borrowings – (43.1) (b) – – – (43.1)
Trade and other payables – (359.9) (b) – 34.2 (k,m) – (325.7)
Provisions – – (4.8) (g) – – (4.8) (i)
– (403.0) (4.8) 34.2 – (373.6)
Net current (liabilities)/assets – (13.9) (4.8) 34.2 (14.4) 1.1
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities 
– bank overdraft and borrowings – (1,829.2) (b) – – – (1,829.2)
Deferred tax liabilities – (99.4) (b,c) – (18.2) (j) – (117.6)
Other non-current liabilities – – – (143.5) (k,l) – (143.5)
Provisions – (13.0) (b) 4.8 (g) – – (8.2)
Defined benefit obligation – – – – (47.4) (n) (47.4)
– (1,941.6) 4.8 (161.7) (47.4) (2,145.9)
Net liabilities – (112.7) – (88.2) (47.6) (248.5)
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Share premium – 1.0 (b) – – – 1.0
Retained earnings – (113.7) – (88.2) (47.6) (249.5)
Total equity – (112.7) – (88.2) (47.6) (248.5) 101
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued
Reconciliation of equity at 3 September 2005
UK GAAP Effects of Effects of IFRS
3 September presentation measurement 3 September
2005 IFRS 3 items items Other 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 2,504.5 (1,692.6) (a,b) 18.0 (d) – – 829.9
Property, plant and equipment 668.0 – (18.0) (d) – – 650.0
Financial assets
– available-for-sale investments 7.2 – – – – 7.2
Deferred tax asset – – 11.9 (e,f ) 47.0 (k,l,m) – 58.9
3,179.7 (1,692.6) 11.9 47.0 – 1,546.0
Current assets
Inventories 197.2 – – – – 197.2
Trade and other receivables 56.4 (1.9) (b) – – – 54.5
Current tax asset – – – – – –
Cash and cash equivalents 63.3 – – – 12.8 (o) 76.1
316.9 (1.9) – – 12.8 327.8
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities 
– bank overdraft and borrowings (24.9) (50.1) (b) – – – (75.0)
Trade and other payables (400.7) – – 12.1 (k,m) – (388.6)
Current tax liabilities (0.6) – – – – (0.6)
Provisions – – (6.8) (g) – – (6.8)
(426.2) (50.1) (6.8) 12.1 – (471.0)
Net current liabilities (109.3) (52.0) (6.8) 12.1 12.8 (143.2)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities 
– bank overdraft and borrowings (1,911.5) 72.4 (b) – – – (1,839.1)
Deferred tax liabilities (12.6) (58.8) (b,c) (2.4) (e) – – (73.8)
Other non-current liabilities – – – (158.8) (k,l) – (158.8)
Provisions (18.8) 9.6 (b) 6.8 (g) – – (2.4)
Retirement benefit obligation 0.1 – (9.5) (f ) – – (9.4)
(1,942.8) 23.2 (5.1) (158.8) – (2,083.5)
Net assets/(liabilities) 1,127.6 (1,721.4) – (99.7) 12.8 (680.7)
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Share capital – – – – – –
Merger reserve 1,200.9 – – – – 1,200.9
Reverse acquisition reserve – (1,199.9) (b) – – – (1,199.9)
Retained earnings (73.3) (521.5) – (99.7) 12.8 (681.7)
Total equity 1,127.6 (1,721.4) – (99.7) 12.8 (680.7) NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
102
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued
Reconciliation of profit for the year ended 3 September 2005
UK GAAP Effects of Effects of IFRS
3September presentationmeasurement 3September
2005 IFRS 3 items items Other 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 399.8 1,208.9 (b) – – – 1,608.7
Cost of sales (329.1) (938.0) (b) 2.3 (f ) (25.3) (k,l,m) (5.9) (n) (1,296.0)
Analysed as:
Cost of sales before exceptional items(326.5)(938.0) 2.3 (25.3) (5.9) (1,293.4)
Exceptional cost of sales (2.6) – – – – (2.6)
Gross profit 70.7 270.9 2.3 (25.3) (5.9) 312.7
Distribution costs (12.2) (31.3) (b) – – – (43.5)
Administrative expenses (39.9) (4.0) (a,b) 0.5 (f ) (0.9) (m) (1.3) (n) (45.6)
Analysed as:
Administrative expenses 
before exceptional costs (38.7) (3.4) 0.5 (0.9) (1.3) (43.8)
Exceptional administrative expenses (1.2) (0.6) – – – (1.8)
Operating profit before deemed 
disposal of subsidiary 18.6 235.6 2.8 (26.2) (7.2) 223.6
Profit on deemed disposal of subsidiary – 117.7 (b) – – – 117.7
Operating profit 18.6 353.3 2.8 (26.2) (7.2) 341.3
Analysed as:
Operating profit before 
exceptional items 22.4 236.2 2.8 (26.2) (7.2) 228.0
Exceptional operating profit (3.8) 117.1 – – – 113.3
Other finance income 1.8 – (2.8) (f ) – 1.0 (n) –
Interest receivable and similar income – 5.8 (b) 1.6 (h) – – 7.4
Interest payable and similar charges (138.1) (121.4) (b) (1.6) (h) – – (261.1)
Analysed as:
Interest payable and similar 
charges before exceptional items (45.2) (121.4) (1.6) – – (168.2)
Exceptional interest payable 
and similar charges (92.9) – – – – (92.9)
(Loss)/profit before taxation (117.7) 237.7 – (26.2) (6.2) 87.6
Taxation 25.9 (12.2) (b,c) – 22.4 (j,k,l,m) – 36.1
Analysed as:
Taxation before exceptional items (3.1) (30.0) – 4.2 – (28.9)
Taxation credit on exceptional items 29.0 17.8 – 18.2 – 65.0
(Loss)/profit for the financial year
attributable to equity shareholders (91.8) 225.5 – (3.8) (6.2) 123.7 103
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued
Reconciliation of cash flows for the year ended 3 September 2005
UK GAAP Business 3 September
3 September combi- Presen- 2005
2005 nations tation Other 53 weeks 
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 94.6 287.3 (b) – – 381.9
Interest received 1.6 6.5 (b) – – 8.1
Interest paid (194.8) (103.8) (b) (38.4) (i) – (337.0)
Tax paid (0.1) (10.3) (b) – – (10.4)
Finance costs (38.4) – 38.4 (i) ––
Net cash generated from 
operating activities (137.1) 179.7 – – 42.6
Cash flows from investing activities
Net cash received on deemed 
disposal of subsidiary – 121.8 (b) – – 121.8
Net cash at bank acquired with subsidiary 168.5 (168.5) (b) – ––
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (32.0) (82.2) (b) – – (114.2)
Purchase of stores – (34.0) (b) – – (34.0)
Proceeds from sale of freehold properties – 22.0 (b) – – 22.0
Proceeds from sale of property, 
plant and equipment 3.6 22.5 (b) – – 26.1
Purchase of investments – (4.2) (b) – – (4.2)
Net cash (used)/generated from 
investing activities 140.1 (122.6) – – 17.5
Cash flows from financing activities
Drawdown of senior term loan 1,827.6 – – – 1,827.6
Mortgage facility repayment – (5.7) (b) – – (5.7)
Repayment of senior loan facilities (533.2) (87.8) (b) – – (621.0)
Appropriation – settlement of  “A” loan notes (516.7) (0.1) (b) – – (516.8)
Restricted cash held in DRET – – – 12.8 (o) 12.8
Repayment of deep discounted bonds (402.8) (111.5) (b) – – (514.3)
Repayment of high-yield bonds (326.7) – – – (326.7)
Net cash used in financing activities 48.2 (205.1) – 12.8 (144.1)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash 
and cash equivalents 51.2 (148.0) – 12.8 (84.0)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning 
of financial year – 148.0 (b) – – 148.0
Cash and cash equivalents at 
end of financial year 51.2 – – 12.8 64.0 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
104
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued
Reconciliation of profit for the financial year
Group
2005
Note £m
Loss for the financial year reported under UK GAAP (91.8)
Reverse acquisition accounting (b) 160.4
Goodwill amortisation (a) 63.2
Deferred tax adjustments (c,j) 20.1
Lease classification and incentives (net of tax) (k) (11.3)
Escalating leases (net of tax) (l) (6.8)
Adoption of FRS 17 (n) (6.2)
Share-based payments (net of tax) (m) (3.9)
Profit reported under IFRS 123.7
Explanation of reconciling items between UK GAAP and IFRS
IFRS 3 “Business Combinations”
a) Under UK GAAP , goodwill was amortised over its estimated expected useful life of 20 years. 
Under IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” , goodwill is considered to have an indefinite life and so is not
amortised, but is subject to annual impairment testing. The goodwill charge made under UK GAAP
has not been recorded under IFRS from 29 August 2004, the IFRS transition date. The IFRS restatement
results in a reduction in the amortisation charge, within administration expenses, of £63.2 million for
the year ended 3 September 2005, and a corresponding increase in goodwill as at 3 September 2005. 
b) Under UK GAAP , the 2005 Acquisition was accounted for as an acquisition by the Company of
Baroness Group Holdings Limited. Total goodwill of £2,536.0 million was recognised at the date of
the acquisition, calculated as the difference between the fair value of the consideration (comprising
the shares and loan notes issued by the Company) and the fair value of the identifiable net liabilities
of Baroness Group  Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries.  
Under IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” , the 2005 Acquisition has been accounted for as a reverse
acquisition, and for accounting purposes the legal subsidiary, Baroness Group Holdings Limited 
has been deemed to have acquired the legal parent, Debenhams plc. The net assets of Baroness
Group Holdings Limited have been recognised at their pre-combination carrying amounts, the cost
of the acquisition was nil and there was no goodwill arising. 
The consideration for the acquisition was satisfied by the issue of shares (£1,200.9 million) and 
£589.2 million loan notes. At 3 September 2005, the £22.3 million “C” loan notes outstanding have
been transferred to equity and the £50.1 million “B” loan notes have been reclassified as a current
liability as at 3 September 2005.
Fair value adjustments created at the time of the acquisition have been released resulting in an
increase to deferred tax liabilities of £2.3 million, a reduction in non-current provisions of £9.6 million,
and a reduction in other receivables of £1.9 million as at 3 September 2005. These releases also
resulted in a reduction in cost of sales for the year ended 3 September 2005 of £0.5 million, an
increase in interest payable and similar charges of £0.8 million, and a reduction in the tax charge of
£0.3 million.
As a result of applying reverse acquisition accounting, the consolidated IFRS financial information of
Debenhams plc is a continuation of the financial information of Baroness Group Holdings Limited and
its subsidiaries. The retained earnings shown as at 3 September 2005 are those for Baroness Group
Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries and a reverse acquisition reserve of £1,199.9 million has been
created.  Adjustments in the statement of income and expenditure representing the trading prior to
the reverse acquisition resulted in an increase in: turnover of £1,208.9 million, cost of sales of £938.5
million, distribution expenses of £31.3 million, administrative expenses of £67.2 million, profit on
deemed disposal of a subsidiary of £117.7 million, interest receivable and similar income of £5.8
million, interest payable and similar charges of £120.6 million and an increase in the tax charge of
£14.4 million for the year ended 3 September 2005.   105
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued
Overall, as at 3 September 2005 under IFRS, retained earnings are £528.2 million lower than under UK GAAP
and goodwill is reduced by £1,755.8 million.
As at 29 August 2004, the reverse acquisition resulted in the following changes to the balance sheet:
intangible assets increased by £800.0 million, property, plant and equipment increased by £1,038.9 million,
deferred tax asset increased by £3.9 million, inventories increased by £167.4 million, trade and other
receivables increased by £62.4 million, cash and cash equivalents increased by £159.3 million, current
financial liabilities increased by £43.1 million, trade and other payables increased by £359.9 million, 
non-current financial liabilities increased by £1,829.2 million, deferred tax liabilities increased by 
£41.0 million and provisions increased by £13.0 million.  The reverse acquisition also resulted in the
creation of a share premium account of £1.0 million and a reduction in retained earnings of £113.7 million.
The impact on the cash flow resulting from the inclusion of the nine months prior to the reverse
acquisition has no overall effect on the cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year,
however, it has resulted in an increase in the opening position of £148.0 million and an equivalent
decrease in the movement in cash and cash equivalents during the year.
c) Under IFRS 3 on business combinations, a deferred tax provision is recognised on the difference
between the fair value of an acquired asset and its equivalent tax value.  Under UK GAAP , deferred
tax is calculated on timing differences and therefore no additional deferred tax effect is required on
business combinations where permanent differences exist between the tax value of an acquired
asset and its carrying value. Similarly, IFRS also requires that a deferred tax asset is created for the fair
value of developer incentives acquired on a business combination which will not be taxed when
released to the income statement. The effect of this difference is an increase in deferred tax liabilities
of £56.5 million as at 3 September 2005 (2004: £58.4 million) and a reduction in the tax charge for
the year ended 3 September 2005 of £1.9 million.
Effects of presentation items
d) In accordance with IFRS, capitalised software costs have been reclassified from property, plant and
equipment to intangible assets. The impact of the reclassification on transition and at 3 September
2005 was £6.9 million and £18.0 million respectively. The software depreciation charge of £3.7
million under UK GAAP for the financial year ended 3 September 2005 has been reclassified as
amortisation with no net effect on the Group’s income statement.
e) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown separately under IFRS.  The effect of this is to increase
deferred tax assets by £2.4 million as at 3 September 2005 with a corresponding increase in deferred
tax liabilities at those dates.
f ) Accounting for pensions in accordance with IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” is different from FRS 17
“Retirement Benefits” . The main differences are:
• Under FRS 17, pension balances are presented net of deferred tax on the face of the balance
sheet. Under IFRS these balances are shown separately as a liability for the pension scheme 
and as an asset for deferred tax. As a result, the Group’s retirement benefit obligation at 
3 September 2005 increased by £9.5 million and the non-current deferred tax asset increased 
by the same amount.
• Pension assets are valued at bid value under IFRS, whereas a mid market valuation is used under
FRS 17.  The impact of this change is not material.
• Returns on assets and interest on pension liabilities are recorded within finance income in
interest under UK GAAP , but within the Group’s operating profit under IFRS. In the year ended 
3 September 2005, the effect of this is to reduce cost of sales by £2.3 million, reduce administrative
expenses by £0.5 million and reduce finance income by £2.8 million.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
106
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued
g) In accordance with IFRS, provisions have been split between current and non-current on the face of
the balance sheet. As at 3 September 2005 £6.8 million (2004: £4.8 million) has been reclassified as 
a current provision.
h) In accordance with IFRS, interest receivable has been shown separately on the face of the income
statement. Interest receivable of £1.6 million as at 3 September 2005 has been reclassified from
interest paid and similar charges. 
i) In accordance with IFRS, costs associated with refinancing of £38.4 million have been reclassified from
finance costs to interest paid within the cash flow statement.
Effects of measurement items
j) IFRS requires that deferred tax is recognised where assets are held at values that differ from their tax
base cost. The basis of this calculation varies depending on whether value is expected to be achieved
from the asset through sale or through retention in the business. On the date of transition, a deferred
tax liability of £18.2 million was created under IFRS to reflect the capital gains tax that would become
payable in respect of a portfolio of properties that the Group expected to sell. This liability was
subsequently released to the income statement in the year ended 3 September 2005 when the
properties left the accounting corporate group without tax becoming payable.
k) As part of the operating lease agreements for buildings, the Group receives a number of lease
incentives in the form of rent-free periods and developer contributions. Under IFRS, lease incentives
are spread over the lease term. Under UK GAAP , they were spread over the shorter of the lease term
or the period to the first rent review, and the resulting liabilities of £4.6 million, relating to rent-free
periods, and £39.6 million, relating to developers’ contributions, were shown within current trade and
other payables. On transition to IFRS at 29 August 2004, current trade and other payables were reduced
by £3.5 million and £33.5 million for rent-free periods and developers’ contributions respectively
and liabilities of £18.3 million and £124.6 million respectively were created in other non-current
liabilities. This resulted in a decrease in current trade and other payables of £31.8 million as at 
3 September 2005 (2004: £37.0 million), an increase in other non-current liabilities of £148.5 million as
at 3 September 2005 (2004: £142.9 million) and an increase in cost of sales of £10.9 million in the year
ended 3 September 2005.  The tax effect of these adjustments was an increase in deferred tax assets 
of £38.0 million as at 3 September 2005 (2004: £38.3 million) and an increase in the tax charge for the
year ended 3 September 2005 of £0.4 million. 
l) A number of operating lease agreements contain fixed incremental rental charges. In accordance
with IAS 17 the total committed cost has been calculated and is charged on a straight-line basis.
Under UK GAAP the fixed increments have been charged to the income statement on a basis
consistent with the amounts incurred each year. The impact of adopting IAS 17 for the leases 
has been to increase other non-current liabilities by £10.3 million as at 3 September 2005 (2004: 
£0.6 million), to increase non-current deferred tax asset by £3.1 million as at 3 September 2005 
(2004: £0.2 million) and to increase cost of sales and reduce the tax charge by £9.7 million and 
£2.9 million respectively in the year ended 3 September 2005.
m) On a UK GAAP basis, applying UITF 17 “Employee Share Schemes’” share-based awards are accounted
for on an intrinsic basis. Under IFRS 2 “Share-based Payments” a charge is required in the income
statement to recognise the fair value of shares and options awarded to employees over the period 
to which the employees’ services relate. In the year ended 3 September 2005, the effect of this
adjustment was to increase cost of sales by £4.7 million, increase administration expenses by £0.9 million
and reduce the Group’s tax charge by £1.7 million. The effect of this adjustment on the Group’s balance
sheet was to increase deferred tax assets by £5.9 million as at 3 September 2005 (2004: £0.8 million),
and to increase trade and other payables by £19.7 million as at 3 September 2005 (2004: £2.8 million). 107
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
34 Reconciliation of net assets and profit under UK GAAP to IFRS continued
Other items
n) Costs relating to the Group’s pension schemes were accounted for under SSAP 24 prior to the
reverse acquisition. The UK GAAP financial statements for the period ended 3 September 2005
applied FRS 17. Applying FRS 17 to the period prior to the reverse acquisition resulted in an increase
in cost of sales of £5.9 million, an increase in administration expenses of £1.3 million, and an increase
in other finance income of £1.0 million for the year ended 3 September 2005. The impact on the
balance sheet for the year ended 28 August 2004 was to increase the defined benefit obligation 
by £47.4 million, to increase deffered tax assets by £14.2 million and to reduce trade and other
receivables by £14.4 million. The balance sheet at 3 September 2005 is unaffected.
o) In the UK GAAP accounts for the year ended 3 September 2005 the DRET was not consolidated. 
An adjustment relating to the consolidation of the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust resulted in an increase
in cash and cash equivalents of £12.8 million for the year ended 3 September 2005 and a corresponding
increase in retained earnings.
35 Principal subsidiary undertakings
The principal subsidiary undertakings of Debenhams plc at 2 September 2006 were as follows: 
Country of Country of
Company operation registration Activity
Baroness Group Holdings Limited * Jersey Jersey Holding company
Debenhams Retail plc UK England Department store retailing
Debenhams Group Holdings Limited * 
(formerly Debenhams Limited) UK England Holding company
Debenhams Finance Holdings Limited * UK England Holding company
Baroness Retail Limited UK England Holding company
Debenhams Retail (Ireland) Limited Ireland Ireland Department store retailing
Debenhams Properties Limited UK England Property investment
BF Properties (No.1) Limited UK England Property investment
BF Properties (No.2) Limited UK England Property investment
BF Properties (No.3) Limited UK England Property investment
Debenhams Direct Limited UK England Internet retailing
Other entities:
Baroness Employee Limited Partnership Jersey Jersey ESOP
Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 Jersey Jersey ESOP
* Denotes investments held by the Company. All other investments are held by subsidiary undertakings.
All companies are wholly owned. 
All subsidiary companies are consolidated.
36 Events after the balance sheet date
On 12 September 2006 the Company acquired the business and assets of nine stores based in the
Republic of Ireland from Roches Stores, an unlimited company incorporated and registered in Ireland.
The consideration for this acquisition was 129.0 million plus the value of the stock, with 115.0 million
payable on completion, 15.0 million payable on the first anniversary and 19.0 million on the second
anniversary of completion. The assets acquired include fixtures and equipment at each of the stores,
goodwill, licences and trademarks.  FIVE-YEAR RECORD
108
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Income statement 
IFRS UKGAAP
Pro forma
(1)
Pro forma
(2)
2006 2005 2005 2004 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Gross transaction value 2,192.8 2,086.8 2,086.8 1,902.9 1,810.2 1,695.8
Revenue 1,707.7 1,608.7 1,608.7 1,491.8 1,810.2 1,695.8
Cost of sales (1,376.3) (1,293.4) (1,270.9) (1,207.9) (1,550.7) (1,455.4)
Gross profit 331.4 315.3 337.8 283.9 259.5 240.4
Distribution costs (53.0) (43.5) (43.5) (37.5) (37.1) (33.1)
Administrative expenses (40.2) (43.8) (106.6) (75.3) (46.6) (43.5)
Operating profit before 
exceptional items 238.2 228.0 187.7 171.1 175.8 163.8
Exceptional items (14.6) (4.4) (4.7) (44.4) (17.4) (3.8)
Profit on deemed 
disposal of subsidiary – 117.7 117.7 – – –
Operating profit 223.6 341.3 300.7 126.7 158.4 160.0
Net interest (125.4) (160.8) (157.1) (123.5) (7.4) (6.4)
Exceptional interest 
payable and similar charges (36.1) (92.9) (92.9) (33.6) – –
Profit/(loss) before taxation 62.1 87.6 50.7 (30.4) 151.0 153.6
Taxation (18.4) 36.1 11.7 7.4 (42.6) (44.6)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 
attributable to equity shareholders 43.7 123.7 62.4 (23.0) 108.4 109.0
Gross transaction value
Gross transaction value is equivalent to turnover prior to the adoption of Financial Reporting Standard 5
Application Note G “Revenue Recognition” (“FRS 5 ANG”), which requires turnover to be presented net of
staff discounts and loyalty point sales. It also requires turnover for concessions to be shown on a net basis.
Proforma (1) 
The results for 2005 have been restated to give effect for the combination of:
• The consolidated financial information of Baroness Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries from
29 August 2004 to 23 May 2005; and
• The consolidated financial information of Debenhams Retail Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries
from 24 May 2005 to 3 September 2005.
Proforma (2) 
The results for 2004 have been restated to give effect for the combination of:
• The consolidated financial information of Debenhams Group holdings Limited (formerly Debenhams
plc) and its subsidiaries from 31 August 2003 to 3 December 2003; and
• The consolidated financial information of Baroness Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries from
4 December 2003 to 28 August 2004. 109
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Balance sheets
IFRS UKGAAP
2006 2005 2005 2004 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 836.1 829.9 2,504.2 799.7 2.2 0.2
Tangible assets 639.5 650.0 668.2 1,039.1 976.8 920.2
Financial assets 16.0 7.2 7.2 – 32.8 18.8
Retirement benefit obligations 13.8 – 9.5 – – –
Deferred tax assets 51.1 58.9 – – – –
Total fixed assets 1,556.5 1,546.0 3,189.1 1,838.8 1,011.8 939.2
Net current (liabilities)/assets (156.6) (143.2) (83.6) 17.8 (113.8) (92.8)
Non-current liabilities (1,346.6) (2,083.5) (1,965.1) (1,911.3) (125.9) (121.1)
Net assets/(liabilities) 53.3 (680.7) 1,140.4 (54.7) 772.1 725.3
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Share capital 0.1 – – 1.0 36.6 36.9
Share premium account 682.9 – – – 19.7 3.3
Other reserves 3.5 1.0 1,200.9 – 45.0 44.2
Retained earnings (633.2) (681.7) (60.5) (55.7) 670.8 640.9
Total equity 53.3 (680.7) 1,140.4 (54.7) 772.1 725.3 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO 
THE MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC 
FORMERLY DEBENHAMS RETAIL HOLDINGS LIMITED
110
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Debenhams plc (formerly Debenhams
Retail Holdings Limited) for the year ended 2 September 2006 which comprise the balance sheet,
statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes. These parent company
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have
also audited the information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having
been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Debenhams plc (formerly
Debenhams Retail Holdings Limited) for the year ended 2 September 2006.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors’ remuneration report and 
the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the
statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been
prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the
Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true 
and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 1985. We report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors’ report 
is consistent with the parent company financial statements. We also report to you if, in our opinion, 
the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with 
the audited parent company financial statements. The other information comprises only the directors’
report and the unaudited part of the remuneration report. We consider the implications for our report 
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent
company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information. 111
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued
by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to
the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, 
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we
considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that
the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be
audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. 
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
parent company financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 
2 September 2006;
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report 
to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the parent company financial
statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Leeds
24 October 2006 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AT 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
112
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments 3 4,068.7 2,310.0
Financial assets – derivative financial instuments 7.8 –
4,076.5 2,310.0
Current assets
Debtors 4 137.8 1,266.1
Cash at bank and in hand 0.2 6.0
138.0 1,272.1
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (1,322.2) (549.7)
Net current (liabilities)/assets (1,184.2) 722.4
Total assets less current liabilities 2,892.3 3,032.4
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 6 (1,039.3) (1,851.5)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 8 (2.1) –
Net assets 1,850.9 1,180.9
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 9 0.1 –
Share premium account 10 682.9 –
Merger reserve 10 1,200.9 1,200.9
Hedging reserve 10 4.4 –
Profit and loss account 10 (37.4) (20.0)
Shareholders’ funds – equity interests 11 1,850.9 1,180.9
The financial statements on pages 112 to 119 were approved by the board of directors on 23 October
2006 and were signed on its behalf by:
C Woodhouse
Director COMPANY STATEMENT OF 
RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
113
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
For the financial year ended:
2 September 3 September 
2006 2005
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Loss for the financial year 20.8 (20.0)
Cash flow hedges
– net fair value gains (net of tax) 17.3 –
– reclassified and reported in net profit 0.8 –
Net gains recognised directly in equity 18.1 –
Total gains and losses recognised during the year (2.7) (20.0)
Adoption of FRS 26 (net of tax) (13.1) – NOTES TO THE COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
114
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
1 Accounting policies
Accounting convention
The balance sheet and associated notes are drawn up on the going concern basis under the historical
cost convention in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting
standards. The principal accounting policies are set out below.
Investments
Investments are held at cost less any provision for diminution in value.
Borrowings
All borrowings are stated at the fair value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs. 
Issue costs together with finance costs, are charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the
borrowings. Finance costs represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Taxation
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at
the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the
future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing differences
are differences between the taxable profits and the results as stated in the financial statements that arise
from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they
are recognised in the financial statements. 
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis. A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and
therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely
than not that there will be taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing
differences can be deducted.
Changes in accounting policies
The Company has adjusted its accounting policies to adopt the following new standards:
FRS 20 “Share-based Payments”
FRS 21 “Events after the Balance Sheet Date”
FRS 25 “Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation”
FRS 26 “Financial Instruments: Measurement”
Other accounting standards which have recently been issued have had no impact on the Company’s
accounting policies.
FRS 20 requires that the fair value of options awarded to employees is charged to the profit and loss
account over the vesting period. The Company does not incur a charge under this standard. However,
where the Company has granted options over the Company shares to employees of its subsidiaries, 
a capital contribution has been deemed to be made by the Company. This is then recharged to the
subsidiary and is based on the fair value of the options issued spread over the options vesting period.
Adopting FRS 20 has had no impact on the Company’s net assets at 3 September 2005.
FRS 21 requires that dividends declared after the balance sheet date should not be recognised as a
liability at the balance sheet date as the liability does not represent a present liability. In accordance
with FRS 21, interim dividends are recognised when paid and final dividends are recognised when
approved by the shareholders. As a result of adopting FRS 21, the Company’s net assets at 2 September
2006 increased by £20.6 million, there has been no impact on the net assets as at 3 September 2005.
The Company has adopted the presentation requirements of FRS 25. This deals with the classification 
of capital instruments issued between equity and debt and the implication of that classification for
accrued dividends and interest expenses. The effect of the change in accounting policy to adopt the
presentation requirements of FRS 25 was to reclassify £0.4 million of accrued interest on borrowings
from accruals to bank loans and overdrafts. 115
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
1 Accounting policies continued
The adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26 with effect from 4 September 2005 results in a change in the
Company’s accounting policy for financial instruments. The impact of these standards on the Company’s
balance sheet is shown below.
The principal impact of FRS 26 on the Company’s financial statements relates to the recognition of
derivative financial instruments at fair value. Any derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
are held on the balance sheet at fair value with the changes in value reflected through the income
statement. The accounting treatment of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting depends on 
how they are designated.
Under FRS 26, derivative financial instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised on the
balance sheet at fair value with corresponding fair value changes deferred in equity. The Company
hedges interest rate risk through using interest rate swaps.
The adjustments to the balance sheet as at 4 September 2005 are as follows:
Opening 
balance Effects of 
sheet at adopting Position at
4 September FRS 25 and 4 September
2005 FRS 26 2005
£m £m £m
Fixed assets
Financial assets – derivative financial instruments – 0.8 0.8
Deferred tax assets – 5.7 5.7
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year:
Accruals and deferred income (10.8) 0.4 (10.4)
Bank loans and overdraft (10.9) (0.4) (11.3)
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Financial liabilities – derivative financial instrument – (19.6) (19.6)
Impact on net assets (13.1)
Hedging reserve (13.7)
Retained earnings 0.6
Impact on equity shareholders’ funds (13.1)
In accordance with the standard, the Company has elected not to apply FRS 26 to the financial year
ended 3 September 2005. Accordingly, the Company has continued to apply UK GAAP in the
accounting for and disclosure of financial instruments in that period.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 25 not to present information on financial
risk management and hedging where that information is presented in the same Group financial statements.
Accordingly, information on risk management and hedging may be found in notes 3 and 23 of the
Group accounts.
Policies relating to UK GAAP comparatives
Information in respect of derivatives for the year ended 3 September 2005 are presented on a UK GAAP
basis as previously reported, which is as follows:
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for using hedge accounting to the extent that they are
held to hedge a financial asset or liability or future expenditure.  When a derivative financial instrument
ceases to be a hedge, either as a result of the underlying asset or liability being extinguished, or because
a future event is no longer likely to occur, the derivative is accounted for in the income statement. The
Company policy is not to use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. NOTES TO THE COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
116
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
2 Profit and loss account
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 230 of the Companies 
Act 1985 and have not presented a profit and loss account for the Company alone. A loss of £20.8 million
is attributable to shareholders for the financial year ended 2 September 2006 (2005: loss of £20.0 million).
There is no difference between the results disclosed in respect of the Company and its results on an
unmodified historical cost basis.
The contracts of employment for all the directors are held by Debenhams plc. The total cost of
employing the directors is disclosed in the remuneration report. The Company has no other employees. 
3 Investments 
Investments 
in subsidiary 
undertakings
£m
Cost
At 4 September 2005 2,310.0
Additions 1,758.7
At 2 September 2006 4,068.7
Net book value
At 2 September 2006 4,068.7
At 3 September 2005 2,310.0
Investment in subsidiary undertakings
On 5 April 2006 the issued shares of Debenhams Group Holdings Limited (formerly Debenhams
Limited) and BF III Limited were transferred to the Company from another Group company. The
consideration paid on transfer was £1,757.8 million and £0.9 million respectively. The consideration
amounted to the nominal value of the shares acquired and was met through inter-company loans. 
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 2 September 2006 are shown in note 35 
of the Debenhams plc Group financial statements. 
4 Debtors
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Amount owed by group undertakings 110.7 1,257.6
Corporation tax 26.3 8.5
Prepayments and other debtors 0.8 –
137.8 1,266.1
All amounts included in debtors are recoverable within one year.
5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank loans and overdraft (note 7) 28.5 10.9
Other loans – “C” loan notes (note 7) 0.2 –
Amounts owed to group undertakings 1,280.7 528.0
Accruals and deferred income 12.8 10.8
1,322.2 549.7
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date of redemption and either
carry an interest rate of 7.2 per cent or are interest free (2005: 7.9 per cent). 117
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
6 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Term loan facility 1,037.7 –
Senior-term loan – tranche A – 389.8
Senior-term loan – tranche B – 548.3
Senior-term loan – tranche C – 548.1
Senior-term loan – tranche D – 292.9
Other loans – “B” loan notes – 50.1
Other loans – “C” loan notes – 22.3
Derivative financial instruments 1.6 –
1,039.3 1,851.5
7 Borrowings
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
£m £m
Term loan facility 1,050.4 –
Revolving credit facility 32.0 –
Senior-term loan – tranche A – 407.6
Senior-term loan – tranche B – 560.0
Senior-term loan – tranche C – 560.0
Senior-term loan – tranche D – 300.0
Other loans – “B” loan notes – 50.1
Other loans – “C” loan notes 0.2 22.3
Total borrowings 1,082.6 1,900.0
Less: issue costs (16.2) (37.6)
1,066.4 1,862.4
2 September 3 September
2006 2005
Maturity of debt £m £m
Amounts falling due:
In one year or less or on demand 28.7 10.9
In more than one year but not more than two years 96.2 21.2
In more than two years but not more than five years 941.5 177.6
In more than five years – 1,652.7
1,066.4 1,862.4
During the year the Company repaid £700 million of the £2.05 billion senior credit facilities, £683 million 
on 9 May 2006 and a further £17 million on 11 May 2006, funded by the proceeds from the issue 
of new shares and cash. 
On 30 May 2006 the Company refinanced its existing £2.05 billion senior credit facilities with the
proceeds of a new term loan of £1.05 billion and a revolving credit facility (“RCF”) of £0.3 billion. 
On 3 July 2006 the RCF was reduced to £0.25 billion. The term loan facility is repayable in instalments
with the loan being repaid in full by 2011. Interest rates are based on LIBOR and denominated in
sterling. The RCF is multi-currency with interest rates based on the relevant inter-bank market rate. 
Issue costs of £17.2 million which mainly relate to facility costs, were incurred primarily on utilisation 
of the credit facilities and are being amortised over the term of the facility. The amortisation charge
relating to the issue costs of the credit facilities for the year ended 2 September 2006 was £1.0 million.  118
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
NOTES TO THE COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 2 SEPTEMBER 2006
7 Borrowings continued
During the year £0.9 million of the “B” loan notes were repaid on the 13 January 2006 and the remaining
£49.2 million repaid in full on 21 March 2006. Fixed interest on the “B” loan notes was charged at 4.8 per
cent per annum and the principal was guaranteed under the senior credit facilities.
As at 2 September 2006, £0.2 million (2005: £22.3 million) of “C” loan notes issued by the Company 
were held by the Baroness Employee Limited Partnership. Fixed interest on the notes was charged 
at 4.8 per cent and a collateral deposit guarantees the principal.
8 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Deferred 
taxation 
provision
£m
At 3 September 2005 –
Deferred tax asset arising on adoption of FRS 26 5.7
Charged to the statement of recognised gains and losses (7.8)
At 2 September 2006 (2.1)
9 Share capital
2 September 2006 3 September 2005
£ Number £ Number
Authorised
Ordinary shares of £0.0001 (2005: £0.001) each 128,846 1,288,461,539 10,000 10,000,000
Governance shares of £0.01 each – – 1,000 100,000
Subscriber shares of £1.00 each –– 33
128,846 1,288,461,539 11,003 10,100,003
2 September 2006 3 September 2005
£ Number £ Number
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of £0.0001 (2005: £0.001) each 85,897 858,977,359 10,000 10,000,000
Governance shares of £0.01 each – – 1,000 100,000
Subscriber shares of £1.00 each –– 33
85,897 858,977,359 11,003 10,100,003
The Company was incorporated on 10 May 2005, at which time the subscriber shares were issued. 
On 26 May 2005 as part of the acquisition of the Baroness Group, 10,000,000 ordinary shares and
100,000 governance shares were issued.
On 5 April 2006, the directors approved a bonus issue of four ordinary shares for one ordinary share
held. The new ordinary shares had a nominal value of £0.001. The increase in share capital was effected
by a bonus issue of £40,000, using retained earnings to fully pay up the newly issued shares. On 3 May
2006, the authorised share capital of the Company was increased by £77,843.15 and each of the issued
and unissued ordinary shares of £0.001 was subdivided into ten ordinary shares of £0.0001 each. 
On 9 May 2006 following the Company’s Admission to the London Stock Exchange 358,974,359 shares
were issued for £1.95 per share. The consideration on issuing these shares was £700 million, with 
costs of £17.1 million, which relate directly to the issue of new shares being set off against the share
premium account. 
On Admission the governance shares and the subscriber shares were transferred by the holders to the
Company for nil consideration and cancelled.
The cost, market value and number of ordinary shares in the Company held by the Debenhams 
Retail Employee Trust and the Baroness Employee Limited Partnership are disclosed in note 28 
of the Group accounts. 119
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
10 Reserves
Share premium Hedging Merger Profit and
account reserve reserve loss account
£m £m £m £m
At 4 September 2005 – – 1,200.9 (20.0)
Adoption of FRS 26 – (13.7) – 0.6
Premium on issue of ordinary shares 700.0 – – –
Issue costs (17.1) – – –
Loss for the financial year – – – (20.8)
Cash flow hedges:
– net fair value gains (net of tax) – 17.3 – –
– reclassified and reported in net profit – 0.8 – –
Employee share ownership plans (net of tax) – – – 2.8
At 2 September 2006 682.9 4.4 1,200.9 (37.4)
The bonus issue of shares on 5 April 2006 resulted in the capitalisation of £40,000 of retained earnings.
On 9 May 2006, following the Company’s Admission to the London Stock Exchange, the Company issued
358,974,359 ordinary shares for £1.95 per ordinary share. 
11 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
2 September 3 September 
2006 2005
£m £m
Loss for the financial year (20.8) (20.0)
Retained loss (20.8) (20.0)
Adoption of FRS 26 (13.1) –
Issue of ordinary share capital (net of issue costs) 683.0 1,200.9
Cash flow hedges:
– net fair value gains (net of tax) 17.3 –
– reclassified and reported in net profit 0.8 –
Employee share ownership plans (net of tax) 2.8 –
Net increase to shareholders’ funds 670.0 1,180.9
Opening shareholders’ funds 1,180.9 –
Closing shareholders’ funds 1,850.9 1,180.9 120
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
* Opened after 2 September 2006
STORE LIST
Aberdeen
Ayr
Banbury
Bangor 
Barrow
Basildon
Basingstoke
Bedford
Belfast
Birmingham
Blackburn
Bolton
Bournemouth
Brighton
Bristol
Bromley
Cambridge
Canterbury
Cardiff
Carlisle
Chatham
Chelmsford
Cheltenham
Chester
Clapham
Colchester
Cork – Mahon Point
Cork – Patrick Street*
Coventry
Crawley
Croydon
Derby
Doncaster
Dublin – Blackrock*
Dublin – Blanchardstown*
Dublin – Henry Street*
Dublin – Jervis Centre
Dublin – Tallaght*
Dundee
East Kilbride
Eastbourne
Edinburgh
Eltham
Exeter
Farnborough
Folkestone
Foyleside
Galway*
Gateshead – Metro Centre
Glasgow
Gloucester
Gravesend
Guildford
Hanley
Harrogate
Harrow
Hastings
Hemel Hempstead
Hounslow
Hull
Ilford
Inverness
Ipswich
King's Lynn
Lakeside
Leeds City Centre 
Leeds White Rose
Leicester
Leith
Limerick*
Lincoln
London – Oxford Street
Llandudno*
Luton
Manchester
Manchester – Trafford Park
Mansfield 
Merryhill
Middlesbrough
Milton Keynes
Newbridge
Newbury
Newry
Northampton
Norwich
Nottingham
Nuneaton
Oldham
Oxford
Perth
Plymouth
Portsmouth
Preston
Reading
Redditch
Romford
Rushmere
Salisbury
Scarborough
Sheffield
Sheffield – Meadowhall
Slough
Southampton
Southend
Southport
Southsea
Staines
Stirling
Stockport
Stockton
Stratford
Sunderland
Sutton
Swansea
Swindon
Taunton
Telford
Torquay
Tralee*
Uxbridge
Walsall
Waterford*
Westwood Cross
Weymouth
Wigan
Wimbledon
Winchester
Woking
Worcester
Workington
Worthing 
York 
Desire
Birmingham Fort – Desire*
Falkirk – Desire 
South Shields – Desire
Truro – Desire
Orpington – Desire
International 
Bahrain
Cyprus Avenue
Cyprus Apollon
Cyprus Central
Cyprus Korivos
Cyprus Kinyras
Cyprus Ledra
Cyprus Olympia
Cyprus Zenon
Denmark
Dhahran
Dubai
Emirates
Granada
Ibn Battuta
Indonesia
Istanbul
Jakarta
Jeddah
Kuwait
Kuwait Airport
Philippines – Shangri La
Philippines – Glorietta 
Prague
Qatar
Reykjavik
Riyadh
Sahara
Sharjah
Stockholm  121
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
NEW STORE OPENINGS
WE CURRENTLY HAVE A PIPELINE OF 24 NEW STORES
AND FOUR RE-SITES PLANNED BY AUTUMN 2010
Spring   2010 Autumn 2010
Crewe
55,000 sq ft
Wolver-
hampton
70,000 sq ft
Lancaster
70,000 sq ft
Spring   2009 Autumn 2009
Bury
Manchester
70,000 sq ft
Wakeﬁeld
65,000 sq ft
Newport
75,000 sq ft
Newcastle
125,000 sq ft
Autumn 2006
Kirkcaldy
14,000 sq ft
Merthyr Tydﬁl
14,000 sq ft
Spring   2007 Autumn 2007
Warrington
75,000 sq ft
Wigan*
70,000 sq ft
Altrincham
15,000 sq ft
Derby*
90,000 sq ft
Exeter*
90,000 sq ft
Glasgow
Pollock
80,000 sq ft Carmarthen
60,000 sq ft
Walton on 
Thames
12,500 sq ft
Spring   2008 Autumn 2008
Bangor*
(Wales)
40,000 sq ft
Ashford
60,000 sq ft
Blackpool
65,000 sq ft
Liverpool
125,000 sq ft
Wrexham
60,000 sq ft
WhiteCity
85,000 sq ft
Dunfermline
55,000 sq ft
Bradford
80,000 sq ft
Bury
StEdmunds
60,000 sq ft
Harlow
75,000 sq ft
Livingstone
60,000 sq ft
* Re-sites 122
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THE ANNUAL
GENERAL MEETING (“AGM”) OF DEBENHAMS PLC
WILL BE HELD AT 1 WELBECK STREET, LONDON W1G
0AA ON TUESDAY 12 DECEMBER 2006 
AT 11.00 AM.
Items 1 to 18 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions. Items 19 and 20 will be proposed as special
resolutions. 
Ordinary business
1 Directors’ report and accounts
To receive the accounts for the financial year which ended on 2 September 2006 together with the
directors’ report and the auditors’ report on those accounts.
2 Directors’ remuneration report
To approve the remuneration report for the financial year which ended on 2 September 2006.
3 Dividend
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 2 September 2006 of 2.4 pence per share.
To reappoint the following directors who retire in accordance with the Company’s Articles 
of Association
4 Philippe Costeletos
5 Adam Crozier
6 Jonathan Feuer
7 Richard Gillingwater
8 Peter Long
9 John Lovering
10 Dennis Millard
11 Guido Padovano
12 Paul Pindar
13 Michael Sharp
14 Rob Templeman
15 Chris Woodhouse
16 Appointment of auditors
To reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the auditors of the Company to hold office until the
conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
17 Remuneration of the auditors
To authorise the Audit Committee (on behalf of the board) to determine the remuneration of the
auditors.  123
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Special business
18 Authority to allot securities
That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes 
of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 (“the Act”) to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot
relevant securities (within the meaning of that section) up to an aggregate nominal value of £28,632
provided that this authority shall expire 15 months from the date of this resolution or at the Company’s
next AGM if earlier and that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which
would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot
relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the authority
conferred by this resolution has expired.
19 Disapplication of pre-emption rights
That subject to the passing of the previous resolution the directors be and they are hereby empowered
pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities for cash as if Section 89 (1) of the Act did not
apply to such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities:
a) in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights to holders of ordinary shares in
proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their respective holdings of such shares, but subject
to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in
relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory,
or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange; and 
b) otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a) above up to an aggregate nominal amount of £4,294 
and shall expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the
passing of this resolution or 15 months from the date of this resolution, whichever is earlier, save that
the Company may, before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity
securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of
any such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the power conferred by this resolution has expired.
20 Authority for Debenhams plc to buy its own shares
That the Company be and is hereby authorised to make market purchases (within the meaning of
Section 163(3) of the Act) of shares, subject to the following conditions:
a) the maximum number of shares authorised to be purchased may not be more than 85,897,435;
b) the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 0.01 pence being the nominal value of each share;
c) the maximum price which may be paid for each share shall be the higher of: (i) an amount equal to
105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations of a share as derived from the London
Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which
the share is contracted to be purchased; and (ii) an amount equal to the higher of the price of the
last independent trade of a share and the highest current independent bid for a share as derived
from the London Stock Exchange Trading System (“SETS”);
d) unless previously renewed, varied or revoked the authority shall expire at the close of the next AGM
of the Company or 18 months from the date of this resolution (whichever is earlier); and
e) a contract to purchase shares under this authority may be made prior to the expiry of this authority,
and concluded in whole or in part after the expiry of this authority.
By order of the board
Guy Johnson 
Company Secretary
10 November 2006
Debenhams plc
Registered Office
1 Welbeck Street, London W1G 0AA
Registered in England and Wales. Company No. 5448421 124
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Your attention is drawn to the notes below:
The directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests 
of Debenhams plc and its shareholders. They recommend that you vote in favour of the proposed
resolutions. The directors will be voting their own shareholdings in favour of the proposed resolutions.
To have the right to come and vote at the AGM, you must hold shares in Debenhams plc (this means
your name must be entered on the share register) by 11.00am on 10 December 2006.
If you cannot come to the AGM, you can appoint someone as your proxy to come to the meeting and
vote for you. Alternatively you can appoint the Chairman as your proxy. If there is a poll, your proxy can
vote for you and can also join in the demand for a poll. A proxy does not have to be shareholder. If you
want to appoint a proxy, fill in the form of proxy which is enclosed and return it to the Company’s
registrars in the prepaid envelope provided.
The Company’s registrars must receive your proxy instructions by 11.00am on 10 December 2006. 
If you fill in and send back a form of proxy you can still come to the AGM and vote instead of your proxy.
If you do this and there is a poll vote, the votes you have given previously to your proxy will 
not be counted.
The directors’ service contracts, letters of appointment and their interests in shares in Debenhams plc
will be available for inspection at and for 15 minutes prior to the AGM. You can also ask to see these
documents during normal business hours by contacting the Company Secretary.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST 
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy
appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 12 December 2006 and
any adjournment(s) thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST manual. CREST personal
members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a
voting service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will 
be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate
CREST message (a “CREST proxy instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with
CRESTCo’s specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in
the CREST manual. The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an
amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be
transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID 7RA01) by the latest time(s) for receipt of proxy
appointments specified in the notice of meeting. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to
be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications host)
from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner
prescribed by CREST.  After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST
should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note
that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal
system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions. 
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST
personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider(s), to procure that
his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that 
a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this connection,
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, 
in particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system
and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation
35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. 
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Registered office and head office
1 Welbeck Street
London W1G 0AA
Registered in England and Wales
Company number: 5448421
Financial advisers and stockbrokers
Citigroup Global Markets Limited
Citigroup Centre
Canada Square
London E14 5LB
Merrill Lynch International
Merrill Lynch Financial Centre
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
Solicitors
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Benson House
33 Wellington Street
Leeds LS1 4JP
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
125
Debenhams
Annual report and accounts 2006
Rocha.John Rocha shirt with woven badges 
and J Jeans by Jasper Conran smart jean 
Designed and produced by
85
four.
Printed in-house by Debenhams. STYLING THE NATION
WITH DESIGNERS AT DEBENHAMS
Debenhams
1 Welbeck Street
London
W1G 0AA
www.debenhams.com
 
