 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
DEBENHAMS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 SECTION 1
OVERVIEW
1 Highlights
2 Year in brief
4 Chairman’s statement
SECTION 2
BUSINESS REVIEW
6 Chief Executive’s review
16 Finance Director’s review
19 Corporate responsibility
SECTION 3
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
28 The Board
30 Directors’ report
37 Corporate governance
41 Remuneration report
SECTION 4
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES
48 Directors’ responsibilities
49 Independent auditors’ report to the members
of Debenhams plc (Group)
50 Consolidated income statement
51 Consolidated statement of recognised
income and expenses
52 Consolidated balance sheet
53 Consolidated cash flow statement
54 Notes to the financial statements
90 Five year record
92 Independent auditors’ report to the
members of Debenhams plc (Company)
93 Company balance sheet
94 Company statement of recognised
gains and losses
95 Notes to the Company financial statements
SECTION 5
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
100 Store list
101 New store openings
102 Notice of Annual General Meeting
105 Shareholder information Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 1 Overview 1
HIGHLIGHTS
DEBENHAMS IS A LEADING DEPARTMENT STORE GROUP
WITH A STRONG PRESENCE IN WOMENSWEAR, MENSWEAR,
HOMEWARES, HEALTH AND BEAUTY, ACCESSORIES,
LINGERIE AND CHILDRENSWEAR.
OUR EXCLUSIVE OWN BRANDS, INCLUDING DESIGNERS AT
DEBENHAMS, AND THIRD-PARTY BRANDS DIFFERENTIATE
DEBENHAMS FROM ITS COMPETITORS.
• 12 new department stores opened including nine former Roches
stores in the Republic of Ireland and one re-sited store.
• Strong pipeline of 29 contracted new department store openings.
• Five new Desire by Debenhams stores opened.
• Rebuilt and upgraded the online store, debenhams.com.
• Four new international stores.
• Store refurbishment programme accelerated.
• IT investment to improve store operational efficiency.
• Continued growth of Designers at Debenhams with a new
childrenswear range Baker by Ted Baker introduced.
+5.1%
+13%
6.3p
£227.4m
Operational highlights for the financial year ending 1 September 2007 Financial highlights
Gross transaction value.
Profit before tax and
exceptional items.
Full year dividend per share.
Net cash generated from
operating activities. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 1 Overview 2
SEPTEMBER 2006
The year began with the acquisition of nine Roches
stores (on 12 September) giving an additional
575,000 sq ft of retail space and increasing the
number of Debenhams employees by c 1,500. This
grew our presence in the Republic of Ireland to
12 stores.
FEBRUARY 2007
The second half of the year saw greater focus on product, including
the launch of Mantaray across menswear and older kids, a new brand
for Debenhams.
A womens fashion range, Gorgeous, specialising in sizes 16-26, was
introduced.
Other new Designers introduced during the year included Melissa
Odabash in womens’ swimwear and accessories, along with Betty
Jackson, Julien Macdonald and Jeff Banks in home furnishings. At the
end of the year, Baker by Ted Baker was introduced to childrenswear,
an exclusive brand to Debenhams.
In March we opened a new store
in Bucharest, Romania. We also
opened stores in Kuwait, Mecca
and Moscow, bringing the
international franchise portfolio
to 34 stores in 15 countries
at year end.
<
MARCH 2007
JANUARY 2007
New technology to improve service levels was
trialled in two stores, switching time away from
administrative tasks such as manual product pricing
to customer facing interaction.
The new price change management system was
rolled out during the Summer which enabled clear
and accurate pricing, resulting in faster sell through
at first markdown.
NOVEMBER 2006
The website was re-launched
improving Debenhams’ ability
to cope with growing levels of
demand within this environment.
In the last quarter of the year
we achieved a like-for-like sales
increase of 62.8 per cent. This
would not have been possible
without the greater stability
and capacity of the new site.
>
>
<
>
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 1 Overview 2
YEAR IN BRIEF
DURING THE YEAR WE HAVE INVESTED IN ALL ASPECTS
OF OUR BUSINESS – PRODUCTS, STORES, MARKETING AND
INFRASTRUCTURE – TO FOCUS ON MEETING THE NEEDS
OF OUR CUSTOMERS. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 1 Overview 3
SEPTEMBER 2007
The new press and store marketing campaign was approved for the
2007/08 financial year, featuring a “clubs” theme.
The Company continues to strive to reduce the impact of its business
on the environment. In June 2007, we introduced 100 per cent
recycled (post consumer waste) carrier bags into all stores.
>
AUGUST 2007
Walton-on-Thames Desire store was opened. This brought the total
number of Desire stores opened during the year to five, the others
being Birmingham Fort, Merthyr, Kirkaldy and Altrincham. The total
portfolio of Desire stores has more than doubled in the year increasing
from four to nine stores.
JUNE 2007
Success at the Prima High Street
Awards retaining the best
eveningwear category and Betty
Jackson winning best designer.
Subsequently we have won best
department store at the
Company High Street Awards.
MAY 2007
The store refit programme was both accelerated and upgraded with a new premium feel. Uxbridge was the
first store to benefit from this new look. The modernisation particularly focused on redesigned visuals to
enhance Debenhams own brand product. Nine stores were completed with the new feel by the end of the
year and a further 12 are in progress.
The Warrington store opened in May 2007. This was the final department store opening of the year and
brought the total number of department stores to 133 at the year end.
<
>
>
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 1 Overview 3 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 1 Overview 4
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
DEBENHAMS IS A REALLY STRONG BUSINESS AND WE PRIZE
OUR STATUS AS ONE OF THE WORLD’S MOST ADMIRED
AND SUCCESSFUL DEPARTMENT STORE GROUPS AS WE
CONTINUE TO STYLE THE NATION.
Let me tell you how I see the current
and future position of our Company.
The board of directors is very proud
of Debenhams and what has been
achieved in the business over the last
few years. I want to assure you that
we have the long-term future and
value of our business at the core of all
our thinking and actions.
Debenhams is a really strong business
and we prize our status as one of the
world’s most admired and successful
department store groups as we
continue to style the nation.
The Chief Executive’s report spells out
how we performed last year. I want to
talk about three very important issues;
investment in the store environment,
our product range and our people.
From 2004 to 2006 our capital spending
was directed towards acquiring and
re-branding the Allders and Roches
stores. We also accelerated our store
opening programme, launched Desire,
invested in our online offering and
expanded our international operations.
In 2007 we needed to turn our attention
to reinvesting in our older stores, some
of which were beginning to look a little
tired. We are now working our way
through the estate and will spend
a substantial amount of this year’s
£150 million capital budget on the
refurbishment of existing stores.
Within the next 18 months we expect
to have refitted most of the chain so
that we will be able to offer all our
customers a modern, hassle-free
shopping experience which does justice
to our designer merchandise.
In some product categories we faced
a marked pick-up in high street price
deflation last year, brought about
by the rapid growth of discounters.
On occasions we were not offering
customers the value for money for
which our business is known. This was
especially true in menswear. In addition
our fashion and style leadership in
menswear and some women’s clothing
was challenged by re-awakening
competition. Whilst it was hard for us
to address this in the Spring/Summer
season as the buying process had been
completed, we have since acted. We are
now confident that the Autumn/Winter
ranges are on trend, correctly priced
and available in depth. As a result we
are now competitive in terms of style,
quality and value. The reinvestment
required to achieve this may have cost
some margin but it is certainly the right
long-term decision.
Finally, the board must ensure we have
the right team in place to move the
business forward.
We have undertaken a thorough review
of our buying and merchandising
operations. Several people have left
the business but, more importantly,
we have attracted a raft of talent from
across the high street and promoted
many of our high potential middle
and senior managers. The culture is
re-energised and ready for the future.
In stores, we have appointed three new
regional sales directors alongside 25
new store managers during the year.
Internal promotion combined with
external recruitment has generated an
excellent mix of ambition and experience.
We have had a tough year. It has been
painful but we are stronger after the
sharp message we received from our
customers. We have made operational
changes but we will not be deflected
from our long-term strategic aims.
We should also be proud of what we
achieved. We made an EBITDA margin
+21.2%
Growth in sales over the past
three years.
JOHN LOVERING Chairman Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 1 Overview 5
of 12.6 per cent after full market rent and
not many rivals can come close to that.
We have grown sales by 21.2 per cent
over three years and we have secured
new space to increase our footage by
14.2 per cent over the next three years.
Our direction is set. Space expansion
through new department stores, the roll
out of our Desire small store format and
our overseas franchise programme
continues. Our multi-channel business,
benefiting from our new website, is
showing strong sales and profit growth.
We have every confidence in our
business and our people. Against that
backdrop the board is recommending
a final dividend of 3.8 pence per share
to make a first full year dividend for the
Company of 6.3 pence per share.
We have started the new financial year
in good shape. Like-for-like sales in the
first seven weeks were up 2.1 per cent
(excluding Roches) despite the disruption
from a high number of stores undergoing
+14.2%
Planned increase in footage over
the next three years.
Above: The new and exclusive
Jeff Banks Jeans collection for
menswear, launched this
Autumn. Part of a major initiative
to ensure that our menswear
offer is competitive in terms of
style, quality and value.
Below: Our re-sited store in
Exeter, opened in September
2007. The new store provides
a dramatically improved
shopping experience for our
customers and increases
trading space by 31,000 sq ft.
refits. Our gross margin is increasing.
We have some world class competitors
for the customers’ purse in a tough
market. The internet is a real rival to the
high street and as everyone knows the
macro economy will get more difficult.
History says that department stores are
more resilient and less volatile through
the economic cycle. We know that the
best management teams who are
working hardest and listening most to
their customers will win and progress.
It is my job on your behalf to make sure
that this description fits Debenhams.
I would like to thank all of my colleagues
throughout the business whose efforts
and commitment last year and every
year mean that we have the best chance
of achieving this objective.
John Lovering
Chairman
23 October 2007 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
ALL AREAS OF THE BUSINESS WERE REVIEWED WITH THE
CLEAR OBJECTIVE OF ENSURING THAT ISSUES RAISED WERE
DEALT WITH FOR THE NEW AUTUMN/WINTER SEASON AND
NEW 2007/08 FINANCIAL YEAR.
For the year ending 1 September
2007 Debenhams gross transaction
value grew by £112.7 million to
£2,305.6 million. The primary driver
of sales growth was a total of 792,000
sq ft in new space being added to the
store portfolio. Nine stores were
acquired from Roches in the Republic
of Ireland. Eight other stores were
opened including five Desire stores
and one re-site in Wigan.
Merchandise sales growth by product
category was varied with a better
performance achieved in a number
of areas including health & beauty and
accessories. Unfortunately this growth
was offset by weaker sales from clothing
ranges, in particular menswear. This
resulted in an overall disappointing year
for the Company with a like-for-like sales
decline of 5.0 per cent and profit before
tax and exceptional items of £127.5 million
compared to £112.8 million achieved in
the previous year. Although the overall
retail environment became far more
competitive and challenging
throughout the year, it also became
apparent that some areas of the
Company had to be improved before
we could regain sales momentum.
Against this background of increasing
competition, all areas of the business –
the store portfolio, the customer
experience in store, products and the
supply chain and marketing – were
reviewed during the second half of the
year with the clear objective of ensuring
any issues raised were dealt with in time
for the new Autumn/Winter season and
new financial year. This work also served
to reconfirm our principal growth
strategies which can be summarised
under four key headings:
1 Space expansion both in the UK and
internationally
2 Improving the store environment and
customer shopping experience
3 Product innovation, design, quality
and value for money
4 Growing our online business and
other technology investments
Store portfolio
Department stores
Although Debenhams has a heritage
of over 100 years in retailing, with only
135 department stores trading across
the UK and the Republic of Ireland we
remain under-represented in some key
shopping locations. Our property team
has been very active in securing new
stores for our expansion programme.
During the year we acquired nine
department stores from Roches stores in
the Republic of Ireland, opened new
department stores in Llandudno
and Warrington and re-sited our Wigan
store, increasing its overall footage by
22,000 sq ft. Since the year end, we have
opened two small new stores in Llanelli
and Welwyn Garden City and re-sited
our Exeter and Derby stores, increasing
their footage by 48,000 sq ft. Today we
have 135 department stores and overall
trading space, including our Desire store
portfolio, of 10.4 million sq ft.
135
Current number of department
stores.
ROB TEMPLEMAN Chief Executive
10.4m sq ft
Current overall trading space.
OPEN> Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 7
Above: Designers at Debenhams home, Rocha. John Rocha bedding. Right: Living accessories from
a range at Debenhams home.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 8
Above: Designers at Debenhams
Accessories, Sequin beret from
Star by Julien Macdonald. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 9
Left: Julien Macdonald opens the
new Desire store in Merthyr Tydfil,
one of five new Desire stores that
opened during the year. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 10
Below: One of the stunning images used in the new “club” marketing
campaign launched in September.
Above: Designers such as Julien Macdonald bring
the latest styles and trends to a wider audience.
Idol by Julien Macdonald.
Above: Within clothing ranges we have invested
in better fabrics, improved styling and improved
design content. J Jeans by Jasper Conran. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 11
Below: Mantaray, new and
exclusive to Debenhams
menswear.
< OPEN Currently we have a strong pipeline
of new contracted department stores
which when opened will add an
additional 1.8 million sq ft of prime
retail space to our portfolio.
Desire
In the year we opened five of our
smaller Desire stores in Birmingham
Fort, Kirkcaldy, Merthyr, Altrincham and
Walton-on-Thames bringing the total
trading to nine.
Contracts have been exchanged on
a further four Desire stores.
International stores
Our successful international franchise
stores play an important part in
extending the global reach of our brand
and awareness of our product ranges.
Over the past 12 months new
international stores have opened in
Bucharest, Moscow, Kuwait and Mecca.
At year end we had 34 stores trading
from 15 countries across the world.
In the new financial year we anticipate
further store openings in India, Jordan,
Cyprus, Romania, the Middle East and
the Philippines.
Store development – improving the
customer experience
The board is committed to investing for
the long-term growth of the business.
Over the past three years, our capital
expenditure has been primarily focused
on new stores and infrastructure
improvements. This includes our new
distribution facility at Peterborough,
rebuilding our internet site, the
introduction of a radio frequency
platform across our store base and
numerous IT developments. We believe
that these investments will serve the
company and its shareholders well by
providing a sound foundation for the
development of the business.
We have always acknowledged that
some of our older stores were in need of
refurbishment, particularly those which
have been in the portfolio for many
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 12
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
0
2
6
4
8
10
14
12
16
2006 2007 2008 2009
57k Trading space sq ft 127k 141k 183k
Open at beginning of year New during the year
Number of stores
4
4
9
10
5
1
3
36
Current number of International
stores
Desire store openings
Contracted department store openings
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
2006 2007 2008 2009 20102011
9.4m
Trading space sq ft
10.1m 10.5m 10.9m 11.5m 11.9m
Open at beginning of year New during the year
Number of stores
122122
133
138
144
153
11
5
6
9
6 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 13
years. Debenhams has for the past few
years been committed to a rolling
refurbishment programme.
We have been pleased with both sales
uplifts and return on investment from
our refurbished stores. The latest
iteration of this modernisation
programme has been based on the fit-
out contained in our successful Desire
format. The first of these stores based
in Uxbridge is trading well above our
internal expectations. As a result, the
board has decided to accelerate the
roll-out programme of refits so that
the majority of stores within our estate
will be refurbished within the next
two years.
At the year end our store estate can be
summarised as below:
Core 70
New 20
Refurbished 26
Ex-Roches 9
Desire 9
Ex-Allders 8
Over the past year there has been much
commentary about the capital spend
per sq ft that Debenhams deploys on
refurbishments. We firmly believe that
the key measurements of success for a
refurbished store are customer perception,
sales uplift and return on investment
rather than cost per sq ft. The board will
deploy whatever capital expenditure is
necessary to succeed against these
measures.
Products and supply chain
Debenhams is a multi-category
retailer with a bias to clothing across
womenswear, menswear, childrenswear
and lingerie. We also have a strong
presence in other product categories
such as health & beauty, accessories
and homewares.
Product innovation, style, quality and
value are critical to the success of any
retailer. Over the last six months an in-
depth review covering all brands has
been undertaken to ensure every
product in every brand delivers an
improved customer offer in each of
these areas. This is being executed
across all merchandise categories
throughout our Autumn/ Winter
collection but is particularly evident
within the clothing ranges.
We have reinvested some of our sourcing
gains into better fabrics, improved
styling and more design content over a
large part of our product portfolio at the
same or lower prices than last year.
Designers at Debenhams is a key
differentiator for our Company and has
evolved to become a large and
important part of our business. Buyers
and design teams work closely with
some of the country’s leading and
most talented designers such as,
Betty Jackson, Jasper Conran, Julien
Macdonald and John Rocha. Our aim
is to bring the latest styles and trends
from the catwalk to a wider audience at
affordable prices working with the very
people who create the fashion trends.
Our Designer ranges offer consumers
even greater value for the Autumn
season. More design features and
quality trimmings have been added to
the garments alongside the use of more
exclusive fabrics. The combination of
better quality merchandise with the
latest catwalk trends exclusively
designed by the country’s leading
fashion experts should enable our
Designers at Debenhams ranges to
make good progress over the next year.
We are particularly pleased with the
recent launch of a new and exclusive
range of childrenswear, Baker by Ted
Baker. The introduction of this range
from one of the nation’s most iconic
brands was the result of great
collaboration and hard work from
Ray Kelvin and his team at Ted Baker
alongside our own childrenswear
buying and design teams. Early
indications from the performance of this
range are very encouraging and we
have been extremely pleased with both
the customer and trade feedback. Initial results from this latest campaign
have been encouraging both in terms of
a brand projection but also through the
rate of sale of the lines featured.
Online
During the year we rebuilt and upgraded
the Debenhams website. Our investment
of £5.3 million means that Debenhams
can bring its product ranges to a
larger audience but also allows us to
develop niche micro-sites such as
health & beauty to cater for the ever
growing online demand.
The proportion of retail sales achieved
through the internet is forecast to grow
substantially over the next five years.
Broadband availability is expanding
rapidly and the older population is
shopping the internet with greater
frequency. The internet has become
an important and integral part of our
business. We believe that in the very
near future www.debenhams.com will
become our largest store.
We have seen substantial sales increases
from the new website. Our focus is now
to make significant improvements to
the design and marketing of the online
store to further improve sales and extend
the reach of our brand to areas of the
country not covered by our store estate.
IT developments
Debenhams has a very strong IT
platform and a significant proportion of
development is focused on projects to
improve customer service. We have
installed a radio frequency infrastructure
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 14
Our offices in Asia and Turkey are
increasing the level of direct product
sourcing and this is allowing us to re-
invest a proportion of the resulting
efficiency gains. That investment takes
place through a combination of further
improvement in the quality of our
products and directly passing some of
the gains made back to our customers
in new lower prices. We believe that
the strategy of constantly improving
product quality and value for money
will serve both our customers and our
Company well in the long term.
Marketing
One of the key strengths of Debenhams
is the choice that we offer our customers
and the broad appeal of our ranges. Our
customers are very focused on quality,
style and fashion and in particular
Designer brands at affordable prices.
Market research continues to highlight
breadth of range as a major influence in
determining where a consumer shops.
For any marketing campaign to
succeed the products have to be right.
The improvements we have made to
quality, style and value within our
ranges has now been communicated
through the latest interpretation of our
Styling the Nation campaign.
The campaign was launched in
September with our new club style
advertisements which are aimed at
demonstrating the breadth of choice
that Debenhams has to offer through its
exciting and stylish product portfolio.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 15
throughout our stores, which enables
us to radically improve clarity of pricing
in sale or promotional periods as well
as having the opportunity to change
rapidly the marketing of discontinued
or “markdown” products.
The introduction of the radio frequency
technology is the most radical change
implemented in our stores for many
years. It has reduced the number of
hours taken in managing price changes
and improved the clarity of our pricing
which we believe will lead to a faster sell
through on merchandise and improved
levels of customer service.
Alongside the price change management
system, in several stores we have also
installed applications known as “work
planner” and “management suite” . These
will enable our store management to
spend more time on the shop floor and
access key data immediately to improve
service levels.
Looking forward, the radio frequency
infrastructure which we have installed
into our stores will provide us with a
foundation onto which further
technology may be added.
Current trading
Despite wider concerns about the macro
economic environment and how this will
impact on the retail sector, we are
confident that the changes we are making
throughout Debenhams are benefiting
the business. Our new Autumn/Winter
ranges are being well received and this,
together with the refitting of stores and
previous investment in a new IT platform
and distribution centre, is improving the
customer experience. Our growth in like-
for-like sales and gross margin have both
been positive in the first seven weeks of
the new financial year even though there
has been some disruption from the
accelerated refurbishment programme.
We have also seen growth in market share
over the past 12 weeks according to the
latest TNS data.
Rob Templeman
Chief Executive
23 October 2007
Above: Designers at Debenhams
childrenswear, Butterfly by
Matthew Williamson.
Above: Radio frequency
infrastructure has now been
implemented in all stores. This
significantly improves efficiency,
allowing staff access to a wide
range of information including
stock availability, pricing and
merchandising standards. Sales, margins and costs
During the 52 weeks ended
1 September 2007 gross transaction
value grew by 5.1 per cent to
£2,305.6 million (2006: £2,192.9 million)
and revenue correspondingly increased
by 3.9 per cent. These increases were
driven by good performance from our
new stores and modernisations. However
like-for-like sales fell by 5.0 per cent.
Although currently a relatively small
portion of our overall business, strong
growth was achieved from our website
which was relaunched during
November 2006. Gross transaction value
from the web was up 31.7 per cent on
2006 through a 31.2 per cent increase
in orders taken.
The international business also
continued to grow. We opened four new
franchise stores during the year.
Although our product intake margin
increased by around 0.4 per cent, this
was more than offset by the impact of
lower pricing, product mix and higher
clearance markdown, the latter being
required to maintain our terminal stock
at a similarly low level to last year. Overall
gross margin declined by 0.9 per cent.
A new sourcing office opened in Turkey.
This has improved efficiency in the
supply chain, in particular shortening
delivery lead times and as a result
improving markdown through more
flexible stock management.
Focus on cost control continues to be
a critical issue in the business. Store
operational costs grew due to new
stores opened during the year along
with a significant increase in the unit
cost of energy. Distribution costs fell
year on year, primarily as a result of the
closure of our distribution centres in
both Bedford and Daventry towards
the end of the previous financial year.
Central administrative costs also
reduced slightly.
The above combined to generate
a gross profit before exceptional items
of £279.5 million (2006: £331.4 million).
Underlying operating profit decreased
to £210.1 million (2006: £267.4 million).
Operating profit for 2007 stood at
£179.8 million, (2006: £223.6 million).
Exceptional items
Total exceptional items for 2007 were
£14.3 million (2006: £50.7 million).
On 12 September 2006 the Group
acquired nine stores from Roches Stores
in the Republic of Ireland. Following this
acquisition the Group assigned the
existing Dublin store lease, in Jervis
Street, which will result in the closure
of that store after the year end. The
acquisition of these stores, assignment
of the lease and subsequent closure
of the Jervis Street store has created
exceptional costs of £14.3 million.
Exceptional costs comprise: accelerated
depreciation charge £6.3 million,
redundancy costs £4.6 million and other
integration costs £3.4 million.
Interest
The net interest cost for the financial
year ended 1 September 2007 was
£66.6 million, this compares to a net
interest charge, before exceptional items,
of £125.4 million in 2006. The reduction
of £58.8 million is principally due to the
full year impact of a new lower-cost
finance structure which was put in place
in May 2006 after the Group’s admission
to the London Stock Exchange.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 16
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
WITH GOOD PERFORMANCE FROM NEW STORES AND
MODERNISATIONS GROSS TRANSACTION VALUE GREW
BY 5.1% TO £2,305.6 MILLION
CHRIS WOODHOUSE Finance Director
+5.1%
Increase in gross transaction
value. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 17
Taxation
The Group’s tax charge of £34.2 million
on profit of £113.2 million gives an
effective rate of 30.2 per cent. The
charge includes the impact of
exceptional costs incurred in the
Republic of Ireland and the movement
in deferred tax as a result of the rate
of tax changing from 30 per cent to
28 per cent in April 2008.
Earnings
The basic earnings per share of
9.3 pence (2006: 7.4 pence) and diluted
earnings per share of 9.3 pence (2006:
7.4 pence) reflect the weighted average
number of shares in issue during the
course of the financial year and similarly
for the comparative period. As a result
of admission to the London Stock
Exchange in May 2006 significant
changes in the Group’s capital structure
occurred. An underlying earnings per
share figure has been calculated at
11.9 pence (2006: 16.5 pence)
reflecting the underlying earnings
figure and for both financial periods the
number of shares in issue now being the
same figure as at the re-listing of the
business on the London Stock Exchange.
The adjustments to earnings which have
been made in calculating underlying
earnings per share concern the removal
of non-comparable amounts in order to
arrive at an underlying earnings figure.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 2.5 pence
per share was paid in July 2007.
The directors are proposing a final
dividend in respect of the financial year
ended 1 September 2007 of 3.8 pence
per share. It will be paid on 4 January
2008 to shareholders who are on the
register of members at close of business
on 7 December 2007.
Above: Courier delivery for
debenhams.com. Service levels
and capacity are enhanced
for the future following our
investment in the home
shopping website.
Below: Henry Street store in
central Dublin. Acquired from
Roches at the beginning of the
year, the store is now fully
branded as Debenhams and at
140,000 sq ft is our flagship store
in the Republic of Ireland.
3.8p
Final dividend. Capital expenditure
Expansion of the store portfolio
continued this year. We acquired nine
stores in the Republic of Ireland from
Roches Stores and opened two new
and one re-sited department stores
alongside five of our smaller Desire
stores. This investment in new stores
of £81.5 million combined with
£18.0 million in refurbishing existing
stores and £37.1 million invested in
developing and improving the
infrastructure of our business,
particularly in the IT area, grew our
total capital assets by £136.6 million.
Cash flow
Net cash generated from operating
activities in the year ended 1 September
2007 was £227.4 million. This was a
£37.1 million increase on the prior year
(2006: £190.3 million). The growth
was mainly the result of lower interest
payments following the debt finance
restructure in May 2006 added to an
inflow from both long and short term
working capital, these being offset by
an increase in taxation payments.
Borrowings and refinancing
The Group’s net debt position was
£1,016.5 million at 1 September 2007,
this has reduced by £79.6 million during
the course of the year.
Financial risk and treasury
management
The board has established an overall
treasury policy and has approved
authority levels within which the
treasury function must operate. Treasury
policy is to manage risks within the
agreed framework whilst not taking
speculative positions.
The policies and strategies for managing
financial risk are summarised in note 3
of the Group financial statements.
Pensions
The Group provides a number of
pension benefit arrangements for
its employees, which include the
Debenhams Retirement Scheme and
Debenhams Executive Pension Plan
(together the “pension schemes”).
Following a consultation period
with employees, which ended on
15 September 2006, the board reached
agreement with the pension schemes’
trustees that the pension schemes
would close for future service accrual
from 31 October 2006. The closure
to future accrual does not affect the
pensions of those who have retired
or the deferred benefits of those who
have left service or opted out before
31 October 2006. The balance sheet
surplus associated with the pension
schemes has increased by £73.5 million
over the year to £87.3 million (2006:
£13.8 million).
Future pension arrangements will be
provided for Debenhams employees
by a Prudential stakeholder
pension scheme.
Chris Woodhouse
Finance Director
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 18
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW CONTINUED
£37.1m
Increase in net cash generated
from operating activities. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 19
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
DURING 2006/07 THE COMPANY HAS PLACED EMPHASIS
ON AMELIORATING THE IMPACT OF ITS BUSINESS ON THE
ENVIRONMENT. THE COMPANY ALSO CONTINUES TO RECOGNISE
THE IMPORTANCE OF RESPONSIBLE SOURCING, ITS COMMUNITY
ACTIVITIES, ITS HEALTH AND SAFETY PROGRAMME AND
RELATIONS WITH EMPLOYEES AND CUSTOMERS.
Corporate responsibility issues
are integral to all aspects of our
operations. During the 2006/07
financial year the Company has
placed particular focus on
ameliorating the impact of its
business on the environment. The
Company also continues to recognise
the importance of responsible
sourcing, its community activities,
its health and safety programme
and relations with employees and
customers. This report gives details
of the Company’s activities and plans
in all these areas and sets out the
Company’s environmental and
sourcing goals.
The Corporate Responsibility
Committee is chaired by Nikki Zamblera,
the HR Director. During the year its
activities have been extended to
encompass all departments, from
product to stores. The Company
appointed a head of corporate
responsibility in April 2007.
Reducing the environmental impact
The Company has implemented a
number of new corporate responsibility
programmes in 2006/07.
100%
Recycled carrier bags used in all
stores.
Left: New stores, such as Exeter,
are committed to using 50% of
energy from wind and hydro-
electric sources. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 20
In June 2007, 100 per cent recycled
(post-consumer waste) carrier bags
were introduced into all stores.
The Company had already been using
100 per cent recycled carrier bags for
the Megaday events.
In July 2007 the “Green Edition”
Giftcard, the first on the high street,
was launched by Debenhams
Financial Services. The card is made
from 100 per cent recycled content
and is also chlorine free.
Next Spring, to help customers
minimise their impact on the
environment, the Company is
launching a 30 degree wash care
initiative on all appropriate apparel
and textile products.
In February 2007 Debenhams
introduced Fair Trade cotton into
its lingerie ranges. The Company
has also developed more eco-friendly
packaging in lingerie, by introducing
20 per cent recycled content to the
collar boards of bra packs; this
initiative is being pursued across
other packaging developments.
Debenhams’ 160 restaurants and
cafes now stock Douwe Egberts
Good Origin coffee. Every cup of
Good Origin coffee can be traced
back to the farm where it was grown
and has been certified by Utz Kapeh,
a global non-governmental
organisation. This organisation assists
farmers to protect their workers and
the environment in which they live
and work, as well as providing
assurance that the coffee beans are
derived from 100 per cent sustainable
sources.
A message from Nigel Palmer, the
Retail Operations Director, was sent
to all store employees in November
2006, headed “Ways to save money
and the environment” , with a target
of reducing the amount of energy
used; on-target performance earns
a top-up to the store’s prize fund.
The Company has appointed a
dedicated energy manager. The
Company is outperforming the
targets set in the store energy savings
plan and has saved over 8,700 tonnes
of CO
2
. Efficiency measures include
reviewing timings for lights, escalators
and air conditioning and reducing
overnight shifts.
All new stores now have at least
50 per cent of their energy from
renewable sources. Compared to old
Debenhams stores, the recently
opened Llandudno store is more
energy efficient by some 25 per cent.
This has mainly been achieved
through the use of diffusion heating
and cooling systems, as opposed to
standard forced air ventilation, and
lower power but higher intensity
lighting units.
Within its distribution operations, the
Brackmills distribution centre has
been re-lamped. This has involved
the replacement of all eight-foot
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
Our ‘green edition’ giftcard is made from chlorine-free PETG material.
All our paper carriers and presentation wallets use vegetable based inks, are made 
of sustainable source stock and are 100% recyclable.
Help the environment by reloading, reusing and recycling our ‘green 
edition’ giftcard.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
For full terms and conditions please see card carrier or visit www.debenhams.com. Debenhams Giftcards can only be redeemed for merchandise in
the original country of purchase; UK in store and online, Republic of Ireland in store only. This card cannot be exchanged for cash or vouchers, or to
purchase financial or travel services. No change will be given but the balance may be applied to future purchases. In the event of 24 months
consecutive non-use, the card will expire and any balance will be deducted. Giftcard balances can be checked in store, online at
www.debenhams.com or by calling 0844 800 9091.
Choose a charity edition giftcard 
and help support a worthy cause
Just load or top up one of our charity edition giftcards and Debenhams
will donate 2% of the value to charity on your behalf.
The environmentally friendly gift of choice
106209
Above: The new “green edition”
giftcard launched in July this year.
Right: All 160 Debenhams
foodservice outlets now serve
Douwe Egberts Good Origins
coffee.
8, 700
tonnes
The store energy savings plan
has out-performed the target
set for CO
2
saved. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 21
fluorescent tubes with low energy
tubes and high intensity reflectors.
Each aisle is also equipped with two
PIR sensors, ensuring that the lights
are on only when people are working
in that aisle.
As a result of the commitment from
in-store logistics and head office to
reduce energy consumption, the
Company has been accredited by the
Energy Institute under the Energy
Efficiency Accreditation Scheme.
The efficiency of the Company’s
logistics fleet, operated by DHL, has
improved compared to last year by
nearly 9 per cent. This reduced CO
2
emissions in the year by 8,800 tonnes.
The Company’s print department has
been audited by SGS and has been
recommended for accreditation to
use FSC and PEFC paper to produce
certified printed material. One of the
major contributors to increases in
CO
2
levels in the atmosphere is de-
forestation. FSC and PEFC relate to
the timber content of papers used.
+9%
Improvement in efficiency
of logistics fleet. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 22
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
Either logo appearing on printed matter
provides assurance that the timber
content of the paper used is sourced
from a legal and sustainable source.
A head office recycling trial, replacing
most individual bins with recycling
facilities for paper and mixed dry waste
like newspapers, card, plastic bottles etc,
has been successful and is currently
being rolled out to all head office floors.
This will allow as much waste as
possible to be diverted from landfill.
The Company’s plans for 2008 – to
continue its work on reducing the
impact of its business on the
environment and tackling the effects
of climate change – include:
• Reducing the mix of own-bought
products currently transported by
air by at least 10 per cent.
• Planning to convert transhipment
from port of own-bought product
sea freight standard containers from
road to rail.
• Reducing the carbon footprint by
30 per cent of each new store, in
addition to each store obtaining
50 per cent of its energy from
“green” sources.
• Targeting head office and
distribution centres to divert 25 per
cent and100 per cent respectively
of their waste away from landfill.
• Doubling the amount of waste
diverted from landfill to 50 per cent
for all our stores and aiming to make
this 100 per cent wherever possible.
• Increasing lighting energy efficiency
in the Lodge Farm distribution
centre following the Brackmills
re-lamping project.
Supplier selection and monitoring
Debenhams remains committed to
its approach to sourcing through
reputable suppliers who show the same
commitment to ethical trade as the
Company. The Company has completed
its review of suppliers and factories. All
new factories are required to submit a
factory information pack covering both
the social and technical aspects of the
factory. The Company then monitors its
suppliers and the standards in their
factories on an ongoing basis in two
ways, through an independent audit
programme and through assessments
by Debenhams’ own employees and
representatives. Debenhams’ audit
programme is based on two-day audits
and more focused one-day gap analysis
audits, carried out by independent
auditors.
Debenhams accepts social audit reports
completed for other retailers and in
support of this position the Company
joined the Supplier Ethical Data
Exchange (“SEDEX”) at the end of 2006.
The Company also encourages its
suppliers and factories to join so that
the number of duplicate audits can be
reduced and focus placed on delivering
the corrective action plans.
Debenhams continues to support fully
its commitments to the Ethical Trade
Initiative (“ETI”). The Company is
involved in the Purchasing Practices
working group where, in collaboration
with another major high street retailer,
the impact of joint purchasing practices
in two Chinese factories is being
evaluated. The Company is also active
in the China Project Group and its sub-
group the Decent Work group. Through
its ETI engagement the Company has
continued the joint remediation
programme in northern China and is at
the forefront of the effective auditing
debate.
-30%
Planned reduction in carbon
footprint of new stores in 2008. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 23
Debenhams’ products
Debenhams operates within a policy
framework in relation to the composition
of its products including:
• Animal testing – Debenhams does
not sell any products or product
ingredients that have been tested
on animals.
• Leathers, hides and furs –
Debenhams does not allow its
products to use any snake, crocodile,
alligator or endangered species. All
the leather used is a by-product of
the food industry and the Company
supports the humane treatment
of animals throughout the supply
chain. Debenhams does not allow
the use of real fur in any of its
products.
• Sustainable timber sources – only
timber from sustainable sources is
used and the Company requires its
suppliers to keep records so that this
can be verified.
• Genetically modified organisms – the
Company requires all its products to
be GMO free.
• Conflict diamonds – rough diamonds
sourced for Debenhams’ production
must have been procured and
certified in compliance with the
Kimberley Process and finished
diamonds must have been purchased
from legitimate sources, not involved
in funding conflict, in compliance
with United Nations resolutions.
• Safer chemicals – Debenhams has
evaluated the chemicals used in its
products. Certain chemicals have
been banned. A policy has been
established in relation to the use of
other chemicals, covering own-
bought merchandise, packaging and
equipment on which product is
displayed in stores. Following its
chemical evaluation, the Company
also stipulates safer alternative
product constituents to be used
by suppliers. Debenhams has been
participating, with the BRC Product
Stewardship Group and Acona, in
maintaining records and developing
best practice for implementing its
safer chemicals policy.
Environmental and sourcing goals
In relation to those aspects of its
operations which affect the environment,
and its sourcing practices, Debenhams
has established goals as follows:
Climate change
Debenhams believes it should be
carbon neutral and the next step
towards that goal is driving carbon
efficiency, continuing to utilise new
technologies. This is particularly evident
in its new and refurbished stores and
distribution centres.
Waste
Debenhams’ goals are not to send any of
the waste it generates to landfill and to
help its customers minimise the impact
of its products and packaging on the
environment.
Responsible sourcing
The Company goal is to increase
substantially its Fair Trade and organic
product ranges in the short to medium
term. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 24
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
Debenhams in the community
Debenhams has always fostered links
with its local community. A new
initiative for 2006/07 has been the work
with Business in the Community and
Scottish Business in the Community to
offer store management teams the
opportunity to become involved on a
local project. We hope this will build
into a long-term partnership. For
example, part of the Company’s new
store opening programme now includes
a team building event for the new store
management team that benefits local
people and the local community. The
first BiTC local activity was carried out
by the Altrincham team (the new Desire
by Debenhams store in Altrincham
opened in May 2007) who spent a day
working alongside community volunteers
clearing woods and a play area in an
area of economic and social deprivation.
Over 50 children also attended. Another
example was the Team Day, organised
by the new Desire Silverburn store team,
who in conjunction with the Aberlour
Trust regenerated the front gardens
and car park of the Pollok church
community hall (used by the local
community including the stroke
and pensioners clubs).
Debenhams’ Santa arrival promotion,
with Santa arriving by fire engine in
most stores, was a great success at
Christmas, raising £55,000 for the Fire
Services National Benevolent Fund.
The campaign for the Christmas ahead
is a Santa arrival event in conjunction
with the NSPCC; for every £3 visit to
Santa £1 will be donated to the NSPCC.
The Company’s commitment to the
Breast Cancer Campaign continued
with the campaign this year raising
£203,000. Over several years
Debenhams has raised £1.1 million
for the campaign.
Debenhams joined forces with Calvin
Klein to help support Everyman and the
fight against Testicular Cancer. Between
27 May and 18 June, Debenhams and
Calvin Klein donated 50 pence from
each sale of Calvin Klein underwear
to Everyman. In addition, Debenhams
worked with Calvin Klein to create a
special Everyman trunk, which includes
the charity’s colours with a signature
orange waistband. This trunk is available
all year round and 50 pence from every
pair sold is donated to Everyman.
Debenhams’ staff continue to show
their support for charitable giving with
nearly 1,000 staff donating directly to
charity from their salaries through the
Debenhams Give As You Earn scheme.
The Company’s stores have also been
active in raising funds for the Retail
Trust through local store-sponsored
initiatives.
Employees
Debenhams is committed to supporting
all employees in their balance between
work and personal life. Depending on
the area and role in which they work,
the Company offers various flexible
contracts to suit their individual needs.
Debenhams recognises that there may
be times when an employee needs to
take time off work or change their
pattern of working due to personal
situations. There are a number of policies
in place to support employees through
such events, including parental, maternity,
paternity and adoption leave, flexible
working and a career break scheme.
All employees also have free access to
the Retail Trust Helpline. The helpline,
provided by the Retail Trust charity,
provides employees with independent
advice and support on a wide range of
topics, both personal and work related.
The opportunity for all employees to
learn and develop is a crucial factor in
the Company’s future success. The retail
environment is fast moving and it is
important that all employees have a
flexible range of skills, both from a
personal perspective and for the future
success of the Company. Through
offering a wide mix of training courses
and programmes, Debenhams
encourages individuals to develop,
to expand their skills and to reach
£203, 000
Raised for the Breast Cancer
Campaign in past year. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 25
their full potential. Comprehensive
competency-based training
programmes are offered to provide clear
paths for progression for those wishing
to pursue a career in all fields within the
Company. A dedicated learning and
development team works closely with
stores and head office to ensure that
potential and aspirations are maximised.
In addition, Debenhams has become
more closely involved in skills
development for the retail sector and in
June 2006 Nikki Zamblera, HR Director,
was appointed Vice Chairman of
Skillsmart Retail, the government Skills
Sector Council for the industry.
The Company provides equality of
opportunity for all employees. Through
the equal opportunities policy it is
committed to creating an environment
that offers all employees the chance to
use their skills and talents. This means
a workplace where individuals are
treated fairly, regardless of age, colour,
disability, gender, race, sexual
orientation, hours of work, marital
status or religious belief and where
policies such as recruitment, training
and career opportunities are based
around objective criteria.
Debenhams seeks to recruit the best
people from a wide pool of talent and
attract and retain a diverse workforce
which reflects the communities in which
it trades. In July 2007 the Company
announced its support of the Local
Employment Partnership initiative, thus
formalising its involvement with Job
Centre Plus and the Skill Sector Council
on a range of measures designed to
improve the employability skills of
people looking for work. Whilst some
support has been available at a local
level, for example training on interview
techniques, through this national
initiative Debenhams can maximise the
support and opportunities available.
Disability awareness
At the beginning of the 2006/07
financial year Debenhams completed
the works required in order to make
accessible the mezzanine floors in all
its stores in this country. The Company
believes that it is at the forefront
of UK retailers in this area.
In addition to this work on physical
accessibility in stores, in 2006/07 the
Company has worked closely with
the Disability Rights Commission.
Disability awareness has become a key
component of the store employee
induction programme. A new Company
induction course and DVD entitled
“First impressions” on customer care for
disabled people, which also highlights
Debenhams’ commitment to welcome
applications for employment from
disabled people, has been produced.
A disability awareness week, run in
May 2007, was a success and will now
become an annual event in the retail
calendar. In addition over the last few
months the Company has revised its
equal opportunities policies and created
a “disability champion” in the HR team.
Above: Nigel Palmer and
Councillor Roy Davies of Luton
Borough Council re-launch our
partnership on health and safety
policy and procedure.
Below: The Breast Cancer
Campaign in October 2007 aims
to add a further £250,000 to the
£1.1 million total achieved
to date. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 26
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED
The Company continues to develop its
website to improve accessibility and
one of the Debenhams Direct team has
now been given specific responsibility
for this area.
The Company provides information
on accessibility matters on the
“direct enquiries” website
(www.directenquiries.com), including
details such as:
• Designated parking spaces
• Location of accessible entrances
• Passenger lift facilities
• Accessible restaurant facilities
• Location of accessible toilet
provision
• Availability and detail of the personal
shopper services
• Collect-by-car arrangements
• Details of accessible customer
collection points
Health and safety
The Executive Health and Safety
Committee meets on a quarterly basis
to review major health and safety
matters. The meetings are chaired by
Nigel Palmer, Retail Operations Director,
and attended by representatives from
training, food services, store
development, internal audit, insurance,
building services and head office
facilities. The minutes of the meetings
are circulated via the Company intranet
to all areas of the business and
are considered as part of each store’s
own health and safety meetings.
Additional interim meetings, again
chaired by Nigel Palmer, are held
quarterly to discuss store-specific issues
and are attended by personnel relevant
to the topics under discussion.
The store managers are responsible
for health and safety in their stores.
On a day-to-day basis this is managed
through the Selling Support Manager
and Technical Services Manager. In head
office responsibility lies with the
Facilities Manager. Certain employees
receive in-house training on risk
assessment and are encouraged to take
the supervising health and safety
course. All employees receive basic
health and safety training on induction.
All stores have a nominated health
and safety representative who is a
member of the store health and safety
committee. Revised procedures for the
conduct of and attendance at store
health and safety meetings have been
re-issued. The minutes of store meetings
are displayed locally and circulated to
the Environmental Health and Safety
Manager for review.
Debenhams employs an environmental
health and safety manager, a food
quality assurance manager and product
technologists to manage the application
of policies and procedures with regard to
health and safety, food and product
safety and quality. In relevant
circumstances Debenhams appoints
consultants to advise on specific safety-
related areas.
Debenhams has a Lead Authority
Partnership with Luton Borough Council,
which considers and comments
on Debenhams’ policies and procedure
and act as a focal point for contact
from other local authorities on health
and safety matters. Nigel Palmer
and Councillor Roy Davies of Luton
Borough Council met in the Luton
store to re-launch the partnership in
September 2006.
On matters of food safety and trading
standards, Debenhams has a
partnership with Westminster City
Council which, throughout 2006/07,
provided guidance on the development
and implementation of the Safer Food
Safer Business procedures adopted by
Debenhams’ Foodservices division.
During the course of the year 29 stores
have received the highest accolade
available from local authorities in
recognition of the high food quality and
safety standards maintained.
Reviews of store health and safety
performance are undertaken by the risk
management team as part of the
internal audit process. All stores receive
29 stores
Received the highest accolade
available from local authorities in
recognition of high food quality
and safety standards. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 2 Business review 27
a review every two years with high-risk
stores reviewed on an annual basis. The
outcome and remedial actions required
following a risk management inspection
are followed up by the Store Manager,
Sales Director and the risk management
team.
During 2006/07, software has been
introduced to improve task management
and performance. Further improvements
are expected in the forthcoming year
with the introduction of software to
manage maintenance tasks and the
visibility of statutory certification.
Debenhams has worked closely with
its major service providers to improve
health and safety performance.
Particularly work has been done in
2006/07 with DHL, the logistics partner,
and with the contract cleaners.
A review of the Debenhams health and
safety policy and procedures manual
was conducted during the year with the
aim of making documentation more
accessible and the risk assessment
process more relevant to individual
store arrangements. The acquisition
of the new stores in the Republic of
Ireland also necessitated a review of
policy and procedure to ensure it was
relevant and applicable to that country.
During 2006/07, Debenhams has
concluded a survey of all its retail and
head office premises for asbestos,
implemented an asbestos management
plan and undertaken any necessary
remediation works.
To compliment the existing fire risk
assessment procedures, an external
consultant has been appointed to
prepare a hazard plan and risk
assessment in stores with complex
fire engineering.
Debenhams records and reviews its
performance in relation to the number
and nature of the accidents reportable
to the enforcing authority. The number
of reportable accidents to staff and
customers are set out below and,
despite the increasing size of the
Debenhams store base and therefore
the consequential rise in footfall into
our stores, the statistics continue to
demonstrate an encouragingly low
level of major accidents and incidents
to both customers and employees,
with a substantial improvement in
the 2006/07 financial year.
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
Sta C ustomers
Number of people
89
36
64
84
81
24
17
29
61
10
Reportable accidents to staff and customers THE BOARD
1. John Lovering
Chairman  (57)
John Lovering has been Chairman of the Company
since May 2006, previously acting as Chairman of
Debenhams Limited from December 2003 until the
Group floated in May 2006. He was Chairman of
Birthdays Group Limited from 1996 to 2002, of Fired
Earth Limited from 1998 to 2001, the Peacock Group
from 1997 to 2004, Homebase Group Limited from
2000 to late 2002 and Fitness First Limited from 2003
to 2005. From 1992 to 1995, Mr Lovering was Chief
Operating Officer of Tarmac Limited and, from 1988
to 1992, he was Finance Director of Sears Limited.
Mr Lovering is currently a director of Ermes
Department Stores Public Limited (Debenhams’
franchisee in Cyprus), a director of Myer Pty Limited,
Chairman of Somerfield Limited and was appointed
Vice Chairman of Barclays Capital in July this year.
2. Rob Templeman
Chief Executive (50)
Rob Templeman became Chief Executive of the
Company in May 2006 and was Chief Executive of
Debenhams Limited from December 2003 until the
Group floated in May 2006. Mr Templeman was Chief
Executive and subsequently Chairman of Halfords
Group plc from 2003 to 2006, was Chief Executive
Officer of Homebase Group plc from 2001 to 2003
and from 1990 to 2000 he was Chief Executive Officer
of Harveys Furnishing plc.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 28
3. Chris Woodhouse
Finance Director (46)
Chris Woodhouse became Finance Director of the
Company in May 2006 and was Finance Director of
Debenhams Limited from December 2003 until the
Group floated in May 2006. He was Deputy Chairman
of Halfords Group plc from 2003 to 2005, and from
2001 to 2003 he was Commercial Director and
Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Homebase Limited.
Previously, Mr Woodhouse was Finance Director
of various companies including Birthdays Group
Limited and Superdrug Stores plc. In April 2007
Mr Woodhouse was appointed Group Non-Executive
Chairman of Gondola Group Limited. Mr Woodhouse
is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants
in England and Wales and an Associate of the
Association of Corporate Treasurers.
4. Michael Sharp
Chief Operating Officer (50)
From 1997 to 2004, Michael Sharp was Trading
Director of Debenhams Limited. He was appointed
its Chief Operating Officer in January 2004 and then
Chief Operating Officer of the Company in May 2006.
He previously worked from 1985 to 1997 in various
capacities within the Burton Group, including as
Managing Director of Principles and Racing Green and
Buying and Merchandising Director of Top Shop and
Top Man. Prior to joining The Burton Group Mr Sharp
worked for Littlewoods and Sears.
5. Philippe Costeletos
Non-Executive Director (42)
Philippe Costeletos became a director of Baroness
Holdings UK Limited in September 2003 and a director
of the Company in May 2005. He is a partner of Texas
Pacific Group Limited, which he joined in 2003.
From 1995 to 2002, Mr Costeletos was a member of
the Management Committee at Investcorp Limited.
Prior to joining Investcorp, he worked at JPMorgan
Capital. Mr Costeletos is also currently Chairman
of TIM Hellas SA, Vice Chairman of Q Telecom SA
and a director of Sparkle Fashion Limited and
Myer Pty Limited.
1
4
2
5
3
6 6. Adam Crozier
Independent Non-Executive Director  (43)
Adam Crozier became a director of the Company
in April 2006. Mr Crozier has been Chief Executive of
the Royal Mail since 2003. From 2000 to 2003 he was
Chief Executive of the Football Association Limited.
He joined Saatchi & Saatchi UK Limited in 1988 and his
roles there included Media Director, Vice Chairman
and, from 1995 to 1999, Joint Chief Executive.
7. Jonathan Feuer
Non-Executive Director (45)
Jonathan Feuer became a director of Baroness
Holdings UK Limited in September 2003 and a
director of the Company in May 2005. He is a
managing partner of CVC Capital Partners. He joined
CVC in 1988, having previously worked in the
Corporate Finance Department of Baring Brothers
& Co Ltd and for Ernst & Winney.
8. Richard Gillingwater
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director  (51)
Richard Gillingwater became a director of the
Company in April 2006 and is Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee. In April this year, Mr
Gillingwater became the new Dean of Cass Business
School of The City University. Mr Gillingwater is
currently a director of Tomkins plc and Scottish and
Southern Energy plc. He was previously Deputy Head
and then Chairman of European Investment Banking,
at CSFB between 1998 and 2003 and from 1995 to 1997
he was Joint Head of Global Corporate Finance at BZW.
Between 2003 and 2007 he was Chief Executive of the
UK Government’s Shareholder Executive.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 29
9. Peter Long
Independent Non-Executive Director  (55)
Peter Long became a director of the Company in April
2006. Mr Long is Chief Executive of TUI Travel Plc
having been Chief Executive of First Choice Holidays
plc since 1999 with which TUI AG merged with in
September 2007 forming TUI Travel Plc. He established
Sunworld Holidays Limited in 1991, (he was Chief
Executive from 1991 to 1996) and was a director of
RAC plc from February 2001 to June 2005. He is
currently a non-executive director of Rentokil Initial plc.
10. Dennis Millard
Independent Non-Executive Director  (58)
Dennis Millard became a director of the Company in
April 2006 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He was Group Finance Director of Cookson Group plc
from 1996 until 2005 and was Finance Director of
Medeva plc from 1994 to 1996. He was a
non-executive director and chairman of the audit
committee of both Exel plc (2003-2005) and
Arc International (2000-2003) and is currently a
non-executive director of Xchanging UK Limited,
Premier Farnell plc, EAG Ltd and Smiths News plc.
(where he is Deputy Chairman and the Senior
Independent Director). Mr Millard is a member of the
South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
11. Paul Pindar
Independent Non-Executive Director  (48)
Paul Pindar became a director of the Company in April
2006 and is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He has been Chief Executive of The Capita Group plc
since 1999 having joined Capita in 1987. From 1985 to
1987, he was an Investment Controller of 3i plc. He is
currently Chairman of the Corporate Development
Board of the NSPCC.
 Member of the Audit Committee
 Member of the Nomination Committee
 Member of the Remuneration Committee
7
10
8
11
9 (3.0)
(2.5)
(2.0)
(1.5)
(1.0)
(0.5)
0
2005/06 2006/07
Percentage decrease
(0.8)
(2.3)
(6.0)
(4.0)
(2.0)
0
2.0
40
2004/05 2006/07
Percentage growth
(5.0)
2005/06
0.5
2.8
0
50
100
150
200
250
2004/05 2006/07
£ million
227.4
42.6
2005/06
190.3
0
40
80
120
20
60
100
140
160
2004/05 2006/07
£ million
127.5
67.2
2005/06
112.8
1,700
1,800
1,900
2,000
2,100
2,200
2,300
2,400
2004/05 2006/07
£ million
2,306
2,087
2005/06
2,193
7.0
8.0
7.5
8.5
9.0
9.5
10.0
10.5
11.0
2004/05 2006/07
millions of sq ft
10.3
9.1
2005/06
9.5
Principal activities
Debenhams is the second largest department store group in the UK, with a unique mix of own brands (including
Designers at Debenhams), international brands and concessions. It has 135 stores in the UK and the Republic
of Ireland and nine smaller Desire by Debenhams stores. In addition to its directly owned stores, Debenhams
has a further 36 international franchise stores in 16 countries. It also sells its products through its internet site
www.debenhams.com.
Business review
The results for the financial year are set out in the accounts and notes to the accounts on pages 50 to 99. The
business review, the Chairman’s statement on pages 4 to 5, the Chief Executive’s review on pages 6 to 15 and the
Finance Director’s review on pages 16 to 18, analyse the development and performance of the business during
the financial year to 1 September 2007, its position at the end of the year and give an indication of likely future
developments. The contents of the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s review and the Finance Director’s
review which can be found on pages 4 to 18 form part of this directors’ report and are incorporated in this report
by reference. Any liability is restricted to the extent prescribed by the Companies Act 2006.
This review provides an initial analysis, and then fuller explanation, of the business against certain key
performance indicators, as set out below:
Total sales (1) Like-for-like sales (2)
Profit before tax and exceptional items Net cash generated from operating activities
Trading space Labour turnover
1) Gross transaction value
2) Like-for-like growth in gross transaction value represents the current period’s gross transaction value (including VAT) for the internet and
stores that have traded for the last 12 months less the prior period’s gross transaction value for the same grouping.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 30 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 31
Sales (gross transaction value) excluding VAT for the financial year to 1 September 2007 were £2,305.6 million. Space
expansion was the major factor behind the growth in total sales. During the year the Company opened two new
department stores, Llandudno and Warrington, re-sited our Wigan store and opened five Desire by Debenhams
stores, in Kirkcaldy, Merthyr, Walton-on-Thames, Altrincham and Birmingham Fort. In addition, on 12 September 2006,
Debenhams completed the acquisition of nine Roches stores in the Republic of Ireland which have subsequently all been
re-branded as Debenhams stores. The chart below shows the new stores opened during the year and projected openings:
Current and new store pipeline
The new store pipeline will help underpin future growth and profits. The directors believe that Debenhams has
the potential to increase its presence in the UK and the Republic of Ireland to 240 department stores and 100
Desire by Debenhams stores.
At the beginning of the year Debenhams had 80 core stores, being stores which had neither opened nor been
refurbished in the last four years. Nine of these stores were modernised during the year, with an enhanced
level of investment. Refurbished stores are able to display a greater level of product in a way that is easier for
customers to shop. Brands are clearly delineated and displayed in a more premium way. The refurbished stores
are being used as a model to enforce visual merchandising techniques, such as the space that must be created
around fixtures and the number of options contained on each arm. A further 12 refurbishments are currently
taking place, with almost all of the remaining core estate scheduled to be refurbished over the next two years.
Modernised stores as a percentage of estate
During the year £5.7 million was invested in implementing radio frequency technology in all stores. This enables
better planning and quicker execution of store tasks. In particular price changes can be made more rapidly,
clearly and accurately. The resulting reduction in employee hours dedicated to price changes permits employees
more time to serve customers, this being an important element of Debenhams’ plans to maximise selling
opportunities over the coming year.
110
120
130
140
150
160
Number of stores
170
180
2005
close
Stores 
opened in
2006
2006
close
Roche
openings
Stores 
opened in
2007
Stores 
closed in 
2007
2007
close
Contracted 
to open in 
2008
Contracted 
to close in 
2008
Contracted 
to open in 
2009
Stores 
closed post 
2010
Contracted 
to open in 
2010
onwards
Desire
Notes: 2007 includes one re-site, 2008 includes three re-sites, the corresponding old stores accounted for in closures
Additional closure in 2008 is Dublin Jervis Street
Department stores Closures
117
1
1
2
5
3
122
4
9
3
5
133
9
9
1
4 6
3
17
0
20
40
60
80
100
04/05 H1 04/05 H2 05/06 H1 05/06 H2 06/07 H1 06/07 H2 07/08 H1 07/08 H2 08/09 H1 08/09 H2
0
3
5
18
20
27
45
57
73
89 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 32
Sales in the international franchise operation made up 2.2 per cent of total Company sales. The international store
portfolio increased by four stores during the year. Since then we have opened three new stores and have plans to
open a further six franchise stores in 2007/08. Direct sales through the Company’s internet site made up 1.1 per cent
of Company sales. The investment made last year to enhance the stability of the site and the shopping experience
for customers now allows the Company to actively drive sales through a broad marketing programme.
2006/07 2005/06
The margin rate for the year was 42.2 per cent of sales, 0.9 per cent below last year. This reduction in margin as
a percentage of sales was the result of a higher percentage of concession to own-bought sales and the impact
of the Roches acquisition in its first year. The percentage margin also reduced because of higher markdowns as
the Company focused on a strict “clear as you go” markdown policy throughout the year ensuring control of
terminal stocks (terminal stock levels at the end of the year were 3.3 per cent, in line with last year).
After deducting depreciation and interest, profit before tax and exceptional items for the year was £127.5 million
(2006: £112.8 million). A large proportion of the exceptional items relates to non-cash write-offs associated with
the closure of Debenhams’ store in Jervis Street. Following the Roches acquisition Debenhams is consolidating
its operations into one store in Dublin. Terms were agreed in June 2007 to assign the lease on Jervis Street to
Arnotts; Debenhams will continue to trade in Dublin city centre from its 140,000 sq ft store in Henry Street.
The profit after tax for the financial year ending 1 September 2007 was £79.0 million (2006: £43.7 million).
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 3.8 pence per ordinary share, to be paid on
4 January 2008 to members on the register at the close of business on 7 December 2007. This together with
the interim dividend of 2.5 pence paid in July gives a full year dividend of 6.3 pence.
Since the business was taken private in December 2003 there has been a strong focus on cash generation. The
cash generated by the business is derived from its profit (after adding back depreciation) and working capital
(where the movement was cash positive compared to last year) less capital expenditure (which totalled £96.5, the
majority of which was on new stores and refurbishment). Net debt at the end of the year was £1,016.5 million.
The Company seeks to foster a rewarding and satisfying working environment through its reward and benefit
structures, through consideration of and flexibility to meet employee requirements (of which further details are
given in the corporate responsibility report on pages 24 to 25), and through communication with employees
and providing opportunities for feedback. The key performance indicator is the rate of labour turnover.
In addition to incentives (the share schemes and the bonus programmes foster an interest in the Company’s
financial performance), it is important that the Company involves employees in business issues and recognises
and addresses concerns or difficulties in their roles. For example, one of the benefits of the introduction of radio
frequency technology is that it streamlines the previously cumbersome and unsatisfying process of manually
effecting price reductions in stores.
At the beginning of the financial year the Company consulted with its employees about future pension
arrangements (the 60 day consultation period came to an end on 15 September 2006). In the light of that
consultation certain changes were made to the Company’s proposals, such as increasing the life assurance cover
and continuing to permit contributions to the additional voluntary contribution schemes.
The Company further promoted opportunities for regular feedback during the year through:
• The Employee Consultation Forum. Elected employee representatives are an important part of the
communication framework. Their role is not only to gather information and views from the employees
they represent but they are also consulted on a wide range of business initiatives.
• The executive directors also held regular sessions with a cross section of volunteers from around the business
(the Feedback Forum), to gather informal feedback on new ideas and existing practices.
n Retail 89.0%
n Desire 1.0%
n Ex-Roches 6.7%
n International 2.2%
n Direct 1.1%
n Retail 96.8%
n Desire 0.4%
n International 1.9%
n Direct 0.9% Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 33
• A new initiative was “ask the board” . This gives any employee the opportunity to ask a question of the board
or to raise an idea for consideration.
• In addition to the quarterly magazine Business News, periodic meetings were held with head office employees
and conference calls with store employees to provide updates on business performance and key initiatives.
This business review does not include details of Debenhams’ corporate responsibility programme; a separate
report is set out on pages 19 to 27.
Principal business risks and uncertainties
Debenhams is a large and complicated business. There are a number of risks and uncertainties, both from
external factors such as the economic environment and internal factors such as the retention of key
management that could substantially impact its performance.
Statements made in the annual report that look forward in time or express management’s beliefs, expectations
or estimates regarding future occurrences and prospects are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning
of the United States federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements reflect Debenhams’ current
expectations concerning future events and actual results may differ materially from current expectations or
historical results. Any such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
It is not possible to schedule all risks and uncertainties but major risk factors include:
i) Debenhams’ ability to predict or fulfil customer demands or preferences;
ii) competitive pressures in the highly competitive retail sector. Debenhams’ competitors include not just
other general retailers but specialist retailers, supermarkets and other low-price high-volume retailers,
and internet operators;
iii) new store and modernisation performance;
iv) factors outside Debenhams’ control such as adverse economic conditions, a downturn in the retail industry,
changes in the financial or equity markets, industrial unrest, adverse weather, natural disaster, war or terrorist
activity; these could particularly have a major impact during peak selling periods;
v) events that negatively impact the Debenhams brand, for example in areas such as product quality, supply
chain practices and health and safety;
vi) the departure of key personnel;
vii) work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes or operational disruption;
viii) personal injuries or property damage relating to a major Debenhams or supplier location through fire or
other risk;
ix) the effectiveness of Debenhams’ brand awareness and marketing programmes;
x) disruptions or other adverse events affecting Debenhams’ relationship with or the performance of its
major suppliers, store card provider, designers or concessionaires; for example certain designers are very
important to its business, a large quantity of Debenhams’ merchandise is manufactured by a small number
of suppliers etc;
xi) risks associated with Debenhams’ properties, all of which are now held through leasehold interests or former
properties for which Debenhams may have potential liabilities in the event of default of the current tenant;
xii) loss of business or additional expenditure from regulation; and
xiii) currency and hedging risks (a substantial proportion of Debenhams’ imports are paid for in US dollars),
interest rate risks, credit risks and financial covenant risks under the credit facilities.
The Company’s internal control process is set out on pages 39 to 40.
The corporate responsibility report, on pages 19 to 27, details the key environmental performance indicators
and risks. DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 34
Events since the year end
Since the year end the Company has opened two new department stores, in Welwyn Garden City (on 10 October
2007) and Lanelli (on 25 September 2007) which together with the newly re-sited department stores in Exeter
(which opened on 20 September) and Derby (on 9 October) bring the total number of stores in the UK and the
Republic of Ireland to 144.
Share capital
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are shown in note 28 to the financial statements on
page 80. No shares were allotted during the period.
Major shareholders
As at 23 October 2007, the following notifications have been received from holders of material interests in
3 per cent or more of the Company’s issued share capital:
Percentage
Number of of issued
shares share capital
Unity Investments ehf, Unity One ehf and Baugur Group hf
(holdings through a total return swap with an option for
physical settlement) 116,000,000 13.5
TPG Shareholder Group 113,135,197 13.2
CVC Shareholder Group 79,498,424 9.3
Merrill Lynch Shareholder Group 53,443,493 6.2
Bestinver Gestion SGIIC, S.A. 48,513,840 5.6
BlackRock Inc 41,320,750 4.8
Lazard Asset Management LLC Group 34,448,811 4.0
Wellington Management Company, LLP 34,721,468 4.0
Newton Investment Management Limited 33,920,576 3.9
AXA S.A. 31,505,666 3.7
UBS AG 32,019,753 3.7
Mellon Financial Corporation 30,579,196 3.6
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited 25,833,875 3.0
The takeovers directive
The Company has one class of share capital, ordinary shares. All the shares rank pari passu. The TPG, CVC and
Merrill Lynch shareholders entered into an orderly market agreement amongst themselves, as part of the
flotation which may limit the number of shares which each of them may sell within specified periods of time.
This agreement expires on 31 January 2008. There are no special control rights in relation to the Company’s
shares. The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 owns 103,602 shares in the Company (0.01 per cent); any
voting or other similar decisions relating to those shares would be taken by the trustees, who may take account
of any recommendation of the Company. The rules governing the appointment and replacement of board
members and changes to the Articles of Association accord with usual English company law provisions. The
board has power to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming AGM
within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting. There are no significant agreements to which the
Company is a party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Company except
that the supplier agreements with all major cosmetic suppliers contain termination provisions on change of
control. There are no agreements providing for compensation for directors or employees on change of control.
Directors and directors’ interests
The directors of the Company during the year are set out in the corporate governance report on page 37.
The interests of the directors in the shares of the Company are contained in the directors’ remuneration report
on pages 41 to 47.
No director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of significance in relation
to the Group’s business, except that until 9 May 2007 the directors were subject to the constraints on the sale
of their shares in the Underwriting Agreement entered into between the Company and others on 3 May 2006
in advance of the IPO.
In addition to the indemnity provisions in their Articles of Association, the Company and other Group companies
have entered into a direct indemnity agreement with each of the directors and certain other officers or employees
of the Group. In addition the Company has purchased directors and officers insurance. Copies of the indemnity
agreements are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 35
Employees
Debenhams is committed to promoting policies to ensure that employees or applicants for employment are
treated equally, regardless of gender, marital status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion,
disability, sexual orientation or age, and are not disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be
shown to be justified. It applies employment policies that are fair and equitable and which ensure that entry into
and progression within the Company are determined solely by job criteria, personal ability and competence.
The Company’s policy is to apply best practice in the employment and training of disabled persons. Full and fair
consideration is given to every application for employment from disabled persons whose aptitude and skills can
be utilised in the business and to their training and career development, including, wherever practicable, the
retraining and retention of staff who become disabled during their employment. A new Company induction
course and DVD, on both employment and customer care issues for disabled people, were produced during the
year, a Disability Awareness week was run in May 2007 and the Company has revised its equal opportunities
policies and created a “disability champion” in the HR team.
Further information on employee and disability programmes are given in the corporate responsibility report
on pages 24 to 26.
Payment of suppliers
It is the Company’s policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the agreed payment terms provided that
the invoice is properly presented and not subject to dispute.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts owed by the Company to trade creditors at the end of the year
and the amounts invoiced by suppliers in the financial year ended 1 September 2007 was 57 days (2006: 53 days).
Financial instruments
Debenhams does not enter into financial instruments for speculative trade. Details of financial instruments
entered into for underlying risks are set out in note 23 on pages 73 to 75.
Political donations
It is the Group’s policy not to make donations to political parties. There were no disclosable expenses made
during the financial year which fall within the definition of a political donation under the Political Parties,
Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Charitable giving
Details of the Company’s charitable activities are given in the corporate responsibility report on pages 19 to 27.
The Group made direct donations for charitable purposes in the financial year of £96,000 to the Breast Cancer
Campaign (2006: £150,000). Other donations amounting to £60,000 were made in the financial year ended
1 September 2007.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.
Disclosure of information to auditors
Each of the directors of the Company at the time when the directors’ report was approved confirms that:
a) so far as the director is aware, there is no information needed by the Company’s auditors in connection with
preparing their report of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
b) he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any
information needed by the Company’s auditors in connection with preparing their report and to establish
that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution dealing with
their reappointment as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held at 1 Welbeck Street, London W1G 0AA on Tuesday 4 December
2007 at 3.30pm. Items 1 to 11 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions. More than 50 per cent of shareholders’
votes must be in favour for these resolutions to be passed. Items 12 and 13 will be proposed as special
resolutions. At least 75 per cent of shareholders’ votes must be in favour for these resolutions to be passed.
The board recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions. DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 36
Ordinary business
The ordinary business at that meeting will be the laying before the Company of the report and accounts, the
approval of the remuneration report (which is on pages 41 to 47), the approval of the final dividend (which if
approved will be paid on 4 January 2008 to shareholders on the register of members on 7 December 2007),
the re-election of directors, the re-election of auditors and the setting of their fees.
In accordance with the provision of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued by the UK Listing
Authority, four directors, Richard Gillingwater, Peter Long, Dennis Millard and Rob Templeman are seeking
re-election by shareholders at the Company’s AGM. The directors have all confirmed that they will stand for
reappointment. Biographical information on each of the directors is contained on pages 28 to 29 and details of
their skills and experience are set out in the report of the Nomination Committee and the remuneration report.
Messrs Gillingwater, Long and Millard are independent non-executive directors, forming part of the balance
between independent non-executive and other representation on the board. Rob Templeman has been Chief
Executive of the Group since December 2003. The Chairman has confirmed, following performance evaluation,
that the performance of all directors including the non-executive directors is effective and demonstrates
commitment to the role. Although their appointments may be terminated on one months’ notice, the board
appoints the non-executive directors for an initial three-year term subject to re-election and the provisions
of the Companies Acts and the Articles of Association of the Company.
Auditors must be appointed at every general meeting at which accounts are presented to shareholders.
It is normal practice for the Audit Committee of the Company to be authorised to determine the auditors’ fees.
Resolutions 8 and 9 cover these matters.
Special business
Resolution 10 seeks authority to communicate with shareholders electronically. The Company intends, subject
to shareholder approval, to make documents and information available to shareholders by publication on its
website. A letter has therefore been sent to all shareholders with this annual report seeking agreement to
the use of electronic means in this way for conveying information. If you do not respond to that letter by
12 December 2007 you will be deemed to have consented to receive documents in this way. The Company will
write to notify shareholders every time information is published on the website and will continue to send hard
copies when requested by a shareholder.
Resolution 11 allows the directors to issue, in addition to the Company’s obligations under its employee share
schemes, up to 286,320,000 shares, which is equal to 33.3 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital as at
4 November 2007, being the latest practicable date before the publication of this notice. This is in line with the
guidelines produced by the main investor protection and pension fund committees. The directors have no
specific intention at the moment of exercising this authority. Subject to this authority being passed, resolution
12 allows the directors to issue, in addition to the Company’s obligations under its employee share schemes,
up to 42,948,717 shares in exchange for cash without first having to offer the shares to existing shareholders.
This is 5 per cent of the Company’s issued share capital as at 4 November 2007, the latest practicable date before
the publication of this notice. The Company will not issue more than 7.5 per cent of its share capital for cash on
a non-pre-emptive basis in a rolling three-year period without seeking further authority.
Resolution 13 renews the authority to purchase shares. The resolution sets out the maximum number of shares
which the Company can buy, the highest and lowest price at which they can be bought and when this authority
expires. This resolution follows the rules set down by the Companies Act 1985, the UK Listing Authority and is in
line with the guidelines produced by the main investor protection and pension fund committees.
The directors are committed to managing the Company’s capital effectively and keep under review the
possibility of the Company buying back its own shares either for cancellation or for holding in treasury (it is
currently the directors’ intention, were shares to be bought back, for them to be cancelled unless bought for the
purposes of employee share schemes when they may be retained in treasury). The Company will only buy back
shares if the directors believe that it is in shareholders’ best interests and will increase earnings per share. No
shares were bought during the 2006/2007 financial year.
By order of the board
Paul Eardley
Company Secretary
23 October 2007 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 37
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Combined Code
The Company has, since 17 April 2007, been fully compliant with the provisions of the Combined Code (2003)
on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council. The only provision with which it did not
comply before that date was the requirement, in Code Provision A.3.2, that at least half the board, excluding the
Chairman, should be independent non-executive directors. On 17 April 2007 Guido Padovano resigned as a
non-executive director to devote more time to his other business interests as a managing director of the Merrill
Lynch Global Private Equity Division. Excluding the Chairman there are now five independent non-executive and
five other directors on the board.
As required under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the following section sets out how the
Company has applied the principles of Section 1 of the Combined Code (2003) on Corporate Governance.
The board
The board is chaired by John Lovering, who has been Chairman of the Group since December 2003. There
are two other non-executive directors who do not fall within the definition of independence set out in the
Combined Code because of the shareholdings that they represent, namely Philippe Costeletos (who is a partner
of Texas Pacific Group Limited) and Jonathan Feuer (who is a managing partner of CVC Capital Partners).
The executive directors are Rob Templeman (Chief Executive), Chris Woodhouse (Finance Director) and Michael
Sharp (Chief Operating Officer). There are five independent non-executive directors: Richard Gillingwater, Senior
Independent Director (who chairs the Remuneration Committee), Adam Crozier, Peter Long, Dennis Millard
(who chairs the Audit Committee) and Paul Pindar (who chairs the Nomination Committee).
None of the independent non-executive directors have any relationship or involvement with the Company
which could or could appear to affect their independence of judgement. They are not also directors of the same
company as any other directors, were not previously employed by the Company and do not participate in any
Company bonus, share option or pension scheme.
Board meetings are attended, in addition to the directors, by Nigel Palmer (Retail Operations Director), Nikki
Zamblera (Human Resources Director) and by the Company Secretary. The board considers at each of its meetings
reports which are circulated in advance of the meeting from the executive directors on major operational matters.
Reports are also made by specialists on general and Company business areas to update and refresh the skills and
knowledge of the board. It also schedules reports from other executives and external advisers on key business
areas; in 2006/07 matters covered by such reports included marketing and PR, the supply chain and distribution,
information systems, succession planning and the advertising programme. In addition the board holds a separate
strategy meeting each year; in 2006/07 this was held over a full day and took place at the Debenhams store in
Reading. The board also considers and approves, where appropriate, major Company decisions, as set out in the
formal schedule of matters reserved to it, such as approval of the operating plan and any material changes,
approval of the annual and interim reports of the Company and all preliminary announcements of results,
approval of the dividend policy, determination of the interim dividend and the recommendation (subject to the
approval of shareholders in general meeting) of the final dividend and approval of any new stores. Operational
decisions are delegated to the Company’s management.
There were seven meetings of the board, including the full day strategy meeting, during the year. All directors
attended all meetings except that Philippe Costeletos, Jonathan Feuer, Guido Padovano, Richard Gillingwater
and Peter Long did not attend one meeting and Paul Pindar two meetings due to other commitments.
The division of responsibilities between John Lovering and Rob Templeman, the Chairman and Chief Executive
respectively, is clearly established based on the principle of the Chairman’s responsibility for the effective
running of the board and the Chief Executive’s responsibility for the operation of the business. Their division
of responsibilities is set out in writing and has been agreed by the board.
During the year an evaluation was carried out of the board, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees
and the individual directors. At the same time the Company also took the opportunity to evaluate the external
and internal auditors. Debenhams implemented its evaluation process through the circulation of a number
of questionnaires, which were prepared so as to encompass the key responsibilities and attributes required
of the evaluated group or individual, taking into account inter alia the guidance in the Combined Code (2003)
on Corporate Governance. The directors and others completed the questionnaires and the results of the
evaluations were analysed in detail and considered by the Chairman, senior independent non-executive director,
HR Director and then by all the non-executive directors at a meeting in early September 2007. The independent
non-executive directors also met without the Chairman present during the year.
The results of the evaluation process have been communicated to the board, including the chairmen of the
various committees. Actions have been taken in the light of matters identified. For example, the board and the
Audit Committee both now give on a more regular basis consideration to working practices in the supply chain;
the Audit Committee agenda includes business continuity issues and it has also considered the means by which CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 38
the Company publicises, enforces and monitors its codes of conduct, and a greater focus at board meetings
is given to competitive analysis of pricing/product strategies. In terms of the composition of board committees,
it was considered important that the Chairman of the Nomination Committee should also be a member of the
Remuneration Committee and so Paul Pindar has joined the Remuneration Committee and relinquished his
membership of the Audit Committee on 18 October 2007.
Nomination Committee
Paul Pindar chairs the Nomination Committee. The other members are Richard Gillingwater, John Lovering and
Dennis Millard. Its main obligation is to lead the process for board appointments and make recommendations
to the board. As part of this role the Committee considers on a regular basis the balance of skills, knowledge and
experience on the board. The terms of reference of the Committee are published on the Company’s website at
www.debenhamsplc.com/deb/gov/nomination.pdf.
Prior to the admission of the Company to listing in May 2006 an external search consultancy carried out a
recruitment process, which resulted in the appointment of five new independent non-executive directors. The
brief for that consultancy required that it consider the balance of skills and experience required for the board.
That assessment has also been carried out, internally, in 2007 through a board and board committee evaluation
process (referred to above in the report on the board) which amongst other things considered whether the
composition of the board was appropriate, the performance of the board, the issues on which it focuses, and
whether the roles and responsibilities of board members were clearly defined. The Committee is satisfied that
it has the appropriate balance on the board; their skills and experience are broad and diverse, encompassing
substantial retail expertise amongst the Chairman and executive team, and diverse skills in running other
successful companies amongst the non-executive directors.
The Committee has met on three occasions, on 24 August 2006, 8 June 2007 and 6 September 2007. In addition
to the matters set out above, subjects covered at those meetings included considering the quality of senior
management and succession planning, reviewing its terms of reference and recommending directors’ re-election.
All members of the Committee attended all the meetings.
Guido Padovano resigned from the board on 17 April 2007. The Committee gave consideration to whether
Mr Padovano should be replaced as a director and concluded, as the board still includes two directors, Philippe
Costeletos and Jonathan Feuer, who represent major shareholders and who give continuity with the private
ownership period, that he should not be replaced.
The Committee has agreed that Richard Gillingwater, Peter Long, Dennis Millard and Rob Templeman should
retire by rotation at this year’s AGM and are properly qualified for re-appointment by virtue of their skills and
experience and their contribution to the board and the Company.
Relations with shareholders
The board is responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders.
Two of the largest shareholders, TPG and CVC, are represented on the board, by Philippe Costeletos and
Jonathan Feuer. The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are always available to major shareholders.
Indeed Richard Gillingwater met with a number of shareholders in March and April of this year to discuss incentive
matters. Formal trading updates were given to the market on six occasions in 2006/07, following the preliminary
announcement of the full year results (in October 2006) and the interim results (in April 2007), at the AGM in
December 2006, in January 2007 by a Christmas trading announcement, and at trading updates given shortly
after the end of the full year or half year (in September 2006 and March 2007 respectively). Following each of
these announcements a conference call took place with shareholders and analysts and after the full year and
interim results a presentation was made to the retail sector analysts. Analysts or brokers’ briefings are circulated
to the board. A programme of meetings and conference calls are also organised at appropriate times during the
year at which the Chief Executive and Finance Director comment on Company performance and respond to any
issues raised by investors. This programme included, after the full year and interim results announcements,
meetings with investors in London, Boston and New York. In addition Debenhams hosted a meeting for retail
analysts, including a visit to Staines, a non-modernised store, and the refurbished store at Uxbridge, on 30 May
2007. At the AGM in December the chairman made a presentation on the Company’s financial performance and
major initiatives such as new stores, international expansion, the Roches Stores acquisition and the growth of the
internet business.
In recognition of the importance of its dialogue with shareholders the Company appointed Lisa Williams as
Head of Investor Relations in August 2007. She previously held similar positions at Rentokil Initial Plc and the
Cookson Group. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 39
Audit Committee
Dennis Millard chairs the Audit Committee. Its other members are Adam Crozier, Richard Gillingwater and
Peter Long. All members of the Committee have business and financial expertise. The Chairman is a chartered
accountant with recent and relevant financial experience. The Committee has written terms of reference, which
have been published on www.debenhamsplc.com/deb/gov/audit.pdf. The Committee met on three occasions
during the year; all the members of the Committee attended all meetings except that Peter Long could not
attend one meeting and Paul Pindar, who relinquished his membership of the Committee on 18 October 2007,
was unable to attend two meetings due to other commitments. Audit Committee meetings are also attended
by the Finance Director, the Company Secretary, the Head of Risk Management, the external auditors, and the
Treasurer for the presentation of his report. The Committee met without the presence of management with both
the external and internal auditors during the year.
After each meeting the Chairman reports to the board on the matters discussed and raises with the appropriate
executive director any issue of concern. The minutes of the meetings are circulated to all directors.
There is a detailed agenda for each meeting. The broad structure of the Audit Committee’s agenda last year was
as follows:
• In October 2006 the Committee considered the external auditors’ performance and independence and
their re-appointment, reviewed the annual financial statements, key accounting policies, areas of judgement
and quality of earnings, the auditors’ report on the year end audit and management’s responses to the
issues raised.
• In April 2007 the Committee reviewed the interim financial statements, accounting policies, judgements,
quality of earnings and the interim audit report and responses.
• In July 2007 the internal audit programme for the following year was agreed, based on the risk assessment
process detailed below. In addition the external audit strategy and scope for the forthcoming audit was
approved.
At each meeting a report was also made to the Committee by the internal auditors, based on the audit plan
agreed in the previous July, on control issues and significant findings. Reports on treasury, litigation and health
and safety were also made to each meeting.
Internal control
The board considers it important that there should be a regular and systematic assessment of the risks facing
the business. The board is responsible for the Company’s system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This report sets out how the Company maintains a framework of internal controls and how the Audit Committee
reviewed during the year the effectiveness of that framework. In reviewing its risk management and internal
control procedures, the Company has considered the revised guidance on internal control issued by the
Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
A control environment review was carried out across the business in April 2007, in which function heads set
out their business objectives, risks to their achievement and controls to mitigate those risks. Each department
received a copy of its control review. Risks were ranked according to a matrix of severity and likelihood of
occurrence. A new electronic process facilitated both the completion of the control environment review and
its collation into a ranking of risk, set out in risk maps and the risk register. The findings from the control
environment review were presented to the Audit Committee in July of this year and the internal audit plan was
derived from this ranking in conjunction with cyclical requirements for head office (where all areas are audited
at least once every three years) and stores (at least every two years). After risks have been identified and assessed
a written report on the specific area is sent to each function head and their executive director. Following
communication in this way the next stage of the risk process is control and risk management activities, including
if possible risk transfer (through a third party contract), financing the risk through insurance, or consideration
by the function head of re-engineering the process. Finally the risks that have been identified are monitored,
through the audit programme (including computer assisted auditing techniques designed to highlight irregular
patterns and trends), through internal procedures such as stock takes and stock file counts, through prevention
tools such as CCTV and a point-of-sale fraud prevention system, and through management controls. Training
and support is provided by the risk management team, and the risk management website provides best
practice guidelines and business policies for risk management.
The internal audit team created in the year a high and serious risk monitor so that such risks and their controls
are reviewed on the most frequent basis. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 40
Internal audit forms part of the risk management department, which also comprises the anti-fraud department,
insurance and profit protection. In this way the Company maintains a cohesive approach to all aspects of risk
management and an operational focus to internal audit. The risk management team was strengthened during
the year through the recruitment of two additional internal auditors and an additional profit protection manager.
In addition to the audit programme there are a number of processes to test the Company’s financial information
and controls. An operating plan is prepared in August of each year and a revised forecast is then prepared each
month, which analyses actual performance and highlights variances against the plan. In particular, performance
is monitored through a series of key ratios. Daily sales, weekly sales and margin and monthly management
accounts are also prepared, all of which report on performance against plan, last year and forecast.
A treasury report is made to each meeting of the board, covering matters such as senior operating restrictions
and covenant reporting and forecasting (under the banking facilities), exposure to foreign exchange and
hedging arrangements, net debt and interest rate hedging, cash flow and cash flow forecasting and amounts
deposited with counterparties.
Whistle blowing
All employees are required to adhere to the Code of Business Conduct (senior employees confirm compliance
in writing). This sets out the ethical standards expected by the Company and includes details of how matters
can be raised in strict confidence. There are two main routes available to encourage employees at all levels
within the organisation to raise concerns over malpractices. The first, employee guidelines to problem solving,
encourages employees to talk to their line manager, their manager’s line manager or if still concerned to call HR
Connect (the central human resources team) directly. Alternatively there is a confidential reporting line, where
employees can speak to the Debenhams anti-fraud team. If an employee feels that the matter is so serious that
it cannot be discussed in any of these ways, he/she should contact the Company Secretary or the Head of Risk
Management directly. Contact details are given for all these routes. The Company’s policy on whistle blowing
and these methods of raising issues of concern were specifically communicated to all employees in May 2007
and are published on the intranet.
Auditor independence
In order to ensure that an appropriate relationship is maintained with the external auditors, a policy on auditor
independence has been established. This covers matters such as that auditors and their staff have no family,
financial, employment, investment or business relationship with the Company, the employment by the Company
of former audit employees, the rotation of audit partners and the provision of non-audit services. The objective
of the Audit Committee’s policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor is to ensure
that the provision of such services does not impair the external auditors’ independence or objectivity. An
independent report was produced by the central costs team each quarter during the year detailing all non
audit work, its cost, when it was carried out and who instructed it. This information was reported to the Audit
Committee at each meeting. The Audit Committee also obtained at the meeting in July 2007 information from
the auditors about its policies and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with
relevant rotation requirements.
£26,900 was paid by the Company to PricewaterhouseCoopers for non-audit services which related to a review
of inter-company loans and distributable reserves. The audit fees paid by the pension schemes were £24,000. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 41
REMUNERATION REPORT
Approval of the report
This report for the year ended 1 September 2007 has been prepared in accordance with the requirements
of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the
provisions of the Combined Code (2003). The sections on directors’ emoluments, the Debenhams Performance Share
and Executive Share Option Plans and pension have been subject to external audit by PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP . Shareholders will be asked to approve the report at the AGM on 4 December 2007.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Richard Gillingwater and its other members throughout the year are
Adam Crozier, Peter Long, Dennis Millard and Paul Pindar. All the members of the Committee are independent
non-executive directors and have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be
decided. The Committee met once during the 2006/07 financial year (all members were present at the meeting),
once informally and matters were reviewed by the Committee through written or telephone consultation on two
further occasions. The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Committee’s duties include determining all elements of the remuneration of the executive directors and the
Company Secretary, considering succession planning for senior management, reviewing the remuneration policy
and overseeing the operation of the Company’s share schemes. The Committee’s terms of reference are
published at www.debenhamsplc.com/deb/gov/remuneration.pdf
The Committee has appointed KPMG LLP to provide it with independent advice on directors’ remuneration
and share plans. KPMG also provides industry and comparative employee remuneration data to Debenhams’
management. The Committee has also consulted with the Company’s Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance
Director and Human Resources Director but not on matters relating to their own compensation or contracts.
The Remuneration Committee considers data from KPMG about total remuneration in other comparable
companies, and the elements of that total remuneration, in order to inform its consideration of the remuneration
of Company executives.
Remuneration policy
It is the Company’s policy to provide levels of remuneration which will attract and retain high quality employees
in a competitive retail market and, where possible, to structure its remuneration in the most cost effective way
for the business. In addition to basic salary and pension provision the Company seeks to incentivise its employees
through an annual bonus scheme and through its share schemes. It is the intention of the Committee to weight
executive directors’ remuneration towards performance-linked pay and to strike a balance between short and
long-term incentives that gives greater participation to the longer term for superior levels of performance.
The Committee considers executive salary increases in the light of comparative data from companies similar in
size and sector and in the context of salary increases across the Group’s wider employee population. The salaries
of the executive directors increased in 2006/07 by 2.5 per cent; this was in line with the rate of payroll inflation
across the employee population as a whole.
The annual bonus focuses on the achievement of specific sales, profit and other business targets for the financial
year. For example, for store managers it is based on the sales and cash profit performance of their store, for buyers
it is based on the sales and margin of the product area for which they are responsible, for certain other head
office areas it is based on sales and profit performance of the Company as a whole. For executive directors
in 2006/07 it was made up of a number of factors, some Company-wide (such as profit and net debt), some more
specific (such as the performance of the stores acquired from Allders and Roches). In normal circumstances
executive directors could potentially earn an annual bonus of up to 100 per cent of salary subject to the
achievement of these targets. For 2006/07 the executive directors’ bonus targets comprise profit, net debt and
like-for-like sales hurdles.
Incentives are also provided through the Performance Share Plan (in which the executive directors participate)
or the Executive Share Option Plan, encouraging a long-term commitment to the Company’s share price and
earnings per share performance.
It is the Company’s policy that the notice periods of executive directors should not exceed one year. The
Remuneration Committee has considered the financial consequences of early termination of directors’ service
contracts; in order to limit liability and provide certainty in the event of termination of a contract without cause,
their contracts contain liquidated damages clauses. If the Company terminates the employment without due
notice, other than in circumstances such as gross misconduct or other immediate justifiable cause, the Company
is required to make a payment equal to the aggregate of the executive director’s basic salary and the value of his
contractual benefits for the notice period and an amount equal to the average of the annual bonus paid to the
executive director in the two bonus years prior to the termination of his employment. REMUNERATION REPORT
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 42
The cost of operating defined benefit pension schemes has, over recent years, become higher and more
unpredictable and potentially, if not addressed, could increase the risk for accrued benefits (including pensioners
and deferred members). Following consultation over 60 days with employees, the Company ceased accrual of
pensionable service under the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan and the Debenhams Retirement Scheme with
effect from 1 November 2006, with benefits accrued to 31 October 2006, including the benefits of deferred and
pensioner members, being retained in the schemes. In addition, the Debenhams Retirement Scheme was closed
to new members with effect from the same date (the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan was closed to new
entrants in 2002). Pension arrangements are now provided through a Defined Contribution Stakeholder Plan.
In the Republic of Ireland, pension arrangements are made by way of a Defined Contribution Scheme. The
pension benefits of the executive directors are now therefore provided through a defined contribution of 15 per
cent of salary (20 per cent for Michael Sharp); only Michael Sharp was a member of the old defined benefit plan
and details of his accrued benefits in the scheme are set out in the section headed pension in this report.
Letters of appointment and service contracts
The Chairman and the non-executive directors have letters of appointment from the Company covering matters
such as duties, time commitment, fees and other business interests. The appointments may be terminated by
either party giving one month’s notice.
The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by the board and is made up of an annual fee
for acting as a non-executive director of the Company and fees for chairing and for membership of a board
committee. The non-executive directors do not take part in discussions on their own remuneration. The fees are
set to reflect the time which they are required to commit to their duties, their experience and the amounts paid
to non-executive directors in comparable companies. There has been no increase in non-executive directors fees
in the year.
Details of the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are set out below and the terms are available
for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
Date of Date of
joining letter of
Name Position Annual fee the Group appointment
John Lovering Chairman £250,000 8 September 2003 19 April 2006
Philippe Costeletos Non-executive director £40,000 8 September 2003 24 April 2006
Adam Crozier Independent
non-executive director £45,000 9 May 2006 18 April 2006
Jonathan Feuer Non-executive director £40,000 8 September 2003 24 April 2006
Richard Gillingwater Senior independent
non-executive director £62,500 9 May 2006 20 April 2006
Peter Long Independent
non-executive director £45,000 9 May 2006 24 April 2006
Dennis Millard Independent
non-executive director £55,000 9 May 2006 10 April 2006
Paul Pindar Independent
non- executive director £50,000 9 May 2006 19 April 2006
The executive directors Rob Templeman, Chris Woodhouse and Michael Sharp entered into service agreements
with the Company on 3 May 2006. Each agreement is terminable by either party giving not less than 12 months’
written notice, save that Michael Sharp is required to give the Company six months’ notice.
Executive directors are entitled, in addition to salary, to other benefits or equivalent cash allowances, the value
of which is set out in the table of directors’ emoluments, including company car and fuel, life, medical and
personal accident insurance.
Rob Templeman and Chris Woodhouse are permitted to hold up to two non-executive directorships in non-
competing companies. The executive directors retain payments received in respect of their other directorships.
On 22 December 2006 Chris Woodhouse was appointed non-executive Chairman of Gondola (which owns
restaurant groups including Pizza Express), for which his fees in 2006/07 were £104,032. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 43
Directors’ emoluments
Audited information on the remuneration of each director for the full year is set out in the following table:
Annual
Allowance
in lieu of Total Total
Salary/fees Benefits Bonus pension 2007 2006
Director ££ £££ £
John Lovering 250,000 173 –– 250,173 190,498
Rob Templeman 656,650 34,558 – 98,498 789,706 1,076,673
Chris Woodhouse 446,515 24,759 – 66,977 538,251 740,422
Michael Sharp 415,000 36,818 – 83,000 534,818 980,442
Philippe Costleletos 40,000 –– – 40,000 12,615
Adam Crozier 45,000 –– – 45,000 14,192
Jonathan Feuer 40,000 –– – 40,000 12,615
Richard Gillingwater 62,500 –– – 62,500 –*
Peter Long 45,000 –– – 45,000 14,192
Dennis Millard 55,000 –– – 55,000 17,346
Guido Padovano 35,897 –– – 35,897 12,615
Paul Pindar 50,000 –– – 50,000 15,769
Total 2,141,562 96,308 – 248,475 2,486,345 3,087,379
* Waived
The fees of Philippe Costeletos, Jonathan Feuer and Guido Padovano are paid to TPG, CVC and Merrill Lynch
respectively rather than being paid to the individual non-executive director.
On 17 April 2007, Guido Padovano resigned as a non-executive director. No compensation was paid on his
resignation.
Share schemes
Baroness Employee Limited Partnership (“BELP”)
In June 2004, certain senior managers were invited to invest in the Group through the purchase of units in
BELP (corresponding to shares in the Company). In the 2005/06 financial year 30 per cent of those shares were
distributed and the balance of 70 per cent (totalling 12,891,480 shares) were distributed on 9 May 2007 to
37 employees (including 5,250,000 shares distributed to Michael Sharp, an executive director, which have not
subsequently been sold by him). In addition BELP transferred 335,505 shares on 9 May 2007 to the Debenhams
Employee Retail Trust 2004. There will be no further share transfers or distributions by BELP , which no longer
holds any shares in the Company.
The Debenhams Employee Option Plan
When the Group was privately owned, an executive option plan was put in place. On exercise, participants
acquired shares in the Company at a specified option price per share. The balance of 50 per cent of the options
became exercisable on 9 May 2007, 365 days after admission of the Company’s shares to listing on the London
Stock Exchange. Participants were, in all except three instances, required to pay the employer’s national
insurance contributions arising on the exercise of their options. In recognition of this cost, participants were
awarded a bonus in the form of shares on the exercise of their option. The bonus shares had a market value
which on a post tax basis was equal to the cost to the participant of meeting the employer’s national insurance
contributions on the relevant exercise.
The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 (the “Trust”) held shares to satisfy the exercise of options granted
under the Debenhams Employee Option Plan. On 2 September 2006 the Trust held 3,290,535 shares. It
purchased a further 70,000 shares on 6 November 2006 (at 190.14 pence per share) and 335,505 shares were
transferred to it by BELP on 9 May 2007. A total of 3,592,438 shares were transferred from the Trust to satisfy the
exercise of options and the award of bonus shares. The Trust currently holds 103,602 shares in the Company.
No further awards will be made and there are no outstanding shares to be transferred or exercised under this
share option scheme.
Michael Sharp was the only director who held options under the Debenhams Employee Option Plan and details
are set out below (Michael Sharp has retained the shares obtained on the exercise of this option):
Options Market
held at Share price Options at Value
Date Expiry Exercise 2 September Granted Exercised at time of Lapsed 1 September on date
of grant date price 2006 in year in year exercise in year 2007 of exercise
Michael
Sharp 31/01/05 30/01/15 0.2p 60,758 – 60,758 147.75p – Nil 147.75p REMUNERATION REPORT
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 44
The Debenhams Performance Share Plan (the “PSP”)
Under the PSP , executives may receive shares (the number of which is determined by the extent to which a
performance condition is achieved on vesting) provided that they remain employed in the Group. Awards under
the PSP comprise an option to receive free shares or a nil cost option.
On 24 November 2006 awards over 2,408,253 shares were made under the PSP to 102 employees, including
to the executive directors as set out below, and on 29 May 2007 awards were made over 3,274,793 shares to
57 employees.
Balance Market Number Balance
held at price of shares held at
2 September Date at date granted Exercised Lapsed 1 September
Name 2006 of grant of award in year in year in year 2007
Rob Templeman 468,750 24/11/06 196p 165,611 –– 634,361
Chris Woodhouse 318,750 24/11/06 196p 112,614 –– 431,364
Michael Sharp 296,250 24/11/06 196p 104,665 –– 400,915
No awards may be granted to an individual in any financial year over a maximum number of shares whose
market value is greater than 200 per cent of that individual’s gross annual rate of salary at the date of grant,
although the Remuneration Committee has a discretion, in exceptional circumstances (which include
recruitment), to grant awards over shares with a market value of up to 250 per cent of gross annual salary at
the date of grant. In the 2006/07 financial year the award to the executive directors was at the level of 50 per
cent of base salary.
Awards under the PSP will normally only vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant (and must be
exercised within six months of vesting) subject to performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee
at the time awards are granted and if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the underlying financial
performance of the Company over the performance period is sufficient to justify the vesting of the award.
Half the PSP awards made in 2006/07 are subject to a performance target based on the Adjusted Earnings Per
Share (“EPS”) growth of the Company above the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index (“RPI”) over a
three-year performance period starting at the end of the 2005/06 financial year. The EPS targets for the
November 2006 award are compound annual EPS growth of RPI + 7 per cent (at which 30 per cent of this
element of the award would vest) to RPI + 14 per cent (100 per cent of this element of the award would then
vest), with a straight-line basis for calculating the percentage that would vest between 30 per cent and 100 per
cent. In relation to the award in May 2007, the same structure for calculating the percentage of the award that
vests apply, with the EPS targets being 30 per cent at EPS growth of RPI + 3 per cent per annum to 100 per cent
at EPS growth of RPI + 7 per cent per annum. In determining the EPS targets for 2006/07, the Committee took
into consideration the current business plan, prevailing economic conditions and shareholder expectations.
It took advice from KPMG LLP , including their analysis of brokers’ consensus forecasts. EPS was chosen as the
Remuneration Committee considers it to be a key underlying value driver of the business that will focus
management’s attention on continued growth and profitability.
The remaining half of the 2006/07 PSP awards are based on the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”)
against the weighted TSR of the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index over a three-year performance period starting
at the end of the 2005/06 financial year. The TSR performance conditions have not changed, continuing to
trigger at 30 per cent vesting of this element of the award for Debenhams TSR equal to the weighted TSR of the
FTSE 350 General Retailers Index, to 100 per cent vesting of this element for Debenhams TSR equal to or more
than 12 per cent per annum above the weighted TSR of the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index, with a straight-line
level of vesting between these two points. The weighted TSR is the aggregate of the TSR of each company in the
FTSE 350 General Retailers Index weighted by their respective market capitalisations at the start of the relevant
three-year performance period. A three-month average TSR at the start and end of the performance period will
be used to mitigate the effect of any short-term share price volatility. The Committee considers TSR to be an
approximate proxy for shareholder value and it chose this comparator group as Debenhams and its main listed
general retail competitors are a constituent of the index. The Committee determined that a weighted index is a
fairer and more reasonable method of determining relative performance (as opposed to a conventional TSR
ranking) as it factors in the size of each comparator company and therefore the absolute levels of value that each
company generates relative to its size. When determining the maximum TSR target, the Committee took into
consideration the historical TSR performance of the comparator companies over the last ten years. The current
maximum target of 12 per cent per annum above the index broadly equates to upper quartile TSR performance. Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 45
If one or both of the performance conditions are not met at the end of the performance period, 50 per cent
or 100 per cent (as appropriate) of the awards will lapse immediately without any opportunity to re-test the
relevant performance condition.
The Remuneration Committee may set different performance conditions for future awards and may decide
that different conditions should be applicable to different executives’ awards depending on their job function.
No PSP awards vested during the year.
The Debenhams 2006 Executive Share Option Plan (the “ESOP”)
The ESOP allows the Company to grant options to acquire shares to eligible employees. Options granted under
the ESOP may either be Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs approved options (up to the prescribed limit) or
unapproved options.
Share options were granted over 1,677,153 shares on 24 November 2006 to 196 senior managers at an option
price of 198.25 pence (being the middle-market price at the close on the day before grant date). A grant was also
made on 29 May 2007 to 64 employees, over 450,341 shares, at an option price of 137.5 pence (the closing price
on the trading day before grant). These options will normally become exercisable three years after grant and
expire ten years after the date of grant.
The exercise of options is subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition, which will be stated at the date
of grant. There will be no re-testing of the performance condition. For the November 2006 grant of options the
performance condition will require the Adjusted EPS growth to be at least equal to the percentage increase in
RPI + 7 per cent per annum over a period of three years commencing with the 2005/06 financial year. For the
May 2007 award the required growth in Adjusted EPS is RPI + 3 per cent per annum. In determining the EPS
targets the Committee took advice from KPMG LLP and sought to establish targets which, although stretching,
were capable of being achieved and would provide a real incentive for store managers, senior buying and
merchandising executives and other participants in the scheme.
No options under the ESOP were exercised during the year.
The maximum market value of shares over which options may be granted to an employee under the
unapproved part of the ESOP in any financial year (as measured at the date of grant) may not be greater than
100 per cent of the employee’s annual basic salary at the date of grant. However, the Remuneration Committee
has a discretion, in exceptional circumstances (which include recruitment) to grant awards over shares with a
market value in excess of this amount.
No options under the ESOP were granted to executive directors during the year.
EPS
Under the rules of both plans, to ensure comparability of financial years of the Company within the EPS
performance period and for the base year, the Remuneration Committee may (following consultation with its
independent advisers and the Company’s external auditors) adjust the reported figure for earnings per share as
calculated in accordance with the relevant accounting standard (including adjustments to achieve consistent
measurements of performance during the transition to international accounting standards) to arrive at a figure
that is a fair and reasonable reflection of the underlying business performance of the Group. Such adjustments
shall include, but are not limited to, adjusting the issued share capital to a comparable basis, excluding
extraordinary or exceptional items, adjusting for the effect of a 53rd week, adjusting for the effect of incremental
costs or charges, adjusting for property profits no longer accruing, and adjusting for the effect of interest on pre-
admission levels of borrowing.
Debenhams 2006 Sharesave Scheme (the “Sharesave Scheme”)
Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees may be granted an option to acquire shares at a fixed exercise price.
At the end of the savings period the employee may either exercise the option within six months of the end of
the savings period using the savings contributions and bonus which he has accumulated, or have the savings
and bonus repaid to him. No options have been granted under this scheme.
The Debenhams Deferred Bonus Matching Plan (the “DBMP”)
Under the DBMP , participants will be able to invest up to the full amount of their annual bonus (on an after-tax
basis) in shares. If the participant remains in service for three years he/she will, subject to the satisfaction of a
performance target, be eligible to receive a matching share award (based on the pre-tax amount of the bonus
that has been invested). The Remuneration Committee has not determined what performance conditions will
apply to awards under the DBMP although it is intended that they be appropriately demanding and linked to
the Company’s performance. If the performance target is not met at the end of the performance period, the REMUNERATION REPORT
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 46
awards will lapse immediately and there will no opportunity to re-test the performance condition. No awards
have yet been made under the DBMP .
Pension
The directors are not members of a Company pension plan, except for Michael Sharp who is a deferred member
of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan. He ceased to accrue benefits in that plan on 31 March 2006
The table below shows the pension accrued at the year end:
Transfer Transfer
value at value at
2 September 1 September
Increase in Accumulated 2006 2007
Increase in accrued total of accrued of accrued Increase in
accrued pension accrued pension pension transfer
pension during the pension at as at as at value
during the year (net 1 September 2 September 1 September during
year of inflation) 2006 2006 2007 the year
Director ££ £££ £
Michael Sharp 5,795 15 166,350 1,905,117 2,126,606 221,489
Performance graph
The performance graph below shows the Company’s total shareholder return against the FTSE 350 General
Retailers Index over the period since a market first existed for the shares to 1 September 2007. This index was
chosen as Debenhams is a constituent and as it is made up of a broad spectrum of retail competitors in the
major product areas in which the Company trades and includes its major general retail listed competitors.
The share plans – total shares/options outstanding
In total the shares and options outstanding under all the share plans are:
Options outstanding
Outstanding
(as at
Grant Price 23 October
Debenhams Executive Share Option Scheme date pence 2007)
09.05.06 205 2,498,291
06.06.06 185 58,870
24.11.06 198.25 1,579,029
29.5.07 137.5 443,432
Debenhams Performance Share Plan
09.05.06 n/a 3,188,861
06.06.06 n/a 3,113
24.11.06 n/a 2,306,283
29.5.07 n/a 3,097,869
All options were granted at the market price with the exception of awards granted under the Performance Share
Plan which consist of the right to acquire shares at nil cost.
Total shareholder return since IPO (3 May 2006)
Debenhams TSR                          FTSE 350 General Retailers Index TSR
60
80
120
100
3 May 2006 2 September 2006 1 September 2007 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 3 Management and governance 47
The closing mid-market price of the Company’s shares on 31 August 2007 was 120.5 pence and ranged from
118.75 pence to 203.75 pence during the period from 2 September 2006 to 1 September 2007.
Directors’ shareholdings
The interests, all of which are beneficial, of the directors (and their immediate families) in the share capital
(excluding options and other share plans) of the Company are as follows:
At At At
2 September 1 September 23 October
Director 2006 2007 2007
John Lovering 6,002,780 6,402,780 6,402,780
Rob Templeman 12,591,638 12,941,638 12,941,638
Chris Woodhouse 11,498,795 11,598,795 11,598,795
Michael Sharp
(1)
5,358,791 5,419,549 5,419,549
Adam Crozier 25,641 25,641 25,641
Jonathan Feuer
(2)
127,060 127,060 127,060
Richard Gillingwater 5,128 5,128 5,128
Peter Long 51,282 51,282 51,282
Dennis Millard 51,282 51,282 51,282
Paul Pindar 153,846 228,846 228,846
Notes:
1) Includes 5,250,000 shares held by Baroness Employee Limited Partnership.
2) Jonathan Feuer is the beneficial owner of 127,060 shares in the Company held in the name of Capital Investors 2002 Limited.
On behalf of the board
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
23 October 2007 Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profits
or loss of the Group for that period.
The directors are required to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors confirm that the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the EU. They also confirm the Company
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards.
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently except where
required to comply with the new accounting policies. They also confirm that reasonable and prudent
judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements for the year ended
1 September 2007 and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy
at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards. They are also responsible
for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
48 Section 4 Financial statements and notes Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS
OF DEBENHAMS PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended 1 September 2007 which
comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of recognised income and expenses,
consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes. These Group financial
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended
1 September 2007 and on the information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having
been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the Group financial statements in accordance
with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union
are set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion,
has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of
the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands
it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the
directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions
is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine
provisions of the Combined Code (2003) specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the board’s statements on
internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited
Group financial statements. The other information comprises only the Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s
review, Finance Director’s review, the directors’ report, the corporate responsibility statement, corporate governance
statement, and the directors’ responsibilities statement. We consider the implications for our report if we become
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the
Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the Group financial statements. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In
forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group
financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the
European Union, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 1 September 2007 and of its profit and cash flows
for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Leeds
23 October 2007
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 49 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
For the financial year ended:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
Note £m £m
Revenue 5 1,774.4 1,707.7
Cost of sales (1,508.4) (1,376.3)
Analysed as:
Cost of sales before exceptional items (1,494.9) (1,376.3)
Exceptional cost of sales 8 (13.5) –
Gross profit 266.0 331.4
Distribution costs (47.0) (53.0)
Analysed as:
Distribution costs before exceptional items (46.2) (53.0)
Exceptional distribution costs 8 (0.8) –
Administrative expenses (39.2) (54.8)
Analysed as:
Administrative expenses before exceptional items (39.2) (40.2)
Exceptional administrative expenses 8 – (14.6)
Operating profit 7 179.8 223.6
Analysed as:
Operating profit before exceptional items 194.1 238.2
Exceptional operating items 8 (14.3) (14.6)
Interest receivable and similar income 10 4.2 7.3
Interest payable and similar charges 11 (70.8) (168.8)
Analysed as:
Interest payable and similar charges before exceptional items 11 (70.8) (132.7)
Exceptional interest payable and similar charges 8,11 – (36.1)
Profit before taxation 113.2 62.1
Taxation 12 (34.2) (18.4)
Analysed as:
Taxation before exceptional items (36.9) (32.7)
Taxation credit on exceptional items 12 2.7 14.3
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders 29 79.0 43.7
Earnings per share attributable to the equity shareholders (expressed in pence per share)
Pence Pence
per share per share
Basic 14 9.3 7.4
Diluted 14 9.3 7.4
Underlying earnings per share (non-GAAP measures) 14 11.9 16.5
Dividends per share (expressed in pence per share)
Pence Pence
per share per share
Proposed final dividend per share 13 3.8 2.4
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 50 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME
AND EXPENSES
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
For the financial year ended:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
Note £m £m
Profit for the financial year 79.0 43.7
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the pension scheme 24 60.7 (3.0)
Currency translation 29 0.4 –
Change in the valuation of the available for sale investments 17 12.1 –
Movement on deferred tax relating to the pension scheme 25 (16.5) 0.9
Cash flow hedges
– net fair value gains (net of tax) 29 17.5 15.8
– recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement
of the acquisition cost of inventory 29 (3.6) (0.2)
– reclassified and reported in net profit 29 – 0.8
Net income recognised directly in equity 70.6 14.3
Total recognised income attributable to the equity of the Group 149.6 58.0
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 51 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at 1 September 2007
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
Note £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 15 842.9 836.1
Property, plant and equipment 16 667.7 639.5
Financial assets
– Available for sale investments 17 20.3 8.2
– Derivative financial instruments 23 19.7 7.8
Retirement benefit assets 24 87.3 13.8
Deferred tax assets 25 52.3 51.1
1,690.2 1,556.5
Current assets
Inventories 18 244.6 207.8
Trade and other receivables 19 65.6 63.9
Derivative financial instruments 23 3.0 –
Cash and cash equivalents 20 80.4 34.0
393.6 305.7
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– Bank overdraft and borrowings 22 (104.8) (33.1)
– Derivative financial instruments 23 (2.2) (5.3)
Trade and other payables 21 (468.6) (400.4)
Current tax liabilities (31.6) (18.8)
Provisions 27 (2.2) (4.7)
(609.4) (462.3)
Net current liabilities (215.8) (156.6)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– Bank overdraft and borrowings 22 (992.1) (1,097.0)
– Derivative financial instruments 23 – (2.3)
Deferred tax liabilities 25 (111.6) (84.8)
Other non-current liabilities 26 (207.1) (161.0)
Provisions 27 (0.6) (1.5)
(1,311.4) (1,346.6)
Net assets 163.0 53.3
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Share capital 28 0.1 0.1
Share premium 29 682.9 682.9
Merger reserve 29 1,200.9 1,200.9
Reverse acquisition reserve 29 (1,199.9) (1,199.9)
Hedging reserve 29 15.4 1.5
Other reserves 29 13.1 1.0
Retained earnings 29 (549.5) (633.2)
Total equity 163.0 53.3
The financial statements on pages 50 to 89 were approved by the board on 23 October 2007 and were signed
on its behalf by:
C K Woodhouse
Director
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 52 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
For the financial year ended:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
Note £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 31 311.2 317.0
Interest received 4.3 7.8
Interest paid (70.5) (147.4)
Tax (paid)/received (17.6) 12.9
Net cash generated from operating activities 227.4 190.3
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (85.2) (88.6)
Purchase of intangible assets (11.5) –
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 31 0.2 0.1
Net cash used in investing activities (96.5) (88.5)
Cash flows from financing activities
Drawdown of term loan facility 22 – 1,050.0
Repayment of senior term loan – (1,827.6)
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares – 700.0
Dividends paid (42.0) –
Share issue costs from 2006 listing – (12.6)
Appropriation – settlement of “B” loan notes – (50.1)
Appropriation – settlement of “C” loan notes (0.2) (22.1)
Receipt of monies for share options 0.2 –
Purchase of shares by Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 (“DRET”) (0.1) (2.0)
Capital element of finance leases (0.4) –
Appropriation by DRET (9.4) (1.1)
Net cash used in financing activities (51.9) (165.5)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 79.0 (63.7)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 0.3 64.0
Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 20 79.3 0.3
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 53 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
1 BASIS OF PREPARATION AND GENERAL INFORMATION
Introduction
Debenhams plc (“the Company”) is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the
Companies Act 1985 (Company No. 5448421). The address of the registered office is Debenhams plc, 1 Welbeck
Street, London, W1G 0AA.
The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiaries (together the “Group” or the “Debenhams Group”) is
the sale of fashion clothing and accessories, cosmetics and products for use in the home. The Group trades from
department stores and small store formats in the UK and the Republic of Ireland, on the internet and has
international franchise stores.
The Group prepares its financial statements for the financial year ending on the nearest Saturday to 31 August
of a given calendar year.
The principal companies within the Group during the financial year ended 1 September 2007 are disclosed
in note 33.
The Company gained admission to the London Stock Exchange on 9 May 2006.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (“IFRSs”) (including International Accounting Standards (“IAS”)) and International Financial Reporting
Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable
to companies reporting under accounting standards as adopted for use in the EU. The consolidated financial
statements for the financial year ended 1 September 2007 and 2 September 2006 have been prepared under
the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale investments, derivatives,
share-based payments and pensions.
The preparation of the financial statements, in conformity with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions
that affect the reporting amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amount of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Although these results are based on management’s
best knowledge of the amounts, events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The directors believe that the underlying operating profit before exceptional items and underlying earnings per
share measures provide additional useful information for shareholders on the underlying performance of the
business, and are consistent with how business performance is measured internally. It is not a recognised profit
measure under IFRS and may not be directly comparable with underlying profit measures used by other
companies.
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
Non-GAAP measure £m £m
Underlying operating profits 194.1 238.2
Leases with fixed annual increments in rent (note 7) 14.1 14.9
Share based payments (note 28) 1.9 14.3
Underlying operating profit 210.1 267.4
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Group’s principal accounting policies are described below.
Consolidation
The financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of Debenhams plc and all its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries include all entities (including special purpose entities) over which the Group has the power to
govern the financial and operating policies. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently
exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which the Group has the power to control. They are
de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
On consolidation, inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group
companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an
impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of the Company and its subsidiaries have been changed
where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 54 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts
receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of staff discounts and the cost
of loyalty scheme points, and is stated net of value added tax and other sales-related taxes.
Revenue on department store sales of goods and commission on concession sales are recognised when goods
are sold to the customer. Retail sales are usually in cash or by credit or debit card. Department customer special
orders and internet sales are recognised when the goods are delivered to the customer. Revenue from gift
vouchers and gift cards sold by the Group are recognised on the redemption of the gift voucher or gift card.
It is the Group’s policy to sell its products to the end customer with a right of return. Accumulated experience
is used to estimate and provide for such returns at the time of sale.
Interest recognition
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the interest rate
applicable.
Dividend distribution
A final dividend distribution to the Group shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial
statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Group shareholders. Interim dividends
are recognised when paid.
Retirement benefit costs
The liability recognised in respect of defined benefit schemes is the present value of the defined obligation
at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the plans assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated
annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined
benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of
high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in sterling, and that have terms to maturity which
approximate to the terms of the related pension liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They are recognised outside
the income statement and presented in the statement of recognised income and expenses.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes in pension plans are
conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case,
the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The Group’s contributions to stakeholder pension schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
Differences between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually paid are shown as either
accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Share-based payments
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. A fair value for the equity settled
share awards is measured at the date of grant. The Group measures the fair value using the valuation technique
most appropriate to value each class of award, either a Black-Scholes, Monte Carlo or Binomial pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on
the Group’s estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjust for the effect of non-market-based vesting
conditions.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are events or transactions which, by virtue of their size or nature, have been disclosed in order
to improve a reader’s understanding of the financial statements.
Foreign exchange
a) Functional and presentational currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency
of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated
financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Group’s functional and presentational currency.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 55 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
b) Group companies
The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the
presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows:
• assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet;
• income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate (unless this average is not a reasonable
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income
and expenses are translated at the dates of the transaction); and
• all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
c) Transactions and balances
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currency at average
monthly rates. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at
the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Differences on exchange are taken to the income statement.
Taxation
Taxation expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profits for the financial period using tax rates that have been enacted or
substantially enacted by the balance sheet date. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income
statement because it excludes items of income or expenses that are taxable or deductible in other years and it
further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. If deferred tax arises
from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time
of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred tax is
determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are
expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available
against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the
timing of the reversals of the temporary differences is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the
temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Leased assets
a) Finance leases
Leases of assets which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are classified as
finance leases. Finance leases are classified as a financial liability and measured at amortised cost. Finance leases
are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property, plant and
equipment or the present value of the minimum lease payments and depreciated over the period of the lease.
The resulting lease obligations are included in liabilities.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve
a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
b) Operating leases
All other leases are classified as operating leases. Rentals payable under operating leases, net of lease incentives,
are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Where property lease contracts contain guaranteed fixed minimum incremental rental payments, the total
committed cost is determined and is calculated and amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 56 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Intangible assets
a) Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of
the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary. Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries
is included in intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortised, but tested for impairment annually, or when trigger
events occur, and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
b) Other intangible assets
Acquired licences and trademarks are capitalised at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their
useful life, not to exceed ten years.
Internally generated software costs, where it is clear that the software developed is technically feasible and will
be completed and that the software generated will generate economic benefit, are capitalised as an intangible
asset. The software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life, being three to eight years.
Property, plant and equipment
It is the Group’s policy to hold properties at cost, subject to the requirement to test assets for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at the following rates per annum to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment,
less residual value, on a straight-line basis from the date on which they are brought into use:
Freehold land Not depreciated
Freehold buildings 1 per cent
Long leaseholds including landlords’ fixtures and fittings 1 per cent or life of lease if shorter
Short leaseholds including landlords’ fixtures and fittings Life of lease
Retail fixtures and fittings 5 – 20 per cent
Office equipment 10 per cent
Computer equipment 16
1
⁄ 2 – 33
1
⁄ 3 per cent
Vehicles 25 per cent or life of lease
The assets’ useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each financial
year end.
Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are included
in the income statement.
Included within property, plant and equipment are assets in the course of construction. These assets comprise
stores, which are under construction, including costs directly attributable to bring the asset into use. Transfers to
the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment are made when the store opens. No depreciation is
provided on stores or other assets under construction.
Impairment testing
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment and whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the
amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the
higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets
are grouped by store, which is the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash
generating units).
Available-for-sale investments
The Group classifies its investments as available-for-sale financial assets in accordance with IAS 39 “Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement” .
Available-for-sale financial investments are non-derivative assets. They are included in non-current assets unless
management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date. Investments are
recognised at fair value plus any transaction costs. If a fair value for an investment cannot be reliably measured,
due to the variability in the range of reasonable fair value estimates being significant, or the probabilities of the various
estimates within the range not being able to be reasonably assessed, that investment will be carried at cost.
An impairment test is performed annually on the carrying value of each investment. An impairment loss is
recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 57 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value using the retail method and represent goods
for resale. Concession stocks are not included within stocks held by the Group.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables, defined as loans and receivables in accordance with IAS 39, are recorded initially at fair value
and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method for any doubtful amounts.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is evidence that the Group will not be
able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of the provision
is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of future cash flows discounted at
the effective interest rate. The movement in the provision is recognised in the income statement.
Any other trade receivables are recognised at their original amount less an allowance for any doubtful amounts.
An allowance is made when collection of the full amount is no longer considered probable.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at the bank and other short-term liquid
investments with original maturities of approximately three months or less. Bank overdrafts are shown within
borrowings in current liabilities.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently
stated at amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption
value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest
method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement
of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs that are facility costs are recognised initially at fair value, and are amortised over the term
of the facilities at a constant rate on the committed amount of the facility.
Trade payables
Trade payables, defined as financial liabilities in accordance with IAS 39, are recognised initially at fair value and
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Any other trade payables are stated at cost.
All of the trade payables are non-interest bearing.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past
events and where it is more likely than not an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and
the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are measured at management’s best estimate of the
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares in equity are shown as a deduction, net of tax,
from the proceeds.
Derivatives
The derivative instruments used by the Group to manage its interest rate and currency risk are interest rate
swaps, interest rate caps and forward currency contracts.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are
subsequently re-measured at fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on
whether the derivative is designated as an effective hedging instrument and the nature of the item being
hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions (cash flow
hedges).
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 58 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Derivatives are recognised using trade date accounting.
At the inception of the transaction the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged
items as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The
Group also documents its assessment, both at the inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives
that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
i) Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of the changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow
hedges are recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately
in the relevant line of the income statement which will be affected by the underlying hedged item.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the underlying
hedged item when the underlying hedged item is recognised on the balance sheet or in the income statement.
When a hedged instrument expires, is sold or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting,
any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is immediately recognised in the relevant line of the
income statement which will be affected by the original underlying hedged item. When a forecasted transaction
is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred
to the relevant line of the income statement which would have been affected by the forecasted transaction.
ii) Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in fair value of any derivative instruments that
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
iii) Embedded derivatives
Where the risks and characteristics of derivatives embedded in other contracts are not closely related to those
of the contracts, and the whole contract is not carried at fair value with gains or losses reported in the income
statement, the derivative is separated from that host contract and measured at fair value, with fair value movements
reflected in the account in the income statement which will be affected by the underlying host contract.
New standards and interpretations
During the year, the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) and International Financial Reporting
Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) issued the following standards and interpretations which are effective for
annual accounting periods beginning on or after the stated effective date. These standards and interpretations
are not effective for and have not been applied in the preparation of this financial information:
Effective date
International Accounting Standards (IFRS/IAS)
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007
IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009
IFRIC Interpretations
IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment 1 November 2006
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 – Group and treasury share transactions 1 March 2007
IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements 1 January 2008
IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programme 1 July 2008
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – The limit on Defined Benefit Asset,
Minimum Funding requirement and their Interaction 1 January 2008
Other than in relation to IFRIC 14, which the Group is currently considering the implications of, the adoption
of these standards and interpretations is not expected to have a material impact on the Group operations.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 59 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
a) Financial risks and treasury management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks:
• funding and liquidity risk;
• credit risk;
• foreign exchange risk; and
• cash flow interest rate risk.
The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks
to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial
instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The board has established an overall treasury policy and has approved procedures and authority levels within
which the treasury function (“Group Treasury”) must operate. The Finance Director conducts a treasury review
at least monthly and the Treasury Committee meets and performs their review on a quarterly basis. The board
receives regular reports covering treasury activities. Treasury policy is to manage risks within an agreed
framework whilst not taking speculative positions.
The policies and strategies for managing these risks are summarised as follows:
i) Funding and liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding
through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. Due to
the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping
committed credit lines available.
The Group finances its operations by a combination of retained profits, debt finance and leases. The objective
is to ensure that there is sufficient cash or working capital facilities to meet the cash flow requirements of the
Group for its current business plan.
ii) Credit risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Sales to retail customers are made in cash, cheque
or by credit and debit cards, wholesale sales of products to franchisees are made to customers with an
appropriate credit history. Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high credit-quality
financial institutions. The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial
institution. Cash surpluses are placed on deposit for no longer than three months and only with financial
counterparties with a short-term credit rating of A1, P1 or better.
iii) Foreign exchange risk
The Group’s functional currency is sterling. The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign
exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the euro and the US dollar.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions relating to imports and trading in the Republic
of Ireland.
To manage the foreign exchange transaction risk, entities in the Group use forward currency contracts
transacted by Group Treasury. Foreign exchange risk arises when commercial transactions are denominated
in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. Group Treasury is responsible for managing the
exposure in each foreign currency by using external forward currency contracts with a settlement of 18 months
or less, up to 100 per cent of the first three months forecasted purchases, up to 80 per cent of the next
12 months are hedged. The Group does not hedge either economic exposure or the translation exposure
arising from the profits, assets and liabilities of non-sterling business.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 60 3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
iv) Cash flow interest rate risk
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. The Group’s current borrowing facilities are
issued at variable rates that expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The interest exposure of the Group is managed within the constraints of the Group’s business plan and the
financial covenants under its facilities. The Group’s exposure to floating-rate interest is within financial covenants
and planned expectation. The aim is to reduce exposure to the effect of interest rate movements and to take
advantage of low interest rates by hedging an appropriate amount of interest rate exposure whilst maintaining
the flexibility to minimise early termination costs. The Group’s interest rate hedging strategy is to achieve
a target fixed percentage of 75 per cent, with a 15 per cent tolerance (60 – 90 per cent).
The impact of movements in interest rates is managed through the use of floating rate debt and interest rate
swaps and caps. These are usually matched with specific loans for a period of time up to their maturity or call date.
The Group’s main interest rate exposure is from the financing rate loans under the credit facility.
b) Fair value estimates
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows. The fair
value of forward currency contracts has been determined based on market forward currency exchange rates at
the balance sheet date.
The fair values of short-term deposits, loans and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to
approximate to their book values. In the case of the Group’s loans due in more than one year, the fair value of
financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the
current market interest rates available to the Group.
Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and liabilities have been calculated by
discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year-end exchange rates.
4 SEGMENTAL REPORTING
Based on an analysis of risks and returns, the directors consider that the Group has only one identifiable business
segment, retailing.
All material operations of the Group are carried out in the UK and therefore no geographical segmentation is
disclosed. The group operates both an internet and international division, both of which remain immaterial for
the purposes of segmental reporting.
Consequently, the Group has considered business segmentation as the primary segmentation, with
a single separately reportable segment, retailing.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 61 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
5 GROSS TRANSACTION VALUE
Revenue from concessions is required to be shown on a net basis, being the commission received rather than
the gross value achieved by the concessionaire on the sale. Management believe that gross transaction value,
which presents revenue on a gross basis before adjusting for concessions, staff discounts and the cost of loyalty
scheme points, represents a good guide to the value of the overall activity of the Group.
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Gross transaction value 2,305.6 2,192.9
6 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will,
by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and
are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed
to be reasonable under the circumstances. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing
a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial period are
discussed below.
Estimated impairment of goodwill
The Group tests whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy stated
in note 2. The recoverable amount of cash-generating units is determined based on a value-in-use calculation.
The method requires an estimate of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate in order to
calculate the net present value of the cash flows. Actual outcomes could vary.
Taxation
The Group is subject to income taxes in the UK and the Republic of Ireland. At each financial period end,
judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes. The Group recognises liabilities for
anticipated tax issues based on the best estimates at the balance sheet date. Where the final tax outcome
of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the
corporation tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Share-based payments
The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees. The fair value determined at the
grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The fair value is calculated using the
appropriate fair value model with the estimated level of vesting being reviewed annually by management.
The key assumptions of this model are set out in note 28.
Pension liability
The Group’s defined benefit schemes’ pension liability, which is assessed each period by actuaries, is based
on key assumptions including return on plan assets, discount rates, mortality rates, inflation, future salary
and pension costs. These assumptions, individually or collectively, may be different to actual outcomes.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions; additional
information relating to this is disclosed in note 24.
Estimated useful life of property, plant and equipment
The Group estimates the useful life of property, plant and equipment and reviews this estimate at each financial
period end. The Group also tests for impairment whenever a trigger event occurs.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 62 7 ANALYSIS OF COSTS BY NATURE
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit:
The amounts of inventory written down during the financial year 14.8 11.0
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 870.4 818.4
Employment costs (note 9) 293.2 276.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 16):
– owned assets 84.4 85.3
– assets held under finance leases 1.3 0.7
Accelerated depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 16):
– owned assets 7.7 –
– assets held under finance leases 0.5 –
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 15) 7.0 5.1
Loss/(profit) on disposal of:
– property, plant and equipment 0.6 (0.1)
Operating lease rentals:
– property 134.8 130.2
– other 1.4 1.6
Foreign exchange gains (5.9) (2.6)
Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 12.1 12.4
Auditors’ remuneration 0.3 1.1
Operating lease costs and incentives
The amount charged to the income statement in respect of operating lease costs and incentives for the Group
has changed significantly under IFRS. The adverse impact on reported profit relating to the treatment of leases
with annual fixed increments in rent and the accounting for both rent free periods and developers’ contributions
is as follows:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Leases with fixed annual increments in rent 14.1 14.9
Rent free periods 1.3 1.6
Developers’ contributions 7.4 6.1
Reduction in operating profit resulting from accounting in accordance with
IAS 17 “Leases” and SIC 15 “Operating leases – incentives” 22.8 22.6
Services provided by the Group’s auditor and network firms
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Group’s auditor as detailed below:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Audit services
Fees payable to Company auditors for the audit of parent company
and consolidated accounts 0.1 0.1
Non-audit services
Fees payable to Company auditors and its associates for other services
– The audit of Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1
– Other assurance services 0.1 1.3
Included within other assurance services is £24,000 (2006: £22,000) relating to the defined benefit pension
scheme audits.
Other assurance services comprise a review of inter-company loans and distributable reserves (2006: advisory
work relating to the Initial Public Offering in 2006 of which £0.4 million has been reflected in capitalised share
premium cost). It is cost effective for the Group that such services are provided by its auditors in view of their
knowledge of the Group’s affairs going back a number of years.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 63 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
8 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Exceptional items are events or transactions that fall within the activities of the Group and which by virtue of
their size or incidence have been disclosed in order to improve a reader’s understanding of the financial
statements.
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Operating exceptional items
Admission to the London Stock Exchange – 4.6
Other exceptional item – 10.0
Acquisition and reorganisation of stores in the Republic of Ireland 14.3 –
Total operating exceptional items 14.3 14.6
Non-operating exceptional items
Write off of capitalised debt costs on refinancing – 33.5
Interest on refinancing (note 11) – 2.6
Total non-operating exceptional items – 36.1
Total exceptional items before tax 14.3 50.7
Financial year ended 1 September 2007
Acquisition and reorganisation of stores in the Republic of Ireland
On 12 September 2006 the Group acquired the business and assets of nine stores from Roches Stores, the total
consideration on acquisition of the stores was £30.0 million. Following the acquisition, the Group assigned the
existing Dublin store lease (Jervis Street) which will result in the closure of the store after the year end.
The acquisition of the stores, assignment of the lease and subsequent closure of the Jervis Street store has
created an accelerated depreciation charge of £6.3 million and redundancy costs of £4.6 million. Marketing,
travel, legal and integration costs amounted to £3.4 million. Integrated costs include £0.8 million of costs which
related to the distribution centre and have been charged to distribution costs, all other costs relate to the stores
and have been charged to cost of sales.
Financial year ended 2 September 2006
Admission to the London Stock Exchange
Costs relating to the Company’s admission to the London Stock Exchange on 9 May 2006 include taxation and
restructuring advice, legal and professional fees, bonuses and other advisory services, relating to printing costs,
marketing and public relations, all of which related to the admission.
Other exceptional item
Following admission to the London Stock Exchange the restricted cash held by DRET was distributed to the
beneficiaries of the trust in accordance with the trust rules.
Interest on refinancing
On 30 May 2006 the Group refinanced its debt, which resulted in the repayment of the senior credit facilities.
As a result of this repayment the Group wrote-off all unamortised debt issue costs associated with the senior
credit facility.
Additional interest relating to the early repayment of the senior credit facility was paid on refinancing together
with the cost associated with the restructuring of the interest rate swaps.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 64 9 EMPLOYEES
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Wages and salaries 265.1 234.1
Social security costs 21.2 18.5
Pension costs 1.4 6.2
Share-based payments (note 28) 1.9 14.3
Short-term employee benefits 3.6 3.1
Total employment costs 293.2 276.2
Number Number
Average number of employees:
Full time 8,936 8,358
Part time 17,554 16,358
Total 26,490 24,716
Included in pension above is £0.4 million (2006: £0.3 million) of contributions payable to key management’s
personal pension plans.
Information concerning directors’ remuneration, interest in shares and share options are included in the
remuneration report on pages 41 to 47, which forms part of these financial statements.
Key management compensation
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Salaries and short-term benefits 2.4 3.3
Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.2
Share-based payments 0.3 3.2
3.1 6.7
Members of the operational board are deemed to be key management. It is the operational board who have
responsibility for planning and controlling activities of the Group. The operational board consists of six members
(2006: six members).
10 INTEREST RECEIVABLE AND SIMILAR INCOME
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Interest on bank deposits 4.2 7.3
11 INTEREST PAYABLE AND SIMILAR CHARGES
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Interest payable and similar charges
Bank loans and overdrafts 65.1 124.1
Amortisation of issue costs on loans (note 22) 3.9 5.1
Interest payable on finance leases 1.8 3.5
Interest payable before exceptional items 70.8 132.7
Exceptional items – interest payable and similar charges
Unamortised issue costs written off on repayment of the senior term loan (note 8) – 33.5
Premium on early settlement of the senior term loan (note 8) – 2.1
Cost of restructuring the interest swap portfolio (note 8) – 0.5
Exceptional items – interest payable and similar charges – 36.1
Interest payable and similar charges after exceptional items 70.8 168.8
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 65 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
12 TAXATION
Analysis of tax charge in the financial year
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Current tax:
UK corporation tax charge on profit for the year 33.3 9.1
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (2.4) (3.6)
Current tax expense 30.9 5.5
Deferred taxation:
Origination and reversal of timing differences (4.6) 0.9
Pension cost relief in excess of pension cost credit/charge 6.1 8.0
Adjustments in respect of prior periods – pension costs 2.1 –
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (0.3) 4.0
Deferred tax expense (note 25) 3.3 12.9
Tax charge in the financial year 34.2 18.4
FA 2007 announced a reduction to the standard rate of corporation tax to 28 per cent with effect from April 2008
as this was enacted prior to the balance sheet date. The closing deferred tax for assets and liabilities has been
calculated at the reduced rate with the movement being charged or credited to the income statement except
where the original asset or liability was created in equity.
The tax for the year is higher (2006: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (30 per cent).
The differences are explained below:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 113.2 62.1
Profit on ordinary activities at standard rate of corporation tax
in the UK of 30 per cent 34.0 18.6
Effects of:
Income not subject to tax (0.1) (1.0)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.1 1.5
Overseas items 2.4 (1.1)
Adjustments in relation to prior periods (0.6) 0.4
Non qualifying depreciation 1.3 –
Losses carried back to prior years 0.2 –
Effect on deferred taxation of the change in corporation tax (2.2) –
Contribution to employee share options (1.1) –
Fixed asset disposals 0.2 –
Tax charge for the financial year 34.2 18.4
Tax relating to exceptional items as detailed in note 8 and included in the above tax charge amounted to:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Tax credit relating to:
Operating exceptional items 2.7 3.5
Interest exceptional items – 10.8
2.7 14.3
13 DIVIDENDS
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 1 September 2007 of 3.8 pence
per share (2006: 2.4 pence per share), which will absorb an estimated £32.6 million (2006: £20.6 million) of
shareholders’ funds. It will be paid on 4 January 2008 to shareholders who are on the register of members at
close of business on 7 December 2007.
An interim dividend of 2.5 pence per share was paid on 4 July 2007 (2006: nil) which absorbed £21.5 million
(2006: £nil) of shareholders’ funds.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 66 14 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume
conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The Group has one class of dilutive potential ordinary shares,
those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the market price of the
Company’s ordinary shares during the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
Basic Diluted Basic Diluted
£m £m £m £m
Profit for the financial year after taxation 79.0 79.0 43.7 43.7
Number Number Number Number
m m mm
Weighted average number of shares 859.0 859.0 614.4 614.4
Shares held by ESOP (weighted) (11.3) (11.3) (25.6) (25.6)
Shares issuable (weighted) – 2.4 – 5.6
Adjusted weighted average number of shares 847.7 850.1 588.8 594.4
Pence Pence Pence Pence
per share per share per share per share
Earnings per share 9.3 9.3 7.4 7.4
Underlying earnings per share
The underlying earnings per share reflects the underlying performance of the business compared with the prior
year and is calculated by dividing underlying earnings by the number of shares in issue at the year end.
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit for the financial year 79.0 43.7
Exceptional items 14.3 50.7
Leases with fixed annual increments in rent 14.1 14.9
Share-based payments 1.9 14.3
Interest adjustments – 58.3
Adjustment to tax charge to reflect the above items (6.9) (40.5)
Underlying profit for the year 102.4 141.4
Number Number
m m
Issued share capital at 1 September 2007 and 2 September 2006 859.0 859.0
Pence Pence
per share per share
Underlying earnings per share 11.9 16.5
Underlying profit is used by management as a measure of profitability within the Group. It is defined as
operating profit before exceptional items, the impact of leases with fixed annual increments in rent and charges
relating to share-based payments.
In 2006, the Group underwent significant re-financing and therefore the statutory interest and related financing
costs are not comparable year-on-year. The above adjustment for interest assumes that the 2006 re-financing,
which took place at the date of admission, was effective at the beginning of the year ended 2 September 2006
and that the proceeds of shares issued on admission (£700 million) were available at that date.
The comparison of performance year-on-year has also been made complex by costs incurred as a result of the
Company’s admission to the London Stock Exchange on 9 May 2006, which increased the number of shares
issued by the Company. The underlying earnings per share uses the capital structure as at 1 September 2007
to eliminate the effect of these changes.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 67 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
15 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Licences and
Goodwill trademarks Software Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 4 September 2005 811.7 0.3 27.0 839.0
Additions –– 11.3 11.3
At 2 September 2006 811.7 0.3 38.3 850.3
Additions 5.7 2.8 5.3 13.8
Disposals – (0.2) – (0.2)
At 1 September 2007 817.4 2.9 43.6 863.9
Accumulated amortisation
At 4 September 2005 – 0.1 9.0 9.1
Charge for the year – 0.1 5.0 5.1
At 2 September 2006 – 0.2 14.0 14.2
Charge for the year – 0.1 6.9 7.0
Disposals – (0.2) – (0.2)
At 1 September 2007 – 0.1 20.9 21.0
Net book amount
At 1 September 2007 817.4 2.8 22.7 842.9
At 2 September 2006 811.7 0.1 24.3 836.1
At 3 September 2005 811.7 0.2 18.0 829.9
Goodwill
On 12 September 2006 the Group acquired the business and assets of nine stores based in the Republic of Ireland
from Roches Stores, an unlimited company incorporated and registered in Ireland. The consideration for this
acquisition was £30.0 million, with £20.5 million payable on completion, £3.4 million payable on the first
anniversary and £6.1 million on the second anniversary of completion.
All tangible assets acquired have been recognised at their respective fair values. The fair values of tangible fixed
assets, stock and receivables acquired were £13.4 million, £10.3 million and £0.6 million respectively.
The residual excess over the net assets acquired has been recognised as goodwill and amounts to £5.7 million.
The goodwill represents the intrinsic value to the Group of being able to trade the Debenhams brand in these
stores.
Licences and trademarks
The Group acquired the “St George by Duffer” trademark during the year. The total consideration for the
trademark was £2.8 million.
Software development costs
The computer software capitalised of £5.3 million (2006: £11.3 million) principally relates to internally developed
application software. Externally developed application software at 1 September 2007 amounted to £1.0 million
(2006: £1.2 million).
Amortisation on the Group’s intangible assets has been charged to the income statement as follows for the
financial years ended:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Included within:
– cost of sales 4.6 3.5
– distribution costs 0.3 0.2
– administrative expenses 2.1 1.4
7.0 5.1
Impairment test for goodwill
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Debenhams Group Holdings Limited by Baroness Group Holdings
Limited on 4 December 2003, is not being amortised but reviewed on an annual basis or more frequently if there
are indications that goodwill may be impaired. Goodwill for Debenhams Group Holdings Limited represents the
goodwill for a portfolio of sites, which has been allocated to groups of Cash-Generating Units (“CGUs”) on a
regional basis within the UK according to the level at which management monitors that goodwill.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 68 15 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED
For the purposes of this impairment review, the recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined based on
value-in-use calculations. These cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by management
covering a five-year period. Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated based on the assumption of
no growth after year five. The growth rates do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the retail sector
in which the CGUs operate. The pre-tax discount rate used to calculate the value in use was 7.5 per cent (2006:
8.5 per cent) and reflects the specific risks in the retail business.
Management determined the gross margin for each CGU based on performance and its expectations for the
market development. The weighted average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in
industry reports. The discount rates used are pre-tax and risk-free rates.
As at 1 September 2007, no impairment of goodwill has been required (2006: £nil).
16 PROPERTY , PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Land and buildings
Short
leasehold Vehicles,
Long fixtures fixtures and
Freehold leasehold and fittings equipment Total
Cost £m £m £m £m £m
At 4 September 2005 54.4 9.6 264.9 336.0 664.9
Additions –– 13.1 62.4 75.5
Disposals and write-offs –– (0.1) (19.0) (19.1)
At 2 September 2006 54.4 9.6 277.9 379.4 721.3
Additions –– 19.6 103.2 122.8
Disposals and write-offs –– – (49.3) (49.3)
At 1 September 2007 54.4 9.6 297.5 433.3 794.8
Accumulated depreciation
At 4 September 2005 0.1 0.1 3.1 11.6 14.9
Charge for the year 0.4 0.3 11.6 73.7 86.0
Disposals and write-offs –– (0.1) (19.0) (19.1)
At 2 September 2006 0.5 0.4 14.6 66.3 81.8
Charge for the year 0.4 0.2 12.1 73.0 85.7
Accelerated depreciation 2.0 – 5.6 0.6 8.2
Disposals and write-offs –– – (48.6) (48.6)
At 1 September 2007 2.9 0.6 32.3 91.3 127.1
Net book value
At 1 September 2007 51.5 9.0 265.2 342.0 667.7
At 2 September 2006 53.9 9.2 263.3 313.1 639.5
At 3 September 2005 54.3 9.5 261.8 324.4 650.0
The accelerated depreciation arises as a result of the closure of Jervis Street, as stated in note 8, and as a result
of a number of store re-sites which will occur after the year end.
Assets in the course of construction included in property, plant and equipment at the financial year end are as follows:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Assets in the course of construction 63.3 20.5
Property, plant and equipment includes the following assets held under finance leases:
Vehicles, Freehold and
fixtures and long leasehold
equipment land and buildings
1 September 2 September 1 September 2 September
2007 2006 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m
Cost 4.8 2.7 59.2 59.2
Aggregate depreciation based on cost (2.1) (1.1) (3.2) (2.4)
Net book value 2.7 1.6 56.0 56.8
The buildings held under finance lease obligations are secured by a fixed charge over the corresponding Group
properties.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 69 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
17 FINANCIAL ASSETS – AVAILABLE FOR SALE INVESTMENTS
£m
At 2 September 2006 8.2
Market value uplift 12.1
At 1 September 2007 20.3
In 2004 the Group acquired 10 per cent of the issued shares of Ermes Department Stores Limited (“Ermes”).
Ermes gained admission to the Cyprus Stock Exchange during 2007 and at 1 September 2007 the Group
continues to hold 10 per cent of the issued share capital, being 17,500,000 shares. The market value of the shares
at 1 September 2007 was £16.2 million. As at 3 September 2006 Ermes was a private company, the fair value of
the shares was deemed not to be significantly different to the historic cost and the investment was therefore
carried at a cost of £4.2 million. Ermes is a company which is registered and trades in Cyprus.
The Group holds 100 per cent of the (2006: £4.0 million) “A” ordinary shares in BF Properties (No.4) Limited, which
cost £3.0 million and have a fair value of £4.1 million (2006: £4.0 million). These shares carry no voting rights. The
directors consider that the ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party of BF Properties (No.4) Limited is
The British Land Company plc.
BF Properties (No.4) Limited was incorporated in Great Britain. The address of its principal place of business
is 10 Cornwall Terrace, Regent’s Park, London.
BF Properties (No.4) Limited year end is 31 March and it continues to report in accordance with UK GAAP .
The aggregate amount of the capital and reserves of BF Properties (No.4) Limited at 31 March 2006 was
£141,016,943. The profit of BF Properties (No.4) Limited for the year ended 31 March 2006 was £616,920.
This is the most recent set of published results for the company.
The investment in BF Properties (No.4) Limited has been calculated by discounting the future expected proceeds
from the investment at the prevailing interest rate of 5.9 per cent.
There were no disposals or impairment provisions on available for sale financial assets during the years shown.
18 INVENTORIES
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Items held for resale 244.6 207.8
Write downs of inventories are disclosed in note 7.
19 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Trade receivables 26.8 21.5
Other receivables 1.3 0.5
Prepayments and accrued income 37.5 41.9
65.6 63.9
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 70 20 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 22.2 17.2
Short-term bank deposits 58.2 16.8
80.4 34.0
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
Effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits (per cent) 5.9 4.6
Average maturity rate (days) 5.3 35.9
Included within short-term bank deposits at 1 September 2007 is £1.1 million (2006: £10.3 million) of restricted
cash which is held by the DRET.
Cash and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 80.4 34.0
Bank overdrafts and revolving credit facility (note 22) (1.1) (33.7)
79.3 0.3
21 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
Current £m £m
Trade payables 251.4 198.9
Other payables 78.1 74.8
Other taxation and social security 27.9 29.1
Accruals 109.7 96.1
Deferred income 1.5 1.5
468.6 400.4
22 BANK OVERDRAFT AND BORROWINGS
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts (note 20) 1.1 1.7
Term loan facility 1,050.2 1,050.4
Revolving credit facility (“RCF”) (note 20) – 32.0
Lease obligations 57.8 62.2
1,109.1 1,146.3
Less: unamortised issue costs (12.2) (16.2)
1,096.9 1,130.1
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 71 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
22 BANK OVERDRAFT AND BORROWINGS CONTINUED
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
Maturity of debt £m £m
Amounts falling due:
In one year or less or on demand 104.8 33.1
In more than one year but not more than two years 99.8 98.8
In more than two years but not more than five years 854.5 952.2
In more than five years 37.8 46.0
1,096.9 1,130.1
Amounts falling due within one year (104.8) (33.1)
Amounts falling due after one year 992.1 1,097.0
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
% %
Bank loans and overdrafts 6.75 5.75
Term loan facility 6.44 6.09
RCF N/A 6.03
Lease obligations 6.20 5.11
The Group credit facility includes a term loan of £1.05 billion and an RCF of £0.25 billion. The term loan facility
is repayable in instalments with the loan being repaid in full by 2011. Interest rates are based on LIBOR and
denominated in sterling. The RCF is multicurrency with interest rates based on the relevant inter-bank market rate.
Issue costs of £17.1 million, which mainly relate to facility costs, were incurred primarily on utilisation of the
credit facilities during 2006 and are being amortised over the term of the facilities at a constant rate based on
the committed amount of the term loan. The amortisation charge relating to the issue costs of the credit facilities
for the year ended 1 September 2007 was £3.9 million (2006: £1.0 million). The amortisation of issue costs during
the period to May 2006 relating to the previous senior credit facility was £4.1 million.
i) Finance lease obligations
In 1988 a number of properties with a market value of £42.7 million were sold to certain banks on 125 year
leases at peppercorn rentals. The Group subsequently entered into full tenant and landlord repairing sub-leases
for 125 years. At the year end the following amounts remained outstanding under the leases:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Principal 42.7 42.7
Accrued interest 12.6 15.8
Outstanding liability 55.3 58.5
The rentals payable are structured so as to give the lessors a financing return linked to LIBOR in the first 25 years
and, in the following 10 years, a LIBOR linked return together with the repayment of capital. Thereafter, market
rentals are payable subject to revision every 5 years. In the early years, the amounts payable are below LIBOR
and in the later years are in excess of LIBOR. The financing costs are, however, allocated over the 25-year period
so as to achieve an annual funding cost which is consistent with LIBOR. The Group has limited rights up to the
25th year of the leases to vary the terms of the leases to buy out the rental obligations based on the properties’
original sales proceeds. The leases are reflected in fixed assets at their cost to the Group. These property lease
obligations are secured by a fixed charge over the corresponding Group properties.
Other lease obligations relate mainly to computer software and vehicles leased under hire purchase contracts.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 72 22 BANK OVERDRAFT AND BORROWINGS CONTINUED
ii) Maturity of finance leases
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
1 September 2007 2 September 2006
Property Other Property Other
leases leases leases leases
£m £m £m £m
Not later than one year 10.5 1.4 5.9 1.7
Later than one year but not more than five years 36.2 1.5 33.7 2.4
More than five years 37.7 0.1 53.6 0.2
84.4 3.0 93.2 4.3
Future charges on finance leases (29.1) (0.5) (34.7) (0.6)
55.3 2.5 58.5 3.7
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Net fair values of derivative financial instruments
1 September 2007 2 September 2006
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Current
Forward foreign currency contracts - cash flow hedges 0.1 (1.3) – (3.3)
Forward foreign currency contracts - held for trading – (0.9) – (2.0)
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hedges 2.9 – ––
3.0 (2.2) – (5.3)
Non-current
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hedges 19.7 – 7.8 (2.3)
Total 22.7 (2.2) 7.8 (7.6)
The financial risks and treasury management information has been disclosed in note 3.
The notional principal amounts and fair values of financial instruments used in interest risk management were
as follows:
1 September 2007 2 September 2006
Notional Notional
principal Book Fair principal Book Fair
amount value value amount value value
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Primary financial instruments
Borrowings:
– due within one year (108.4) (108.6) (108.6) (36.7) (37.0) (37.0)
– due after one year but no more than two years (103.3) (103.3) (103.3) (102.6) (102.6) (102.6)
– due after more than two years but no more
than five years (859.4) (859.4) (859.4) (960.7) (960.7) (960.7)
– due after more than five years (37.8) (37.8) (37.8) (46.0) (46.0) (46.0)
Cash and cash equivalents – 80.4 80.4 – 34.0 34.0
Derivative financial instruments held to manage
interest rate and currency risk
Interest rate swaps 777.5 22.6 22.6 957.1 5.5 5.5
Forward foreign currency contracts 98.7 (2.1) (2.1) 120.5 (5.3) (5.3)
Net financial liabilities (1,008.2) (1,008.2) (1,112.1) (1,112.1)
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 73 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
The net fair value losses at 1 September 2007 on open forward foreign exchange contracts that hedge the
foreign currency risk of anticipated future inventory purchases are £1.2 million (2006: £3.3 million). This will be
recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the acquisition cost of inventory over the next 12
months.
Forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges are reclassified to “assets held for trading” when the
underlying forecast transaction is crystallised on the balance sheet as inventory. During the year there were no
contracts reclassified to “assets held for trading” due to cash flow hedges being ineffective.
Interest rate swaps
The notional principal amount of interest rate swaps outstanding at 1 September 2007 was £777.5 million
(2006: £957.1 million). The Group’s interest rate swaps switch interest from floating rates to fixed rates.
The fair value of interest rate swaps has been calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The Group’s interest rate swaps mature as follows:
Notional Rate
£m % Maturity
Interest rate swap 777.5 4.477 – 6.040 31 May 2008 to 30 November 2011
The net gains and losses on these swaps deferred in equity will reverse through interest in the income statement
over the life of the swaps.
Fair value of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities
Where market values are not available, the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities have been
calculated by discounting future expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year-end
exchange rates. The carrying amounts of borrowings is approximate to fair value.
Maturity and interest rate profiles of financial assets and liabilities
The maturity and interest rate profiles of financial assets and liabilities after taking account of interest rate swaps,
swapped from floating to fixed rates, used to manage interest were as follows:
1 September 2007
Non-interest
Fixed Floating bearing Total
£m £m £m £m
Sterling financial liabilities:
– due within one year (75.8) (32.8) – (108.6)
– due after one year but no more than two years (73.6) (29.7) – (103.3)
– due after more than two years but no more than five years (613.6) (245.8) – (859.4)
– due after more than five years (17.1) (20.7) – (37.8)
Financial liabilities (780.1) (329.0) – (1,109.1)
Sterling:
– Cash at bank and in hand 52.7 13.7 2.2 68.6
– Restricted cash 1.1 –– 1.1
Euro:
– Cash at bank and in hand 3.7 5.7 0.4 9.8
US Dollar:
– Cash at bank and in hand 0.7 0.2 – 0.9
Financial assets 58.2 19.6 2.6 80.4
Debt issue costs of £12.2 million are excluded from the financial liabilities above.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 74 23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
The weighted average interest rate on the fixed rate borrowings as at 1 September 2007 was 6.4 per cent (2006:
5.9 per cent), with the weighted average time for which rates are fixed being 2.4 years (2006: 2.6 years). Floating
rate borrowings are interest bearing at interest rates based on LIBOR. Cash deposits are interest bearing at rates
based on base rates. Non-interest bearing cash refers to cash in stores.
Floating rate borrowings have been classified as fixed if there were derivative financial instruments hedging the
floating rate interest for more than one year.
2 September 2006
Non-interest
Fixed Floating bearing Total
£m £m £m £m
Sterling financial liabilities:
– due within one year (30.0) (7.0) – (37.0)
– due after one year but no more than two years (87.8) (14.8) – (102.6)
– due after more than two years but no more than five years (823.4) (137.3) – (960.7)
– due after more than five years (19.8) (26.2) – (46.0)
Financial liabilities (961.0) (185.3) – (1,146.3)
Sterling:
– Cash at bank and in hand 6.8 12.6 2.0 21.4
– Restricted cash 10.0 0.3 – 10.3
Euro:
– Cash at bank and in hand – 2.0 0.1 2.1
US Dollar:
– Cash at bank and in hand – 0.2 – 0.2
Financial assets 16.8 15.1 2.1 34.0
Debt issue costs of £16.2 million at 2 September 2006 are excluded from the financial liabilities above.
Borrowing facilities as at 1 September 2007
As at 1 September 2007 the term loan facility was fully drawn and the revolving credit facility of £250 million
remains fully available (2006: £218 million). These facilities expire on 19 April 2011.
Both of these facilities incur commitment fees at market rate.
Market price risk
The Group monitors interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk by determining the effect on profit of a range
of possible changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The range of changes chosen reflects the
Group’s view of changes that are possible over the financial year.
Assuming no changes in the borrowings and interest rate swaps described above, it is estimated that a rise of
1 per cent in interest rates would have reduced pre-tax profits for the financial year ended 1 September 2007
by £2.5 million (2006: £2.2 million). Similarly, assuming no changes in the volumes of imports described above,
it is estimated that a 5 per cent decrease in the value of sterling against relevant foreign currencies would have
reduced profits for the year by £1.8 million (2006: £1.1 million) before accounting for any offset from
renegotiated supplier contracts and alternative sourcing locations.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 75 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
24 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION
The Group operates defined benefit type pension schemes, being the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan and
the Debenhams Retirement Scheme, the assets of which are held in separate trustee administered funds.
Both pension schemes were closed for future service accrual from 31 October 2006. The closure to future accrual
will not affect the pensions of those who have retired or the defined benefits of those who have left service or
opted out before 31 October 2006. Future pension arrangements are provided through a money purchase
stakeholder plan or a defined contribution scheme for the employees in the Republic of Ireland.
The Group have agreed to contribute £5.3 million per annum, increasing by RPI from the first of April each year,
to fund accrued benefits. The Group will also fund all administrative expenses incurred by the two pension
schemes from 1 November 2006 to the next triannual valuation at 31 March 2008.
Actuarial valuations of the Group’s pension schemes using the projected unit basis were carried out at 31 March
2005, and updated as at each relevant year-end for the purposes of IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” , by Watson Wyatt
Limited, a qualified independent actuary. The major assumptions used by the actuaries were:
1 September 2 September 3 September
2007 2006 2005
per annum % per annum % per annum %
Inflation assumption 3.10 2.90 2.60
General salary and wage increase 3.90 3.90 3.60
Rate of increase in pension payments and deferred payments 3.10 2.90 2.60
Pension increase rate 3.10 2.90 2.60
Discount rate 5.95 5.10 5.00
The expected return on scheme assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the year for return
over the entire life of the defined benefit obligation.
1 September 2007 2 September 2006 3 September 2005
Long-term Long-term Long-term
rate of return rate of return rate of return
expected expected expected
per annum Value per annum Value per annum Value
% £m % £m % £m
Assets
Equities 8.30 315.0 8.30 325.6 8.00 287.0
Bonds 5.95 197.3 4.40 159.9 4.30 149.3
Property 7.10 8.2 –– ––
Cash and other assets 5.00 31.8 4.40 41.6 3.60 17.3
Total market value of assets 7.25 552.3 6.80 527.1 6.60 453.6
Present value of scheme liabilities (465.0) (513.3) (463.0)
Surplus/(deficit) in scheme 87.3 13.8 (9.4)
Assumptions regarding future mortality experiences are based on the mortality tables shown below. Allowance
is made for future improvements to the assumed current rates of mortality which have a financial effect
equivalent to a 0.25 per cent per annum reduction in the discount rate used to value liabilities.
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
Male & female Male & female
Debenhams Retirement Scheme PMA92C06+2 PMA92C06+2
Debenhams Executive Pension Plan PMA92C06+1 PMA92C06+1
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 76 24 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION CONTINUED
The actual return on plan assets was as follows:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Return on plan assets 33.2 52.8
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Current service cost 2.9 16.3
Past service cost 0.4 –
Curtailment credit – (4.4)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 25.8 22.7
Expected return on pension scheme assets (34.5) (29.2)
Total included within staff costs (note 9) (5.4) 5.4
The total (credits)/charges included are as follows:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Cost of sales (4.5) 3.1
Distribution costs (0.1) 0.1
Administrative expenses (0.8) 2.2
Total (credit)/charge (5.4) 5.4
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Present value of obligation at start of year 513.3 463.0
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 25.8 22.7
Current service cost 2.9 16.3
Actual member contributions 0.5 2.8
Actual benefit payments by the fund (14.8) (13.7)
Past service cost 0.4 –
Curtailment credit – (4.4)
(Gains)/losses on change of assumptions (67.2) 22.9
Experience losses 4.1 3.7
Present value of obligation at end of year 465.0 513.3
Changes in the fair value of pension scheme assets are as follows:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Fair value in pension scheme assets at start of year 527.1 453.6
Benefits paid (14.8) (13.7)
Company contributions 7.4 31.6
Member contributions 0.5 2.8
Expected return on pension scheme assets 34.5 29.2
Actuarial (losses)/gains (2.4) 23.6
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 552.3 527.1
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 77 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
24 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION CONTINUED
Movement in surplus/(deficit) during the year:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Surplus/(deficit) in the schemes at start of year 13.8 (9.4)
Movement in year:
Pension credit/(charge) 5.4 (5.4)
Company contributions 7.4 31.6
Net actuarial gains/(losses) 60.7 (3.0)
Surplus in the schemes at end of year 87.3 13.8
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
At start of the year 23.6 26.6
Net actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in the year 60.7 (3.0)
Net actuarial gains recognised at end of year 84.3 23.6
History of experience gains and losses:
1 September 2 September 3 September 29 August 30 August
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Difference between the expected and actual return
on scheme assets £1.3m £23.6m £46.0m £3.1m £(1.6)m
Percentage of scheme assets 0.2% 4.5% 10.1% 0.9% (0.5)%
Experience losses on scheme liabilities £(4.1)m £(3.7)m £(2.8)m £(1.9)m £(4.4)m
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (0.9)% (0.7)% (0.6)% (0.5)% (1.2)%
Total actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in statement of
recognised income and expenses £60.7m £(3.0)m £8.5m £11.2m £(20.0)m
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 13.1% (0.6)% 1.8% 2.7% (5.3)%
The contributions expected to be paid during the year ended 31 August 2008 amount to £7.9 million.
Debenhams stakeholder pension schemes
The Group contributions to the schemes during the year were £6.6 million (2006: £0.5 million).
25 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 28 per cent
(2006: 30 per cent).
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 52.3 51.1
Deferred tax liabilities (111.6) (84.8)
(59.3) (33.7)
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets
because it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 78 25 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below:
Developers Share-
contribution Fair value Retirement Other based
received gains benefit provisions payments Total
Assets £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 4 September 2005 33.6 6.7 9.5 8.5 6.0 64.3
Credited/(charged) to the income statement 1.5 0.6 (8.1) 5.0 (0.9) (1.9)
(Charged)/credited to the statement of recognised
income and expenses (“SORIE”) – (7.1) 0.9 –– (6.2)
Charged to equity –– –– (5.1) (5.1)
At 2 September 2006 35.1 0.2 2.3 13.5 – 51.1
Credited/(charged) to the income statement 1.8 (0.2) (2.3) 5.7 – 5.0
Restatement to the standard rate of
corporation tax charged to the income statement (2.5) –– (1.3) – (3.8)
At 1 September 2007 34.4 –– 17.9 – 52.3
Accelerated tax Fair value Retirement
depreciation gains benefit Total
Liabilities £m £m £m £m
At 4 September 2005 (73.8) –– (73.8)
Charged to the income statement (11.0) –– (11.0)
At 2 September 2006 (84.8) –– (84.8)
Charged to the income statement (4.0) (0.4) (5.8) (10.2)
Restatement to the standard rate of corporation tax
credited/(charged) to the income statement 5.9 (0.1) (0.1) 5.7
Charged to the SORIE –– (18.2) (18.2)
Restatement to the standard rate of corporation tax
through the SORIE –– 1.7 1.7
Charged to equity – (6.2) – (6.2)
Restatement to the standard rate of corporation tax
through equity – 0.4 – 0.4
At 1 September 2007 (82.9) (6.3) (22.4) (111.6)
The deferred tax charged to equity during the year was as follows:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Fair value reserves in shareholders equity:
Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 – 5.4
Hedging reserve (5.8) (7.1)
Deferred tax on pension schemes (16.5) 0.9
Deferred tax on share based payments – (5.1)
(22.3) (5.9)
26 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Other liabilities 207.1 161.0
Included within other liabilities are lease incentives received from landlords either through initial contributions
or rent-free periods. These incentives are being credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over
the term of the relevant lease. Additionally the creditor relates to the smoothing of the charges relating to leases
with fixed annual increments in rent.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 79 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
27 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES
Vacant Closure Other
properties provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m
At 4 September 2005 1.2 4.9 3.1 9.2
Utilised during the financial year (0.3) (1.3) (1.4) (3.0)
At 2 September 2006 0.9 3.6 1.7 6.2
Credited to the income statement – (0.8) – (0.8)
Utilised during the financial year (0.4) (1.1) (1.1) (2.6)
At 1 September 2007 0.5 1.7 0.6 2.8
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Current 2.2 4.7
Non-current 0.6 1.5
2.8 6.2
Vacant properties
Provision for vacant properties represents the residual lease commitments, after taking into account existing
sub-lease arrangements, in respect of two properties and will be utilised over the remaining term of the leases
which expire in August 2009 and September 2009 respectively.
Closure provision
The termination of a number of operations resulted in closure costs predominantly related to the closure of all
remaining own-bought media outlets, the closure of distribution outlets, the closure of a store in the Republic of
Ireland and vacated buildings. These provisions are short-term in nature and are expected to be utilised within
the next 12 months.
Other provisions
The majority of the Group’s other provisions relate to dilapidations on properties based upon the directors best
estimate of the Group’s future liability. The remainder of the other provisions, none of which are individually
significant, represent the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle present obligations in respect of
other liabilities. These provisions are short-term in nature and are expected to be utilised within the next
12 months.
28 SHARE CAPITAL
At 1 September 2007 and 2 September 2006
£ Number
Authorised
Ordinary shares of £0.0001 each 128,846 1,288,461,539
£ Number
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of £0.0001 each 85,897 858,974,359
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 80 28 SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED
Employee Share Trust – interest in share capital
The number of ordinary shares in the Company held by the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 (“DRET”) and
the Baroness Employee Limited Partnership (“BELP”), in connection with the Group’s employee ownership plan
described below, were as follows:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
ordinary ordinary
shares shares
Number Number
Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 103,602 3,290,535
Baroness Employee Limited Partnership – 13,226,985
103,602 16,517,520
The market value of the shares on 1 September 2007 were £0.1 million for DRET and £nil million for BELP
(2006: £6.2 million and £24.9 million respectively). DRET purchased 70,000 shares on 6 November 2006 at a cost
of £1.90 per share. The cost of the shares held at the year end £0.1 million for DRET and £nil million for BELP
(2006: £0.5 million and £nil million respectively).
Share-based payments
The total charge to the operating profit relates to the following schemes:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
DEOP – equity settled element 0.6 1.5
DEOP – cash settled element – 3.7
BELP – cash settled element – 8.5
Performance Share Plan 2006 – equity settled element 1.2 0.5
Executive Share Option Plan – equity settled element 0.1 0.1
Charge for the year 1.9 14.3
Outstanding share options
The table shows the number of share options outstanding at the year end:
PSP ESOP DEOP
Number Number Number
Outstanding at 3 September 2005 –– 142,954
Granted 3,353,565 2,975,121 550,271
Exercised –– (3,412,307)
Forfeited (25,685) (81,322) (85,751)
Share split –– 6,142,140
Outstanding at 2 September 2006 3,327,880 2,893,799 3,337,307
Granted 5,683,046 2,127,494 –
Exercised –– (3,203,808)
Forfeited (371,890) (395,476) (133,499)
Outstanding at 1 September 2007 8,639,036 4,625,817 –
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 81 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
28 SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED
i) The Debenhams Performance Share Plan (the “PSP”)
The PSP is intended to facilitate the retention of senior executives of the Company by enabling executives to
receive shares provided that they remain in the Group. An award under the PSP will normally vest on the third
anniversary of date of grant and must be exercised within six months of vesting. No payment will be required for
the grant of an award. An award under the PSP will comprise an option to receive free shares or nil cost option
with performance conditions attached. Awards under the scheme have been made since May 2006.
The vesting on half of the shares granted is dependent on Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) growth. In accordance with IFRS 2
this is classified as a non-market condition and therefore the shares have been fair valued at face value. The vesting of
the remaining half of the shares is dependent upon Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) over a three year period when
compared to total shareholder return of the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index. The fair value of the PSP options granted
for this proportion of the award is calculated based on a Monte Carlo simulation model assuming the inputs shown below:
EPS TSR EPS TSR
Grant date: 24 Nov 06 24 Nov 06 9 May 06 9 May 06
29 May 07 29 May 07 6 June 06 6 June 06
Number of shares under option (no.):
9 May 2006 –– 1,594,431 1,594,431
6 June 2006 –– 1,556 1,556
24 November 2006 1,153,141 1,153,141 ––
29 May 2007 1,570,390 1,570,390 ––
Expected term (years) 3.0 3.0 2.3 2.2
Share price at grant (pence):
9 May 2006 –– 205.0 205.0
6 June 2006 –– 185.0 185.0
24 November 2006 198.25 198.25 ––
29 May 2007 134.00 134.00 ––
Exercise price (pence) ––––
Risk free rate:
9 May 2006 –– 4.8% 4.8%
6 June 2006 –– 4.7% 4.7%
24 November 2006 5.5% 5.5% ––
29 May 2007 6.0% 6.0% ––
Expected volatility 21.0% 21.0% 21.0% 21.0%
Expected dividend yield 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5%
Fair value of option (pence):
9 May 2006 –– 189.0 82.8
6 June 2006 –– 171.1 76.4
24 November 2006 178.0 95.2 ––
29 May 2007 121.0 64.3 ––
During the year 5,683,046 (2006: 3,353,565) options were granted under the plan, no shares have been issued
during the year.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 82 28 SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED
ii) Executive Share Option Plan (the “ESOP”)
The ESOP allows the Company to grant options to acquire shares to eligible employees. These options will normally
become exercisable following a three year performance period, only if and to the extent that the performance conditions
to which they are subject have been satisfied. With the exception of the first grant of options on 9 May 2007, being
the date the Company was admitted to the London Stock Exchange, options were granted with an exercise price
equal to the middle market value of the shares on the day immediately preceding the date of the grant.
The vesting of options granted under this plan is dependent on EPS growth, the fair value of the share options
has been calculated using a binomial model. The key assumptions are as follows:
Grant date: 29 May 07 24 Nov 06 6 June 06 9 May 06
Number of shares under option (no.) 443,432 1,587,543 58,870 2,535,972
Expected term (years) 6666
Share price at grant (pence) 137.50 198.25 185.00 205.00
Exercise price (pence) 137.50 198.25 185.00 205.00
Risk free rate: 6.0% 5.5% 4.7% 4.8%
Expected volatility 24.0% 24.0% 24.0% 24.0%
Expected dividend yield 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5%
Fair value of option (pence) 31.7 44.8 40.5 45.2
iii) Debenhams Employee Option Plan (“DEOP”)
The DEOP option scheme was introduced on 3 September 2004 options were awarded to certain management
of the Group. The DRET held shares to satisfy the exercise options granted under DEOP .
Options were awarded at the discretion of the Group’s Remuneration Committee and were awarded to any
employee within the Group at any point in time. In accordance with the plan rules 50 per cent of the options
vested on Debenhams plc admission to the London Stock Exchange. The remaining options vested on 9 May
2007, 365 days after admission. No options remain under the plan. At the date of grant the options were valued
using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the
calculation were as follows:
Date of grant
Number of employees 327
Expected volatility 15.1%
Expected life (months) 51
Risk free interest rate 4.7%
Expected dividends expresses as a dividend yield –
Possibility of ceasing employment before vesting –
Fair value per ordinary unit in Baroness Group Limited Partnership (£) 105.75
Fair value per option - equity element (£ per option) 0.182
The expected volatility was based on the FTSE All Share Consumer Service Index, which comprised
124 members, over the last three years. The risk-free interest rate was based on a 4.5 year gilt rate bond at
the time the options were issued. The dividend yield was assumed to be nil as neither the equity component
nor the debt element of the underlying option securities were expected to pay out dividends or coupons
over their life. All of the options had an exercise price of 10 pence.
The value of the cash-settled element of the award was the value attributable to the “A” loan notes under
option. As part of the 2005 Acquisition the “A” Loan Notes of £12.8 million which were issued to the DRET were
immediately repaid in full on 26 May 2005. On settlement of the options, the option holders received in cash an
amount equivalent to the “A” Loan Notes issued to DRET on the option holders behalf. The modification resulted
in a charge to the income statement that related to the “A” Loan Notes that were allocated to employees, rather
than the total received by the Trust.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 83 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
28 SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED
iv) Baroness Employee Limited Partnership (“BELP”)
In June 2004, senior management of the Group were invited by the Remuneration Committee to invest in the
Group through the purchase of units in the BELP . Management purchased their holding in the Group at fair value
and therefore no equity based costs arose in relation to these awards. The partnership is closed to new entrants.
On Admission to the London Stock Exchange 30 per cent of the shares were distributed to the members. On
9 May 2007 the remaining 70 per cent, which totalled 12,891,840 were distributed to the members. The remaining
shares held by BELP were transferred to DRET. There will be no further share transfers or distributions by BELP ,
which no longer holds shares in the Company.
On 16 May 2005, the Group was reorganised with Debenhams plc being the new parent company of the Group.
The Group reorganisation involved shares being exchanged for shares and loan notes issued by the Company.
In the case of the BELP , a share was exchanged for a share and a “C” loan note in the Company. In total, “C” loan
notes of £22.3 million were issued to the BELP . For accounting purposes, this resulted in the modification of the
original equity-settled share-based payment, with the newly created loan note element of the award being
treated as a cash-settled share-based payment. The total value of the cash-settled element of the award is the
value attributable to the “C” Loan Notes of £22.3 million issued to BELP .
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 84 29 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Reverse
Share Share Retained Merger acquisition Hedging Other
capital premium earnings reserve reserve reserve reserve Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 4 September 2005 –– (679.4) 1,200.9 (1,199.9) (14.9) 1.0 (692.3)
Profit for the financial year –– 43.7 –– –– 43.7
Actuarial loss in pension
schemes (note 24) –– (3.0) –– –– (3.0)
Movement in deferred tax
relating to pension schemes
(note 25) –– 0.9 –– –– 0.9
Cash flow hedges:
– net fair value gains (net of tax)–– –– – 15.8 – 15.8
– recycled and adjusted against
the initial measurement of the
acquisition cost of inventory–– –– – (0.2) – (0.2)
– reclassified and reported
in net profit –– –– – 0.8 – 0.8
Total recognised income
for the financial year –– 41.6 –– 16.4 – 58.0
Issue of shares 0.1 682.9 –– –– – 683.0
Share options
– value of employee services –– 2.1 –– –– 2.1
Purchase of treasury shares
for DRET –– (2.0) –– –– (2.0)
“C” loan notes held by BELP –– (22.3) –– –– (22.3)
Value of employee services
for loan notes issued (net of tax)–– 26.8 –– –– 26.8
Balance at 2 September 2006 0.1 682.9 (633.2) 1,200.9 (1,199.9) 1.5 1.0 53.3
Profit for the financial year –– 79.0 –– –– 79.0
Currency translation differences–– 0.4 –– –– 0.4
Actuarial gain in pension
schemes (note 24) –– 60.7 –– –– 60.7
Movement in deferred tax
relating to pension schemes
(note 25) –– (16.5) –– –– (16.5)
Change in available for
sale investment –– –– –– 12.1 12.1
Cash flow hedges:
– net fair value gains
(net of tax) –– –– – 17.5 – 17.5
– recycled and adjusted
against the initial
measurement of the
acquisition cost of inventory–– –– (3.6) – (3.6)
Total recognised income for
the financial year –– 123.6 –– 13.9 12.1 149.6
Share options
– value of employee services –– 1.9 –– –– 1.9
– proceeds from shares options
in the DRET –– 0.3 –– –– 0.3
Purchase of treasury shares
for DRET –– (0.1) –– –– (0.1)
Dividends paid –– (42.0) –– –– (42.0)
Balance at 1 September 2007 0.1 682.9 (549.5) 1,200.9 (1,199.9) 15.4 13.1 163.0
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 85 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
29 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
CONTINUED
Share premium account
On admission to the London Stock Exchange the Company issued 358,974,359 shares at £1.95, generating
proceeds of £700 million. Costs directly associated with the issue of the new shares totalled £17.1 million and
in accordance with the Companies Act these costs were set off against the premium generated on issue of the
new shares.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve of £1,200.9 million exists as a result of the 2005 Group reconstruction. The merger reserve
represents the difference between both the nominal value of the share capital and loan notes issued by the
Company and the fair value of Baroness Group Holdings Limited Group at 24 May 2005, the date of the 2005
Group reconstruction.
Reverse acquisition reserve
The reverse acquisition reserve exists as a result of the method of accounting for the 2005 Group reconstruction.
In accordance with International Accounting Standards the 2005 Group reconstruction has been accounted for
as a reverse acquisition.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve represents the change in fair value of all interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency
contracts which have been designated as cash flow hedges.
Other reserves
Other reserves represent the change in fair value in respect of the Group’s available-for-sale investments
(see note 17).
Retained earnings
As at 1 September 2007, £nil million (2006: £0.2 million) of “C” Notes issued by the Company were held by the
BELP and were eliminated on consolidation of the Partnership. Fixed interest on the notes was charged at
4.8 per cent and a collateral deposit guaranteed the principal.
30 OPERATING LEASE AND CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
1 September 2007 2 September 2006
Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
£m £m £m £m
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under
non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Within one year 138.0 1.4 113.0 1.4
Later than one year and less than five years 590.0 1.1 489.1 2.0
After five years 3,899.4 0.1 3,483.1 –
4,627.4 2.6 4,085.2 3.4
The Group leases departmental stores and warehouses under non-cancellable operating leases. The leases have
various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The Group also leases vehicles and fixtures and equipment
under non-cancellable operating leases.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 86 31 CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit for the financial year 79.0 43.7
Taxation (note 12) 34.2 18.4
Depreciation (note 16) 85.7 86.0
Accelerated depreciation (note16) 8.2 –
Amortisation (note 15) 7.0 5.1
Loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.6 (0.1)
Employee options granted during the year 1.9 2.8
Discretionary bonus granted – 1.1
Fair value losses/(gains) on derivative instruments (1.1) 1.9
Swap costs – (0.8)
Net movements in provisions for liabilities and charges (note 27) (3.4) (3.0)
Interest income (note 10) (4.2) (7.3)
Interest expense (note 11) 70.8 168.8
Difference between pension charge and contributions paid (note 24) (12.8) (26.2)
Net movement in other non current liabilities 46.0 2.2
Changes in working capital
Increase in inventories (36.8) (10.6)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 1.1 (8.2)
Increase in trade and other payables 35.0 43.2
Cash generated from operations 311.2 317.0
In the cash flow statement, proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment comprise:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Net book amount (note 16) 0.8 –
(Loss)/profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (0.6) 0.1
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.1
In the cash flow statement exceptional cash items are as follows:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Cash generated from operations includes payments for:
Admission to the London Stock Exchange – 3.8
Acquisition and reorganisation of stores in the Republic of Ireland 3.7 –
Additional pension contribution – 18.0
Interest paid includes:
2006 refinancing – premium on early repayment of senior term loan – 2.1
2006 refinancing – cost of restructuring interest rate swaps – (0.3)
2006 refinancing – debt issue costs 2.7 14.1
Acquisition and reorganisation of stores in the Republic of Ireland
Following the acquisition of the nine stores in the Republic of Ireland and the assignment of the Jervis Street
lease, redundancy cost of £2.1 million have been paid, together with £1.6 million of marketing, travel, legal and
integration costs.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 87 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
31 CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS CONTINUED
Admission to the London Stock Exchange
Payments for professional advice and advisory services relating to the Company’s admission to the London Stock
Exchange totalled £3.8 million.
Additional pension contribution
As part of the refinancing in May 2005 it was agreed that £47.4 million of additional contribution would be
paid to the Debenhams defined benefit pension schemes. A payment of £29.4 million was paid on refinancing
on 26 May 2005, and the balance of £18.0 million was paid on 11 May 2006 following the Company’s admission
to the London Stock Exchange.
2006 refinancing
On refinancing, £2.1 million was paid relating to the early repayment of the senior credit facility. As a result of the
refinancing a number of interest rate swaps were either closed out or restructured, generating income of £0.3 million.
Debt issue costs capitalised in respect of the refinancing on 30 May 2006 amounted to £17.1 million.
Non-cash transactions
Other non-cash changes comprise:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Amortisation of issue costs relating to debt issues 3.9 5.1
Release of prior year debt issue cost accrual (0.1) –
Exceptional write off of issue costs on refinancing – 33.5
Non-cash movements associated with finance lease obligations (4.0) 0.3
Transfer of accrued interest to net debt on adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 – 0.4
Non-cash transactions (0.2) 39.3
32 ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET DEBT
At At
2 Sept Cash Non-cash 1 Sept
2006 flow movements 2007
£m £m £m £m
Analysis of net debt
Cash 34.0 46.4 – 80.4
Bank overdrafts (33.7) 32.6 – (1.1)
Cash and cash equivalents 0.3 79.0 – 79.3
Debt due within one year 3.6 – (100.0) (96.4)
Debt due after one year (1,037.8) – 96.2 (941.6)
Finance lease obligations due within one year (3.0) 0.4 (4.8) (7.4)
Finance lease obligations due after one year (59.2) – 8.8 (50.4)
(1,096.1) 79.4 0.2 (1,016.5)
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 88 33 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
The principal subsidiary undertakings of Debenhams plc at 1 September 2007 were as follows:
Country of Country of
Company incorporation registration Activity
Debenhams Retail plc UK England Department Store Retailing
Debenhams Group Holdings Limited * UK England Holding Company
Debenhams Retail (Ireland) Limited Ireland Ireland Department Store Retailing
Debenhams Properties Limited UK England Property Investment
Other entities:
Baroness Employee Limited Partnership Jersey Jersey ESOP
Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 Jersey Jersey ESOP
All companies are wholly owned.
* Denotes investments held by the Company. All other investments are held by subsidiary undertakings.
All subsidiary companies are consolidated.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 89 FIVE YEAR RECORD
Income statement
IFRS UK GAAP
Proforma
(1)
Proforma
(2)
2007 2006 2005 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Gross transaction value 2,305.6 2,192.9 2,086.8 2,086.8 1,902.9 1,810.2
Revenue 1,774.4 1,707.7 1,608.7 1,608.7 1,491.8 1,810.2
Cost of sales (1,494.9) (1,376.3) (1,293.4) (1,270.9) (1,207.9) (1,550.7)
Gross profit 279.5 331.4 315.3 337.8 283.9 259.5
Distribution costs (46.2) (53.0) (43.5) (43.5) (37.5) (37.1)
Administrative expenses (39.2) (40.2) (43.8) (106.6) (75.3) (46.6)
Operating profit before exceptional items 194.1 238.2 228.0 187.7 171.1 175.8
Exceptional items (14.3) (14.6) (4.4) (4.7) (44.4) (17.4)
Profit on deemed disposal of subsidiary – – 117.7 117.7 ––
Operating profit 179.8 223.6 341.3 300.7 126.7 158.4
Net interest (66.6) (125.4) (160.8) (157.1) (123.5) (7.4)
Exceptional interest payable and similar charges – (36.1) (92.9) (92.9) (33.6) –
Profit/(loss) before taxation 113.2 62.1 87.6 50.7 (30.4) 151.0
Taxation (34.2) (18.4) 36.1 11.7 7.4 (42.6)
Profit/(loss) for the financial year
attributable to equity shareholders 79.0 43.7 123.7 62.4 (23.0) 108.4
Gross transaction value
Gross transaction value represents turnover presented net of staff discounts and loyalty point sales. It also
requires turnover for concessions to be shown on a net basis.
Proforma (1)
The results for 2005 have been restated to give effect for the combination of:
• The consolidated financial information of Baroness Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries from
29 August 2004 to 23 May 2005; and
• The consolidated financial information of Debenhams Retail Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries from
24 May 2005 to 3 September 2005.
Proforma (2)
The results for 2004 have been restated to give effect for the combination of:
• The consolidated financial information of Debenhams Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries
from 31 August 2003 to 3 December 2003; and
• The consolidated financial information of Baroness Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries from
4 December 2003 to 28 August 2004.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 90 Balance sheets
IFRS UK GAAP
Proforma
(1)
Proforma
(2)
2007 2006 2005 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 842.9 836.1 829.9 2,504.2 799.7 2.2
Tangible assets 667.7 639.5 650.0 668.2 1,039.1 976.8
Financial assets 40.0 16.0 7.2 7.2 – 32.8
Retirement benefit obligations 87.3 13.8 – 9.5 ––
Deferred tax assets 52.3 51.1 58.9 –– –
Total non-current assets 1,690.2 1,556.5 1,546.0 3,189.1 1,838.8 1,011.8
Net current (liabilities)/assets (215.8) (156.6) (143.2) (83.6) 17.8 (113.8)
Non-current liabilities (1,311.4) (1,346.6) (2,083.5) (1,965.1) (1,911.3) (125.9)
Net assets/(liabilities) 163.0 53.3 (680.7) 1,140.4 (54.7) 772.1
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Share capital 0.1 0.1 –– 1.0 36.6
Share premium account 682.9 682.9 –– – 19.7
Other reserves 29.5 3.5 1.0 1,200.9 – 45.0
Retained earnings (549.5) (633.2) (681.7) (60.5) (55.7) 670.8
Total equity 163.0 53.3 (680.7) 1,140.4 (54.7) 772.1
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 91 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS
OF DEBENHAMS PLC
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended 1 September 2007
which comprise the balance sheet, statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes. These
parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have
also audited the information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended 1 September
2007.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors’ remuneration report and the parent
company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration
report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s
members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do
not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and
whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors’remuneration report to be audited
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our
opinion the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not
received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding
directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited
parent company financial statements. The other information comprises only the directors’report and the unaudited
part of the remuneration report. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements. Our responsibilities do
not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the
Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and
disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be
audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the
preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate
to the company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company
financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the
part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• • the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 1 September 2007;
• • the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited 
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• • the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Leeds
23 October 2007
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 92 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
As at 1 September 2007
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments 3 3,851.9 4,068.7
Financial assets – derivative financial instruments 19.7 7.8
3,871.6 4,076.5
Current assets
Debtors 4 200.6 137.8
Financial assets – derivative financial instruments 2.9 –
Cash at bank and in hand – 0.2
203.5 138.0
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (1,191.8) (1,322.2)
Net current liabilities (988.3) (1,184.2)
Total assets less current liabilities 2,883.3 2,892.3
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 6 (941.6) (1,039.3)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 8 (6.5) (2.1)
Net assets 1,935.2 1,850.9
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 9 0.1 0.1
Share premium account 10 682.9 682.9
Merger reserve 10 1,106.1 1,200.9
Hedging reserve 10 16.3 4.4
Profit and loss account 10 129.8 (37.4)
Shareholders’ funds 11 1,935.2 1,850.9
The financial statements on pages 93 to 99 were approved by the board of directors on 23 October 2007 and
were signed on its behalf by:
C K Woodhouse
Director
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 93 COMPANY STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
For the financial year ended:
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 114.2 (20.8)
Cash flow hedges
– Net fair value gains (net of tax) 11.9 17.3
– Reclassified and reported in net profit – 0.8
Net gains recognised directly in equity 11.9 18.1
Total gains and losses recognised during the year 126.1 (2.7)
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 94 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with UK GAAP
using the historical cost convention modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and in
accordance with applicable accounting standards and the Companies Act 1985.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement in accordance with
FRS 1 “Cash Flow Statement” . The cash flows of the Company are included in the Debenhams plc Group financial
statements.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 “Related Parties” from disclosing related party transactions
with entities that are part of the Debenhams plc Group.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently during the year, are set out below.
Investments
Investments are held at cost less any provision for diminution in value.
Borrowings
All borrowings are stated at the fair value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs. Issue costs
together with finance costs, are charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the borrowings. Finance
costs represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Taxation
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance
sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay
less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences between the
taxable profits and the results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and
losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements. 
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis. A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore
recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there
will be taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Dividend distribution
A final dividend distribution to the Company shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Company’s financial
statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company shareholders. Interim dividends
are recognised when paid.
Share-based payments
Where the Company has granted options over the Company shares to employees of its subsidiaries, a capital
contribution has been deemed to be made by the Company.  This is then recharged to the subsidiary and is
based on the fair value of the options issued spread over the options vesting period.
Derivatives
The derivative instruments used by the Company to manage its interest rate risk are interest rate swaps.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are
subsequently re-measured at fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether
the derivative is designated as an effective hedging instrument and the nature of the item being hedged. The
Company designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions (cash flow hedges).
Derivatives are recognised using trade date accounting.
The Company documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and
hedged items as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Company also documents its assessment, both at the inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the
derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of
hedged items.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 95 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
i) Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of the changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow
hedges are recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in the relevant line of the profit and loss account which will be affected by the underlying hedged item.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the underlying
hedged item when the underlying hedged item is recognised on the balance sheet or in the profit and loss
account.
When a hedged instrument expires, is sold or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting,
any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is immediately recognised in the relevant line of the
profit and loss account which will be affected by the original underlying hedged item. When a forecasted
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately
transferred to the relevant line of the profit and loss account which would have been affected 
by the forecasted transaction.
ii) Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in fair value of any derivative instruments that
do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. 
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 25 “Financial Instruments: Disclosure and
Presentation” not to present information on financial risk management and hedging where that information is
presented in the same Group financial statements. Accordingly, information on risk management and hedging
may be found in notes 3 and 23 of the Group accounts.
New accounting standards
At the balance sheet date FRS 29 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures” was in issue but not yet effective. This
standard will be fully considered in due course.
2 PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and
have not presented a profit and loss account for the Company alone. A profit of £114.2 million is attributable to
shareholders for the financial year ended 1 September 2007 (2006: loss of £20.8 million). There is no difference
between the results disclosed in respect of the Company and these results on an unmodified historical cost basis.
The contracts of employment for all the directors are held by Debenhams plc. The total cost of employing the
directors is disclosed in the remuneration report. The Company has no other employees. 
Auditors’ remuneration of £0.1 million is borne by another Group undertaking.
3 INVESTMENTS 
Investments in 
subsidiary 
undertakings
£m
Cost
At 1 September 2007 and 2 September 2006 4,068.7
Provision for impairment
At 3 September 2006 –
Impairment 216.8
At 1 September 2007 216.8
Net book value
At 1 September 2007 3,851.9
At 2 September 2006 4,068.7
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 96 3 INVESTMENTS CONTINUED
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 
In accordance with FRS 11 “Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill” the carrying value of the Company’s
subsidiary undertaking has been compared to their recoverable amounts represented by the value in use to the
Company. The review results in an impairment of £43.8 million in respect of Debenhams Group Holdings Limited,
which has been set off in full against the merger reserve. The discount rate used in the calculation to arrive at the
valuation was 7.5 per cent on a post-tax basis.
During the year BF III Limited, a direct subsidiary undertaking repurchased 954,800 of its issued share capital. The
consideration on the share buy-back was £175.8 million. Following the transaction an impairment review resulted
in an impairment of £173.0 million, £51.0 million of which was set off against the merger reserve. The balance of
£120.0 million has been charged to the profit and loss account.
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 1 September 2007 are shown in note 33 of the
Debenhams plc Group financial statements. 
4 DEBTORS
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Amount owed by Group undertakings 200.6 110.7
Corporation tax – 26.3
Prepayments and other debtors – 0.8
200.6 137.8
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, repayable on demand and carrying an average rate 
of interest of 7.4 per cent (2006: 7.2 per cent).
5 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Bank loans and overdraft (note 7) 96.4 28.5
Trade creditors 0.1 –
Other loans – “C” loan notes (note 7) – 0.2
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,094.7 1,280.7
Corporation tax 0.2 –
Accruals and deferred income 0.4 12.8
1,191.8 1,322.2
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date of redemption and either carry an
average interest rate of 7.4 per cent (2006: 7.2 per cent) or are interest free.
6 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Term loan facility 941.6 1,037.7
Derivative financial instruments – 1.6
941.6 1,039.3
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 97 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 1 September 2007
7 BORROWINGS
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Term loan facility 1,050.2 1,050.4
Revolving credit facility – 32.0
Other loans – “C” loan notes – 0.2
Total borrowings 1,050.2 1,082.6
Less: issue costs (12.2) (16.2)
1,038.0 1,066.4
Maturity of debt
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Amounts falling due:
In one year or less or on demand 96.4 28.7
In more than one year but not more than two years 96.6 96.2
In more than two years but not more than five years 845.0 941.5
1,038.0 1,066.4
Information relating to the borrowings of the Company are shown in note 22 of the Debenhams plc Group
financial statements.
8 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES
Deferred taxation provision £m
At 3 September 2006 (2.1)
Charged to the statement of recognised gains and losses (4.4)
At 1 September 2007 (6.5)
9 SHARE CAPITAL
As at 2 September 2006 and 1 September 2007 £ Number
Authorised
Ordinary shares of £0.0001 each 128,846 1,288,461,539
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of £0.0001 each 85,897 858,977,359
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 98 10 RESERVES
Share
premium Hedging Merger Profit and
account reserve reserve loss account
£m £m £m £m
At 3 September 2006 682.9 4.4 1,200.9 (37.4)
Profit for the financial year –– – 114.2
Cash flow hedges – net fair value gains (net of tax) – 11.9 ––
Impairment of investment – reserve movement –– (94.8) 94.8
Dividends paid –– – (42.0)
Employee share ownership plans (net of tax) –– – 0.2
At 1 September 2007 682.9 16.3 1,106.1 129.8
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve represents the change in fair value of the interest rate swaps which have been designated as
cash flow hedges.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve of £1,200.9 million was created as a result of the Company acquiring the Baroness Group
Holdings Limited Group on 24 May 2005. The merger reserve represents the difference between both the
nominal value of the share capital and loan notes issued by the Company and the fair value of Baroness Group
Holdings Limited Group at the date of acquisition. The investment impairment disclosed in note 3 has reduced
the merger reserve by £94.8 million.
Profit and loss account
The dividends paid by the Company during the year ended 1 September 2007 are shown in note 13 of the
Debenhams plc Group financial statements.
11 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
1 September 2 September
2007 2006
£m £m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 114.2 (20.8)
Dividends paid (42.0) –
Retained profit/(loss) 72.2 (20.8)
Adoption of FRS 26 – (13.1)
Issue of ordinary share capital (net of issue costs) – 683.0
Cash flow hedges:
– net fair value gains (net of tax) 11.9 17.3
– reclassified and reported in net profit – 0.8
Employee share ownership plans (net of tax) 0.2 2.8
Net increase to shareholders’ funds 84.3 670.0
Opening shareholders’ funds 1,850.9 1,180.9
Closing shareholders’ funds 1,935.2 1,850.9
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 4 Financial statements and notes 99 STORE LIST
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 5 Additional information 100
Aberdeen
Ayr
Banbury
Bangor 
Barrow
Basildon
Basingstoke
Bedford
Belfast
Birmingham
Blackburn
Bolton
Bournemouth
Brighton
Bristol
Bromley
Cambridge
Canterbury
Cardiff
Carlisle
Chatham
Chelmsford
Cheltenham
Chester
Clapham
Colchester
Cork – Mahon Point
Cork – Patrick Street
Coventry
Crawley
Croydon
Derby**
Doncaster
Dublin – Blackrock
Dublin – Blanchardstown
Dublin – Henry Street
Dublin – Jervis Centre
Dublin – Tallaght
Dundee
East Kilbride
Eastbourne
Edinburgh
Eltham
Exeter**
Farnborough
Folkestone
Foyleside
Galway
Gateshead – Metro Centre
Glasgow
Gloucester
Gravesend
Guildford
Hanley
Harrogate
Harrow
Hastings
Hemel Hempstead
Hounslow
Hull
Ilford
Inverness
Ipswich
King’s Lynn
Lakeside
Leeds – City Centre 
Leeds – White Rose
Leicester
Leith
Limerick
Lincoln
Llandudno
Llanelli*
London – Oxford Street
Luton
Manchester
Manchester – Trafford Park
Mansfield 
Merryhill
Middlesbrough
Milton Keynes
Newbridge
Newbury
Newry
Northampton
Norwich
Nottingham
Nuneaton
Oldham
Oxford
Perth
Plymouth
Portsmouth
Preston
Reading
Redditch
Romford
Rushmere
Salisbury
Scarborough
Sheffield
Sheffield – Meadowhall
Slough
Southampton
Southend
Southport
Southsea
Staines
Stirling
Stockport
Stockton
Stratford
Sunderland
Sutton
Swansea
Swindon
Taunton
Telford
Torquay
Tralee
Uxbridge
Walsall
Warrington
Waterford
Welwyn Garden City*
Westwood Cross
Weymouth
Wigan
Wimbledon
Winchester
Woking
Worcester
Workington
Worthing 
York 
Desire
Altrincham
Birmingham Fort
Falkirk
Kirkcaldy
Merthyr Tydfil
Orpington
South Shields
Truro
Walton
International 
Bahrain – Manama
Cyprus – Avenue
Cyprus – Apollon
Cyprus – Central
Cyprus – Korivos
Cyprus – Kinyras
Cyprus – Ledra
Cyprus – Nicosia*
Cyprus – Olympia
Cyprus – Zenon
Czech Republic – Prague
Iceland – Rykjavik
Indonesia – Jakarta Senayan City
Indonesia – Jakarta Plaza
India – Dehli*
Jordan*
Kuwait – Airport
Kuwait – Avenues
Kuwait – Home
Kuwait – Souq Sharq
Philippines – Manila
Philippines – Shangri La
Qatar – Doha
Romania – Bucharest
Russia – Moscow
Saudi Arabia – Jeddah
Saudi Arabia – Khobar
Saudi Arabia – Mecca
Saudi Arabia – Riyadh Kingdom
Mall
Saudi Arabia – Riyadh Granada Mall
Saudi Arabia – Riyadh Sahara Mall
Turkey – Istanbul
Dubai – Mall of Emirates
Dubai – Ibn Battuta
Dubai – Deira
UAE – Sharjah
* Opened after 1 September 2007
** Re-sited after 1 September 2007 NEW STORE OPENINGS
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 5 Additional information 101
WE CURRENTLY HAVE A PIPELINE OF 29 NEW STORES
AND THREE RE-SITES PLANNED BY AUTUMN 2011
2010/11
Key
Crewe
55,000 sq ft
Macclesﬁeld
55,000 sq ft
Wolverhampton
70,000 sq ft
Lancaster
70,000 sq ft
Swindon
(Re-site)
70,000 sq ft
2009/10
Newbury
(Re-site)
50,000 sq ft
Bury
(Gr. Manchester)
70,000 sq ft
Wood Green
70,000 sq ft
Wakeﬁeld
65,000 sq ft
Barnsley
65,000 sq ft
Newport
75,000 sq ft
Carmarthen
60,000 sq ft
Bradford
80,000 sq ft
Newcastle
125,000 sq ft
2007/08
Glasgow 
Silverburn
80,000 sq ft
Bath
85,000 sq ft
Bangor
(Re-site)
40,000 sq ft
Ashford
60,000 sq ft
Blackpool
65,000 sq ft
Liverpool
125,000 sq ft
Ballymena
14,000 sq ft
Lichﬁeld
45,000 sq ft
Darlington
60,000 sq ft
2008/09
White City
105,000 sq ft
Wrexham
60,000 sq ft
Dunﬁrmline
55,000 sq ft
Livingston
60,000 sq ft
Bury
St Edmunds
60,000 sq ft
Great 
Yarmouth
20,000 sq ft
Fareham
14,000 sq ft
Debenams
Stores Desire
Monks Cross
14,000 sq ft
Whitney
14,000 sq ft
2007/08
Opened since year end
Contracted pipeline
Exeter
(Re-site)
90,000 sq ft
Derby
(Re-site)
90,000 sq ft
Llanelli
22,000 sq ft
Welwyn
Garden City
20,000 sq ft NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“AGM”) 
OF DEBENHAMS PLC  WILL BE HELD AT 1 WELBECK STREET, LONDON W1G 0AA 
ON TUESDAY 4 DECEMBER 2007 AT 3.30 PM
Items 1 to 11 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions. Items 12 and 13 will be proposed as special resolutions. 
Ordinary business
1 Directors’ report and accounts
To receive the accounts for the financial year ended 1 September 2007 together with the directors’ report and the
auditors’ report on those accounts.
2 Directors’ remuneration report
To approve the remuneration report for the financial year ended 1 September 2007.
3 Dividend
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 1 September 2007 of 3.8 pence per share.
To reappoint the following directors who retire in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association
4 Richard Gillingwater
5 Peter Long
6 Dennis Millard
7 Rob Templeman
8 Appointment of auditors
To reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion 
of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
9 Paying the auditors
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditors on behalf of the board.
Special business
10 Electronic communications
To authorise the Company to send or supply documents or information to shareholders by electronic means,
including making the documents or information available on the Company’s website.
11 Authority to allot securities
That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section
80 of the Companies Act 1985 (“the Act”) to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities
(within the meaning of that section) up to an aggregate nominal value of £28,632 provided that this authority
shall expire at the Company’s next AGM after the passing of this resolution and that the Company may before
such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such
expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement notwithstanding
that the authority conferred by this resolution has expired.
12 Disapplication of pre-emption rights
That subject to the passing of the previous resolution the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant
to Section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities for cash as if Section 89(1) of the Act did not apply to such
allotment provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities:
a) in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights to holders of ordinary shares in proportion 
(as nearly as may be practicable) to their respective holdings of such shares, but subject to such exclusions or
other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or
any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or
stock exchange; and
b) otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a) above up to an aggregate nominal amount of £4,294
and shall expire on the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the passing of this resolution, save that
the Company may, before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities
to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or
agreement notwithstanding that the power conferred by this resolution has expired.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 5 Additional information 102 13 Authority for Debenhams plc to buy its own shares
That the Company be and is hereby authorised to make market purchases (within the meaning of Section 163(3)
of the Act ) of shares, subject to the following conditions:
a) the maximum number of shares authorised to be purchased may not be more than 85,897,439 shares;
b) the minimum price which the Company may pay for each share is £0.0001 being the nominal value 
of each share;
c) the maximum price which may be paid for each share shall be the higher of: (i) an amount equal to 105 per
cent of the average of the middle market quotations of a share as derived from the London Stock Exchange
Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to
be purchased; and (ii) an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of a share and
the highest current independent bid for a share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System
(“SETS”);
d) unless previously renewed, varied or revoked the authority shall expire at the close of the next AGM of the
Company or 18 months from the date of this resolution (whichever is earlier); and
e) a contract to purchase shares under this authority may be made prior to the expiry of this authority, 
and concluded in whole or in part after the expiry of this authority.
By order of the board
Paul Eardley
Company Secretary
5 November 2007
Debenhams plc
Registered Office
1 Welbeck Street, London W1G 0AA
Registered in England and Wales. Company No. 5448421
Y our attention is drawn to the notes below:
The directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests of Debenhams
plc and its shareholders. They recommend that you vote in favour of the proposed resolutions. The directors will
be voting their own shareholdings in favour of the proposed resolutions.
To have the right to come and vote at the AGM, you must hold shares in Debenhams plc (this means your name
must be entered on the share register) by 3.30pm on 2 December 2007.
If you cannot come to the AGM, you can appoint someone as your proxy to come to the meeting and vote for you.
Alternatively you can appoint the Chairman as your proxy.  If there is a poll, your proxy can vote for you and can
also join in the demand for a poll. A proxy does not have to be shareholder. If you want to appoint a proxy, fill in the
form of proxy which is enclosed and return it to the Company’s registrars in the prepaid envelope provided.
The Company’s registrars must receive your proxy instructions by 3.30pm on 2 December 2007. If you fill in and
send back a form of proxy you can still come to the AGM and vote instead of your proxy. If you do this and there is
a poll vote, the votes you have given previously to your proxy will not be counted.
The directors’ service contracts or their letter of appointment will be available for inspection at and for 
15 minutes prior to the AGM. You can also ask to see these documents during normal business hours by
contacting the Company Secretary.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 5 Additional information 103 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service
may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 December 2007 and any adjournments(s) thereof by
using the procedures described in the CREST manual. CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored
members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider(s), should refer to their CREST
sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate 
CREST message (a “CREST proxy instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCo’s
specifications and just contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the
instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received
by the issuer’s agent (ID 7RA01) by the latest time(s) for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice 
of meeting.  For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp
applied to the message by the CREST applications host) from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the
message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change of instructions 
to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that
CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system
timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions. It is the
responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member 
or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting
service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of
the CREST system by any particular time.  In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST
sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning
practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of
the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 5 Additional information 104 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 Section 5 Additional information 105
Registered office and head office
1 Welbeck Street
London W1G 0AA
Registered in England and Wales
Company number: 5448421
Financial advisers and stockbrokers
Citigroup Global Markets Limited
Citigroup Centre
Canada Square
London E14 5LB
Merrill Lynch International
Merrill Lynch Financial Centre
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
Solicitors
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Benson House
33 Wellington Street
Leeds LS1 4JP
Registrars
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
Telephone: 0845 607 6838
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Designed and produced by 85four
Printed in-house by Debenhams STYLING THE NATION
WITH DESIGNERS AT DEBENHAMS
Debenhams
1 Welbeck Street
London
W1G 0AA
www.debenhams.com
DEBENHAMS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
