 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
DEBENHAMS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 SECTION 1
OVERVIEW
1 Highlights
2 Year in Brief
4 Chairman’s Statement
7 Chief Executive’s Review
SECTION 2
OPERATING REVIEW
10 Operating Review
11 Feature Story – New Liverpool Store Opens
17 Feature Story – “Real Designers, Real Opinions”
22 Finance Director’s Review
23 Feature Story – Improving the Customer Experience in Womenswear
25 Feature Story – Driving Debenhams Direct
28 Corporate Responsibility Review
31 Feature Story – Carbon Footprint and Energy Usage
37 Feature Story – Back to Work
SECTION 3
MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
42 The Board
44 Directors’ Report
47 Corporate Governance
52 Remuneration Report
SECTION 4
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES
58 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
59 Independent Auditors’ Report to the
Members of Debenhams plc (Group)
60 Consolidated Income Statement
61 Consolidated Statement of Recognised
Income and Expenses
62 Consolidated Balance Sheet
63 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
64 Notes to the Financial Statements
91 Five-Year Record Income Statement
92 Five-Year Record Balance Sheets
93 Independent Auditors’ Report to the
Members of Debenhams plc (Company)
94 Company Balance Sheet
95 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
SECTION 5
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
100 Store List
101 Glossary
102 Shareholder Information
MAIN IMAGE
Red Herring faux fur gilet,
Rocha.John Rocha appliqué
blouse, Butterﬂy by Matthew
Williamson ombre felt hat, EB by
Erickson Beamon embellished
cuﬀ necklace, Red Herring long
bead necklace. 3.0p
• Market share gains in all major clothing categories.
• Strong performance from Designers at Debenhams.
• Extensive changes to Womenswear ranges to simplify consumer oﬀer.
• Same store stock density reduced by 10.5 per cent through range
editing programme.
• Seven new department stores, three re-sited department stores and
one Desire store opened.
• Store pipeline at 11 new department stores, one re-sited department
store and three Desire stores over the next three years including
ﬂagship store at Westﬁeld London opening on 30 October 2008.
• Continued strong growth in debenhams.com; sales up 60.8 per cent.
• Ten new international franchise stores opened.
• Deleveraging initiatives underway.
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 30 AUGUST 2008
£22.5m
Debenhams is a leading department store group with a strong presence
in womenswear, menswear, homeware, health and beauty, accessories, lingerie
and childrenswear.
Our exclusive own brands, including Designers at Debenhams,
differentiate Debenhams from its competitors.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
£191.4m
Improvement
in net debt
Gross
transaction
value
Full year
dividend
per share
Net cash generated
from operating
activities
HIGHLIGHTS
+1.3%
DEBENHAMS
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1
Section 1 Overview 1
MEL B APPEARS
FOR ULTIMO
Thousands of fans greeted model
and former Spice Girl Mel B when
she made appearances in a
number of stores in June in
her role as the face and body
of lingerie brand Ultimo. Ultimo
is stocked in 80 Debenhams
stores, including 20 distinctive
Ultimo shops.
2
BEAUTY CLUB LAUNCHED
The Debenhams Beauty Club
was launched in March 2008
as a way to drive footfall and
loyalty within our cosmetics
business. We have now run
three successful events.
The mechanics are very simple:
we oﬀer a £5 gift card on
purchases of two or more
products over £25 across
the entire cosmetics division.
3
“KYLIE AT HOME”
February saw the launch
of “Kylie at home” , the new
collection of home couture
designed by pop superstar
Kylie Minogue. Debenhams
has the privilege of oﬀering
two exclusive designs. Kylie’s
captivating style translates
seamlessly to her home
collection, which reﬂects the
glamour and sophistication
she brings to the stage.
4
WELCOME KARAWACI
Our third franchise store
in Indonesia is now open
at Supermal Karawaci. This
150,000 sq ft store features an
entrance which is over 400 ft
wide. Ten international franchise
stores opened during the course
of 2008 including market entries
in India and Romania.
YEAR IN BRIEF
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 2
Section 1 Overview
3
1
2
4 5
RED HERRING SPECIAL
EDITION
Launched in the spring, Special
Edition is a party wear addition
to our younger fashion brand
Red Herring. Many of the dresses
featured in our “Sex and The City”
events which ran in June to
celebrate the launch of the
much-awaited movie.
6
HAPPY BIRTHDAY BAKER
In August, Designers at
Debenhams Childrenswear
brand Baker by Ted Baker
celebrated its ﬁrst birthday.
The brand has gone from
strength to strength and
is now available in 92 stores.
Customers love the level
of fashion and sense of fun
that the range provides.
7
BLACKPOOL OPENS
IN STYLE
Debenhams Blackpool opened
in August to a great fanfare
around the town. A town crier
and a line-up of show girls led
a parade of staﬀ from Blackpool’s
famous Winter Garden to the
store for the grand opening.
The store was formally opened
by Coronation Street actress
Jenny McAlpine.
8
A NEW CONCEPT
FOR HOME
The opening of the Liverpool
store in May saw the launch
of the new Home department
concept which focuses on
fashion and style products rather
than just commodities. Elements
of the concept are being rolled
out in all new stores, most
notably Westﬁeld London.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3
Section 1 Overview
5
6
7
8 O
ur strategy has in essence been quite simple: to oﬀer
our customers products that are better in terms of
quality, design and value and a more pleasant in-store
experience. Several pieces of data suggest we are
starting to get this right. First, our market share has
increased in all major categories over the course of the
year. This is backed up by the quantitative research we
ourselves conduct with customers on an ongoing basis. Secondly, our
scores in consumer perception studies carried out by third-party
researchers have improved considerably. Finally, our sales performance
for the year is amongst the best in the sector. So we have much to
encourage us that we are on the right track.
Let me give you my highlights of the year. One of these is undoubtedly
the opening of our new ﬂagship store in Liverpool at the end of May.
I would strongly recommend that shareholders who live nearby or are
travelling to the area take a look to see Debenhams at its best; the store
recently won two prestigious retail design awards which I am sure you will
agree were well deserved. The performance of Designers at Debenhams
is another highlight. You will read elsewhere in this annual report about
how we are expanding our designer mix throughout our product
categories to good eﬀect and capitalising on the real point of diﬀerence
Designers at Debenhams brings. The performance of own bought ranges
generally – not just Designers – was also a high spot as own bought
outperformed concessions throughout the store and the percentage of
own bought merchandise relative to concessions increased. Our direct
and international businesses have also grown strongly. Finally I want to
mention the landmark deal we have recently signed with Scottish Power
to supply all our UK stores and properties with electricity provided by wind
power. This is a big step forward in meeting our obligations to combat
climate change.
One area that we have been asked about many times in 2008 is
indebtedness. I want to stress that we enjoy excellent relationships
with our banks and our cost of debt is not only extremely competitive
but also largely at ﬁxed interest rates. However, we have listened to what
the market has been telling us and do believe that, given the present retail
climate and the uncertain macroeconomic outlook, it is right for us to
increase our focus on the balance sheet. To this end, a number of actions
have been instigated which will achieve a signiﬁcant reduction in gearing
over the next few years. There is more detail on these actions in the Chief
Executive’s Review and the Operating Review.
At the half year we oﬀered a scrip alternative to a cash dividend for the ﬁrst
time and some 45 per cent of shareholders chose to avail themselves of
this. We said at the time of the interim results in April that the board would
continue to monitor the dividend cover in light of the two times cover
target set at the time of the IPO in May 2006. The board has declared a full-
year dividend of 3.0 pence per share. We have taken this decision in light
of trading during 2008 and our current view of the Company’s prospects for
2009. We will again oﬀer a scrip alternative for the ﬁnal dividend of
0.5 pence per share.
The board recognises that the unprecedented and diﬃcult economic
environment is placing great demands on our people. We thank them
for their terriﬁc response and for their continuing support and loyalty
to Debenhams.
In conclusion, we made some very good progress in 2008. There is more
to do but we believe that from where we stand today we are as ready as
we can be for whatever 2009 brings.
JOHN LOVERING
Chairman
21 October 2008
A YEAR OF PROGRESS
The board is pleased to report that Debenhams made good progress in 2008 in
addressing many of the areas which had been identiﬁed for positive development,
this despite it being a very difﬁcult year for the whole retail sector. That progress
should stand us in good stead as we move into a very uncertain period for the UK
consumer. We have an experienced, resilient management team, perhaps the best
equipped in the sector to take us through difﬁcult times.
JOHN
LOVERING
CHAIRMAN
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 4
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Section 1 Overview MAIN IMAGE
J by Jasper Conran shirt and
cardigan set.
+1.3%
INCREASE IN GROSS
TRANSACTION VALUE
+0.3%
INCREASE IN TOTAL
CLOTHING MARKET SHARE
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 MAIN IMAGE
Grey Rose by Jane Packer
silver wreath.
+8.0%
INCREASE IN DESIGNERS
AT DEBENHAMS SALES
71.8%
OWN BOUGHT SALES MIX
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 6 DRIVING STRATEGY FORWARD
DESPITE A DIFFICULT MARKET
Our ongoing investment in product design, quality and value, plus the
differentiation of our exclusive designer ranges, has resulted in market share gains
both overall and for each major clothing category and enabled us to deliver
a creditable sales performance given the retail climate.
ROB
TEMPLEMAN
CHIEF
EXECUTIVE
Review of 2008
Gross transaction value of £2,336 million was 1.3 per cent higher than last
year, with a contribution from new space oﬀsetting a like-for-like sales fall
of 0.9 per cent. EBITDA of £269 million resulted in proﬁt before tax of
£110.1 million (after adding back £4.2 million of amortisation of capitalised
bank fees), which was in line with market expectations. Gross margin was
maintained at the same level as last year. Net debt stood at £994 million at
the year end, an improvement of £22.5 million over the prior year. We
gained market share in all major clothing categories and our total clothing
share increased by 0.3 per cent.
In last year’s annual report we outlined four principal growth strategies.
Despite the diﬃcult macroeconomic environment, we continue to believe
that these growth strategies are the right ones for the business. We have
added one more strategic strand during the course of 2008, deleveraging
the balance sheet.
PRODUCT INNOVATION, DESIGN, QUALITY AND VALUE
FOR MONEY
The growth in market share in all major clothing categories achieved
during the year is largely a result of product improvement and innovation.
Overall, our total clothing market share growth was 0.3 per cent.
Starting with the Autumn/Winter collections which arrived in stores in
September 2007, our products have oﬀered customers improved design,
quality and value at all price points. We have done this by increasing the
design content and using better fabrics and adding what we term
“blindingly obvious quality clues”such as contrast linings and facings and
superior buttons and trims. At the same time we have held prices and in
some cases, particularly Menswear, reduced prices to ensure they deliver
appropriate value.
Designers at Debenhams is an important point of diﬀerence. In 2008,
designer ranges were some of the best performers and designer sales
increased by 8 per cent, ahead of gross transaction value growth of
1.3 per cent, as many customers sought to trade up to the quality and
durability these products oﬀer.
You can read more about Designers at Debenhams in the insert on page 17.
SPACE EXPANSION
Expanding the store portfolio continues to be a key driver of growth,
despite the prevailing economic conditions. Although 23 additional stores
(excluding re-sites) have been opened in the past four years, Debenhams
continues to be relatively immature in terms of store numbers.
Seven new department stores opened in 2008 plus three re-sited
department stores and one new Desire store. We remain committed to
the Desire small store format but believe that the higher returns delivered
by department stores mean that we should allocate capital into that
format ﬁrst in order to deliver greater shareholder value. The performance
of all new stores opened during the year has at least met our expectations
and in many cases exceeded them in a diﬃcult market.
We are able to achieve excellent returns on capital from opening new
stores and they are likely to be an important driver of shareholder value in
the future. In 2008 return on capital was some 56 per cent (deﬁned as ﬁrst
year store EBITDA as a percentage of net capital investment including
working capital). These superior returns stem from improved operating
performance and disciplined and eﬀective capital expenditure.
The new department store opened in Livingston on 16 October 2008. A
further four department stores, two Desire stores and one major store
extension are due to open in 2009. These include the 109,000 sq ft ﬂagship
store at Westﬁeld London which opens on 30 October 2008. Further out,
whilst there have been a few instances of retail developments being
delayed or even cancelled as property developers are aﬀected by the
credit crunch, we do not believe this to be a threat to our strategy.
You can read more about store openings, in particular the Liverpool
ﬂagship store, and the store pipeline in the insert on page 11.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7
Section 1 Overview CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 8
Section 1 Overview
IMPROVING THE STORE ENVIRONMENT AND CUSTOMER
SHOPPING EXPERIENCE
Customer research has told us that the key driver of customer loyalty is
product range, followed by price and quality. However, we found that
although we have one of the largest product ranges on the high street,
this did not always translate into positive customer perception. In short,
our product range was becoming too big and customers in fact want
edited choice.
We have sought to address this by oﬀering fewer, bigger brands which
cover the complete spectrum of how customers dress from casual
weekends through to work and on to special occasions. This has resulted
in a 15 per cent reduction in stock options which translates into a 10.5 per
cent reduction in same store stock density and, at the same time, better
availability of bestselling lines. Working at tighter stock levels has beneﬁts
beyond customer satisfaction as it results in working capital
improvements and hopefully in lower markdown which should feed
through to gross margin. You can read more about how we have improved
the customer experience in the insert on page 23.
We have continued to make progress in refurbishing core stores. Having
refurbished 18 stores in the ﬁrst half of this year, in the second half we
slowed the programme in order to manage the inevitable disruption to
sales caused during the refurbishment period. As a result, a total of 19
stores were reﬁtted during 2008. It remains our intention to refurbish the
remaining 40 or so core stores over the next few years, with the pace
depending on the retail climate.
We are committed to improving the environment in every store and all
stores have beneﬁted from new J by Jasper Conran, Star by Julien
Macdonald and Collection shop ﬁts so that the merchandising of these
brands complements the work done on the products.
GROWING OUR ONLINE BUSINESS AND OTHER
TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENTS
Our online business, www.debenhams.com, continues to grow strongly
and we believe that within a few years it will be our single largest store.
Online sales increased by 60.8 per cent in 2008 and visitor numbers were
up by 51.9 per cent. You can read more about the development of the
online business in the insert on page 25.
Other technology investments also started to bear fruit in 2008. The radio
frequency (RF) network is helping to improve the customer experience by
giving us more hours to invest in customer service, ensuring clarity of
pricing and improving the store environment by reducing the need for
promotional signage. At the same time, RF can deliver a positive impact
on gross margin, particularly in sale periods when more product is sold
at ﬁrst markdown.
DELEVERAGING THE BALANCE SHEET
As the economic and retail climate has deteriorated over the past year,
market sentiment towards Debenhams’ capital structure has weakened
and the level of debt on our balance sheet appears to be negatively
impacting valuations of the Company. We therefore believe that in order
to maximise shareholder value in the current environment, it is important
that leverage should be taken oﬀ the agenda for Debenhams as soon as
possible. A number of actions have been undertaken to achieve this; they
are described in more detail in the Operating Review on page 21.
2009 preview
In 2009, our focus will be on managing the business in what is widely
expected to be a diﬃcult economic and retail environment. Historically,
department stores have been fairly steady performers through the
economic cycle as they beneﬁt from the resilience of departments such as
health and beauty, the ability to ﬂex the use of space within stores and a
loyal account customer base.
Whilst we would expect to beneﬁt from at least some of these in the
current cycle, we still need to manage through the downturn proactively
in a number of ways.
First, we must recognise how customers’ needs change in a period of
downturn and then ensure that we meet those changing needs.
Customers are likely to become far more discerning in their purchasing,
being careful about their clothing purchases and looking for items that
can be worn in multiple ways for multiple seasons rather than fast fashion
items with limited longevity. At the same time, customers are apt to treat
themselves to small indulgences in order to make them feel better. We
believe our unique mix of products, ranging from everyday essentials at
competitive prices to the aﬀordable luxury of Designers at Debenhams
enables us to meet changing shopping habits. Providing value at every
price point through the product improvement measures described above
will be key.
Secondly, we need to ensure the appropriate allocation of resources
within the business. This involves the tight management of stock, costs
and capital expenditure. We must be alert to cost price inﬂation in the
supply chain and proactively manage the mitigating factors – ensuring
“right product, right country” , currency hedging, optimising container ﬁll
and costs, having the right mix of landed and FOB suppliers – so that we
can continue to deliver superior value to customers at the same time as
protecting our margin.
Thirdly, we will invest prudently for the future in higher returning projects,
including new store openings.
Finally, we must ensure our balance sheet and cost base continue to be
managed robustly so that the Company can emerge from the diﬃcult
trading environment in the strongest possible position.
CURRENT TRADING
The ﬁrst few weeks of the new ﬁnancial year have been characterised by
unprecedented turmoil in ﬁnancial markets, attracting massive media
interest, which has in turn heightened concerns of customers about their
own ﬁnancial security. This has undoubtedly had a negative impact on the
performance of Debenhams. Against this background, sales for the six
weeks to 11 October 2008 were 1.0 per cent lower than last year. Like-for-
like sales for this period were down 4.2 per cent on the previous year.
These comparisons are against a strong opening six weeks last year when
total sales grew by 3.9 per cent and like-for-like sales by 2.1 per cent. Gross
margin for the six-week period was 50bp higher than last year and gross
cash margin was ﬂat.
ROB TEMPLEMAN
Chief Executive
21 October 2008 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9
MAIN IMAGE
St. George by Duﬀer beige
cardigan with diamond detail,
Mantaray chocolate T-shirt,
Mantaray blue shirt, Rocha.John
Rocha baker boy cap.
+60.8%
INCREASE IN DIRECT
SALES
19 in 2008
STORES MODERNISED OPERATING REVIEW
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 10
Section 2 Operating Review
2008 PERFORMANCE IN DETAIL
Performance was driven by an increase in own bought sales mix,
a strong performance from Designers at Debenhams and growth
in Direct and International
MARKET CONDITIONS
The ﬁrst quarter of 2008 started strongly in September but gave way
to weaker conditions in October and November. Christmas trading and
the January sale provided a ﬁllip to the second quarter but conditions
softened again in the third quarter in line with poor spring weather.
The fourth quarter for retail, as with most consumer-facing businesses,
was increasingly impacted by economic uncertainty and a weak July was
sandwiched between better trading in June and August.
Despite this environment, Debenhams has taken market share in all of the
major clothing categories as customers have responded favourably to the
changes made to the design, quantity and value of Debenhams’products
and the improved in-store environment. Overall, Debenhams’share of the
total UK clothing market increased by 0.3 per cent (source: TNS, 26 weeks
to 17 August 2008).
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The board has determined a number of key performance indicators
for the business. These are summarised in the charts above and a fuller
explanation is provided in relevant sections of this annual report
and accounts. Notably: gross transaction value, like-for-like sales, proﬁt
before tax – Chief Executive’s Review, Operating Review, Finance Director’s
Review; net cash generated from operating activities – Finance Director’s
Review; trading space – Chief Executive’s Review, Operating Review; and
labour turnover – Corporate Responsibility Review.
SALES
Gross transaction value for the year increased by 1.3 per cent to
£2,336.0 million. Like-for-like sales fell by 0.9 per cent reﬂecting the tough
trading environment evident throughout the UK retail sector. The like-for-
like decline was oﬀset by sales growth from new department stores of
1.7 per cent, new Desire stores of 0.3 per cent and the international
business of 0.2 per cent.
Own bought sales accounted for 71.8 per cent of the total, up from
69.5 per cent last year and in line with our strategic aim to increase the
own bought sales mix. The increase in own bought sales was driven
by the introduction of more own bought product into the former Roches
stores and higher sales density growth in own bought areas as well as
a recovery in Menswear following range issues last year.
SALES (%)
The largest contributor to own bought sales was Clothing, followed by
Health & Beauty and Home & Gift.
OWN BOUGHT SALES 2008
In line with our aim to increase the size of our Designer business,
we were pleased that Designers at Debenhams made a strong
contribution to sales during 2008 and accounted for some £387.0 million,
an increase of 8 per cent over the prior year.
GROSS TRANSACTION VALUE (£m) LIKE-FOR-LIKE SALES (%)
08
07
ex Roches
07
71.8 28.2
Own bought
Concessions
70.4 29.6
69.5 30.5
■ Womenswear 19.3%
■ Menswear 15.5%
■ Childrenswear 7.7%
■ Home and Gift 13.9%
■ Health and Beauty 20.2%
■ Accessories 12.5%
■ Lingerie 7.1%
■ Foodservices 3.8%
06
07
08
0.5
(5.0)
(0.9)
06
07
08
2,193
2,306
2,336
PROFIT BEFORE TAX (£m)
06
07
08
112.8
127.5
105.9
Key performance indicators FEATURE STORY
NEW LIVERPOOL STORE OPENS
May 2008 saw the opening of our ﬂagship store in Liverpool, the largest new store
ever to be opened under the Debenhams banner. Our ﬁrst store in the European
Capital of Culture is a vision of future Debenhams and is already
a ﬁrm favourite with customers.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11 NEW LIVERPOOL STORE OPENS
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 12
ebenhams Liverpool is the anchor store of Liverpool
ONE, a £1 billion regeneration project in the heart
of the city covering 42 acres. The development
includes shops, restaurants, a hotel, a cinema, a ﬁve
acre park plus apartments and oﬃces. Debenhams
was part of the ﬁrst phase of the development to
open with the Grand Opening Celebration taking
place on 1 October 2008.
Our 133,000 sq ft ﬂagship store opened for business on 29 May 2008.
Debenhams Liverpool epitomises how we are improving the experience
of customers when they shop in Debenhams. We are doing this in a
number of ways by:
• Focusing on visual merchandising to give each brand more credibility
and clarity
• Using clear branding within departments
• Displaying designer ranges in a more premium way with features which
are unique to individual brands
• Using ﬁxtures to assist customers in building an outﬁt
• Giving a greater sense of space to allow easier browsing
• Providing ideas through the extensive use of mannequins and
lifestyle sets
In terms of capital expenditure, the Liverpool store cost £64 per sq ft,
a testament to the cost-eﬀective design and ﬁttings we use. The obvious
innovation of design and quality of work have been recognised when the
store recently won two prestigious retail design awards: “Department
Store Interior of the Year”at the Retail Week Interior Awards and“Best Store
Concept” at the Visual Awards.
Debenhams Liverpool has created some 500 jobs in the city, including 300
in the store which could rise to as many as 700 at peak times such as
Christmas. We worked in partnership with Shop for Jobs to ensure as many
people as possible had the chance of applying for and gaining jobs in
Liverpool’s booming retail sector.
TAKE A LOOK INSIDE DEBENHAMS LIVERPOOL
As soon as customers enter the store, they are wowed by the stunning
beauty hall. All the major houses are represented in their latest counter
format including the ﬁrst new Clinique format in the country. New
concepts include: a beauty services area with separate hairstyling/
makeover, nail and eyebrow bars; the Beauty Bar – home to a number of
exciting niche brands such as Stila, Jelly Pong Pong and DuWop; St Tropez
tanning bar and rooms; and new brands such as Bare Minerals in only its
second UK outlet.
On the lower ground ﬂoor is the largest Debenhams Menswear
department outside London. Designers at Debenhams are fully
represented along with core brands such as Mantaray and Maine New
England. A full range of international brands is also available, including
a Ben Sherman feature shop.
Womenswear is located on the upper ground and ﬁrst ﬂoors. It introduces
the new Rocha.John Rocha concept: an understated yet sophisticated
shop ﬁt which perfectly complements the distinctive Rocha.John Rocha
collections.
Liverpool was the ﬁrst store to showcase the new Star by Julien
Macdonald, J by Jasper Conran and Collection shopﬁts. It also has the
latest Ultimo lingerie shop and was the ﬁrst store in the Company with
the new occasionwear branding.
Childrenswear is merchandised to the same high fashion standards as
Womenswear and Menswear for both designer ranges such as Baker by
Ted Baker and core ranges such as Tiger-Lily.
The Home department has a whole new look which is focused on fashion
and style products rather than just commodities. Designer products
represent a much higher part of the mix in Liverpool than in other stores,
particularly in the soft homeware and accessories areas where they have
almost doubled.
COMING NEXT…
Debenhams Westﬁeld London opens on 30 October 2008 with the same
inspirational design and high retail standards as Liverpool.
D NEW LIVERPOOL STORE OPENS
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13
1. Childrenswear is merchandised
to the same high levels as adult
fashion.
2. The main escalators.
3. The Beauty Bar offers chic, niche
brands including Stila, Jelly Pong
Pong and DuWop.
4. Part of the new Home department
with the accent on fashion as well as
functionality.
5. The new J by Jasper Conran
Womenswear shop fit.
6. Liverpool is the first store with the
new Rocha.John Rocha branding.
3
5
6
4
2
1 NEW STORE PIPELINE
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14
O
pening new stores continues
to be an important part of
Debenhams’ strategy. We have a
strong pipeline of new stores
scheduled to open over the next
ﬁve years. These vary in size from
the ﬂagship store at Westﬁeld
London to the small department store at Great
Yarmouth, demonstrating the ﬂexibility in our store
format to meet the needs of local communities.
KEY
Wolverhampton
70,000 sq ft
2013
Darlington
60,000 sq ft
Barnsley
65,000 sq ft
Aylesbury
55,000 sq ft
Lich eld
45,000 sq ft
2009
Wrexham
60,000 sq ft
West eld London
109,000 sq ft
Bury
St Edmunds
59,000 sq ft
Livingston
60,000 sq ft
opened
16 October
2008
Great
Yarmouth
(small dept.)
20,000 sq ft
Fareham
(Desire)
14,000 sq ft
Monks Cross
(Desire)
14,000 sq ft
2010
Carmarthen
60,000 sq ft
Wake eld
65,000 sq ft
Bury
Manchester
70,000 sq ft
Witney
(Desire)
14,000 sq ft
Kidderminster
(small dept.)
20,000 sq ft
Department
stores Desire
CONTRACTED PIPELINE
2011
Bath
85,000 sq ft
Bradford
82,000 sq ft
Newport
75,000 sq ft
Newcastle
Upon Tyne
125,000 sq ft
Newbury
(resite)
27,000 sq ft
Swindon
(resite)
(13,000) sq ft
2012
Crewe
55,000 sq ft
Lancaster
70,000 sq ft
CONTRACTED PIPELINE CONTRACTED PIPELINE Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15
Section 2 Operating Review
MARGINS AND PROFITS
Gross margin was maintained at the same level as the previous year
despite the diﬃcult environment. The positive impact of higher intake
margin and improved own bought mix has been reinvested in pricing and
the close management of terminal stock.
Proﬁt before tax and exceptional items of £105.9 million compared with
£127.5 million last year.
Further information on proﬁts, margins and other ﬁnancial metrics can be
found in the Finance Director’s Review starting on page 22.
INTERNATIONAL FRANCHISE STORES
Debenhams’ international franchise stores performed well in 2008, a
testament to the strength of the Debenhams brand outside the UK and
the appeal of our own bought product ranges to international customers.
The international division accounted for 2.4 per cent of total sales during
the year, an increase of 0.2 per cent on last year. Retail sales have been
robust in many of the countries where our international stores are located
and the franchise businesses have seen like-for-like growth of 10 per cent.
During 2008, ten new international stores were opened in Cyprus, India,
Jordan, Romania, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia and UAE. At year end the
international portfolio stood at 41 stores in 15 countries.
Since the end of the year, new stores have opened in Indonesia, Saudi
Arabia and Romania as well as a re-sited store in Bahrain.
DEBENHAMS DIRECT
The online business, www.debenhams.com, has grown strongly since the
launch of a new website in November 2006. Debenhams Direct recorded a
60.8 per cent increase in sales during 2008 to £42 million. Its contribution to
total Group sales increased from 1.1 per cent last year to 1.8 per cent. Visitor
numbers were up by 51.9 per cent to some 43.6 million visitors. The average
conversion rate (the number of visitors to the site who complete a purchase)
was 2.1 per cent, up from 1.9 per cent in the previous year.You can read more
about the development of our online business and how we plan to meet our
objective of making it our single largest store in the insert on page 25.
STORE PORTFOLIO AND NEW OPENINGS
The store portfolio (excluding international franchise stores) at year end
comprised 139 department stores and ten Desire stores. Total store space
stood at 10,704,000 sq ft, an increase of 4.3 per cent year-on-year on the
10,266,000 sq ft at the start of the year. The average trading space for the
year was 10,464,000 sq ft, an increase of 3.1 per cent on last year’s average.
A total of 11 new stores opened during 2008. Seven new department
stores were opened in Glasgow Silverburn (89,000 sq ft, October); Welwyn
(22,000sq ft, October); Llanelli (22,000 sq ft, October); Ashford
(61,000 sq ft, March); Liverpool (133,000 sq ft, May); Dunfermline (54,000 sq ft,
August); and Blackpool (66,000 sq ft, August). Three re-sited department
stores opened in Exeter (additional 31,000 sq ft, September), Derby
(additional 17,000 sq ft, October) and Bangor (additional 28,000 sq ft, April).
One new Desire store opened in Ballymena (15,000 sq ft, October). The
89,000 sq ft department store in Jervis Street, Dublin closed in January.
With the new store openings being somewhat back end loaded during
the course of the year (especially Liverpool, Dunfermline and Blackpool),
new space has made only a limited contribution to the Group’s
2008 results.
Total capital expenditure on new stores was £60.9 million in 2008. Return
on capital employed for new stores opened in 2008 is expected to be
56 per cent (deﬁned as ﬁrst year store EBITDA as a percentage of net
capital investment including working capital).
You can ﬁnd further information on the opening of Debenhams Liverpool
and on the store pipeline for the next few years in the insert on page 11.
NET CASH GENERATED
FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (£m)
06
07
08
190.3
227.4
191.4
TRADING SPACE (m sq ft)
LABOUR TURNOVER (%)
CHANGE YEAR-ON-YEAR
06
07
08
(2.3)
(0.8)
1.8
06
07
08
9.5
10.3
10.7 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 16
Section 2 Operating Review
STORE REFITS
During 2008, 19 core stores underwent a reﬁt programme. Eighteen
were completed during the ﬁrst half of the year in time for Christmas
trading. In the second half it was decided to slow the programme given
the diﬃcult economic environment to avoid the disruption to sales that
inevitably occurs in a store during the 60-90 day reﬁt period. Some forty
core stores are yet to be reﬁtted and it remains our intention to complete
these within the next two to three years, with the pace depending on the
economic climate. Reﬁtted stores continue to trade above the chain
average, particularly during prime trading.
The capital expenditure on reﬁts during the year was £30.3 million. The
return on capital employed for stores reﬁtted during 2008 was 20.5 per
cent (excluding three defensive reﬁts).
Conversion of the nine stores acquired from Roches in September 2006
was completed by December 2007 and all are now trading well as
Debenhams. The former Roches store in Henry Street, Dublin was
relaunched as our Republic of Ireland ﬂagship in May 2008. We are pleased
with the performance of the Republic of Ireland stores. The former Roches
stores have performed in line with plan and have delivered the returns
anticipated at the time of acquisition.
PRODUCTS AND SUPPLY CHAIN
WOMENSWEAR
Womenswear – including women’s accessories and lingerie – accounted for
46 per cent of own bought sales in 2008. The performance of own bought
ranges exceeded that of concessions, with Designer ranges selling strongly.
Extensive changes were made to Womenswear during the summer with
a number of brands expanding signiﬁcantly whilst others were closed.
Our intention is to simplify the consumer oﬀer by having fewer but bigger
departments which have more product authority at all price points. Key
changes within Designers at Debenhams are the extension of Star by
Julien Macdonald both in range and size and the increased store coverage
of Betty Jackson.Black. Additionally, the casual and formal lines within
J by Jasper Conran are now co-located in stores, again to facilitate ease
of shopping.
Within our core ranges, Casual Club has been merged with Collection to
create easier shopping for everyday essentials by eliminating duplication
and providing bigger statements of key product areas such as knitwear.
Other brands which have become bigger include the younger fashion
brand Red Herring, particularly following the launch of its Special Edition
partywear range. Brands which have closed include Antoni and Alison,
John by John Richmond, J. Taylor and Gorgeous as it was felt they no
longer had a clear role in our Womenswear brand strategy. You can read
more about the changes which have been made to Womenswear during
2008 in the insert on page 23.
MENSWEAR
Menswear represented 15.5 per cent of own bought sales in 2008.
Performance of Menswear continues to show a marked improvement as
reﬂected in the market share gains. This has been driven in part by a strong
performance from our designer business, notably J by Jasper Conran and
Rocha.John Rocha. Strong share gains were made in suiting, outerwear,
denim and accessories.
Mantaray, our surf/outdoor brand, is now truly established and is an all year
round business with good performances from outerwear, knitwear and ﬂeece.
It is of note that the improved performance across the division has been
driven mainly by value-added product where we have focused on
improving fabrication and attention to detail. This in turn has driven up
average selling prices.
There has been further focus on our men’s accessories business through
increased space in better locations. The performance on these areas –
notably bags, wallets and belts – has continued to surge, delivering a great
proﬁt and sales density and justifying investment in a dedicated men’s
accessories team.
CHILDRENSWEAR
The Childrenswear division saw its share of own bought sales increase
from 7.4 per cent to 7.7 per cent in 2008. Designers continue to be
a Childrenswear strength, with strong performances from J by Jasper
Conran, Rocha. Little Rocha, Rocha.John Rocha and Butterﬂy by Matthew
Williamson. Overall, Designers accounted for over 50 per cent of
divisional sales.
Baker by Ted Baker has gone from strength to strength, exceeding all
expectations in its ﬁrst year with customers appreciating the level of
fashion and sense of fun of the range. The brand has expanded into 92
stores from 60 at launch.
The division has seen the ongoing strength of the baby and toddler ranges
across both boys and girls and further growth is expected in these areas
next year.
As with our adult ranges, we have improved the styling, quality and
value of our Childrenswear and this has resulted in continued market
share increases.
HOME
Home performance continues to stabilise with improvements in the latter
part of the year being especially pleasing, although there is still some work
to do. The focus on designers at Debenhams continues to bear fruit, with
good growth in all Designers led by Star by Julien Macdonald. The focus
on the designer collections will accelerate as a key point of diﬀerence.
Elements of the new Home concept seen in our Liverpool store will be
rolled out to all new stores, with Westﬁeld London being the key opening
on 30 October 2008.
OPERATING REVIEW FEATURE STORY
“REAL DESIGNERS, REAL OPINIONS”
Designers at Debenhams is a great strength for our business and
a key point of difference on a crowded high street. Our internationally renowned
designers design for the catwalk and translate their expertise and strong brand
heritage to the diffusion lines designed exclusively for Debenhams.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17 “REAL DESIGNERS, REAL OPINIONS”
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 18
2
008 was the ﬁfteenth anniversary of Designers at
Debenhams and since its launch in 1993 it has gone
from strength to strength. Customers appreciate the
aﬀordable luxury Designers at Debenhams brings to the
high street and they have welcomed the ongoing
improvement we are making to the quality, design and
value of these brands.
Designer sales accounted for their largest ever percentage of our sales mix
in 2008 and grew at a rate signiﬁcantly above that for the Company as a
whole. They helped to protect against declining average transaction
values and average selling prices due to the diﬃcult economic climate.
We intend to build on this success by making some of our designer brands
bigger, by putting designer brands into all stores and by increasing the
designer mix within departments.
Designer departments are being upgraded to provide customers with a more
boutique-style shopping environment, with ﬁxtures and merchandising
which reﬂect the individual designer’s creative philosophy. At the same time
we will continue to improve the design and quality of designer products to
improve further the value these premium products oﬀer.
Star reﬂects Julien Macdonald’s standing as the maestro of glitz and glam.
From Autumn Winter 2008/09, Star by Julien Macdonald is doubling in size
in many stores and acquiring a glamorous new shop ﬁt. Its footprint is also
being expanded to cover all stores. Overall, this will result in a threefold
increase in the size of Star in Womenswear. Star also has an increasing
presence in Home, particularly in bedlinens, accessories, lighting
and china.
One of our largest designers, Rocha.John Rocha is given its distinctive
edge by John Rocha’s unique fusion of Chinese and Celtic culture.
Historically a casual brand, in 2008 the Womenswear brand has been
expanded to include informal, relaxed party wear. Rocha.John Rocha
also has a strong presence in Menswear, Childrenswear (including
Rocha.Little Rocha) and Home. It is also our key organic cotton brand with
organic ranges in all departments.
Jasper Conran is of the most successful British designers of all time. J by
Jasper Conran is our most wide-ranging designer range and is found
throughout the store, from bedlinen to bridal gowns and from sleepwear to
shoes. The biggest change in Autumn Winter 2008/09 is in Womenswear
where for the ﬁrst time the formal and casual ranges will be merchandised
together. A chic new J shop is being introduced in all Womenswear
departments to show the collection at its best.
Star by Julien Macdonald vases
and candle.
Page 17 image:
BDL by Ben de Lisi red silk dress. “REAL DESIGNERS, REAL OPINIONS”
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19
Betty Jackson.Black reﬂects Betty Jackson’s unique ability to produce looks
that are stylish and wearable, contemporary and sophisticated which
appeal to today’s modern woman. The range is being expanded to cover
126 stores from Autumn Winter 2008/09 from 79 a year prior. Betty
Jackson.Black was recently awarded “Best Designer on the High Street” in
the Comfort Prima High Street Fashion Awards.
Occasionwear is one of Debenhams’ key strengths and our occasionwear
departments were redesigned during the summer of 2008 to create
destination departments for occasion clothing and accessories. Taking
pride of place in the new departments are our occasionwear designers
Pearce Fionda II and BDL by Ben de Lisi. Pearce Fionda II oﬀers stunning
styles that create the perfect silhouette whilst BDL by Ben de Lisi is an
elegant collection with a glamorous twist.
The newest designer introduction is Baker by Ted Baker, which was
launched in Childrenswear in September in 60 stores. Showcasing the best
of British design at aﬀordable prices from nine months to 16 years, the
collections are inspired by Ted’s irreverence and quirky attention to detail.
Baker by Ted Baker is now available in 92 stores.
DESIGNER HOME
Designer brands are found throughout the Home department with all our
major designers featuring, including Star by Julien Macdonald, J by Jasper
Conran, Rocha.John Rocha and Betty Jackson.Black. Designer participation
in the living, accessories and soft homeware areas has grown by around
20 per cent as we focus more on fashion and style within these product
categories. This is particularly evident in large format new stores such as
Liverpool and Westﬁeld London.
Childrenswear from Baker
by Ted Baker. “REAL DESIGNERS, REAL OPINIONS”
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 20 St. George by Duffer sweatshirt
and jeans.
Reduction in
stock density
10.5%
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21
Section 2 Operating Review
STOCK MANAGEMENT
In the current economic environment, it is prudent to manage stocks very
tightly. Terminal stock was at a historically low level at year end. This also
accords with our strategy to edit our ranges to provide easier shopping
for customers. In 2008, total stock by value decreased by 3 per cent. The
10.5 per cent reduction in same-store stock density achieved through the
editing programme was partly oﬀset by the need to increase stock due to
new stores and growth in the online business. A further stock reduction of a
similar magnitude is being trialled in a number of stores.
COST PRICE INFLATION
Although pressure on cost prices increased through the year – principally
due to foreign exchange rates, increases in raw materials prices, higher oil
prices and labour inﬂation – we were able to mitigate much of this
pressure during 2008. Importantly, our currency exposure was reduced
by hedging US dollar purchases forward by 12 to 18 months. In addition,
excess manufacturing capacity in China has enabled us to resist price
increases by suppliers. There are indications that some of the drivers of
cost price inﬂation are weakening: commodity and oil prices are falling
and transportation costs are easing. Although this will undoubtedly ease
the pressures on cost prices, we will continue to seek ways to mitigate any
inﬂationary pressures on our supply chain.
MARKETING
Through the breadth of our oﬀer we have developed a very inclusive
customer base. Regardless of which brands and departments a customer
chooses to shop, our commitment is to consistently deliver great value –
that means quality, style and fashion at aﬀordable prices. Customers are
particularly responsive to our Designers at Debenhams ranges, which
really deliver on the demand for beautiful, unique, and stylish product that
doesn’t blow the budget. Our marketing messages in store, on line and
externally are all about reinforcing this.
In addition, during this challenging time, customers are increasingly
responsive to great oﬀers and promotions. Debenhams’unique mix of sale
oﬀers, three-day spectaculars, cardholder events and spend driven
discounts, mean that we are perfectly placed to meet these needs.
We have recently launched a new, simpliﬁed and more contemporary
creative to communicate our key messages. This is enhanced by a focus on
excellent visual standards for both new product launches and customer
promotions. We are conﬁdent that our marketing is relevant to our
customers mind set – initial results are very encouraging.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
As a retail business, Debenhams’operations impact the lives of millions of
people: our customers, our people, the communities in which we operate,
those who work in our supply chain and their own communities and the
environment in which we all live. Our aim is not just to minimise impact
but to try to have a positive impact on those whose lives we touch.
Debenhams’ Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 28 to 41 gives
information on how we intend to achieve this.
BUSINESS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The principal risks and uncertainties which may impact the performance
of Debenhams are listed within the Directors’ Report on page 44. Our
internal control process is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on
page 50. FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 22
Section 2 Operating Review
SALES, MARGIN AND COSTS
For the 52 weeks ended 30 August 2008 the Group’s gross transaction
value increased by 1.3 per cent to £2,336.0 million (2007: £2,305.6 million)
and revenue was up 3.7 per cent to £1,839.2 million (2007: £1,774.4 million).
These increases were driven by improvements in our own bought
products, underpinned by our Designers at Debenhams ranges and by
good performance in our new and modernised stores. Like-for-like sales
fell by 0.9 per cent in the ﬁnancial year, reﬂecting diﬃcult trading
conditions for the sector with a deteriorating economic environment
aﬀecting customer sentiment. This fall was oﬀset by the positive impact of
new stores and International.
Our Direct business continues to grow. During the year we have seen
increases in site visitors and conversion rates with sales increasing by 60.8
per cent.
The International business has opened ten new stores during the ﬁnancial
year and as at 30 August 2008 we had 41 international franchise stores in
15 countries.
Our own bought product mix and an improvement in our intake margin
gave us an improvement in our gross margin of 0.5 per cent. However
these gains have been reinvested in both pricing initiatives and ensuring
that the terminal stock position was very clean at the year end. This
resulted in the gross margin being ﬂat for the ﬁnancial year.
Cost control is a key focus in the business. Store operational costs grew by
4.6 per cent mainly due to new stores opened during the year, the costs in
like-for-like stores increased by only 1.4 per cent. Distribution costs
increased by £3.0 million which was primarily due to the expansion of the
Direct business, the full year impact of the increased mix of own bought
product in the former Roches stores in the Republic of Ireland and some
one-oﬀ pension adjustments contained in last year’s ﬁgure. Central
administrative costs also rose slightly.
The gross proﬁt achieved for the ﬁnancial year ended 30 August 2008 was
£267.6 million (2007: gross proﬁt before exceptional items £279.5 million)
and operating proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year was £176.1 million
(2007: operating proﬁt before exceptional items £194.1 million). Proﬁt
before tax was £105.9 million (2007: proﬁt before tax and exceptional
items £127.5 million).
INTEREST
The net interest charge for the ﬁnancial year ended 30 August 2008 was £70.2
million, this compares to a net interest charge before exceptional items of
£66.6 million in 2007. This small increase was mainly due to the high level of
capital expenditure during the year compared to the comparative period,
largely as a result of a strong new store opening programme.
TAXATION
The Group’s tax charge of £28.8 million, on proﬁt of £105.9 million, gave an
eﬀective rate of tax of 27.2 per cent in 2008. This was a reduction from last
year’s rate of 30.2 per cent, reﬂecting the decrease in the UK corporation
tax rate from 30 per cent to 28 per cent in April 2008. In addition the Group
beneﬁted from increased proﬁtability in the Republic of Ireland which has
lower tax rates than the United Kingdom.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
The basic earnings per share of 9.0 pence (2007: 9.3 pence) and diluted
earnings per share of 9.0 pence (2007: 9.3 pence) reﬂect the weighted
average number of shares in issue during the course of the ﬁnancial year
and the comparative period.
DIVIDENDS
An interim dividend of 2.5 pence per share was paid on 4 July 2008. On
3 June 2008, shareholders approved a resolution at an Extraordinary
General Meeting that enabled the Company to oﬀer shareholders a scrip
alternative to the cash dividend. This resulted in £11.8 million being paid
in cash and £9.7 million being paid in shares for the interim dividend. In
respect of the ﬁnal dividend for the ﬁnancial year, the directors are
proposing a dividend of 0.5 pence per share. This will be paid on
16 January 2009 to shareholders who are on the register of members at
close of business on 12 December 2008. A scrip alternative will again be
oﬀered for the ﬁnal dividend.
MANAGING IN A DOWNTURN
We are managing the business tightly in light of difﬁcult and uncertain market
conditions. We are also seeking to take leverage off the agenda for Debenhams.
CHRIS
WOODHOUSE
FINANCE
DIRECTOR
Earnings
per share
9.0p FEATURE STORY
IMPROVING THE CUSTOMER
EXPERIENCE IN WOMENSWEAR
Customers tell us that they value real choice but at the same time want
a simpler shopping experience. In 2008 we made some signiﬁcant changes
to our ranges, particularly in Womenswear, in order
to meet this challenge.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 IMPROVING THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE IN WOMENSWEAR
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 24
e ask our customers for their views on
Debenhams on a regular basis. We also
undertake extensive benchmarking against our
competitors. What this accumulated research
has told us is that the key driver of customer
loyalty is product range, followed by price and
quality. Although we have one of the largest
product ranges on the high street, we found that this did not always
translate into positive customer perception. In short, our product range
had become too big and customers in fact want edited choice.
Furthermore, our own quantitative analysis suggested that we have higher
square footage to linear space conversion and substantially more options
(or individual product lines) than our competitors. This led us to believe
that we could rationalise our brands and reduce the number of options –
both of which would improve the customer experience and visual
merchandising – without removing real choice.
CUSTOMERS WANT REAL CHOICE…
As a result of this research, we identiﬁed an opportunity to improve the
experience of customers in our stores through consolidation and clear
delineation of our brands. We have therefore:
• reduced the number of options in store; and
• rationalised the overall number of brands and invested in fewer, bigger
“power” brands.
Following detailed trials in a range of store sizes and densities, a 15 per
cent reduction in options has been achieved in the Autumn Winter
collections which arrived in store from August 2008. After reinvesting in
best selling options and sizes, this has resulted in a 10.5 per cent reduction
in same store stock density.
In Womenswear, option reduction has been achieved by reducing
duplication within brands and by brand rationalisation. Some brands have
been closed, including designer brands (such as John by John Richmond
and Antoni and Alison) and core brands (such as J. Taylor and Gorgeous)
as it was felt they no longer had a clear or distinctive enough role in our
brand strategy and that other brands oﬀered more than adequate
alternatives for customers who shopped the closed brands. Other brands
have been merged, most notably Casual Club which has been combined
with Collection to provide easier shopping for everyday essentials by
eliminating duplication between the two and creating bigger statements
of key product lines such as knitwear or formal trousers.
The new Collection brand – with its elements of casual, smart and formal
clothing – is what we call a power brand. A power brand covers
the complete spectrum of how a woman dresses, from casual to smart to
formal to special occasion. J by Jasper Conran is already an established
power brand. In 2008 we expanded some of our other existing brands to
create new power brands, including Star by Julien Macdonald in Designers
at Debenhams and Red Herring in young fashion.
Star by Julien Macdonald has historically been a “going out” brand. By
introducing casual clothing and smart daywear, the Star customer can
now dress in her favourite brand throughout the week.
Young fashion brand Red Herring has always been strong in denim and
casuals along with day-into-night smarter clothing. In 2008 we launched
Red Herring Special Edition which translated our strength in special
occasionwear into options for younger customers with sassier designs and
shorter hemlines.
…AND A SIMPLER SHOPPING EXPERIENCE
Having fewer, better deﬁned brands in itself helps improve shopability.
Improving store layouts and visual merchandising also makes an
important contribution to providing a simpler shopping experience.
Our intention has been to make each brand more distinctive and provide
greater clarity between brands. We want customers to have a positive ﬁrst
impression when they enter a department and a sense of space to browse
freely between ranges. We have done this by using distinctive shop ﬁts for
each brand which complement their individual style philosophy – from
the sophisticated silver of J by Jasper Conran to the natural wood of
Rocha.John Rocha to the glamorous black gloss of Star by Julien
Macdonald. The shop ﬁts are enhanced by distinctive accessories such as
the Star armoire and the Betty Jackson.Black ornate ﬂoor standing mirror.
Each brand also makes good use of individually styled mannequins and
hangers, which again emphasise brand clarity and diﬀerentiation and
provide ideas and inspiration for customers.
W FEATURE STORY
DRIVING DEBENHAMS DIRECT
Sales at Debenhams’ online business, www.debenhams.com, grew
by over 60 per cent in 2008. Within the next few years we expect
it to become our single largest store.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25 DRIVING DEBENHAMS DIRECT
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 26
he Debenhams online business accounted for 1.8 per cent
of gross transaction value in 2008, up from 1.1 per cent
in the previous year. Online revenues have grown in
the last year by over 60 per cent. Proﬁtability has more
than doubled in the last year as a result of signiﬁcantly
better stock control and economies of scale with
regard to the division’s operating costs.
We are pleased with the customer reaction to our step change in the
promotion of the online brand. In particular the focus on fashion,
designers and beauty has been well received and these themes will
continue into next year. The range oﬀered online has grown substantially
in the past 12 months and over 95 per cent of the own bought ranges are
available to purchase.
In the past year improvements have been made to both the product
oﬀering and marketing of the online oﬀer. A larger electrical oﬀer has been
introduced, alongside some key store concessions and there has been a
greater focus on the “Designers at Debenhams” brand.
In more recent months we have begun to upgrade both the content and
quality of online images as we believe customers welcome more clarity
as well as the ability to see our clothes being worn on models.
Earlier this summer we also re-enforced our commitment to secure online
shopping by introducing a 3d secure technology, which will provide our
customers with further conﬁdence to shop with us.
In preparation for peak trading, a series of customer developments will
also be launched in November to enhance the online shopping
experience, these include:
• A gift ﬁnder
• A brand new beauty section
• A new product page incorporating zoom/customer reviews and outﬁt
building capability
In October we see the launch of Debenhams’ ﬁrst Christmas corporate
oﬀer, providing discount for businesses placing bulk orders for store
products as well as ﬁnancial products. Following this, in January we will be
launching the ﬁrst “Debenhams Outlet Store” online bringing our
customers a year-round opportunity to buy at even lower prices.
Increasingly in the last year we have seen the online store being used by
store shoppers to research their purchases. As a result the focus for
developments next year and beyond will be around creating a much
stronger link between the online and oﬄine stores.
In Spring this year we launched our “returns in store”service which allows
online shoppers to return any unwanted purchases to their local store.
Next year we will provide customers with the option to collect their
purchases from their local store.
Earlier this year we announced our intention to rebuild all of the support
services for the online store and these plans are now well on track to
deliver in Spring next year. This will complete a series of infrastructure
plans having upgraded the front end of our website in November 2006.
This will provide a series of customer beneﬁts such as:
• Click and collect from stores
• Online track and trace
• Premium delivery services
In the longer term we anticipate the online store to continue to perform
ahead of the core store estate. We anticipate that our customers’ appetite
to use the online store for both browsing and shopping will continue to
grow. As such we expect to see continued sales growth well beyond this
ﬁnancial year.
T Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27
Section 2 Operating Review
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
During the ﬁnancial year ended 30 August 2008 the Group opened ten
new department stores (including three re-sites) and one new Desire store
(details of which are provided in the Operating Review on page 15). In
addition, 19 stores were modernised. In total we invested £129.1 million
in ﬁxed asset additions during the year, the breakdown of which is shown
in the chart above.
CASH FLOW
Net cash generated from operating activities in the year ended 30 August
2008 was £191.4 million. This was a decrease of £36.0 million on the prior
year (2007: £227.4 million). This reﬂects trading during the year and an
increase in taxation payments oﬀset by continued improvements in
working capital
BORROWINGS
At 30 August 2008 the Group’s net debt position was £994.0 million, a
reduction of £22.5 million since the start of the year. This includes a
scheduled repayment of £100.0 million of the term loan facility which was
made in May 2008.
DELEVERAGING INITIATIVES
A number of actions are being taken to begin the process of taking
leverage as an issue oﬀ the agenda for Debenhams. These were set out at
the time of the interim results in April and progress achieved during the
second half is detailed below.
• £20 million cost reduction: this has now been achieved through a
combination of cost savings including lower marketing costs,
withdrawal from the Nectar reward scheme, lower logistics costs and
relocation of HR and call centre personnel from London to Taunton.
A further £10 million of cost savings are now being made.
• Lower capex: in 2009 we will spend some £90 million compared to
£129 million in 2008, largely as a result of fewer new store openings and
store reﬁts.
• Reduction in options/stock: at year end, the anticipated 15 per cent
reduction in options had been achieved, resulting in lower same store
stock density of 10.5 per cent. You can read about how this was
accomplished in the insert on page 23.
• Continued focus on working capital, including the robust management
of our cost base and stock levels.
• Scrip dividend: some 45 per cent of shareholders elected to take the
scrip alternative for the interim dividend; it will also be oﬀered for the
2008 ﬁnal dividend.
FINANCIAL RISK AND TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The board has established an overall treasury policy and has approved
authority levels within which the treasury function must operate. Treasury
policy is to manage risks within the agreed framework whilst not taking
speculative positions. The policies and strategies for managing ﬁnancial
risk are summarised in note 3 of the Group Financial Statements starting
on page 68.
PENSIONS
The Group provides a number of pension beneﬁt arrangements for its
employees, which include the Debenhams Retirement Scheme and
Debenhams Executive Pension Plan (together the “pension schemes”).
From 31 October 2006 the pension schemes closed for future service
accrual. The balance sheet surplus associated with the Group’s pension
schemes at 30 August 2008 was £25.0 million. (2007: £87.3 million). Further
information can be found in note 24 of the Group Financial Statements
starting on page 82. The Group’s actuary is currently undertaking the
triennial actuarial valuation of the pension schemes as at 31 March 2008.
Future pension arrangements will be provided for Debenhams employees
by a Prudential stakeholder pension scheme.
CHRIS WOODHOUSE
Finance Director
21 October 2008
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 2008 (%)
■ New stores 47.0
■ Store reﬁts 23.0
■ Systems 6.0
■ Maintenance 19.0
■ Other 5.0 Contribution to
Breast Cancer Campaign
£1.5m
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 28
Section 2 Operating Review
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
IN ACTION
Every year Debenhams and its employees are involved in a wide range
of activities relating to the environment, to ethical trading and to supporting
charities and communities on a local and national basis.
3
BREAST CANCER
CAMPAIGN
Debenhams has been a
supporter of the Breast Cancer
Campaign for a number of years.
So far £1.5 million has been
raised through the sale of special
products and in-store and head
oﬃce events. This year’s products
include this Adore Moi
balconette bra and thong.
4
FAIRTRADE CLOTHING
In February 2008, we launched
a range of Fairtrade clothing
within our Maine Menswear
brand in conjunction with
Olympic hero Sir Steve
Redgrave’s FiveG brand. Sir
Steve travelled to the village
of Dougourakoroni in
Mali to see for himself the impact
Fairtrade has had on the lives of
local farmers and communities.
2
LIVINGSTON CLICS
TO SUPPORT CHARITY
The team at the new store
in Livingston which opened on
16 October 2008 have adopted
Clic Sargent as their charity with
a fundraising target of £12,000
in the ﬁrst year. The new
management team got oﬀ to
a good start in June by taking
part in The Great Scottish Walk,
a 12 mile sponsored walk
around Edinburgh.
1
BLACKPOOL
GROUND FORCE
The new management team
from the Blackpool store came
together in June to create
a vegetable patch for the
Blackpool Tiggers. The local
charity provides a sports, leisure
and social club for children
on the autism spectrum.
3
4
2
1 Our longest serving
employee
60 yEARs
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29
Section 2 Operating Review
5
MARINE CONSERVATION
SOCIETY
Menswear brand Mantaray is a
proud supporter of the Marine
Conservation Society which cares
for our seas, shores and wildlife.
Employees and customers have
taken part in a number of beach
clean-up days around the
country, including this one
in Brighton.
The rubbish was all logged and
provides vital information to the
Marine Conservation Society
when tackling litter and dumping
problems across the UK.
6
ACHIEVEMENTS IN
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Our achievements in energy
eﬃciency were recognised in
late 2007 when Retail Operations
Director Nigel Palmer was
awarded the Ellen MacArthur
Award for his personal leadership
and achievement in retail energy
eﬃciency. Dame Ellen presented
the award to Nigel at our Derby
store along with Debenhams’
Energy Manager Alan Carter.
7
PETERBOROUGH’S
GREEN FUN DAY
The Peterborough Distribution
Centre’s Green Team held a
family fun day in August at which
staﬀ and their families could
learn about environmental issues
through displays provided by
recycling contractors, local
council departments and other
environmental agencies whilst
having fun and enjoying
challenges such as rodeo
bull riding, bungee runs and
sumo wrestling.
8
SIXTY YEARS AT
DEBENHAMS
Edna Lee from the Gloucester
store celebrated 60 years with
Debenhams in August, having
joined “Bonmarche” as the store
was then called in 1948 as a 15-
year old school leaver. A moving
tribute was paid to Edna’s
commitment and achievement
at this year’s annual Celebrating
Success event. Edna amused the
audience with stories of life in
retail during the past 60 years.
5
6
8
7 target for
DC waste recycling
98%
During 2008 Debenhams sent
several crates of toys to crèche
facilities at suppliers’ factories
in Bangladesh and Vietnam. Here
children at Stylecraft in Bangladesh
enjoy the toys.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 30
Section 2 Operating Review
A
s a retail business, Debenhams’ operations impact the
lives of millions of people: our customers, our people,
the communities in which we operate, those who work
in our supply chain and their own communities.
We also have a duty to ensure our activities do not
harm the environment. Our aim is not just to
minimise our impact but to try to have a positive
impact on those whose lives we touch.
We believe that management of and accountability for corporate
responsibility (CR) should be embedded in the relevant business activity
rather than a centralised CR function. Thus, ethical trading is the
responsibility of the Director of Supply Chain who reports directly to the
Chief Operating Oﬃcer Michael Sharp and energy usage in stores is
overseen by a dedicated Energy Manager who works closely with the
Retail Operations Director Nigel Palmer. A cross-functional CR steering
committee meets regularly to review progress and policies. The committee
is chaired by Nikki Zamblera, HR Director, who has executive responsibility
for CR issues.
Environmental
CARBON FOOTPRINT AND ENERGY USAGE
Disclosure on Debenhams’ carbon footprint and energy usage can be
found in the insert on page 31.
WASTE RECYCLING
Debenhams is committed to reducing the amount of waste generated by
its activities. We seek to divert as much waste away from landﬁll through
a number of recycling schemes.
STORES
In 2008 we have increased the number of stores that“backhaul”cardboard
and plastic waste to the distribution centre (DC) for recycling from 16 to
78. With the installation of a second high capacity baler into the
Peterborough DC the intention is to move as many of the remaining stores
as possible to backhauling. Waste studies revealed that the amount of
waste passed to landﬁll as a result of implementing backhauling drops by
as much as 80 per cent as the bulk of store waste is card and plastic.
All stores also action some form of recycling, using multi-stream recovery
units across the country. We are investigating the feasibility of incinerating
waste to divert from landﬁll in the next year as well as composting of food
waste generated by stores.
We are increasing the percentage of hangers which are either re-used or
returned to the DC for recycling.
DISTRIBUTION CENTRES
Waste disposal and recycling statistics for the distribution centres are detailed
in the following table. For 2008, the target is to move to 98 per cent of DC
waste recycled. Recycling points have been installed at all three DCs and
individual waste bins removed from all oﬃces.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
REVIEW FOR 2008
Our aim is to have a positive impact on the
millions of lives our business touches. FEATURE STORY
CARBON FOOTPRINT
AND ENERGY USAGE
Reducing our carbon footprint and increasing our energy efﬁciency
are key components of Debenhams’ environmental strategy.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31 CARBON FOOTPRINT AND ENERGY USAGE
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 32
he ever-growing threat that climate change presents
has led to many governments and international
organisations taking measures to mitigate climate
risk. As a consequence, individual companies will
increasingly need to acknowledge and mitigate their
greenhouse gas (GHG) risks to comply with regulations
and standards and to participate in emissions trading
schemes and/or voluntary reduction and reporting programmes.
Managing GHG risks eﬀectively can also play a strong role in succeeding
in a competitive marketplace.
The environmental consultancy AEA was commissioned to provide a
breakdown of carbon emitting activities throughout the business and to
understand how each activity contributes to the overall carbon footprint.
AEA are leaders and trusted advisors in the ﬁeld of environmental
consultancy, operating in the UK, Europe, the US and China. They are the
leading provider of advisory services to the UK Government and work
extensively with the EU and major private sector organisations. They are
internationally renowned with expertise in air quality and climate change,
carbon management, resource eﬃciency and the environmental impacts
of transport. From April 2008 going forward, AEA is Defra’s principal
technical consultant for the CRC scheme and will be advising Defra as
Government develops the regulations for the scheme.
The report produced for Debenhams uses standard methodology in line
with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as developed by the World Business
Council for Sustainable Development and World Resources Institute.
As such, the data prepared is suitable for use in government or voluntary
emissions reporting schemes. It also provides a baseline against which
future emissions can be monitored.
In addition to compiling a carbon footprint, a number of site visits were
undertaken at stores, oﬃces and distribution centres (DCs) to build a
picture of current carbon management and carbon saving initiatives, and
to suggest further opportunities that may prove valuable in realising
additional reductions on the carbon footprint.
DEBENHAMS CARBON FOOTPRINT 2007
It is standard practice to measure a full calendar year as this aligns with
the GHG protocol corporate standard and ensures that ﬁgures are
compatible with government schemes and other trading or voluntary
reporting schemes. For this reason this ﬁrst measure of Debenhams’
carbon footprint is for the year January to December 2007.
All UK business activities that Debenhams has a direct inﬂuence on and an
ability to reduce have been included for 2007 with a “control approach”
adopted. To calculate carbon dioxide emissions from activity data,
documented emission factors from Defra (2008) have been used.
The total carbon footprint for 2007 has been calculated as 181,831 tonnes
of carbon dioxide. Signiﬁcantly, around 95 per cent of these emissions fall
within the category of purchased energy, with electricity comprising
nearly 90 per cent of the total. The below table demonstrates the split of
electricity consumption and associated carbon dioxide emissions across
the business. Due to the large contribution of electricity consumption to
the carbon footprint, sustained eﬀort has been directed at reducing this
ﬁgure, resulting in a 5 per cent reduction on 2006 levels.
PREMISES – ELECTRICITY
Total
consumption CO2
(kWh/yr) (tonnes/yr)
Stores 288,362,407 154,856.38
Oﬃces 6,235,908 3,348.81
DCs 6,271,196 3,367.76
Oﬀ-shores holding warehouses 1,854,489 995.90
Total 302,724,000 162,568.85
Data collection period: Jan-Dec 2007
ASSUMPTIONS
CO2 emissions for electricity: 0.537 kgCO2/kWh (Defra 2008)
The remainder of the carbon footprint consists of other direct and
indirect emissions, notably logistical transport and business ﬂights. All
calculated emissions are quantiﬁed in the following table, attributed to
their activity source.
Page 31 image:
Debenhams has recently signed a
landmark deal with Scottish Power
to supply all its UK stores and
properties with electricity provided
by wind power.
T CARBON FOOTPRINT AND ENERGY USAGE
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33
GHG protocol CO2 emissions Total
Emissions source scope (tonnes/year) %
Premises – gas 1 8,199.6 4.51
Premises – oil 1 1,131.7 0.62
Company car 1 487.3 0.27
Logistical transport 1 8,244.8 4.53
Sub-total 1 18,063.4 9.93
Premises – electricity 2 162,568.8 89.41
Sub-total 2 162,568.8 89.41
Business travel – ﬂights 3 893.5 0.49
Business travel – rail 3 135.5 0.07
Business travel – ferry 3 1.6 0.00
Water consumption 3 168.7 0.09
Sub-total 3 1,199.3 0.66
Total ALL 181,831.5 100.00
GHG PROTOCOL SCOPES:
• Scope 1 GHG – direct emissions from own sources
Encompasses a company’s direct GHG emissions that arise from sources
that it owns or controls (e.g. boilers, furnaces, ﬂeet vehicles).
• Scope 2 – purchased electricity (indirect emissions)
GHG emissions account for energy that is purchased and consumed
by the company.
• Scope 3 – other indirect emissions
GHG emissions account for all other indirect emissions that are a
consequence of the activities of the company but that occur from
sources that are not owned or controlled by the company.
REFERENCES
CIBSE (2004), CIBSE Guide F: Energy Eﬃciency in Buildings
Defra (2008), Guidelines to Defra’s Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for
Company Reporting
WBCSD and WRI (2004), Greenhouse Gas Protocol. A Corporate
Accounting and Reporting Standard.
BENCHMARKING
As seen from our carbon footprint the majority of our carbon dioxide
emissions relate to electricity usage.
Our electricity usage has been compared with a suitable benchmark taken
from CIBSE Guide F: Energy Eﬃciency in Buildings publication and the
result is as follows:
• Typical benchmark: 294 kWh/m
2
= 0.16 tonnes/m
2
• Good practice benchmark: 237 kWh/m
2
= 0.13 tonnes/m
2
• Debenhams store average is: 202 kWh/m
2
= 0.11 tonnes/m
2
This data suggests that our store average electricity usage is better than
the good practice benchmark and signiﬁcantly better than the typical
benchmark. CARBON FOOTPRINT AND ENERGY USAGE
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 34
ENERGY USAGE
The sizeable contribution of electricity to our carbon footprint places
reduction on the forefront of our energy strategy. Key elements of this
include:
• Improving the energy usage of new stores: by using construction
materials wherever possible which aid energy eﬃciency; installing
energy eﬃcient heating and air conditioning systems; and using low
energy LED lighting where appropriate. Our target is to reduce the
carbon footprint of new stores by 30 per cent. In 2008 to date, we did
not meet this target, achieving a reduction of 17 per cent. However,
much of this was due to longer operating hours and overnight
re-stocking of stores, which pushed up energy use.
• Increasing the proportion of green energy: in 2008 we tripled our use of
green electricity and are using green power (predominantly from wind
sources) to meet at least 50 per cent of a new store’s electricity usage.
Looking forward, Debenhams has recently signed a landmark deal with
Scottish Power to supply all its UK stores and properties with electricity
provided by wind power. 35 MW of green energy a month, enough to
light and heat 50,000 homes will be supplied from the Black Laws wind
farm near Shotts, oﬀ the M8 Glasgow to Edinburgh motorway.
• Raising awareness of energy eﬃciency throughout the Company: new
initiatives include a major head oﬃce programme to encourage
employees to take responsibility for their own energy usage under the
banner “Do The Right Thing” . The storewide energy eﬃciency
programme which uses the magazine style “E!” publication as its
principal communication tool has continued to good eﬀect. Incentives
are awarded to both individual employees and to a store’s prize fund for
success in energy eﬃciency initiatives.
• Reducing distribution centre (DC) energy usage: following the success of
last year’s re-lamping project at the Brackmills DC, lighting eﬃciencies
have been further enhanced in the Peterborough DC with the
introduction of light sensing on the mezzanine ﬂoor.
Based upon our planned projects, the ﬁndings and recommendations from
AEA, our focus for 2008/09 will be:
• Review best practice in stores, particularly in those whose energy
consumption was highlighted to be above the Good Practice benchmark.
• Replacement of tungsten halogen store lights with those with a greater
eﬃciency.
• Re-lighting jewellery cabinets with LED bulbs, thereby substantially
reducing the energy consumed and heat generated by these displays.
• Swapping electrical circuits to ensure lights do not need to remain on
overnight.
Do The Right Thing is the banner for
the Company-wide energy efficiency
and waste reduction programme. We have sold over 53,000 reusable
cotton bags featuring the “Bags
Don’t Grow On Trees” logo
since April.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35
Section 2 Operating Review
DC WASTE DISPOSAL CARBON EMISSIONS
Recycling CO
2
rate Tonnes (Tonnes
DC Material Tonnes % to landfill per year)
Lodge Farm Card 155.11 93.8 9.62 2.65
Plastic 97.82 93.8 6.06 0.11
Pallets 0.00 93.8 0.00 0.00
Cups 0.31 93.8 0.02 0.00
Paper 8.22 93.8 0.51 0.14
Total 2.90
Brackmills Card 274.80 94.4 15.39 4.24
Plastic 30.50 94.4 1.71 0.03
Pallets 43.80 94.4 2.45 1.89
Cups 0.20 94.4 0.01 0.00
Paper 1.70 94.4 0.10 0.03
Total 6.19
Peterborough Card 524.80 96.5 18.37 5.07
Plastic 20.10 96.5 0.70 0.01
Pallets 424.60 96.5 14.86 11.44
Cups 1.55 96.5 0.05 0.00
Paper 2.20 96.5 0.08 0.02
Total 16.54
Overall total 25.63
ASSUMPTIONS
All materials are individually recycled at the rates shown.
CO
2
equivalent conversion factors for waste to landﬁll are taken from from the
Environment Agency WRATE tool
(http://www.environment-agency.gov.uk/wtd/1396237)
Card 0.275788 kg CO
2
e/tonne
Plastic 0.0175 kg CO
2
e/tonne
Pallets 0.769639 kg CO
2
e/tonne
Cups 0.0175 kg CO
2
e/tonne
Paper 0.275788 kg CO
2
e/tonne
HEAD OFFICE
A recycling initiative has been introduced in head oﬃce locations which
encourages the recycling of many waste streams including paper, glass
and cans.The success of this initiative will be monitored over the coming year.
CARRIER BAGS
Following the introduction of 100 per cent recycled carrier bags in 2007,
we are working hard to ﬁnd ways to ﬁnd a solution to reduce the number
of carrier bags used by our business that meets the needs of both our
customers and the environment. All store staﬀ have received training in
this area as one of the simplest ways to reduce bag usage is to ensure all
customers are asked if they do need a bag for their purchases. We are
conducting several trials in a number of stores, including charging for
bags. We have sold over 53,000 reusable cotton bags featuring the “Bags
Don’t Grow on Trees”logo since they were introduced into selected stores
in April. We have also recently launched a range of reusable bags to
supplement plastic bag reduction in all stores.
TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
Debenhams’ logistics ﬂeet within the UK and Ireland is operated by DHL.
In September 2008, new vehicles and trailers were introduced to improve
the eﬃciency of the logistics ﬂeet further. High cube trailers are also being
employed to reduce the amount of traﬃc required to move stock within
the DC network.
The majority of own bought product is brought into the UK by sea and we
seek to avoid transportation by air whenever possible. Our target for 2008
was to reduce the amount of own bought product transported by air by
10 per cent. We surpassed our target and the actual reduction achieved
was 11.6 per cent. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 36
Section 2 Operating Review
PRINT OPERATIONS
The Debenhams print department is registered to use FSC and PEFC paper
to produce certiﬁed printed material. These standards provide assurance
that the timber content of the paper is sourced from a legal and
sustainable source.
In 2008 the print department became the ﬁrst part of the Company to
achieve ISO 14001: 2004 Environmental Management System certiﬁcation.
This demanding, internationally recognised standard ensures that we can
be conﬁdent that all the work undertaken by the department
is produced in such a way that the environmental impact of production
is minimised.
Ethical trading
ETHICAL SOURCING
Our sourcing strategy is part based on the concept of“right product, right
country” . Through this, we endeavour to source products in the
appropriate countries and our commitment is to ensure our products are
made in ethically compliant factories. Our suppliers and manufacturers
must adhere to our code of conduct and continually monitor to maintain
a safe and caring working environment. We believe our customers have
a right to expect every product we sell to be produced in this way and that
those who produce our products are treated fairly with respect
and dignity.
FACTORY APPROVAL AND AUDIT
NEW FACTORIES
Debenhams has implemented a more stringent and robust approval
process requiring a factory approval pack and independent social audit
for all new factories. The level of data collection and analysis for each
factory is more in-depth and comprehensive than ever before. Therefore
the process of identifying non-compliance throughout the supply chain
has been signiﬁcantly improved, allowing us to ﬁlter and reject as
necessary at an earlier stage.
No orders can be placed with a new factory until it has been approved by
Debenhams’ Compliance team. Part of the approval process includes an
ethical audit conducted by an internationally recognised third-party
auditing company.
EXISTING FACTORIES
To date, we have third-party audits for 30 per cent of our factory base which
accounts for 50 per cent of our own bought product. Although we also have
audit reports from other retailers, we are no longer accepting them.
A new, improved programme with a nominated third-party auditing
company will commence in Autumn 2008. Our target is to have all
factories scheduled for auditing, for both initial and re-audits, by the end
of November 2008.
Part of this programme has already included brieﬁng sessions with our
buying teams and the majority of our suppliers, both in the UK and
overseas. These sessions inform those attending of the focus of our audit
programme and that all factories are required to submit a third-party audit
annually. In addition to third-party audits, reviews of audit corrective
action plans are tracked and monitored, working with our suppliers as part
of our ongoing ethical programme.
All third-party audits are announced and the number of unannounced
visits will increase, both by Debenhams’ Compliance team and the
nominated third-party monitors.
As a result of management’s visits to overseas suppliers’ factories to review
compliance, several cartons of new toys have been donated to crèche
facilities it Vietnam and Bangladesh. These donations will continue.
Commenting on this, one of our Bangladesh suppliers said:“We would like
to thank Debenhams for their thought and gesture in providing toys for
the crèche facilities at Stylecraft. The toys have been very well received by
the children and it is plain for everyone to see by the smiles on their faces
the pleasure and enjoyment they are getting from them. Stylecraft takes
great pride in providing childcare facilities to all workers. The workers can
bring their children and leave them in the crèche knowing that they are
safe and well taken care of while they are at work. It is reassuring to know
that our valued customers also show concern for our children’s wellbeing
and we are thankful for their support” .
Another of our suppliers, which manufacturers for us in Vietnam, also
received a donation of toys. The factory made a DVD of the children
receiving and opening the toys and it is clear to see how excited and
happy they have made them.
Another initiative we are embarking upon is with a Bangladesh supplier
and factory to study living wage. They have been chosen as they already
oﬀer a cost subsidy on rice for all their workers to help with the increase
in the global cost of rice which is aﬀecting many countries. We aim to
engage fully in this project by Spring 2009.
PURCHASING PRACTICES
We believe that one of the best ways to ensure our ethical sourcing goals
are met is to embed them into the purchasing process. Otherwise, as
noted in reports by Oxfam, Cafod and Acona, purchasing practices can
undermine the eﬀectiveness and impact of ethical trading programmes by
inadvertently restricting suppliers’abilities to uphold labour standards. By
analysing our end-to-end processes in depth, we were able to make
changes to our purchasing practices, such as critical path management
system improvements and staﬀ training, for example the London College
of Fashion buying school programme and supplier factory visits for our
assistant buyers. This is a comment from one of our Hong Kong suppliers,
Hale, which has a factory in China: “Since our last meeting to discuss the
new purchasing practice, we and the design team can see signiﬁcant
improvement in the communication and understanding with the buying
teams (especially after the assistant buyers’ Hong Kong/China trips).
It really helps to speed up sampling and approvals. It is beneﬁcial to
both parties” .
ETHICAL TRADING INITIATIVE
Debenhams has been a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) since
2001. The ETI was established in 1989 and is a tri-partite alliance of
companies, non-governmental organisations (such as Oxfam, Labour
Behind The Label and Fair Labour Organisation) and trade unions (such as
The Leather and Textile Federation). It aims to improve the lives of workers
in global supply chains by promoting responsible corporate practices that
support this goal. The ETI specialises in developing approaches and tools
for implementing codes of practice that address supply chain labour
conditions. The ETI is funded by member contributions and a grant from
the UK Department of International Development. Debenhams works
with the ETI and is involved in projects such as Overtime in China and
Decent Working Practices. FEATURE STORY
BACK TO WORK
Debenhams seeks to recruit the best people from a wide pool of talent and
to attract and retain a diverse workforce which reﬂects the communities
in which we operate. We want to help those who want to work but have been
unable to do so for a variety of reasons such as disability, lack of childcare
or lack of up-to-date skills.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37 BACK TO WORK
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 38
ocal Employment Partnerships (LEP) were created by
the government in 2007 with the aim of raising the
employment rate and reducing the number of working
age people dependent on beneﬁts.
At the heart of the LEP initiative is a Jobs Pledge under
which employers work to oﬀer opportunities to people
who are at a disadvantage in the labour market – such as lone parents and
those on incapacity beneﬁt – so long as they engage with the support
available and are ready, willing and able to work. Employers are supported
by a number of agencies including Jobcentre Plus and the Learning and
Skills Council.
Depending on the needs of the employer and the individual, Jobcentre
Plus along with the Learning and Skills Council provides support in a
number of ways:
• Working with an individual to diagnose their needs to enable a return
to employment
• Pre-employment training to prepare people to make applications for
the jobs employers’ have on oﬀer
• Providing training to deliver candidates with appropriate skills
• Matching individuals with employers to provide a good ﬁt
• Working with employers to understand their employment and skill needs
Debenhams has committed to the Jobs Pledge, along with numerous
other high-proﬁle employers, including many leading retailers. We
implemented the LEP process in new store openings in Warrington and
Llandudno in 2007 and Bangor, Liverpool and Dunfermline in 2008 and it
is already underway for our 2009 store opening in Livingston.
In each of these locations, potential candidates have been identiﬁed by
the Jobcentre in conjunction with Debenhams at local events sponsored
by Jobcentre Plus. Those individuals then attend a job preparation
training week.
Candidates subsequently attend a Debenhams assessment centre,
following which successful candidates receive a provisional job oﬀer. They
then take part in a “Ready for Retail” training course to prepare them for
returning to work, including participating in a work trial where
appropriate. On successful completion of the course, candidates receive a
conﬁrmed oﬀer and they join us like any other new employee.
Through this win:win partnership, Debenhams has recruited some
excellent employees, many of whom have been recognised as Employee
of the Month. In return we are pleased to have provided an alternative to
living on beneﬁts, demonstrating the value of the scheme to individuals
and the wider community as well as to employers.
When Llandudno opened in 2007, 14 people joined Debenhams through
the LEP and ten are still with us. Two are working towards “expert” level
sales advisor and another has transferred from sales to merchandising at
“expert”level. Subsequently, six individuals joined us on a temporary basis
over Christmas, four of whom were then oﬀered permanent positions.
The Bangor store had already successfully employed four people
through the LEP and so when the store moved to a new, larger site during
2008, necessitating the recruitment of additional employees, a further
programme was undertaken.
In Liverpool, we needed to recruit a record number of staﬀ for the largest
store ever opened under the Debenhams banner in May. Six sessions run
in local community centres identiﬁed 160 candidates who attended the
job preparation week. Following our own assessment centre at the end of
the week, 37 people were oﬀered jobs in the new store and progressed
to the Ready for Retail course. Of these, 35 people remain with us and a
number have already been promoted to “expert” level sales advisor.
In Dunfermline, 11 people were employed following attendance at a
course jointly organised by Debenhams, Learn Direct Scotland, Jobcentre
Plus and Carnegie College. Since then we have been working with these
agencies to formulate a programme for Christmas retail recruitment for
all retailers within the town centre.
Debenhams’ involvement in the LEP programme was recognised in July
2008 when our work in North Wales received the Employer Award for Best
Practice in Recruitment at the ﬁrst annual LEP awards. In addition, the
Liverpool store was runner up in the Partnership Award for Best Practice
in Partnership Working. The judging panel was chaired by Stephen Timms,
Minister for Employment and Welfare Reform and included John Cridland,
Deputy Director of the CBI and Jackie Orme, Chief Executive of CIPD
as well as other members drawn from the public and private sector.
L
Page 37 image:
Holly Jackson who joined
Debenhams Llandudno through the
LEP scheme. Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39
Section 2 Operating Review
ETHICAL PRODUCTS
Debenhams operates within a framework of policies relating to the
composition of its products, ranging from animal testing to conﬂict
diamonds. These policies can be found in full on our website
www.debenhams.com.
Customers are increasingly looking for products made from organic and
Fairtrade materials and we are meeting this demand by increasing the
number of organic and Fairtrade options available in both our Designer
and core product collections.
Our Designer brand Rocha.John Rocha includes organic ranges across all
departments. New additions in 2008 include T-shirts, denim and sleepwear
in Womenswear, underwear and loungewear in Menswear, babywear in
Childrenswear and bedding in Home.
Fairtrade cotton is used in a number of clothing ranges and has been a
real success within Menswear. In February 2008 our Menswear brand,
Maine New England, teamed up with Sir Steve Redgrave’s clothing brand
FiveG to produce an exclusive collection made from Fairtrade certiﬁed
cotton. The range, which is available in 116 stores, includes casual jersey
and woven products and has been extended to outerwear, denim and
knitwear in the Autumn Winter season. In November 2007, Sir Steve visited
Mali’s Kita region where some of the cotton for the FiveG range has been
grown and experienced ﬁrst hand the impact that the Fairtrade premium
has on the lives of local communities, enabling them to invest in
development projects such as clean water and schools.
Each of the eight million cups of coﬀee served in our restaurants and cafes
in 2008 was prepared from Douwe Egberts Good Origin coﬀee which has
been certiﬁed by global NGO Utz Kapeh. This certiﬁcation assures
customers that coﬀee beans are derived from 100 per cent sustainable
sources and that the interests of both the workers who produce the beans
and the environment in which they are grown are protected. Elsewhere
in our food business we use free range eggs, recycle used cooking oil into
bio-diesel and use sandwich wrappers and napkins made from 100 per
cent recycled card/paper.
Workplace and community
OUR PEOPLE
Debenhams had an average of 27,400 employees through 2008. Labour
turnover was 41.7 per cent in 2008, up slightly on 39.9 per cent last year
but in line with recent levels. 76 per cent of our employees are female.
32 per cent of our people have more than ﬁve years’ service, 18 per cent
have more than ten years’ service and 5 per cent have more than
20 years’ service.
Debenhams is committed to ensuring that every individual connected
with the Company – whether employee, applicant, customer or other
third-party – receives fair and equitable treatment, regardless of their
diﬀerences. These include but are not restricted to:
• Gender
• Race
• Ethnic or national origin
• Religious, political or philosophical beliefs
• Disability
• Marital or civil partnership status
• Sexual orientation
• Gender reassignment
• Age
The policy helps us to create a culture of respect and tolerance, a wider
and more diverse talent pool from which we can recruit the best possible
people for our business and supports our corporate reputation by
ensuring we give excellent customer and employee experience. We
recognise that few people would deliberately breach the policy, however,
it is possible to do so unintentionally. We therefore require everyone to
familiarise themselves with its contents.
We are committed to ensuring equality of opportunities for all our
employees. Through our equal opportunities policy we aim to create an
environment that oﬀers all employees the chance to use their skills
and talent.
We are committed to supporting all our employees to achieve an
acceptable balance between their work and personal life. Where
appropriate, we oﬀer a number of ﬂexible contracts to suit the diﬀerent
needs of our employees. We recognise there are times when an employee
may need to take time oﬀ for personal reasons and have policies in place
to support employees through such events including maternity, paternity
and adoption leave. These include ﬂexible working and career break
schemes.
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Providing opportunities for employees to learn and develop is a crucial
factor in our future success. In the fast moving retail environment
employees need to have a ﬂexible suite of skills. We oﬀer a wide range of
training courses and programmes which encourage individuals to expand
their skills and reach their full potential. Comprehensive competency-
based training programmes are oﬀered to provide clear paths for
progression for those wishing to pursue a career in any of our areas of
operation. A dedicated learning and development team works closely
with stores and head oﬃce to ensure that both the potential and
aspirations of our employees is maximised.
We are closely involved in skills development for the retail sector as a
whole and Nikki Zamblera, Debenhams’ HR Director, is on the board of
Skillsmart Retail, the government Skills Sector Council for the industry,
having served two years as Vice Chairman.
A total of 310,000 hours of learning and development activities took place
in 2008. In addition, some 1,000 employees joining new stores received
six to eight weeks oﬀ-job training before their stores opened.
DISABILITY AWARENESS
We are continuing to improve the accessibility of our premises for
employees, customers and visitors.
Disability awareness is an important component of the induction
programme for all new store employees and last year a DVD entitled “First
Impressions”was produced which covers customer care for disabled people. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 40
Section 2 Operating Review
We provide information on accessibility matters relating to our stores via
www.directenquiries.com. This includes information such as: designated
parking spaces; location of accessible entrances; passenger lift facilities; location
of accessible toilet facilities; availability of personal shopper services; collect-by-
car arrangements; and details of accessible customer collection points.
We are also continuing to develop our website, www.debenhams.com, to
improve accessibility and when considering any change to the website
we go through a process that includes the needs and considerations of
anyone with disabilities.
Debenhams welcomes applications for employment from disabled
people. As part of our policy on Equality of Opportunity, decisions on
recruitment, training, promotion, pay, terms and conditions and leavers
are based solely on objective, job-related criteria and personal
competence and performance.
We have recently reviewed and, where appropriate, amended all our HR
policies with support and guidance from the Disability Rights Commission.
A“Disability Champion”has been appointed in the HR team to ensure our
policies and procedures are in line with both our legal obligations and
business needs.
We will seek wherever possible to make reasonable adjustments to ensure
that an employee who becomes disabled during the course of his or her
employment is able to continue working eﬀectively. This includes:
providing equipment or altering working arrangements; providing
additional training; reallocating on a temporary or permanent basis some
of the employee’s duties to other members of staﬀ; transferring the
employee to a suitable alternative role; and adjusting working times. Any
such adjustment will be monitored and reviewed on a regular basis to
ensure that it is eﬀective.
Debenhams is a member of the Employers Forum on Disability which
seeks to enable companies to become disability conﬁdent by making it
easier to recruit and retain disabled employees and to serve disabled
customers.
EMPLOYEE CONSULTATION FORUM
The Employee Consultation Forum (ECF) is a group of elected
representatives from all areas of the business that meets annually with
members of the board. The purpose of these meetings is to allow our
employees the opportunity to receive information about Debenhams
and to be consulted on certain parts of our business activities. The
representatives elected by stores also meet during the year on a local
basis to discuss regional business issues and to prepare for the annual
national meeting.
FEEDBACK FORUM
The Chief Executive regularly meets with a group of employees from
stores and head oﬃce to gauge their views and feedback informally and
to disseminate messages to the business.
HAVE YOUR SAY
Have Your Say is a new initiative introduced in 2008 as a way for employees
to provide feedback on the business. All employees, whether store or head
oﬃce based, have the opportunity to inﬂuence the future of Debenhams.
Employees are invited to complete regular, anonymous and conﬁdential
online surveys on a variety of topics, from speciﬁc product queries to
potential new product launches to feedback on advertising campaigns.
Over 700 employees took part in the pilot programme in April. Response
from employees has been overwhelmingly positive. Comments include:
“I think it is a huge step forward that we are asking staﬀ for their thoughts
on the promotions and products. I think the insight you will receive will
beneﬁt the Company greatly”; “Very pleased we now have a way to
communicate”; and “It makes me feel like my views count” .
CELEBRATING SUCCESS
With people so critical to our success, we are rigorous in ensuring that
contributions are recognised, large or small. Our Celebrating Success
policy encourages managers and colleagues to acknowledge the eﬀorts
of others and each year culminates in the annual Celebrating Success
Awards where the best of the best are honoured for their outstanding
achievement in customer service or behind the scenes.
This year, annual winners from every store and each head oﬃce division
spent the day relaxing at Alton Towers before being joined by the
executive directors and other senior managers for a tropical themed
evening of celebration and recognition
DEBENHAMS RETIREMENT ASSOCIATION (DRA)
The DRA is a registered charity established to provide help and support to
any retired employees in receipt of pension who need assistance. There
are currently over 5,000 pensioners and the charity keeps in touch with
them using a network of Pensioner Support Oﬃcers who each cover
speciﬁc areas of the UK. The main source of funding is a donation from the
Company but many stores and head oﬃce departments hold fundraising
events for the DRA.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The chart below details accident statistics for those incidents that are
legally reportable to the enforcing authority.
ACCIDENT STATISTICS FOR CUSTOMERS AND STAFF
(NUMBERS OF ACCIDENTS)
Our business has expanded rapidly in terms of number of stores and
employees over the past three years; 23 stores have opened since the start
of 2006 (including the nine Roches stores), increasing trading space by
over 13 per cent. Although there has been a year-on-year rise in the
number of accidents involving employees, this has grown at a lower rate
than the business as a whole. In 2008, this equated to around 4.4 accidents
per thousand employees and much less than one reportable accident per
store per year.
There has been a rise in the number of reportable accidents involving
customers and other visitors to our premises. The number is from a very
low base and, taking into account the tens of thousands of people who
visit our premises on a daily basis, is still very low indeed. Analysis of the
accidents suggests that slips, trips and falls and colliding with stationary
objects are the primary causes of injury and their occurrence is spread
evenly across the year rather than a prevalence to particular times, for
example the winter months.
08
07
06
111
Sta 
Customers
108
84
44
25
28 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41
Section 2 Operating Review
Debenhams holds an annual health and safety week during which
emphasis is placed on a particular health and safety topic. In 2007, we
concentrated on violence at work and personal safety. In 2008 the topic
was safety associated with vehicle movement and the receipt of goods at
stores. In 2009 we will be addressing the causes of and control measures
to prevent slips, trips and falls given the comments above on the primary
causes of in-store injuries.
In 2008 we have been working with the relevant health and safety
agencies on their key initiatives. Notable in this regard has been a
continuation of the Health and Safety Executive’s (HSE) “FIT3” campaign
(“Fit for work, Fit for life, Fit for tomorrow”) which in 2008 prioritised
inspections towards those areas responsible for major causes of workplace
injury. This builds on last year’s “Shattered lives” campaign which
highlighted the impact of workplace injuries on employment, social and
family life. Other agency initiatives in 2008 saw the HSE and local
authorities target working activities such as working at height and the
prevention of falls from vehicles, both of which accord with training
initiatives already adopted by Debenhams.
During 2008 we continued to develop our health and safety policy to
require a more proactive approach by stores in relation to risk assessment,
encouraging the designated responsible person in each Debenhams site
to ensure that the control measures adopted are suﬃcient and
proportionate to the circumstances in that site.
We ﬁrmly believe that training is the key vehicle to achieve improvements
in health and safety, including a reduction in accidents. In addition to the
health and safety training provided at induction, topic speciﬁc training
(for example on electrical safety) is provided for all relevant employees.
At least one person in all Debenhams sites is encouraged to obtain the
Chartered Institute of Environmental Health “Supervising Health and
Safety at Work” Certiﬁcate. Currently, over 90 per cent of UK sites do have
at least one employee who holds this certiﬁcate and an equivalent
qualiﬁcation is being sourced for the Republic of Ireland.
Community
COMMUNITY PROJECTS
Through its stores, Debenhams is involved in a wide range of local
community projects.
One of our most recent initiatives has oﬀered store managers the
opportunity to become involved with local projects through Business in
the Community (BitC) and Scottish Business in the Community (SBitC). As
a result of this initiative, the opening programme for a new store now
includes a team building event for the store management team which
beneﬁts local people and helps the team to recognise and start to
understand the speciﬁc needs and issues in the broader community of
which their store will form a part. Examples in 2008 include the work done
by the Blackpool team in support of the Blackpool Tiggers and the
Livingston team in support of local Clic Sargent cancer care.
Ongoing at a local level, store managers are encouraged to use their own
initiative to support the communities that they serve. In our Aberdeen
store, for example, the supervisors have formed a charity committee as a
development opportunity. Their commitment to the community that they
live and work in has resulted in donations of over £15,000 to local
Aberdeen projects over the last two years.
GETTING PEOPLE BACK TO WORK
As a large employer, we are keen to ensure employment opportunities are
made available to all sections of the community, including those who have
been out of employment for some time. Our participation in the Local
Employment Partnership programme is described in detail in the insert
on page 37.
CHARITIES
Debenhams is a strong supporter of charities at both a national and
local level.
One of our key national charities is the Breast Cancer Campaign which we
have supported for a number of years, raising some £1.5 million to date
through the sale of special products and in-store events.
Another national charity is Everyman, which is leading the ﬁght against
testicular cancer and which we support in conjunction with Calvin Klein
underwear.
Menswear brand Mantaray is a proud supporter of the Marine
Conservation Society (MCS). Our support for the MCS’s work for clean seas,
sustainable ﬁsheries and protected sea life is not just ﬁnancial. We are also
helping in more practical ways by encouraging employees and customers
to take part in voluntary beach cleans and surveys, helping to clear the
UK’s beaches of the tide of litter currently endangering the life of coastal
wildlife such as seabirds, dolphins, porpoises and marine turtles.
Each year a charity is nominated to receive the proceeds of events linked
to the arrival of Santa Claus in-store for Christmas. For Christmas 2007 that
charity was the NSPCC.
Our oﬃce inTaunton supports a wide range of local charities and in 2008 these
included local schools, sports clubs, animal charities, children’s homes, old
people’s homes, hospitals, hospices and medical charities as well as
supporting the charitable undertakings of individual members of staﬀ.
Debenhams supports the Retail Trust which provides assistance to current
and former retail employees and their dependents. Our employees show
enormous enterprise in their fundraising eﬀorts and in 2008 these
included the store manager of our Lakeside store bathing in a bath full of
baked beans and a sponsored parachute jump by employees from the
Cambridge store. 4 MICHAEL SHARP*
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER (51)
From 1997 to 2004, Mr Sharp was Trading Director of Debenhams Limited and was
appointed its Chief Operating Oﬃcer in January 2004 and then Chief Operating
Oﬃcer of the Company in May 2006. He previously worked in various capacities
within the Burton Group, including as Managing Director of Principles and Racing
Green and Buying and Merchandising Director of Top Shop and Top Man.
5 ANGELA SPINDLER**
MANAGING DIRECTOR (46)
Angela Spindler joined the Company in February 2008. She is also a non-executive
director of Manchester Airport PLC. Previously Ms Spindler was the Global Managing
Director of George, the clothing division of Asda/Wal-mart and has held a number of
senior positions at Cadbury Schweppes, Coca-Cola Schweppes and Pedigree
Masterfoods.
6 PHILIPPE COSTELETOS
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR (43)
Philippe Costeletos became a director of Baroness Holdings UK Limited in September
2003 and a director of the Company in May 2005. He joined TPG Capital in 2003 and
is a Partner and Head of Europe. Mr Costeletos is also currently a director of Wind
Hellas SA, Myer and TDF. Mr Costeletos was previously a member of the management
committee at Investcorp Limited and prior to that held positions at JPMorgan Capital
and Morgan Stanley.
* Michael Sharp was appointed Deputy Chief Executive on 3 November 2008.
** As announced on 3 November 2008, Angela Spindler left the Company on
30 November 2008.
THE BOARD
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 42
Section 3 Management and Governance
7
1 JOHN LOVERING
CHAIRMAN  (59)
John Lovering has been the Chairman of the Company since in May 2006. Prior to the
IPO in May 2006 he was appointed Chairman of Debenhams Limited in December
2003. He is also Chairman of Somerﬁeld Limited and is an ex-Vice Chairman of
Barclays Capital. Mr Lovering is a former Chairman of Fitness First Limited, the Laurel
Pub Company Limited, Odeon Limited, Homebase Group Limited, Fired Earth
Limited, the Peacock Group and Birthdays Group Limited. He was also previously
Chief Operating Oﬃcer of Tarmac Limited and Finance Director of Sears Limited.
2 ROB TEMPLEMAN
CHIEF EXECUTIVE (51)
Rob Templeman became Chief Executive of the Company in May 2006. Prior to the
IPO he was appointed Chief Executive of Debenhams Limited in December 2003.
Previously Mr Templeman was Chief Executive and subsequently Chairman of
Halfords Group plc, Chief Executive Oﬃcer of Homebase Group plc and Chief
Executive Oﬃcer of Harveys Furnishing plc.
3 CHRIS WOODHOUSE
FINANCE DIRECTOR (47)
Chris Woodhouse has been the Finance Director of the Company since May 2006.
Prior to the IPO in May 2006 he was appointed Finance Director of Debenhams
Limited in December 2003. Mr Woodhouse is currently Group non-executive
Chairman of Gondola Group Limited. He was previously Deputy Chairman of Halfords
Group and Commercial Director and Deputy Chief Executive at Homebase Group.
He is a former Finance Director of Birthdays Group and Superdrug Stores.
Mr Woodhouse is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and
Wales and an Associate of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
2 6
1 5 11 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 43
Section 3 Management and Governance
10 PETER LONG
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR  (56)
Peter Long became a director of the Company in April 2006. Mr Long is Chief
Executive of TUI Travel Plc having been Chief Executive of First Choice Holidays plc
since 1999 with which TUI AG merged in September 2007 forming TUI Travel Plc.
He is also a non-executive director of Rentokil Initial plc. He established Sunworld
Holidays Limited in 1991 and was Chief Executive of that business from 1991 to 1996.
He is also a former director of RAC plc .
11 DENNIS MILLARD
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR  (59)
Dennis Millard became a director of the Company in April 2006 and is Chairman of
the Audit Committee. Mr Millard is also Chairman of Smiths News plc and a non-
executive director of Xchanging plc UK Limited and Premier Farnell plc. His former
appointments include Group Finance Director of Cookson Group plc, Finance
Director of Medeva plc and non-executive director of Exel plc, Arc International and
EAG Ltd. Mr Millard is a member of the South African Institute of Chartered
Accountants.
12 PAUL PINDAR
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR  (49)
Paul Pindar became a director of the Company in April 2006 and is Chairman of the
Nomination Committee. He has been Chief Executive of The Capita Group plc since
1999 having joined Capita in 1987. He is currently Chairman of the Corporate
Partnerships Board for the Great Ormond Street Hospital.
 Member of the Audit Committee
 Member of the Nomination Committee
 Member of the Remuneration Committee
7 ADAM CROZIER
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR  (44)
Adam Crozier became a director of the Company in April 2006. Mr Crozier has been
Chief Executive of the Royal Mail since 2003. Previously he was Chief Executive of the
Football Association Limited and held a number of senior positions at Saatchi &
Saatchi UK including Joint Chief Executive.
8 JONATHAN FEUER
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR (46)
Jonathan Feuer became a director of Baroness Holdings UK Limited in September
2003 and a director of the Company in May 2005. He is a managing partner of CVC
Capital Partners. He previously worked for Baring Brothers & Co Ltd and Ernst &
Winney Capital Partners Ltd.
9 RICHARD GILLINGWATER CBE
SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR  (52)
Richard Gillingwater became a director of the Company in April 2006 and is Chairman
of the Remuneration Committee. Mr Gillingwater is currently a director of Tomkins
plc and Scottish and Southern Energy plc. He is also the Dean of Cass Business School
of The City University. He was previously Chairman, European Investment Banking,
of CSFB, Joint Head of Global Corporate Finance at BZW and Chief Executive of the
UK Government’s Shareholder Executive.
8 4 10
3 9 12 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 44
Section 3 Management and Governance
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
Debenhams is the second largest department store chain in the UK. Its unique mix of own brands (including Designers at Debenhams) and third-party
brands helps diﬀerentiate Debenhams from its competitors. Debenhams oﬀer has a strong presence in key product categories, including Womenswear,
Menswear, Childrenswear, Homeware and Health and Beauty. There are a total of 140 department stores in the UK and Republic of Ireland and 10 Desire
by Debenhams stores (the small store concept) as at 21 October 2008. Debenhams has a further 44 international franchise stores in 15 countries and an
online store, www.debenhams.com, through which much of the Debenhams range is available.
ENHANCED BUSINESS REVIEW
This review has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 which requires the Company to set out in this report a fair review of the
business of the Group during the ﬁnancial year ended 30 August 2008, including an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the ﬁnancial year
and the trends and factors likely to aﬀect the future development, performance and position of the business. This is deﬁned by the Act as the enhanced
Business Review.
The Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the Operating Review, the Finance Director’s Review and the Corporate Responsibility Review
which can be found on pages 4 to 41, the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 57 and the Directors’Responsibility Statement on page 58 constitute the
enhanced Business Review. They therefore form part of this Directors’Report and are incorporated in this report by reference. Any liability is restricted to
the extent prescribed by the Companies Act 2006.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Debenhams is a large and complicated business. There are a number of risks and uncertainties, both from external factors such as the economic
environment and internal factors such as the retention of key management, that could substantially impact its performance.
Statements made in the Annual Report that look forward in time or express management’s beliefs, expectations or estimates regarding future occurrences
and prospects are “forward-looking statements” . These forward-looking statements reﬂect Debenhams’ current expectations concerning future events
and actual results may diﬀer materially from current expectations or historical results. Any such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks
and uncertainties.
It is not possible to schedule all risks and uncertainties but major risk factors include:
i) factors outside Debenhams’control, such as adverse economic conditions, a downturn in the retail industry, changes in the ﬁnancial or equity markets,
industrial unrest, adverse weather, natural disaster, war or terrorist activity; these could particularly have a major impact during peak selling periods;
ii) competitive pressures in the highly competitive retail sector. Debenhams’competitors include not just other general retailers but specialist retailers,
supermarkets and other low-price, high-volume retailers and internet operators;
iii) Debenhams’ ability to predict or fulﬁl customer demands or preferences;
iv) events that negatively impact the Debenhams brand, for example in areas such as product quality, supply chain practices or health and safety;
v) the departure of key personnel;
vi) the theft of customer data;
vii) work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes or operational disruption;
viii) personal injuries or property damage relating to a major Debenhams or supplier location through ﬁre or other risk;
ix) the eﬀectiveness of Debenhams’ brand awareness and marketing programmes;
x) disruptions or other adverse events aﬀecting Debenhams’relationship with or the performance of its major suppliers, store card providers, designers
or concessionaires; for example certain designers are very important to its business, a large quantity of Debenhams’ merchandise is manufactured
by a small number of suppliers etc.;
xi) risks associated with Debenhams’ properties, all of which are now held through leasehold interests, or former properties for which Debenhams
may have potential liabilities in the event of default of the current tenant;
xii) loss of business or additional expenditure from regulation; and
xiii) currency and hedging risks (a substantial proportion of Debenhams’ imports are paid for in US dollars), interest rate risks, credit risks and ﬁnancial
covenant risks under the credit facilities.
The Company’s internal control process is set out on pages 50 to 51. Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 45
Section 3 Management and Governance
EVENTS SINCE THE YEAR END
Since the year end, Debenhams has opened one new department store in Livingston (16 October 2008) which brought the total number of stores in the
UK and the Republic of Ireland to 150. In the International business new stores have opened in Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and Romania.
PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS
The proﬁt after tax for the ﬁnancial year ending 30 August 2008 was £77.1 million (2007: £79.0 million). The directors recommend the payment of a ﬁnal
dividend of 0.5 pence per ordinary share, to be paid on 16 January 2009 to members on the register at the close of business on 12 December 2008. This
together with the interim dividend of 2.5 pence paid in July gives a full year dividend of 3.0 pence. A scrip dividend alternative was oﬀered for the interim
dividend and will again be oﬀered for the ﬁnal dividend.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS
As at 21 October 2008, Debenhams plc has received notiﬁcation of the following signiﬁcant shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure and
Transparency Rules:
Issued
Number of capital
Shareholder shares %
Landsbanki Islands hf (held via forward contracts with Baugur Group hf and Unity One ehf) 116,000,000 13.26
TPG Shareholder Group 113,135,197 12.93
Bestinver Gestion, S.A. 105,837,670 12.09
Milestone Resources Group Ltd 89,183,155 10.19
CVC Shareholder Group 79,498,424 9.08
Brandes Investment Partners, L.P . (27.2 per cent of holding held via unsponsored ADRs) 39,663,156 4.53
Legal & General Group plc 27,639,645 3.15
SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL
The information in this section is given pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are shown in note 11 to the Financial Statements on page 98 and consists of ordinary shares of
0.01 pence each. All the shares rank pari passu. The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on
their holders by law, are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association, a copy of which can be obtained by writing to the Company Secretary. 15,795,966
shares were allotted during the period following the election by shareholders to receive shares in lieu of the interim dividend paid on 4 July 2008. The
Company was authorised by shareholders at the December 2007 AGM to purchase in the market up to 85,897,439 ordinary shares. Although this authority
was not utilised by the Company during the last ﬁnancial year approval will be sought from shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to renew this standard
authority for a further year. It is currently the directors’ intention, were the shares to be brought back, for them to be cancelled or retained in treasury
pending a subsequent sale, cancellation or transfer. The Company does not currently hold any shares in treasury. The Company will only buy back shares
if the directors believe that it is in shareholders’ best interests and will increase earnings per share.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by special resolution of the Company. New Articles are being proposed at this year’s AGM to
reﬂect principally the changes imposed by the introduction of the Companies Act 2006. Explanatory notes relating to these changes are included in the
appendix to the Notice of Meeting which accompanies this report.
The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 holds 1,413,536 ordinary shares in the Company (0.16 per cent); any voting or other similar decisions relating
to those shares would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendation of the Company.
There are no signiﬁcant agreements to which the Company is a party which take eﬀect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Company
except that the supplier agreements with all major cosmetic suppliers contain termination provisions on change of control and the Credit Agreement
dated 19 April 2006 in respect of the £1,350 million credit facility contains mandatory prepayment. There are no agreements providing for compensation
for directors or employees on change of control. Details concerning the impact on share options held by directors or employees in the event of a change
of control are set out on page 55 of the Remuneration Report.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The membership of the board and biographical details of the directors are given on pages 42 and 43 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of the board members is set out in the Company’s Articles of Association.
DIRECTORS’ INDEMNITIES
In addition to the indemnity provisions in their Articles of Association, the Company and other Group companies have entered into a direct indemnity
agreement with each of the directors and certain other oﬃcers or employees of the Group. The Company also maintains directors’ and oﬃcers’ liability
insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The interests of the directors and their connected persons in the shares of the Company are shown on page 56 of the Remuneration Report. Their interests
in options over shares in the Company are shown on page 57 of the same report.
No director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of signiﬁcance in relation to the Group’s business. DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 46
Section 3 Management and Governance
PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS
It is the Company’s policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the agreed payment terms provided that the invoice is properly presented and not subject
to dispute.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts owed by the Company to trade creditors at the end of the year and the amounts invoiced by suppliers
in the ﬁnancial year ended 30 August 2008 was 58 days (2007: 57 days).
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Debenhams does not enter into ﬁnancial instruments for speculative trade. Details of ﬁnancial instruments entered into for underlying risks are set out
in note 23 on pages 80 and 81.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
It is the Group’s policy not to make donations to political parties. There were no disclosable expenses made during the ﬁnancial year which fall within
the deﬁnition of a political donation under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
CHARITABLE GIVING
Details of the Company’s charitable activities are given in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 28 to 41. The Group made direct donations for
charitable purposes in the ﬁnancial year of £122,628 to the Breast Cancer Campaign (2007: £96,000), £99,779 to the Everyman Campaign, £60,000 to the
Debenhams Retirement Association (2007: £60,000) and £10,000 to the Marine Conservation Society.
GOING CONCERN
After making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. For this reason,
they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS
Each of the directors of the Company at the time when the Directors’ Report was approved conﬁrms that:
a) so far as the director is aware, there is no information needed by the Company’s auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the
Company’s auditors are unaware; and
b) s/he has taken all the steps that s/he ought to have taken as a director in order to make themself aware of any information needed by the Company’s
auditors in connection with preparing the report and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
AUDITORS
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in oﬃce and a resolution dealing with their reappointment as auditors of the
Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM)
The AGM of Debenhams plc will be held at Holborn Gate, 26 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1PB on Tuesday 13 January 2009 at 2pm. The Notice
is given, together with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
By order of the board
PAUL EARDLEY
Company Secretary
21 October 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47
Section 3 Management and Governance
This report describes how the principles and provisions as set out in the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting
Council have been applied by the Group during the year ended 30 August 2008. The only provision which the Company did not comply with was Code
Provision A.3.2 which requires that at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors. Following the
appointment of Angela Spindler as an executive director on 4 February 2008, there are ﬁve independent non-executive directors and six other directors
on the board of Debenhams plc.
As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the following section sets out how the Company has applied the principles of Section
1 of the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
THE BOARD
The board of directors, chaired by John Lovering, provides leadership to the Group within a framework of prudent eﬀective controls. In accordance with
good practice there is a schedule of matters reserved for its approval. The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive are
clear and are set out in writing and agreed by the board. The principal responsibility of the Chairman is the eﬀective running of the board whilst the Chief
Executive’s responsibility lies with the operation of the business. John Lovering will be subject to retirement by rotation at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting (“AGM”) and is oﬀering himself for re-election.
The executive directors are:
Rob Templeman Chief Executive
Chris Woodhouse Finance Director
Angela Spindler Managing Director
Michael Sharp Chief Operating Oﬃcer
Rob Templeman retired by rotation as a director at last year’s AGM and was re-elected by the shareholders. All the other executive directors will be subject
to retirement by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and are oﬀering themselves for re-election.
The ﬁve independent non-executive directors are:
Richard Gillingwater Senior Independent Director
Adam Crozier
Peter Long
Dennis Millard
Paul Pindar
The above non-executive directors are considered independent since none of them were previously employed by the Company, they each have no
material business relationship with the Company either directly or indirectly and their only remuneration is a fee. They were all appointed in 2006 and
they have no relationship with any connected party of the Company.
Richard Gillingwater, Peter Long and Dennis Millard retired by rotation as directors at last year’s AGM and were re-elected by the shareholders. Adam
Crozier and Paul Pindar will be subject to retirement by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and are oﬀering themselves for re-election.
There are two other non-executive directors who do not fall within the deﬁnition of independence set out in the Combined Code due to the shareholdings
that they represent. These are Philippe Costeletos, who is a partner of Texas Paciﬁc Group Limited which holds a 12.9 per cent stake in the Company and
Jonathan Feuer, who is a managing partner of CVC Capital Partners, which holds 9.1 per cent of the Company’s shares. Both Philippe Costeletos and
Jonathan Feuer will be subject to retirement by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and are oﬀering themselves for re-election.
In addition to the directors, board meetings are attended by Nigel Palmer (Retail Operations Director), Nikki Zamblera (Human Resources Director) and
the Company Secretary.
It is the policy for the board to meet at least six times a year. Full attendance of the board is expected. The agenda is settled by the Chairman in advance
of the meeting and board papers are circulated to board members several days ahead of any meeting. Minutes of previous meetings are circulated to all
board members and approved at the next board meeting.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The board committees are the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees. The terms of reference of each committee can be found on our website
at www.debenhamsplc.com. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 48
Section 3 Management and Governance
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Paul Pindar. The other members are Richard Gillingwater, John Lovering and Dennis Millard. The Committee is
responsible for making appropriate recommendations to the board for the appointment of replacement or additional directors. It is also responsible for
succession planning, for reviewing board size, structure and composition and for monitoring and approving the directors’ conﬂicts of interest.
Appointments to the board are made on merit and against objective criteria to ensure that the board maintains the balance of skill, knowledge and
experience required to lead and promote the success of the Company.
On 4 December 2007 we announced the appointment of a new Managing Director, Angela Spindler. The recruitment process was facilitated by an
executive search consultant and involved Angela Spindler meeting or speaking to all of the board prior to her appointment. Following her appointment
she has participated fully in Company induction programmes including induction regarding corporate governance and compliance.
At a meeting in September this year the Committee considered the reappointment of directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming AGM. In accordance
with the Combined Code those directors are John Lovering, Chris Woodhouse, Michael Sharp, Angela Spindler, Adam Crozier, Paul Pindar, Jonathan Feuer
and Philippe Costeletos. Biographical details of each of these directors can be found on pages 42 and 43 in the section The Board. Following the board
evaluation the Chairman of the board has conﬁrmed that each director’s performance continues to be eﬀective and that they demonstrate commitment
to the role.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Committee’s membership and responsibilities are detailed within the Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 57.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee is chaired by Dennis Millard. The other members are Adam Crozier, Richard Gillingwater and Peter Long. Audit Committee meetings
are also attended by the Finance Director, the Secretary, the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management, the external auditors and the Treasurer. In
addition to the meetings set out in the table below, the Committee met with the Company’s auditors and the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management
separately without any executives being present. The Committee assists the board in fulﬁlling its responsibilities through monitoring the integrity of
ﬁnancial reporting; reviewing the systems of internal control and risk management; reviewing the eﬀectiveness of the audit process and maintaining the
relationship with the Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .
After each meeting of the Audit Committee the Committee Chairman reports to the board on the matters discussed and raises with the appropriate
executive director any issues of concern. The minutes of the meetings are available to all directors.
There is a detailed agenda for each meeting. The broad structure of the Audit Committee’s agenda last year was as follows:
• In October 2007 the Committee considered the external auditors’ performance and independence and their re-appointment, reviewed the annual
Financial Statements, key accounting policies, areas of judgement and quality of earnings, the Auditors’Report on the year end audit and management’s
responses to the issues raised.
• In April 2008 the Committee reviewed the Interim Financial Statements, accounting policies, judgements, quality of earnings and the interim review
report and responses.
• In July 2008 the internal audit programme and the external audit strategy and scope for the following year were agreed and approved.
At each meeting a presentation was also made to the Committee by the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management covering the audit plan as agreed
in the previous July, on control issues and signiﬁcant ﬁndings. Reports on treasury, litigation and health and safety were also made to each meeting. Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49
Section 3 Management and Governance
ATTENDANCE
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the board and its committees during the year and individual attendance by board and Committee
members at those meetings.
Nomination Remuneration Audit
Board meeting Committee Committee Committee
NUMBER OF MEETINGS 7243
John Lovering 62
Rob Templeman 7
Chris Woodhouse 7
Michael Sharp 6
Angela Spindler 3
Richard Gillingwater 7243
Adam Crozier 642
Peter Long 432
Dennis Millard 7243
Paul Pindar 623
Jonathan Feuer 6
Philippe Costeletos 6
Note: The non-attendance of each director was due to prior business commitments. Angela Spindler was appointed to the board in February 2008 and has attended all board meetings held since the date
of appointment. Paul Pindar was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 18 October 2008 and has attended all committee meetings since that date.
INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information. They receive regular updates on business
performance and receive presentations from the executive directors and other senior management at board meetings. Directors are encouraged to
update their skills continually and their knowledge of the Company required to fulﬁl their role both on the board and on board committees. Under the
direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary ensures good and timely information ﬂows within the board and its committees and makes sure that
board procedures are complied with. The Company Secretary also updates and advises the board on all governance matters.
There is a policy whereby the non-executive directors and the board committees may take independent professional advice at the Company’s expense
in order to fulﬁl their duties. All directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
DIRECTORS’ INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, the Company has granted a deed of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to each of
the directors and the General Counsel and Company Secretary. The Company also maintains directors’ and oﬃcers’ liability insurance for its directors
and oﬃcers.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
During the year the board conducted a formal and rigorous performance evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual
directors. The performance of the internal and external auditors was also evaluated.
Questionnaires appropriate to its audience were circulated in order to establish whether the committee or individual directors were contributing
eﬀectively to their role and to also determine their commitment to the role. The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director appraised the Chairman’s
performance.
The results of the evaluations were analysed in detail and considered by the Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the HR Director
and the Company Secretary. The Chairman then held a meeting with the non-executive directors without the executives present to review the results.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors met without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairman’s performance. These
meetings were held on 4 September 2008.
The evaluation concluded that the board operates very well, the quality and commitment of the non-executive directors is very high and the board
committees are particularly eﬀective. The discussions have led to a restructuring of the board agenda, the scheduling of regular board calls between board
meetings and identiﬁcation of a number of key topics that will be presented to the board over the forthcoming year. The output from the 2007 evaluation
was also reviewed and generally those recommendations have been implemented. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 50
Section 3 Management and Governance
DIRECTORS’ CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
The provisions of the Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”) relating to the general duties of directors in respect of conﬂicts of interest and declarations by
directors of interests in existing transactions or arrangements commenced on 1 October 2008. The Act states that “a director of a company must avoid a
situation in which he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conﬂicts, or possibly may conﬂict, with the interest of the company” . Non-conﬂicted
directors of the Company can however authorise “a conﬂict” if the Company’s Articles of Association permit them to do so. It is therefore the intention of
the Company to seek shareholders’ consent at the forthcoming AGM to alter the current Articles of Association to give directors the power to authorise
a conﬂict where appropriate. Subject to receiving the necessary shareholder authority, the Company intends subsequently to report annually on its
procedures for authorising conﬂicts.
SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL
Information which the directors are required to provide pursuant to the Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 can be found on page 45 of the
Directors’ Report.
INTERNAL CONTROL
The board considers it important that there should be a regular and systematic assessment of the risks facing the business. The board is responsible for
the Company’s system of internal control and for reviewing its eﬀectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure
to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The following sections detail how the Company maintains a framework of internal controls based on a combination of the ﬁve components of the
internationally recognised COSO Framework for Internal Control together with other enterprise risk management guidelines and the guidance issued by
the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005. They also describe how the Audit Committee reviewed during the year the eﬀectiveness of that
framework and its supporting policies and procedures.
CONTROL ENVIRONMENT INCLUDING OBJECTIVE SETTING
The strategic objectives of the organisation are underpinned by the control environment which is exempliﬁed by the board to its various stakeholders
through its compliance with the Combined Code of Corporate Governance, internally published risk management strategy, related policies and procedures
and in particular the Code of Business Conduct.
RISK ASSESSMENT AND RISK RESPONSE
Senior management completed the annual organisation wide risk assessment in October 2008. The review considered the business strategy and related
objectives, internal and external risks to their achievement and the controls to mitigate those risks. Risks were ranked according to a matrix of severity
and likelihood of occurrence and the risk register was updated accordingly.
The key risks identiﬁed as a result of the exercise were reviewed by the Audit Committee in October 2008 and thereafter presented to the board. This
process involved the ratiﬁcation by the board. The Audit Committee then directed the Internal Audit to ensure that the plan for 2008/09 focused on the
matters that arose from this review.
CONTROL ACTIVITIES
A series of control activities used to mitigate the risks identiﬁed include, if possible, risk transfer (through a third-party contract), ﬁnancing the risk through
insurance or consideration by management of re-engineering the process in question. In addition, training and support is provided by the risk
management team to those requiring it and the risk management website provides best practice guidelines on how to manage risk, particularly in stores.
MONITORING AND COMMUNICATING
The risks that have been identiﬁed are monitored through a variety of mechanisms which include: the audit programme, fraud detection systems across
point of sale and certain central data repositories, the high and serious risk monitor maintained by the internal audit team, internal procedures such as
stock takes and stock ﬁle counts, prevention tools such as CCTV and through management controls.
In addition to the above, there are a number of processes to test the Company’s ﬁnancial information and controls. An operating plan is prepared in
August of each year and a revised forecast is then prepared each month, which analyses actual performance and highlights variances against the plan.
In particular, performance is monitored through a series of key ratios. Daily sales, weekly sales and margin and monthly management accounts are also
prepared, all of which report on performance against plan, last year and forecast. A treasury report is made to each meeting of the board, covering
matters such as senior operating restrictions and covenant reporting and forecasting (under the banking facilities), exposure to foreign exchange and
hedging arrangements, net debt and interest rate hedging, cash ﬂow and cash ﬂow forecasting and amounts deposited with counterparties. Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 51
Section 3 Management and Governance
INTERNAL AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Internal audit forms part of the risk management department, which also comprises the anti-fraud, insurance and proﬁt protection departments. This
combination enables the Company to maintain a cohesive approach to all aspects of risk management whilst allowing internal audit to beneﬁt from the
insights that the other elements of the team can provide. As the result of an eﬃciency and eﬀectiveness exercise, the internal audit team underwent a
restructuring in May 2008. This resulted in a reduction of two auditors and a restatement of the audit plan with an emphasis on critical and serious testing.
The Company Secretary conducted an evaluation of the eﬀectiveness of both internal and external audit teams in August 2008. The respondents included
all Audit Committee members, the Finance Director, function heads, senior retail managers and a self-assessment by the Head of Internal Audit and
Risk Management.
For the internal audit function the evaluation considered eﬀectiveness in a number of categories: understanding, charter and structure, skills and
experience, communication, planning, performance and work programme. The categories for external audit were reputation and coverage,
communication, understanding, governance and independence, quality processes, audit team, audit scope, performance and audit fees. The overall
feedback was positive for both internal and external audit.
WHISTLE BLOWING
All employees are required to adhere to the Code of Business Conduct (senior employees conﬁrm compliance in writing). This sets out the ethical standards
expected by the Company and includes details of how matters can be raised in strict conﬁdence. There are two main routes available to encourage
employees at all levels within the organisation to raise concerns over malpractices. The ﬁrst, employee guidelines to problem solving, encourages
employees to talk to their line manager, their manager’s line manager or if still concerned to call HR Connect (the central human resources team) directly.
The alternative route is a conﬁdential reporting line, where employees can speak to the Debenhams anti-fraud team. If an employee feels that the matter
is so serious that it cannot be discussed in any of these ways, he/she can contact the Company Secretary or the Head of Internal Audit and Risk
Management directly. Serious matters are reported to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Contact details are given for all these routes. The Company’s
policy on whistle blowing and these methods of raising issues of concern were speciﬁcally communicated to all employees in May 2007 and are published
on the intranet.
AUDITORS AND AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE
PricewaterhouseCoopers have been the Group’s auditors since the demerger from The Burton Group in 1998. There are no contractual restrictions on the
Audit Committee’s choice of auditor.
In order to ensure that an appropriate relationship is maintained with the external auditors, a policy on auditor independence has been established and
is reviewed annually. This covers matters such as that auditors and their staﬀ have no family, ﬁnancial, employment, investment or business relationship
with the Company, the employment by the Company of former audit employees, the rotation of audit partners and the provision of non-audit services.
The objective of the Audit Committee’s policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor is to ensure that the provision of such
services does not impair the external auditors’ independence or objectivity. An independent report is produced by the central costs team each quarter
during the year detailing all non-audit work, its cost, when it was carried out and who instructed it. This information is reported to the Audit Committee
at each meeting. The Audit Committee also obtained at the meeting in July 2008 information from the auditors about its policies and processes for
maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with relevant rotation requirements.
The Company’s policy identiﬁes three categories of accounting services. The ﬁrst category is audit-related services which the auditors are permitted to
provide. The second category is prohibited services which the auditors are not permitted to provide. Prohibited services are those which might result in
the external auditor auditing its own work, or making management decisions for the Company, and those where some mutuality of interest is created
or where the external auditor is put in the role of advocate for the Company. The third category is “potential” services which the auditors may, in certain
circumstances, provide subject to compliance with the independence policy. These services include tax advisory services or services where the auditors
are acting as the Company’s reporting accountant.
£0.1 million was paid by the Company to PricewaterhouseCoopers for non-audit services in respect of advisory services. The audit fees paid by the pension
schemes were £24,000.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The board is responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders. Two of the largest shareholders, TPG and
CVC, are represented on the board by Philippe Costeletos and Jonathan Feuer respectively. The Chairman and Senior Independent non-executive director
are always available to major shareholders. John Lovering and Richard Gillingwater have recently met with a number of shareholders to discuss incentive
matters. Formal trading updates were given to the market on six occasions in 2008: September 2007 – full year trading update; October 2007 – preliminary
results for 2007; January 2008 – interim management statement; March 2008 – half year trading update; April 2008 – interim results; and June 2008 –
interim management statement. Formal presentations were held for investors and retail sector analysts following the release of the preliminary and
interim results in October 2007 and April 2008 respectively. Conference calls were held following the release of the trading updates and interim
management statements. A programme of meetings and conference calls is organised throughout the year at which the Chief Executive, Finance Director
and Head of Investor Relations discuss Company performance with investors. In 2008 meetings have been held in London, Edinburgh, Madrid, Boston
and San Francisco. A large group of investors and analysts visited the new department store in Derby on 9 March 2008. The Chairman made a presentation
on the Company’s ﬁnancial performance and major business initiatives at the AGM in December 2007. REMUNERATION REPORT
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 52
Section 3 Management and Governance
This Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 August 2008 has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee on behalf of the board for approval
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 January 2009. The report complies with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK
Listing Authority, the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the provisions of the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
PART 1: UNAUDITED INFORMATION
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee comprises the following non-executive directors: Richard Gillingwater (Committee Chairman), Adam Crozier, Peter Long,
Dennis Millard and Paul Pindar (appointed on 18 October 2007). The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
There were four meetings of the Committee during the year under review with a further two meetings being held on 28 January 2008 and 30 April 2008
which were held by way of written resolution. The individual attendance of the directors is detailed in the table within the Corporate Governance Report
on page 49.
The Committee has responsibility for setting the remuneration of the executive directors and the Company Secretary, reviewing the appropriateness and
relevance of the remuneration policy and administering all aspects of any share schemes in operation for senior management. The Committee’s terms
of reference can be downloaded from the Company’s website at www.debenhamsplc.com.
During the year the Committee appointed Mercer Limited (“Mercer”) to provide it with independent advice on directors’ remuneration and share plans.
Mercer also provides industry and comparative employee remuneration data to Debenhams’ management. The Committee has also consulted with the
Company’s Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and Human Resources Director but not on matters relating to their own compensation or contracts.
The Remuneration Committee reviews external data produced through surveys and benchmarking from Mercer about total remuneration in other
comparable companies, and the elements of that total remuneration, in order to inform its consideration of the remuneration of Company executives.
REMUNERATION POLICY
It is the Company’s policy to provide remuneration packages that will attract, motivate and retain high calibre employees in a competitive retail market
and, where possible, to do this in the most cost eﬀective way for the business. In addition to basic salary and pension provision the Company seeks to
incentivise its employees through an annual bonus scheme and through its share schemes. The committee’s policy is to weight executive directors’
remuneration towards performance-linked pay and thus to strike a balance between short and long term incentives. However with the exception of
grants made to Angela Spindler on her appointment to the Board, the main Board Directors declined to receive grants under the Company’s long term
incentive plans in 2007/08. The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the current arrangements and is consulting with shareholders to makes changes
to short and and long-term incentives for the year 2008/09 to ensure that overall the compensation arrangements remain competitive and drive
performance in the current challenging economic environment. It is proposed that grants will be made to executive directors under the Performance Share
Plan (in which the directors already participate) and the Executive Share Option Plan.
COMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION
BASE SALARY
The Committee considers base salary and salary increases for executives based on the median level paid within a group of comparable companies in the
FTSE 350 Retail sector, and in the context of salary increases across the Group’s wider employee population. To ensure the attraction and retention of the
quality of individuals required to successfully run the business, the Committee’s policy is for base pay to be at or close to the market median of companies
of a comparative enterprise value. In line with the rate of payroll inﬂation across the employee population as a whole the salaries of the executive directors
increased in 2007/08 by 2.5 per cent. For the year 2008/09 the directors have elected to take a pay freeze in light of the uncertain market conditions
faced by the industry.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS BONUS SCHEMES
The annual bonus scheme for executive directors focuses on the achievement of speciﬁc numerical business targets. The maximum bonus potential for
2007/08 was 100 per cent salary and the targets composed of three independent elements: proﬁt, net debt and like-for-like sales.
The net debt target was the only target to be achieved. Given the degree of focus on the Company’s debt structure, the Remuneration Committee
determined that this was a creditable result in a diﬃcult year and that the bonus award of 20 per cent base salary should be paid. In the case of Angela
Spindler this bonus was pro-rated. Although the scheme provides for the bonus to be paid in cash, after discussions with the committee, several of the
executive directors have elected to receive this bonus in the form of shares, net of tax.
Following the review of the current arrangements, the Remuneration Committee is consulting with shareholders with regard to proposed changes to the
bonus potential for the executive directors bonus scheme. It is proposed that the performance targets consist of the key ﬁnancial metrics of PBT and net
debt hurdles.
THE DEBENHAMS PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN (THE “PSP”)
The Committee has discretion to grant awards under the PSP up to a maximum of 200 per cent of base salary to executive directors and other senior
executives. Up to 250 per cent of base salary may be awarded in exceptional circumstances (e.g. for recruitment) and this year, the Committee exercised
its discretion in this regard on the appointment of Angela Spindler as Managing Director. On vesting, executives may receive shares, the number of which
is determined by the extent to which a performance condition is achieved, provided that they remain employed in the Group. Awards under the PSP
comprise an option to receive free shares or a nil cost option. Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 53
Section 3 Management and Governance
Awards under the PSP will normally only vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant (and must be exercised within six months of vesting) subject
to satisfaction of performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee at the time awards are granted and if the Remuneration Committee is
satisﬁed that the underlying ﬁnancial performance of the Company over the performance period is suﬃcient to justify the vesting of the award.
Awards made up to 2007/08 under the PSP are subject to two performance targets. Fifty per cent of the award is based on the Adjusted Earnings Per Share
(“EPS”) growth of the Company above the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index (“RPI”) over a three-year performance period and the other 50 per
cent is based on the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) against the weighted TSR of the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index over a three-year
performance period. Under the discretion aﬀorded to it in the Scheme rules, the Committee reviewed the EPS targets for 2007/08. In determining the
EPS targets for 2007/08, the Committee took into consideration the current business plan, prevailing economic conditions and shareholder expectations.
It took advice from Mercer, including their analysis of brokers’ consensus forecasts. The Committee considered TSR to be an appropriate measure of
shareholder value and it chose the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index for comparison. The Committee determined that a weighted index was a fairer and
more reasonable method of determining relative performance (as opposed to a conventional TSR ranking) as it factors in the size of each comparator
company and therefore the absolute levels of value that each company generates relative to its size. When determining the TSR requirement for maximum
vesting, the Committee took into consideration the historical TSR performance of the comparator companies over the last ten years. A three-month
average TSR at the start and end of the performance period will be used to mitigate the eﬀect of any short-term share price volatility. If one or both of
the performance conditions are not met at the end of the performance period, 50 per cent or 100 per cent (as appropriate) of the awards will lapse
immediately without any opportunity to re-test the relevant performance condition.
The table below sets out the performance conditions of awards made to date under the PSP:
Date of grant Vesting criteria Performance condition over three-year period
9 May 2006 and 6 June 2006 50 per cent on EPS growth Below RPI +14 per cent pa = zero vesting
against RPI growth RPI + 14 per cent pa = 30 per cent vesting
RPI + 21 per cent pa = 100 per cent
Between 14 per cent and 21 per cent pa = straight-line basis
between 30 per cent and 100 per cent
50 per cent on TSR Debenhams TSR is less than the weighted TSR = zero vesting
against FTSE 350 Debenhams TSR is equal to the weighted TSR = 30 per cent
Debenhams TSR is ≥ 12 per cent above the weighted TSR = 100 per cent
Between the latter two points = straight-line basis
between 30 per cent and 100 per cent
24 November 2006 50 per cent on EPS growth Below RPI +7 per cent pa = zero vesting
against RPI growth RPI + 7 per cent pa = 30 per cent vesting
RPI + 14 per cent pa = 100 per cent
Between 7 per cent and 14 per cent pa = straight-line basis
between 30 per cent and 100 per cent
50 per cent on TSR Debenhams TSR is less than the weighted TSR = zero vesting
against FTSE 350 Debenhams TSR is equal to the weighted TSR = 30 per cent
Debenhams TSR is ≥ 12 per cent above the weighted TSR = 100 per cent
Between the latter two points = straight-line basis
between 30 per cent and 100 per cent
29 May 2007 50 per cent on EPS growth Below RPI + 3 per cent pa = zero vesting
against RPI growth RPI + 3 per cent pa = 30 per cent vesting
RPI + 7 per cent pa = 100 per cent
Between 3 per cent and 7 per cent pa = straight-line basis
between 30 per cent and 100 per cent
50 per cent on TSR Debenhams TSR is less than the weighted TSR = zero vesting
against FTSE 350 Debenhams TSR is equal to the weighted TSR = 30 per cent
Debenhams TSR is ≥ 12 per cent above the weighted TSR = 100 per cent
Between the latter two points = straight-line basis
between 30 per cent and 100 per cent
4 February 2008 50 per cent on EPS growth Below RPI +3 per cent pa = zero vesting
against RPI growth RPI + 3 per cent pa = 30 per cent vesting
RPI + 8 per cent pa = 100 per cent
Between 3 per cent and 8 per cent pa = straight-line basis
between 30 per cent and 100 per cent
50 per cent on TSR Debenhams TSR is less than the weighted TSR = zero vesting
against FTSE 350 Debenhams TSR is equal to the weighted TSR = 30 per cent
Debenhams TSR is ≥ 12 per cent above the weighted TSR = 100 per cent
Between the latter two points = straight-line basis
between 30 per cent and 100 per cent REMUNERATION REPORT
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 54
Section 3 Management and Governance
The Remuneration Committee may set diﬀerent performance conditions for future awards and may decide that diﬀerent conditions should be applicable
to diﬀerent executives’ awards depending on their job function.
No PSP awards vested during the year. The awards granted in May 2006 and June 2006 have lapsed since the performance conditions attaching to those
awards were not satisﬁed as at 30 August 2008.
No awards were granted to the executive directors during the year save for the new Managing Director, Angela Spindler, who received an award on
appointment on 4 February 2008.
THE DEBENHAMS 2006 EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION PLAN (THE “ESOP”)
The Committee has discretion to grant options to acquire shares to eligible employees. Options granted under the ESOP may either be Her Majesty’s
Revenue & Customs approved options (up to the prescribed limit currently £30,000) or unapproved options up to a maximum amount of 100 per cent
of base salary. Options may, in exceptional circumstances, be granted with a market value in excess of this amount at the discretion of the
Remuneration Committee.
Share options are granted at the closing mid-market price on the day prior to the date of grant. Options will normally become exercisable three years
after grant expiring seven years later. The exercise of the options is subject to performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee at the time
awards are granted. Options exercised under the ESOP are subject to the Adjusted Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) growth of the Company increasing above
the percentage increase in the Retail Prices Index (“RPI”) over a three-year performance period. There is no re-testing of the performance condition.
The table below sets out the performance conditions of awards made to date under the ESOP:
Date of grant Vesting criteria Performance condition over three-year period
9 May 2006 and 6 June 2006 EPS growth against RPI growth RPI ≥ 14 per cent pa = 100 per cent vesting
24 November 2006 EPS growth against RPI growth RPI ≥ 7 per cent pa = 100 per cent vesting
29 May 2007 and 12 November 2007 EPS growth against RPI growth RPI ≥ 3 per cent pa = 100 per cent vesting
4 February 2008 EPS growth against RPI growth Below RPI + 3 per cent pa = zero vesting
RPI + 3 per cent pa = 30 per cent vesting
RPI + 8 per cent pa = 100 per cent
Between 3 per cent and 8 per cent pa = straight-line basis
between 30 per cent and 100 per cent
No options under the ESOP were exercised during the year. The options granted in May 2006 and June 2006 lapsed since the performance conditions
attaching to those options were not satisﬁed as at 30 August 2008.
No options were granted to the executive directors during the year save for the new Managing Director, Angela Spindler, who received an approved and
unapproved option over shares under the Scheme on appointment on 4 February and these options are disclosed on page 57 of this report.
DEBENHAMS 2006 SHARESAVE SCHEME (THE “SHARESAVE SCHEME”)
Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees may be granted an option to acquire shares at a ﬁxed exercise price. At the end of the savings period the
employee may either exercise the option within six months of the end of the savings period using the savings contributions and bonus accumulated or
have the savings and bonus repaid. No options have been granted under this scheme.
THE DEBENHAMS DEFERRED BONUS MATCHING PLAN (THE “DBMP”)
Under the DBMP participants will be able to invest up to the full amount of their annual bonus (on an after-tax basis) in shares. If the participant remains
in service for three years he/she will, subject to the satisfaction of a performance target, be eligible to receive a matching share award (based on the pre-tax
amount of the bonus that has been invested). The Remuneration Committee has not determined what performance conditions will apply to awards
under the DBMP although it is intended that they be appropriately demanding and linked to the Company’s performance. If the performance target
is not met at the end of the performance period, the awards will lapse immediately and there will be no opportunity to re-test the performance condition.
No awards have yet been made under the DBMP .
THE DEBENHAMS RETAIL EMPLOYEE TRUST 2004 (THE “TRUST”)
The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 was originally set up to satisfy share options under the Debenhams Employee Option Plan. It currently holds
1,413,536 shares in the Company. Dividends receivable on the shares held in the Trust are waived on the recommendation of the Company.
The Debenhams Employee Option Plan is now obsolete as it was a plan used by the Company when it was a private company.
In 2008 the Company intends to use shares in the trust to operate a new plan called the Debenhams 2008 Share Incentive Plan. Under this plan, options
vesting in 12 months’time will be granted to a small group of key executives below board level who the Company wishes to retain and incentivise in the
short to medium term. Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 55
Section 3 Management and Governance
FUNDING OF SHARE SCHEMES
It is the Company’s current intention to satisfy any future requirements of its share schemes in a method best suited to the interests of the Company,
either by acquiring shares in the market or, subject to institutional guidelines, issuing new shares.
CHANGE OF CONTROL
The rules of the Company’s share schemes provide that in the event of a change of control, awards/options would vest to the extent that the performance
conditions are satisﬁed at the date of such event. Any such early vesting would be on a time pro-rata basis.
PENSION
The directors are not members of a Company pension plan, except for Michael Sharp who is a deferred member of the Debenhams Executive Pension
Plan. Full details are disclosed on page 57 of this report.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH
The performance graph below shows the Company’s total shareholder return against the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index over the period from ﬂotation
(3 May 2006) to 30 August 2008. The FTSE 350 has been chosen as Debenhams has been a member throughout the period and it is made up of a broad
spectrum of retail competitors (including major general retail listed competitors) in the principal product areas in which the Company trades.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN SINCE IPO (3 MAY 2006)
LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT AND SERVICE CONTRACTS
The Chairman and the non-executive directors have letters of appointment from the Company covering matters such as duties, time commitment,
fees and other business interests. The appointments may be terminated by either party giving one month’s notice.
Fees for non-executive directors are determined by the board and are made up of an annual fee for acting as a non-executive director of the Company,
together with additional fees for chairing and membership of a board committee. The non-executive directors do not take part in discussions on their
own remuneration which is reviewed annually. The fees are set to reﬂect the time which they are required to commit to their duties, their experience and
the amounts paid to non-executive directors in comparable companies. There has been no increase in non-executive directors fees in the year.
Details of the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are set out below and the terms are available for inspection at the Company’s
registered oﬃce during normal business hours and at the AGM.
Date of joining Date of letter
Name Position Annual fee the Group of appointment
John Lovering Chairman £250,000 8 September 2003 19 April 2006
Philippe Costeletos Non-executive director £40,000 8 September 2003 24 April 2006
Adam Crozier Independent non-executive director £45,000 9 May 2006 18 April 2006
Jonathan Feuer Non-executive director £40,000 8 September 2003 24 April 2006
Richard Gillingwater Senior independent non-executive director £62,500 9 May 2006 20 April 2006
Peter Long Independent non-executive director £45,000 9 May 2006 24 April 2006
Dennis Millard Independent non-executive director £55,000 9 May 2006 10 April 2006
Paul Pindar Independent non-executive director £50,000 9 May 2006 19 April 2006
The fees of Philippe Costeletos and Jonathan Feuer are paid to TPG and CVC respectively rather than being paid to the individual non-executive director.
Debenhams TSR FTSE 350 General Retailers Index TSR
60
80
120
100
3 May 2006 2 September 2006 1 September 2007 30 August2008
20
40 REMUNERATION REPORT
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 56
Section 3 Management and Governance
Rob Templeman, Chris Woodhouse and Michael Sharp, entered into service agreements with the Company on 3 May 2006. Angela Spindler entered into
her service agreement on 3 December 2007 and commenced employment on 4 February 2008. Each agreement is terminable by either party giving not
less than 12 months’written notice, save that Michael Sharp is required to give the Company six months’notice. It is the Company’s policy that the notice
periods of executive directors should not exceed one year. The Remuneration Committee has considered the ﬁnancial consequences of early termination
of directors’ service contracts; in order to limit and provide certainty in the event of termination of a contract without cause, the directors’ contracts
contain liquidated damages clauses. If the Company terminates the employment without due notice, other than in circumstances such as gross
misconduct or other immediate justiﬁable cause, the Company is required to make a payment equal to the aggregate of the executive director’s basic
salary and the value of their contractual beneﬁts for the notice period. Messrs Templeman, Woodhouse and Sharp are also entitled to a payment equal
to the average of the annual bonus paid to the executive director in the two bonus years prior to the termination of employment. This provision is not
included in the service contract entered into with Ms Spindler.
Executive directors are entitled, in addition to salary, to other beneﬁts or equivalent cash allowances, the value of which is set out in the table of directors’
emoluments, including company car and fuel, life, medical, dental and personal accident insurance together with product discount.
Rob Templeman and Chris Woodhouse’s contracts permit each of them to hold up to two non-executive directorships in non-competing companies and
to retain payments received in respect of those other directorships. Chris Woodhouse, who is Group Non-executive Chairman of Gondola Group Limited,
retained fees of £150,000 (2007: £104,032). Angela Spindler, who holds a non-executive directorship for Manchester Airport plc, which was approved by
the board on appointment, retained fees of £14,584 in respect of that non-executive directorship during the period from her appointment to the board
to 30 August 2008.
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company as at 30 August 2008 are shown below. Awards/options granted under the PSP and ESOP
are shown in Part 2 of this report.
Ordinary shares held as
at 1 September 2007 Ordinary shares held as Ordinary shares held as
Director or date of appointment at 30 August 2008 at 21 October 2008
John Lovering
(1)
6,402,780 6,638,187 6,638,187
Rob Templeman
(2)
12,941,638 13,466,214 13,466,214
Chris Woodhouse 11,598,795 11,598,795 11,598,795
Michael Sharp
(3)
5,419,549 5,640,934 5,640,934
Angela Spindler 000
Adam Crozier 25,641 25,641 25,641
Jonathan Feuer
(4)
127,060 132,250 132,250
Richard Gillingwater 5,128 5,128 5,128
Peter Long 51,282 51,282 51,282
Dennis Millard 51,282 53,376 53,376
Paul Pindar 228,846 235,130 235,130
1) As at 21 October 2008 Mr Lovering’s holding includes 640,000 shares held by the Lovering Charitable Trust of which the director is a trustee.
2) As at 21 October 2008 Mr Templeman’s holding includes 514,364 shares held by The Robert Templeman 2008 Discretionary Settlement Trust of which the director is a trustee.
3) As at 21 October 2008 Mr Sharp’s holding includes 218,904 shares held by The Michael Sharp 2008 Discretionary Settlement Trust of which the director is a trustee.
4) Jonathan Feuer is the beneficial owner of 132,250 Shares in the Company held in the name of Capital Investors 2002 Limited.
During the period 22 October 2008 to 10 November 2008, being one month prior to the Notice of Annual General Meeting, Messrs Lovering, Templeman
and Sharp have each transferred shares to connected parties. However their total shareholdings remain as stated above.
PART 2: AUDITED INFORMATION
DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS
The remuneration of each director for the full year is set out in the following table:
Annual
allowance
in lieu of Total Total
Salary/fees Benefits Bonus
(2)
pension 2008 2007
Director ££ £££ £
John Lovering 250,000 250,000 250,173
Rob Templeman 673,070 30,792 134,614 100,961 939,437 789,706
Chris Woodhouse 457,678 22,726 91,536 68,652 640,592 538,251
Michael Sharp 425,375 37,937 85,075 85,075 633,462 534,818
Angela Spindler
(1)
311,538 10,747 62,307 46,731 431,323 n/a
Philippe Costeletos 40,000 40,000 40,000
Adam Crozier 45,000 45,000 45,000
Jonathan Feuer 40,000 40,000 40,000
Richard Gillingwater 62,500 62,500 62,500
Peter Long 45,000 45,000 45,000
Dennis Millard 55,000 55,000 55,000
Paul Pindar 50,000 50,000 50,000
Total 2,455,161 102,202 373,532 301,419 3,232,314 2,450,448
1) Angela Spindler was appointed to the board on 4 February 2008.
2) The directors will receive the 2007/08 net bonus in shares. Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 57
Section 3 Management and Governance
PAY IN LIEU OF PENSION PROVISION
Under the terms of their contracts of employment, the executive directors are entitled to a salary supplement in lieu of pension provision of 15 per cent
of base salary (Michael Sharp 20 per cent). These amounts are disclosed in the directors’ emoluments table on page 56.
PENSION
Michael Sharp is a deferred member of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan. He ceased to accrue beneﬁts in that plan on 31 March 2006.
The table below shows his pension accrued at the year end:
Transfer Transfer
value as at value as at
Increase in 1 September 30 August
Increase in accrued Accumulated 2007 2008
accrued pension total accrued of accrued of accrued Increase in
pension during the pension at pension as at pension as transfer value
during year (net of 30 August 1 September at 30 August during the
the year inflation) 2008 2007 2008 year
Director ££ £££ £
Michael Sharp (53) 6,435 172,785 2,126,606 3,136,829 1,010,223*
* The increase in the transfer value during the year is distorted due to a change in the calculation basis. The transfer value has been calculated in accordance with “GN11” published by The Institute
of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN THE PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN
Number of Number of
shares held at shares held at
1 September Shares awarded Shares vested 30 August Market value on Earliest date
Director Date of award 2007 during the year during the year 2008 date of award of vesting
Rob Templeman 9 May 2006 468,750 00 468,750 205p 21/10/2008
24 November 2006 165,611 00 165,611 196p 24/11/2009
Chris Woodhouse 9 May 2006 318,750 00 318,750 205p 21/10/2008
24 November 2006 112,614 00 112,614 196p 24/11/2009
Michael Sharp 9 May 2006 296,250 00 296,250 205p 21/10/2008
24 November 2006 104,665 00 104,665 196p 24/11/2009
Angela Spindler 4 February 2008 0 1,824,324 0 1,824,324 74p 04/02/2011
Note: The awards granted in May 2006 have lapsed since the performance conditions attaching to those were not achieved as at 30 August 2008.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN THE EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION SCHEME
Number of
shares under Number of
option held at shares held at
1 September Shares granted Shares vested 30 August Earliest date
Director Date of grant 2007 during the year during the year Option price 2008 of exercise
Angela Spindler Approved scheme:
5 February 2008 0 40,540 0 74p 40,540 05/02/2011
Unapproved scheme:
5 February 2008 0 689,189 0 74p 689,189 05/02/2011
The closing mid-market price of the Company’s shares on 30 August 2008 was 49.75 pence and ranged from 31.75 pence to 121.50 pence during the
period from 2 September 2007 to 30 August 2008.
On behalf of the board
RICHARD GILLINGWATER
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
21 October 2008 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 58
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
The directors are obliged under company law to prepare ﬁnancial statements of each ﬁnancial year which give a true and fair view of the state of aﬀairs
of the Company and the Group as at the end of the ﬁnancial year and of the proﬁts or loss of the Group for that period.
The directors are required to prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will
continue in business.
The directors conﬁrm that the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
as adopted for use in the EU. They also conﬁrm the Company Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards.
The directors conﬁrm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently except where required to comply with the new accounting
policies. They also conﬁrm that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the Financial Statements for the year
ended 30 August 2008 and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the
Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting
standards. They are also responsible for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULE 4.1.12
The directors conﬁrm that, to the best of their knowledge:
a) the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the EU together with
UK accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt of the Group taken as a whole; and
b) the Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC (GROUP)
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 59
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended 30 August 2008 which comprise the Consolidated Income
Statement, the Consolidated Statement Of Recognised Income and Expenses, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
and the related notes. These Group Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended 30 August 2008 and on the information
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial Statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance
with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group Financial Statements have
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion
the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information
speciﬁed by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reﬂects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code (2006)
speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the
board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the eﬀectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures
or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group Financial Statements. The other
information comprises only the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, Finance Director’s Review, the Directors’ Report, the Corporate
Responsibility Statement, Corporate Governance Statement and the Directors’ Responsibility Statement. We consider the implications for our report if
we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group Financial Statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to
any other information.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group Financial Statements. It also includes an assessment of
the signiﬁcant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us
with suﬃcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by
fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group
Financial Statements.
OPINION
In our opinion:
• the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Group’s aﬀairs
as at 30 August 2008 and of its proﬁt and cash ﬂows for the year then ended;
• the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Leeds
21 October 2008 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 60
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
For the financial year ended:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
Note £m £m
REVENUE 5 1,839.2 1,774.4
Cost of sales (1,571.6) (1,508.4)
Analysed as:
Cost of sales before exceptional items (1,571.6) (1,494.9)
Exceptional cost of sales 8 – (13.5)
GROSS PROFIT 267.6 266.0
Distribution costs (50.0) (47.0)
Analysed as:
Distribution costs before exceptional items (50.0) (46.2)
Exceptional distribution costs 8 – (0.8)
Administrative expenses (41.5) (39.2)
OPERATING PROFIT 7 176.1 179.8
Analysed as:
Operating profit before exceptional items 176.1 194.1
Exceptional operating items 8 – (14.3)
Interest receivable and similar income 10 4.8 4.2
Interest payable and similar charges 11 (75.0) (70.8)
PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION 105.9 113.2
Taxation 12 (28.8) (34.2)
Analysed as:
Taxation before exceptional items (28.8) (36.9)
Taxation credit on exceptional items 12 – 2.7
PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ATTRIBUTABLE TO EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS 29 77.1 79.0
EARNINGS PER SHARE ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS (EXPRESSED IN PENCE PER SHARE)
Pence Pence
per share per share
Basic 14 9.0 9.3
Diluted 14 9.0 9.3
DIVIDENDS PER SHARE (EXPRESSED IN PENCE PER SHARE)
Pence Pence
per share per share
Proposed final dividend per share 13 0.5 3.8 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSES
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 61
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
For the financial year ended:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
Note £m £m
PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 77.1 79.0
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the pension scheme 24 (79.8) 60.7
Currency translation 29 1.3 0.4
Change in the valuation of the available-for-sale investments 17 (9.3) 12.1
Movement on deferred tax relating to the pension scheme 25 22.3 (16.5)
Cash flow hedges
– Net fair value (losses)/gains (net of tax) 29 (5.0) 17.5
– Recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the acquisition cost of inventory 29 0.9 (3.6)
– Reclassified and reported in net profit 29 (0.5) –
NET (EXPENSE)/INCOME RECOGNISED DIRECTLY IN EQUITY (70.1) 70.6
TOTAL RECOGNISED INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO
THE EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS OF THE GROUP 7.0 149.6 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
As at 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 62
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
Note £m £m
ASSETS
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Intangible assets 15 840.8 842.9
Property, plant and equipment 16 693.3 667.7
Financial assets
– Available-for-sale investments 17 11.0 20.3
– Derivative financial instruments 23 8.2 19.7
Retirement benefit assets 24 25.0 87.3
Deferred tax assets 25 57.4 52.3
1,635.7 1,690.2
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories 18 237.5 244.6
Trade and other receivables 19 58.5 65.6
Derivative financial instruments 23 10.5 3.0
Cash and cash equivalents 20 42.1 80.4
348.6 393.6
LIABILITIES
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
– Bank overdraft and borrowings 22 (144.5) (104.8)
– Derivative financial instruments 23 – (2.2)
Trade and other payables 21 (470.2) (468.6)
Current tax liabilities (29.9) (31.6)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 27 (0.7) (2.2)
(645.3) (609.4)
NET CURRENT LIABILITIES (296.7) (215.8)
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
– Bank overdraft and borrowings 22 (891.6) (992.1)
– Derivative financial instruments 23 (0.7) –
Deferred tax liabilities 25 (95.3) (111.6)
Other non-current liabilities 26 (225.8) (207.1)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 27 (0.3) (0.6)
(1,213.7) (1,311.4)
NET ASSETS 125.3 163.0
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Share capital 28 0.1 0.1
Share premium 29 682.9 682.9
Merger reserve 29 1,200.9 1,200.9
Reverse acquisition reserve 29 (1,199.9) (1,199.9)
Hedging reserve 29 10.8 15.4
Other reserves 29 5.1 13.1
Retained earnings 29 (574.6) (549.5)
TOTAL EQUITY 125.3 163.0
The Financial Statements on pages 60 to 90 were approved by the board on 21 October 2008 and were signed on its behalf by:
C K WOODHOUSE
Director CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 63
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
For the financial year ended:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
Note £m £m
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Cash generated from operations 31 285.8 311.2
Interest received 4.8 4.3
Interest paid (71.6) (70.5)
Tax paid (27.6) (17.6)
NET CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 191.4 227.4
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (124.9) (85.2)
Purchase of intangible assets (4.2) (11.5)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 31 3.5 0.2
Net cash used in investing activities (125.6) (96.5)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Repayment of term loan facility 22 (100.0) –
Dividends paid 13 (44.4) (42.0)
Appropriation – settlement of “C” loan notes – (0.2)
Receipt of monies for employee share options – 0.2
Purchase of shares by Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 (“DRET”) 28 (1.1) (0.1)
Payments for reduction in outstanding finance lease liability (0.7) (0.4)
Capitalised debt issue costs (1.8) –
Appropriation by DRET – (9.4)
NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES (148.0) (51.9)
NET (DECREASE)/INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (82.2) 79.0
Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 79.3 0.3
NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF FINANCIAL YEAR 20 (2.9) 79.3 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 64
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
1 BASIS OF PREPARATION AND GENERAL INFORMATION
INTRODUCTION
Debenhams plc (“the Company”) is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985 (Company No. 5448421).
The address of the registered oﬃce is Debenhams plc, 1 Welbeck Street, London, W1G 0AA.
The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiaries (together“the Group”or“the Debenhams Group”) is the sale of fashion clothing and accessories,
cosmetics and products for use in the home. The Group trades from department stores and small store formats in the UK and the Republic of Ireland, on
the internet and has international franchise stores.
The Group prepares its Financial Statements for the ﬁnancial year ending on the nearest Saturday to 31 August of a given calendar year.
The principal companies within the Group during the ﬁnancial year ended 30 August 2008 are disclosed in note 33.
BASIS OF PREPARATION
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) (including
International Accounting Standards (“IAS”)) and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) interpretations and with those
parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under accounting standards as adopted for use in the EU. The Consolidated Financial
Statements for the ﬁnancial year ended 30 August 2008 and 1 September 2007 have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modiﬁed by
the revaluation of available-for-sale investments, derivatives, share-based payments and pensions.
The preparation of the Financial Statements, in conformity with IFRS, requires the use of estimates and assumptions that aﬀect the reporting amounts
of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Although
these results are based on management’s best knowledge of the amounts, events or actions, actual results ultimately may diﬀer from those estimates.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Group’s principal accounting policies are described below.
CONSOLIDATION
The Financial Statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of Debenhams plc and all its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries include all entities (including
special purpose entities) over which the Group has the power to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies. The existence and eﬀect of potential voting
rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully
consolidated from the date on which the Group has the power to control. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
On consolidation, inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised
losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of the Company and
its subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
REVENUE RECOGNITION
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided
in the normal course of business, net of staﬀ discounts and the cost of loyalty scheme points, and is stated net of value added tax and other sales-
related taxes.
Revenue on department store sales of goods and commission on concession sales are recognised when goods are sold to the customer. Retail sales are
usually in cash or by credit or debit card. Department store customer special orders and internet sales are recognised when the goods are delivered to
the customer. Revenue from gift vouchers and gift cards sold by the Group are recognised on the redemption of the gift voucher or gift card.
It is the Group’s policy to sell its products to the end customer with a right of return. Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for such
returns at the time of sale.
INTEREST RECOGNITION
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the interest rate applicable.
DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION
A ﬁnal dividend distribution to the Group shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s Financial Statements in the period in which the dividends
are approved by the Group shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT COSTS
The asset recognised in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt schemes is the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the deﬁned obligation at the
balance sheet date. The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present
value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outﬂows using interest rates of high-quality corporate
bonds that are denominated in sterling, and that have terms to maturity which approximate to the terms of the related pension liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They are recognised outside the Income Statement and presented in
the Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses. Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 65
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
RETIREMENT BENEFIT COSTS CONTINUED
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the Income Statement, unless the changes in pension plans are conditional on the employees remaining
in service for a speciﬁed period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The Group operates a deﬁned contribution scheme in Ireland and a stakeholder scheme in the UK. Contributions to these pension schemes are charged
to the Income Statement as they fall due. Diﬀerences between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually paid are shown as either
accruals or prepayments in the Balance Sheet.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. A fair value for the equity settled share awards is measured at the date of
grant. The Group measures the fair value using the valuation technique most appropriate to value each class of award, either a Black-Scholes, Monte Carlo
or Binomial pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the shares that
will eventually vest and adjusted for the eﬀect of non-market-based vesting conditions. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises the estimates of
the number of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the Income Statement, with a
corresponding adjustment to equity.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Exceptional items are events or transactions which, by virtue of their size or nature, have been disclosed in order to improve a reader’s understanding of
the Financial Statements.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE
A) FUNCTIONAL AND PRESENTATIONAL CURRENCY
Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in
which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in sterling, which is the Group’s functional
and presentational currency.
B) GROUP COMPANIES
The results and ﬁnancial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency diﬀerent from the presentation currency are translated into the
presentation currency as follows:
• assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet;
• income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative eﬀect
of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transaction); and
• all resulting exchange diﬀerences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
C) TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currency at average monthly rates. Monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Diﬀerences on exchange are taken
to the Income Statement.
TAXATION
Taxation expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable proﬁts for the ﬁnancial period using tax rates that are in force during the period. Taxable proﬁt diﬀers from net proﬁt as
reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expenses that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes
items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary diﬀerences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their
carrying amounts for ﬁnancial reporting purposes. If deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business
combination that at the time of the transaction aﬀects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred tax is determined
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income
tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁt will be available against which the temporary diﬀerences can
be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary diﬀerences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversals of the temporary
diﬀerences is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary diﬀerences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the
deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 66
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
LEASED ASSETS
A) FINANCE LEASES
Leases of assets which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases. Finance leases are classiﬁed
as a ﬁnancial liability and measured at amortised cost. Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased
property, plant and equipment or the present value of the minimum lease payments and depreciated over the period of the lease. The resulting lease
obligations are included in liabilities.
Lease payments are apportioned between ﬁnance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the
remaining balance of the liability.
B) OPERATING LEASES
All other leases are classiﬁed as operating leases. Rentals payable under operating leases, net of lease incentives, are charged to the Income Statement
on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Where property lease contracts contain guaranteed ﬁxed minimum incremental rental payments, the total committed cost is determined and is calculated
and amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
A) GOODWILL
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identiﬁable
assets of the acquired subsidiary. Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortised, but tested for
impairment annually, or when trigger events occur, and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill represents the goodwill for a portfolio of sites, which have been allocated to groups of cash-generating units which are split on a regional basis.
B) OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Acquired licences and trademarks are capitalised at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful life, not to exceed ten years.
Internally generated software costs, where it is clear that the software developed is technically feasible and will be completed and that the software
generated will generate economic beneﬁt, are capitalised as an intangible asset. The software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful economic
life, being three to eight years.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
It is the Group’s policy to hold properties at cost, subject to the requirement to test assets for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at the following rates per annum to write oﬀ the cost of property, plant and equipment, less residual value, on a straight-line
basis from the date on which they are brought into use:
Freehold land Not depreciated
Freehold buildings 1 per cent
Long leaseholds including landlords’ ﬁxtures and ﬁttings 1 per cent or life of lease if shorter
Short leaseholds including landlords’ ﬁxtures and ﬁttings Life of lease
Retail ﬁxtures and ﬁttings 5-20 per cent
Oﬃce equipment 10 per cent
Computer equipment 16½-331 / 3 per cent
Vehicles 25 per cent or life of lease
The assets’ useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each ﬁnancial year end.
Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are included in the Income Statement.
Included within property, plant and equipment are assets in the course of construction. These assets comprise stores which are under construction,
including costs directly attributable to bring the asset into use. Transfers to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment are made when
the store opens. No depreciation is provided on stores or other assets under construction.
IMPAIRMENT TESTING
Assets that have an indeﬁnite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation
are reviewed for impairment and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable an impairment
loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an
asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped by store, which is the lowest level for
which there are separately identiﬁable cash ﬂows (cash generating units). Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 67
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE INVESTMENTS
The Group classiﬁes its investments as available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets in accordance with IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement” .
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments are non-derivative assets. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the
investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date. Investments are recognised at fair value plus any transaction costs.
The fair value of available-for-sale investments denominated in a foreign currency is calculated in that foreign currency and translated at the spot rate at
the reporting date.
An impairment test is performed annually on the carrying value of each investment. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s
carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value using the retail method and represent goods for resale. Concession stocks are not
included within stocks held by the Group.
TRADE RECEIVABLES
Trade receivables, deﬁned as loans and receivables in accordance with IAS 39, are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised
cost using the eﬀective interest method for any doubtful amounts. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is evidence
that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of the provision is the diﬀerence
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of future cash ﬂows discounted at the eﬀective interest rate. The movement in the provision
is recognised in the Income Statement.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at the bank and other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of
approximately three months or less. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.
BORROWINGS
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost. Any diﬀerence
between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using
the eﬀective interest method.
Borrowings are classiﬁed as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after
the balance sheet date.
BORROWING COSTS
Borrowing costs that are facility costs are recognised initially at fair value and are amortised over the term of the facilities at a constant rate on the
committed amount of the facility.
TRADE PAYABLES
Trade payables, deﬁned as ﬁnancial liabilities in accordance with IAS 39, are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost
using the eﬀective interest method.
All of the trade payables are non-interest bearing.
PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and, where it is more likely than not,
an outﬂow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are measured at management’s best
estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
SHARE CAPITAL
Ordinary shares are classiﬁed as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares in equity are shown as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
DERIVATIVES
The derivative instruments used by the Group to manage its interest rate and currency risk are interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as an eﬀective hedging instrument and the nature
of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions (cash ﬂow hedges).
Derivatives are recognised using trade date accounting.
At the inception of the transaction the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items as well as its risk management
objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at the inception and on an ongoing
basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly eﬀective in oﬀsetting changes in cash ﬂows of hedged items. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 68
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
DERIVATIVES CONTINUED
I) CASH FLOW HEDGES
The eﬀective portion of the changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ﬂow hedges are recognised in equity. The gain or
loss relating to the ineﬀective portion is recognised immediately in the relevant line of the Income Statement which will be aﬀected by the underlying
hedged item.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the underlying hedged item when the underlying hedged
item is recognised on the Balance Sheet or in the Income Statement.
When a hedged instrument expires, is sold or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in
equity at that time is immediately recognised in the relevant line of the Income Statement which will be aﬀected by the original underlying hedged
item. When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to
the relevant line of the Income Statement, which would have been aﬀected by the forecasted transaction.
II) DERIVATIVES THAT DO NOT QUALIFY FOR HEDGE ACCOUNTING
Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are
recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
III) EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES
Where the risks and characteristics of derivatives embedded in other contracts are not closely related to those of the contracts and the whole contract
is not carried at fair value with gains or losses reported in the Income Statement, the derivative is separated from that host contract and measured at fair
value, with fair value movements reﬂected in the account in the Income Statement which will be aﬀected by the underlying host contract.
NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS
During the year, the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) issued
the following standards and interpretations, which are eﬀective for annual accounting periods beginning on or after the stated eﬀective date. These
standards and interpretations are not eﬀective for, and have not been applied in, the preparation of this ﬁnancial information.
During the year the Group adopted IFRS 7, “Financial instruments: Disclosures” , and the complementary amendment to IAS 1, “Presentation of ﬁnancial
statements – Capital disclosures” , which introduces new disclosures relating to ﬁnancial instruments and does not have any impact on the classiﬁcation
and valuation of the group or company’s ﬁnancial instruments, or the disclosures relating to taxation and trade and other payables:
Effective date
INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (IFRS/IAS)
IFRS 8 Operating Segments January 2009
IFRIC INTERPRETATIONS
IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes September 2009
The Group is currently considering the implications of the adoption of these standards and interpretations. They are not expected to have a material impact
on the Group’s operations.
3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
A) FINANCIAL RISKS AND TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The board established an overall treasury policy and has approved policies, procedures and authority levels within which the treasury function (“Group
Treasury”) must operate. The Finance Director conducts treasury reviews at least monthly and the board receives regular monthly reports covering
treasury activity. The treasury committee meets and reviews the report on a quarterly basis.
Group Treasury manages the Group’s funding requirements and ﬁnancial risks in line with the agreed treasury policies and procedures.
The Group’s ﬁnancial instruments, other than derivatives, primarily include borrowings, cash and liquid resources, trade receivables and trade payables.
The main purpose of these ﬁnancial instruments is to manage liquidity or raise ﬁnance for the Group.
Group Treasury uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to manage its interest rate risks associated with the Group’s ﬁnancing and currency risk arising from
the Group’s operations. The derivatives used are mainly interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts.
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial risks, which include:
• funding and liquidity risk;
• credit risk;
• foreign exchange risk; and
• cash ﬂow interest rate risk.
The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of ﬁnancial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse eﬀects
on the Group’s ﬁnancial performance. The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 69
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
The policies and strategies for managing these risks are summarised as follows:
I) FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY RISK
Prudent liquidity risk management implies suﬃcient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed
credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury aims to maintain
ﬂexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
The Group ﬁnances its operations by a combination of retained proﬁts, debt ﬁnance and leases. The objective is to ensure that there is suﬃcient cash or
working capital facilities to meet the cash ﬂow requirements of the Group for its current business plan.
Short-term requirements can be ﬁnanced by the £250.0 million Revolving Credit Facility, which expires in 2011, of which £45.0 million was utilised at the
balance sheet date.
II) CREDIT RISK
Credit risk is the risk where the Group can suﬀer ﬁnancial loss through default by customers or ﬁnancial institutions.
The Group has no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk. Sales to retail customers are made in cash or by credit and debit cards, wholesale sales of
products to franchisees are made to customers with an appropriate credit history. Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high
credit-quality ﬁnancial institutions. The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one ﬁnancial institution. Cash surpluses are
placed on deposit for no longer than three months and only with ﬁnancial counterparties with a short-term credit rating of A1, P1 or better as assigned
by either Standard and Poor’s or Moody’s respectively. The carrying amount of ﬁnancial assets recorded in the Financial Statements net of any allowances
for losses, represent the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk.
III) FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK
The Group’s functional currency is sterling. The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency
exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar and also to the euro. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions relating to
imports and trading in the Republic of Ireland.
To manage the foreign exchange transaction risk, entities in the Group use forward currency contracts transacted by Group Treasury. Foreign exchange
risk arises when commercial transactions are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. Group Treasury is responsible for
managing the exposure in each foreign currency by using external forward currency contracts with a settlement of 18 months or less. Up to 100 per cent
of the ﬁrst three months forecast purchases, up to 80 per cent of the next three months and up to 70 per cent for the following 12 months forecast
purchases are hedged. The Group does not hedge either economic exposure or the translation exposure arising from the proﬁts, assets and liabilities of
non-sterling business.
IV) CASH FLOW INTEREST RATE RISK
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. The Group’s current borrowing facilities are issued at variable rates that expose the Group
to cash ﬂow interest rate risk.
The interest exposure of the Group is managed within the constraints of the Group’s business plan and the ﬁnancial covenants under its facilities. The aim
is to reduce exposure to the eﬀect of interest rate movements and to take advantage of low interest rates by hedging an appropriate amount of interest
rate exposure whilst maintaining the ﬂexibility to minimise early termination costs. The Group’s interest rate hedging strategy is to achieve a target ﬁxed
percentage of 75 per cent, with a 15 per cent tolerance (60-90 per cent).
The impact of movements in interest rates is managed through the use of ﬂoating rate debt and interest rate swaps. These are usually matched with
speciﬁc loans for a period of time up to their maturity or call date.
The Group’s main interest rate exposure is from the ﬂoating rate loans under the credit facilities. At the year end, hedged ﬁxed rate borrowings amounted
to £752.5 million, being 72.0 per cent of the Group’s total borrowings.
V) OTHER PRICE RISK
The Group is exposed to equity risk arising from equity investments.
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to equity price risk at the reporting date. At the year end, if the valuations had
been 10 per cent higher/lower when all other variables were held constant:
• Net proﬁt would have been unaﬀected as the equity investments were classiﬁed as available for-sale investments;
• Other reserves would decrease/increase by £0.6 million (2007: £1.6 million) for the Group as a result of the changes in the fair value of available-
for-sale investments.
B) CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns
for shareholders and beneﬁts to other stakeholders and to maintain a structure to optimise the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the
capital structure, the Group may consider the amount of dividend paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to
reduce debt. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 70
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
3 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
C) FAIR VALUE ESTIMATES
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash ﬂows. The fair value of forward currency contracts has
been determined based on market forward currency exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair values of short-term deposits, loans and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values. In the
case of the Group’s loans due in more than one year, the fair value of ﬁnancial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future
contractual cash ﬂows at the current market interest rates available to the Group.
There were no material diﬀerences between the carrying value of non-derivative ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities to their fair values at the year end.
4 SEGMENTAL REPORTING
Based on an analysis of risks and returns, the directors consider that the Group has only one identiﬁable business segment, retailing.
All material operations of the Group are carried out in the British Isles and therefore no geographical segmentation is disclosed. The Group operates
both an internet and an international division, both of which remain immaterial for the purposes of segmental reporting.
Consequently, the Group has considered business segmentation as the primary segmentation, with a single separately reportable segment, retailing.
5 GROSS TRANSACTION VALUE
Revenue from concessions is required to be shown on a net basis, being the commission received rather than the gross value achieved by the
concessionaire on the sale. Management believes that gross transaction value, which presents revenue on a gross basis before adjusting for concessions,
staﬀ discounts and the cost of loyalty scheme points, represents a good guide to the value of the overall activity of the Group.
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Gross transaction value 2,336.0 2,305.6
6 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by deﬁnition, seldom equal the related
actual results. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of
future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The estimates and assumptions that have a signiﬁcant risk of causing a material
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial period are discussed below.
ESTIMATED IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL
The Group tests whether goodwill has suﬀered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 2. The recoverable amount of
cash-generating units is determined based on a value-in-use calculation. The method requires an estimate of future cash ﬂows and the selection of a
suitable discount rate in order to calculate the net present value of the cash ﬂows. Actual outcomes could vary.
TAXATION
The Group is subject to income taxes in the UK and the Republic of Ireland. At each ﬁnancial period end, judgement is required in determining the
provision for income taxes. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on the best estimates at the balance sheet date. Where the
ﬁnal tax outcome of these matters is diﬀerent from the amounts that were initially recorded, such diﬀerences will impact the corporation tax and deferred
tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees. The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line
basis over the vesting period. The fair value is calculated using the appropriate fair value model with the estimated level of vesting being reviewed
annually by management. The key assumptions of this model are set out in note 28.
PENSION LIABILITY
The Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt schemes’ pension liability, which is assessed each period by actuaries, is based on key assumptions including return on
plan assets, discount rates, mortality rates, inﬂation, future salary and pension costs. These assumptions, individually or collectively, may be diﬀerent to
actual outcomes.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions; additional information relating to this is disclosed
in note 24.
ESTIMATED USEFUL LIFE OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
The Group estimates the useful life of property, plant and equipment and reviews this estimate at each ﬁnancial period end. The Group also tests for
impairment whenever a trigger event occurs. Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 71
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
7 OPERATING PROFIT
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
THE FOLLOWING ITEMS HAVE BEEN INCLUDED IN ARRIVING AT OPERATING PROFIT:
The amounts of inventory written down during the financial year 16.5 14.8
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 914.5 870.4
Employment costs (note 9) 307.5 293.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 16):
– Owned assets 86.2 84.4
– Assets held under finance leases 1.3 1.3
Accelerated depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 16):
– Owned assets 0.8 7.7
– Assets held under finance leases – 0.5
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 15) 7.5 7.0
(Profit)/loss on disposal of:
– Property, plant and equipment (3.1) 0.6
Operating lease rentals:
– Property 157.3 150.3
– Other 1.4 1.4
Foreign exchange gains (8.0) (5.9)
Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 13.2 12.1
Auditors’ remuneration 0.4 0.3
OPERATING LEASE COSTS AND INCENTIVES
The amount charged to the Income Statement in respect of operating lease costs and incentives for the Group has changed signiﬁcantly under IFRS.
The adverse impact on reported proﬁt relating to the treatment of leases with annual ﬁxed increments in rent and the accounting for both rent free
periods and developers’ contributions is as follows:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Leases with fixed annual increments in rent 13.5 14.1
Rent free periods 1.4 1.3
Developers’ contributions 7.7 7.4
REDUCTION IN OPERATING PROFIT RESULTING FROM ACCOUNTING IN ACCORDANCE WITH
IAS 17 “LEASES” AND SIC 15 “OPERATING LEASES – INCENTIVES” 22.6 22.8
SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE COMPANY’S AUDITORS AND NETWORK FIRMS
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Company’s auditors as detailed below:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
AUDIT SERVICES
Fees payable to Company auditors for the audit of the parent company and consolidated accounts 0.2 0.1
NON-AUDIT SERVICES
Fees payable to Company auditors and its associates for other services
– The audit of Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1
– Other assurance services 0.1 0.1
Included with other assurance services is £24,000 (2007: £24,000) relating to the deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme audits.
Other assurance services comprise advisory work relating to indirect taxation (2007: advisory work relating to a review of inter-company loans and
distributable reserves). It is cost eﬀective for the Group that such services are provided by its auditors in view of their knowledge of the Group’s aﬀairs
going back a number of years. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 72
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
8 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Exceptional items are events or transactions that fall within the activities of the Group and which by virtue of their size or incidence have been disclosed
in order to improve a reader’s understanding of the Financial Statements.
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
OPERATING EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Acquisition and reorganisation of stores in the Republic of Ireland – 14.3
TOTAL OPERATING EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS BEFORE TAX – 14.3
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 1 SEPTEMBER 2007
ACQUISITION AND REORGANISATION OF STORES IN THE REPUBLIC OF IRELAND
On 12 September 2006 the Group acquired the business and assets of nine stores from Roches Stores, the total consideration on acquisition of the stores
was £30.0 million. Following the acquisition, the Group assigned the existing Dublin store lease (Jervis Street) which resulted in the closure of the store
after the year end.
The acquisition of the stores, assignment of the lease and subsequent closure of the Jervis Street store created an accelerated depreciation charge of
£6.3 million and redundancy costs of £4.6 million. Marketing, travel, legal and integration costs amounted to £3.4 million. Integration costs included
£0.8 million of costs which related to the distribution centre and were charged to distribution costs, whilst all other costs related to the stores were
charged to cost of sales.
9 EMPLOYEES
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Wages and salaries 282.1 265.1
Social security costs 22.5 21.2
Pension (credit)/cost (note 24) (1.7) 1.4
Share-based payments (note 28) 0.8 1.9
Short-term employee benefits 3.8 3.6
TOTAL EMPLOYMENT COSTS 307.5 293.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: Number Number
Full time 8,958 8,936
Part time 18,442 17,554
TOTAL 27,400 26,490
Included in pension above is £0.5 million (2007: £0.4 million) of contributions payable to key management’s personal pension plans.
Information concerning directors’ remuneration, interest in shares and share options are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 57, which
forms part of these Financial Statements.
KEY MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Salaries and short-term benefits 2.7 2.4
Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.4
Share-based payments 0.5 0.3
3.7 3.1
Members of the operational board, which includes members of the executive board, are deemed to be key management. It is the operational board who
have responsibility for planning and controlling the activities of the Group. The operational board consists of seven members (2007: six members).
10 INTEREST RECEIVABLE AND SIMILAR INCOME
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Interest on bank deposits 4.8 4.2 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 73
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
11 INTEREST PAYABLE AND SIMILAR CHARGES
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts 67.1 65.1
Amortisation of issue costs on loans (note 22) 4.2 3.9
Interest payable on finance leases 3.0 1.8
Charges arising from ineffective cash flow hedges 0.7 –
75.0 70.8
12 TAXATION
Analysis of tax charge in the ﬁnancial year
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
CURRENT TAX:
UK corporation tax charge on profit for the year 26.0 33.3
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (0.2) (2.4)
CURRENT TAX EXPENSE 25.8 30.9
DEFERRED TAXATION:
Origination and reversal of timing differences (3.6) (4.6)
Pension cost relief in excess of pension charge 7.0 6.1
Adjustments in respect of prior periods – pension costs – 2.1
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (0.4) (0.3)
DEFERRED TAX EXPENSE (NOTE 25) 3.0 3.3
TAX CHARGE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 28.8 34.2
A number of changes to the UK Corporation Tax system were announced as part of the 2008 Finance Act, which was substantively enacted on 21 July
2008. The impact of these changes have been recognised in these Financial Statements.
The tax for the year is lower (2007: higher) than the weighted average rate of corporation tax in the UK (29.2 per cent, 2007: 30.0 per cent). The diﬀerences
are explained below.
The change in the standard rate of corporation tax to 28.0 per cent with eﬀect from April 2008 has been reﬂected in the weighted average rate above.
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAX 105.9 113.2
Profit on ordinary activities at standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 29.2 per cent (2007: 30.0 per cent) 30.9 34.0
EFFECTS OF:
Income not subject to tax – (0.1)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.2 0.1
Overseas items (2.2) 2.4
Adjustments in relation to prior periods (0.6) (0.6)
Non-qualifying depreciation 1.3 1.3
Losses carried back to prior years – 0.2
Effect on deferred taxation of the change in corporation tax – (2.2)
Contribution to employee share options 0.1 (1.1)
Fixed asset disposals (0.9) 0.2
TAX CHARGE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 28.8 34.2
Tax relating to exceptional items as detailed in note 8 and included in the above tax charge amounted to:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
TAX CREDIT RELATING TO:
Operating exceptional items – 2.7 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 74
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
13 DIVIDENDS
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Final paid 3.8 pence (2007: 2.4 pence) per £0.0001 share 32.6 20.5
Interim paid 2.5 pence (2007: 2.5 pence) per £0.0001 share:
– Settled in cash 11.8 21.5
– Settled in scrip issue 9.7 –
54.1 42.0
The directors are proposing a ﬁnal dividend in respect of the ﬁnancial year ended 30 August 2008 of 0.5 pence per share (2007: 3.8 pence per share), which
will absorb an estimated £4.3 million (2007: £32.6 million) of shareholders’ funds. It will be paid on 16 January 2009 to shareholders who are on the
register of members at close of business on 12 December 2008. No liability is recorded in the Financial Statements in respect of the ﬁnal dividend.
Shareholders may take this dividend in cash or as a scrip issue. The reference price to be used in calculating an entitlement to new ordinary shares under
the scrip dividend scheme is the average of the closing middle market price quotations of an ordinary share, derived from the London Stock Exchange
Daily Oﬃcial List, for the ﬁve business days starting on the day the ordinary shares are ﬁrst quoted ex-dividend.
14 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares
outstanding during the year.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary
shares. The Group has one class of dilutive potential ordinary shares, those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the
market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year.
BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
30 August 2008 1 September 2007
Basic Diluted Basic Diluted
£m £m £m £m
Profit for the financial year after taxation 77.1 77.1 79.0 79.0
Number Number Number Number
mm mm
WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHARES 861.5 861.5 859.0 859.0
Shares held by ESOP (weighted) (1.1) (1.1) (11.3) (11.3)
Shares issuable (weighted) –– – 2.4
Adjusted weighted average number of shares 860.4 860.4 847.7 850.1
Pence Pence Pence Pence
per share per share per share per share
EARNINGS PER SHARE 9.0 9.0 9.3 9.3 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 75
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
15 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Licences and
Goodwill trademarks Software Total
£m £m £m £m
COST
At 2 September 2006 811.7 0.3 38.3 850.3
Additions 5.7 2.8 5.3 13.8
Disposals – (0.2) – (0.2)
At 1 September 2007 817.4 2.9 43.6 863.9
Additions – (0.2) 4.5 4.3
Exchange rate movement 1.1 –– 1.1
Disposals –– (0.6) (0.6)
AT 30 AUGUST 2008 818.5 2.7 47.5 868.7
ACCUMULATED AMORTISATION
At 2 September 2006 – 0.2 14.0 14.2
Charge for the year – 0.1 6.9 7.0
Disposals – (0.2) – (0.2)
At 1 September 2007 – 0.1 20.9 21.0
Charge for the year – 0.3 7.2 7.5
Disposals –– (0.6) (0.6)
AT 30 AUGUST 2008 – 0.4 27.5 27.9
NET BOOK AMOUNT
AT 30 AUGUST 2008 818.5 2.3 20.0 840.8
At 1 September 2007 817.4 2.8 22.7 842.9
At 2 September 2006 811.7 0.1 24.3 836.1
GOODWILL
On 12 September 2006 the Group acquired the business and assets of nine stores based in the Republic of Ireland from Roches Stores, an unlimited
company incorporated and registered in Ireland. The consideration for this acquisition was £30.0 million.
All tangible assets acquired have been recognised at their respective fair values.
The residual excess over the net assets acquired has been recognised as goodwill and amounts to £5.7 million. The goodwill represents the intrinsic value
to the Group of being able to trade the Debenhams brand in these stores.
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT COSTS
The computer software capitalised costs of £4.5 million (2007: £5.3 million) principally relates to internally developed application software. Externally
developed application software costs capitalised during the year amounted to £0.8 million (2007: £1.0 million).
AMORTISATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Amortisation on the Group’s intangible assets has been charged to the Income Statement as follows for the ﬁnancial years ended:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
INCLUDED WITHIN:
– Cost of sales 4.5 4.6
– Distribution costs 0.3 0.3
– Administrative expenses 2.7 2.1
7.5 7.0
IMPAIRMENT TEST FOR GOODWILL
The goodwill arising is not being amortised but reviewed on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill represents the goodwill for a portfolio of sites, which has been allocated to groups of Cash-Generating Units (“CGUs”) split on a regional basis
according to the level at which management monitors that goodwill.
For the purposes of this impairment review, the recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined based on value-in-use calculations. These cash ﬂow
projections are based on ﬁnancial budgets approved by management covering a ﬁve-year period. Cash ﬂows beyond the ﬁve-year period are extrapolated
based on the assumption of no growth after year ﬁve. The growth rates do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the retail sector in which
the CGUs operate. The pre-tax discount rate used to calculate the value in use was 7.3 per cent (2007: 7.5 per cent) and reﬂects the speciﬁc risks in the
retail business.
Management determined the gross margin for each CGU based on performance and its expectations for the market development. The weighted average
growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports. The discount rates used are pre-tax and risk-free rates.
As at 30 August 2008, no impairment of goodwill has been required (2007: £nil). NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 76
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
16 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Land and buildings
Short-
leasehold Vehicles,
Long- fixtures fixtures and
Freehold leasehold and fittings equipment Total
£m £m £m £m £m
COST
At 2 September 2006 54.4 9.6 277.9 379.4 721.3
Additions –– 19.6 103.2 122.8
Disposals and write-offs ––– (49.3) (49.3)
At 1 September 2007 54.4 9.6 297.5 433.3 794.8
Additions –– 16.0 97.8 113.8
Exchange rate movements –– 1.1 7.5 8.6
Disposals and write-offs (8.1) – (7.8) (33.3) (49.2)
AT 30 AUGUST 2008 46.3 9.6 306.8 505.3 868.0
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
At 2 September 2006 0.5 0.4 14.6 66.3 81.8
Charge for the year 0.4 0.2 12.1 73.0 85.7
Accelerated depreciation 2.0 – 5.6 0.6 8.2
Disposals and write-offs ––– (48.6) (48.6)
At 1 September 2007 2.9 0.6 32.3 91.3 127.1
Charge for the year 0.9 0.3 12.8 73.5 87.5
Exchange rate movements –– 0.1 3.0 3.1
Accelerated depreciation –– 0.5 0.3 0.8
Disposals and write-offs (3.0) – (7.7) (33.1) (43.8)
AT 30 AUGUST 2008 0.8 0.9 38.0 135.0 174.7
NET BOOK VALUE
AT 30 AUGUST 2008 45.5 8.7 268.8 370.3 693.3
At 1 September 2007 51.5 9.0 265.2 342.0 667.7
At 2 September 2006 53.9 9.2 263.3 313.1 639.5
Assets in the course of construction included in property, plant and equipment at the ﬁnancial year end are as follows:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Assets in the course of construction 46.5 63.3
Property, plant and equipment includes the following assets held under ﬁnance leases:
Freehold and
Vehicles, fixtures long leasehold land
and equipment and buildings
30 August 1 September 30 August 1 September
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Cost 4.3 4.8 53.5 59.2
Aggregate depreciation 3.1 2.1 2.6 3.2
NET BOOK VALUE 1.2 2.7 50.9 56.0
The buildings held under ﬁnance lease obligations are secured by a ﬁxed charge over the corresponding Group properties. Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 77
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
17 FINANCIAL ASSETS – AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE INVESTMENTS
£m
At 2 September 2006 8.2
Increase in the market value credited to the Statement of Recognised Income And Expenses (SORIE) 12.1
At 1 September 2007 20.3
Decrease in the market value charged to the SORIE (9.3)
AT 30 AUGUST 2008 11.0
The Group holds 10 per cent (2007: 10 per cent) of the issued shares of Ermes Department Stores Limited (“Ermes”), a company listed on the Cyprus
Stock Exchange. The market value of the shares at 30 August 2008 was £6.6 million (2007: £16.2 million). Ermes is a company that is registered and trades
in Cyprus and their shares are quoted in euros.
The Group holds 100 per cent (2007: 100 per cent) of the “A” ordinary shares in BF Properties (No.4) Limited, which cost £3.0 million and have a fair value
of £4.4 million (2007: £4.1 million). These shares carry no voting rights. The directors consider that the ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party
of BF Properties (No.4) Limited is The British Land Company plc.
BF Properties (No.4) Limited was incorporated in Great Britain. The address of its principal place of business is 10 Cornwall Terrace, Regent’s Park, London.
BF Properties (No.4) Limited year-end is 31 March and it continues to report in accordance with UK GAAP . The aggregate amount of the capital and
reserves of BF Properties (No.4) Limited at 31 March 2007 was £141,001,053. The proﬁt of BF Properties (No.4) Limited for the year ended 31 March 2007
was £3,984,110. This is derived from the most recent set of published results for the Company.
The investment in BF Properties (No.4) Limited has been calculated by discounting the future expected proceeds from the investment at the prevailing
interest rate of 5.18 per cent.
There were no disposals or impairment provisions on available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets during the years shown.
18 INVENTORIES
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Items held for resale 237.5 244.6
Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value using the retail method. This method intrinsically takes into account any stock loss or mark
down to goods sold below cost.
Write downs of inventories are disclosed in note 7.
19 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Trade receivables 13.8 27.0
Allowance for doubtful debts (0.2) (0.2)
13.6 26.8
Other receivables 0.5 1.3
Prepayments and accrued income 44.4 37.5
58.5 65.6
At the year end £13.4 million (2007: £26.7 million) of the trade receivables are denominated in sterling, with the balance being in euros.
The average credit period on sales of goods is 55 days (2007: 38 days). The Group has provided for all receivables over 90 days past the relevant due date.
Trade receivables between 60 days and 90 days are provided based on estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods.
At 30 August 2008 £0.2 million (2007: £0.2 million) of trade receivables were past their due date and impaired.
Trade receivables which are up to 90 days past their due date but not impaired amount to £2.0 million (2007: £3.8 million) NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 78
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
20 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 38.7 22.2
Short-term bank deposits 3.4 58.2
42.1 80.4
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
Effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits (per cent) 4.8 5.9
Average maturity date (days) 2.5 5.3
Net cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 42.1 80.4
Bank overdrafts and revolving credit facility (note 22) (45.0) (1.1)
(2.9) 79.3
21 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Trade payables 251.3 251.4
Other payables 81.8 78.1
Other taxation and social security 27.2 27.9
Accruals 108.5 109.7
Deferred income 1.4 1.5
470.2 468.6
22 BANK OVERDRAFT AND BORROWINGS
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
CURRENT
Bank loans and overdrafts (note 20) – 1.1
Term loan facility
(1)
96.2 96.4
Revolving credit facility (“RCF”) (note 20) 45.0 –
Lease obligations 3.3 7.3
144.5 104.8
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
NON-CURRENT
Term loan facility
(1)
844.3 941.6
Lease obligations 47.3 50.5
891.6 992.1
1) Term loan facility includes unamortised issue costs of £9.7 million (2007: £12.2 million).
The Group credit facility includes a term loan of £950.0 million (2007: £1,050.0 million) and an RCF of £250.0 million (2007: £250.0 million). In May 2008
a mandatory term loan repayment of £100.0 million was made. The term loan facility is repayable in instalments with the loan being repaid in full by 2011.
Interest rates are based on LIBOR and denominated in sterling. The RCF is multicurrency with interest rates based on the relevant inter-bank market rate.
Issue costs, which mainly relate to facility costs, were incurred primarily on utilisation of the credit facilities and are being amortised over the term of the
facilities at a constant rate based on the committed amount of the term loan. An additional fee of £1.8 million was capitalised during the year.
The amortisation charge relating to the issue costs of the credit facilities for the year ended 30 August 2008 was £4.2 million (2007: £3.9 million). Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 79
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
22 BANK OVERDRAFT AND BORROWINGS CONTINUED
FINANCE LEASE OBLIGATIONS
The minimum lease payments under ﬁnance leases fall due as follows:
30 August 2008 1 September 2007
Property Other Property Other
leases leases leases leases
£m £m £m £m
Not later than one year 8.3 1.0 10.5 1.4
Later than one year but not more than five years 65.3 1.0 36.2 1.5
More than five years –– 37.7 0.1
73.6 2.0 84.4 3.0
Interest element of future instalments (24.7) (0.3) (29.1) (0.5)
48.9 1.7 55.3 2.5
I)PROPERTY LEASE OBLIGATION
In 1988 a number of properties with a market value of £42.7 million were sold to a bank on 125-year leases at peppercorn rentals. The Group subsequently
entered into full tenant and landlord repairing sub-leases for 125-years. During the year one of the properties within this arrangement was sold. This sale
reduced the outstanding principal by £5.0 million.
At the year end the following amounts remained outstanding under the leases:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Principal 37.7 42.7
Accrued interest 11.2 12.6
Outstanding liability 48.9 55.3
The rentals payable are structured so as to give the lessors a ﬁnancing return linked to LIBOR in the ﬁrst 25 years and, in the following ten years, a LIBOR
linked return together with the repayment of capital. Thereafter, market rentals are payable subject to revision every ﬁve years. In the early years, the
amounts payable are below LIBOR and in the later years are in excess of LIBOR. The ﬁnancing costs are, however, allocated over the 25-year period so as
to achieve an annual funding cost which is consistent with LIBOR. The Group has limited rights up to the 25th year of the leases to vary the terms of the
leases to buy out the rental obligations based on the properties’original sales proceeds. The leases are reﬂected in ﬁxed assets at their cost to the Group.
These property lease obligations are secured by a ﬁxed charge over the corresponding Group properties.
II)OTHER LEASE OBLIGATION
Other lease obligations relate mainly to computer software and vehicles leased under hire purchase contracts.
MATURITY OF BORROWINGS
The maturity of the Group’s borrowings are as follows:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
AMOUNTS FALLING DUE:
In one year or less or on demand 144.5 104.8
In more than one year but not more than two years 149.7 99.8
In more than two years but not more than five years 741.9 854.5
In more than five years – 37.8
1,036.1 1,096.9
INTEREST RATES
The eﬀective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
% %
Bank loans and overdrafts 6.30 6.75
Term loan facility 6.47 6.44
RCF 6.32 N/A
Lease obligations 6.23 6.20 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 80
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
30 August 2008 1 September 2007
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
CURRENT
Forward foreign currency contracts – cash flow hedges 6.9 – 0.1 (1.3)
Forward foreign currency contracts – held for trading 2.9 – – (0.9)
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hedges –– 2.9 –
Interest rate swaps – held for trading 0.7 – ––
10.5 – 3.0 (2.2)
NON-CURRENT
Forward foreign currency contracts – cash flow hedges 2.9 – ––
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hedges 5.3 (0.7) 19.7 –
8.2 (0.7) 19.7 –
The ﬁnancial risks and treasury management information has been disclosed in note 3. The ﬁnancial instruments table above excludes trade receivables
of £13.6 million (2007: £26.8 million) and trade payables of £251.3 million (2007: £251.4 million), which have fair values equal to their carrying values.
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The notional principal amounts and fair values of ﬁnancial instruments used in interest risk management were as follows:
30 August 2008 1 September 2007
Notional Notional
principal Book Fair principal Book Fair
amount value value amount value value
£m £m £m £m £m £m
PRIMARY FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Borrowings:
– Due within one year (148.3) (148.5) (148.5) (108.4) (108.6) (108.6)
– Due after one year but no more than two years (153.2) (153.2) (153.2) (103.3) (103.3) (103.3)
– Due after more than two years but no more than five years (744.1) (744.1) (744.1) (859.4) (859.4) (859.4)
– Due after more than five years ––– (37.8) (37.8) (37.8)
Cash and cash equivalents 42.1 42.1 80.4 80.4
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS HELD TO MANAGE
INTEREST RATE AND CURRENCY RISK
Interest rate swaps 752.5 5.3 5.3 777.5 22.6 22.6
Forward foreign currency contracts 158.7 12.7 12.7 98.7 (2.1) (2.1)
NET FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (985.7) (985.7) (1,008.2) (1,008.2)
The ﬁnancial instruments table above excludes trade receivables of £13.6 million (2007: £26.8 million) and trade payables of £251.3 million (2007: £251.4
million), which have fair values equal to their carrying values.
Derivatives are used to hedge the exposure to market risks. Derivatives that are held for hedging are designated as cash ﬂow hedged instruments in
accordance with IAS 39. The derivatives held for hedging are described below.
There is no material impact in the Income Statement resulting from ineﬀective hedges.
I) FORWARD FOREIGN CURRENCY CONTRACTS
The net fair value gains at 30 August 2008 on open forward foreign exchange contracts that hedge the foreign currency risk of anticipated future inventory
purchases are £9.8 million (2007: losses of £1.2 million). This will be recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the acquisition cost of
inventory over the next 18 months.
Forward exchange contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges are reclassiﬁed to “assets held for trading” when the underlying forecast transaction
is crystallised on the Balance Sheet as inventory. During the year there were no contracts reclassiﬁed to “assets held for trading” due to cash ﬂow hedges
being ineﬀective.
II) INTEREST RATE SWAPS
The Group’s interest rate swaps switch interest from ﬂoating rates to ﬁxed rates. The Group’s interest rate swap portfolio matures as follows:
Notional Rate
£m % Maturity
Interest rate swaps 752.5 4.718-6.040 May 2010 to November 2011
The net gains and losses on these swaps deferred in equity will reverse through interest in the Income Statement over the life of the swaps.
Interest rate swaps that do not qualify for hedge accounting are classiﬁed as held for trading. Changes in the fair value of any instrument that does not
qualify for hedge accounting is recognised immediately in the Income Statements within interest payable and other costs. Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 81
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND ASSETS
The interest rate proﬁles of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities after taking account of interest rate swaps, swapped from ﬂoating to ﬁxed rates, used to manage
interest were as follows:
30 August 2008
Non-interest
Fixed Floating bearing Total
£m £m £m £m
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Sterling
(1)
(754.3) (291.5) – (1,045.8)
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Sterling 2.6 0.9 21.5 25.0
Euro 0.8 14.9 1.2 16.9
US dollar – 0.2 – 0.2
TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 3.4 16.0 22.7 42.1
1) Debt issue costs of £9.7 million are excluded from the financial liabilities above.
The weighted average interest rate on the ﬁxed rate borrowings as at 30 August 2008 was 6.1 per cent (2007: 6.4 per cent), with the weighted average
time for which rates are ﬁxed being 2.0 years (2007: 2.4 years). Floating rate borrowings are interest bearing at interest rates based on LIBOR. Cash deposits
are interest bearing at rates based on LIBID or relevant base rates. Non-interest bearing cash refers to cash in stores or in transit.
Floating rate borrowings have been classiﬁed as ﬁxed if there were derivative ﬁnancial instruments hedging the ﬂoating rate interest for more than one year.
1 September 2007
Non-interest
Fixed Floating bearing Total
£m £m £m £m
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Sterling
(2)
(780.1) (329.0) – (1,109.1)
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Sterling
(3)
53.8 13.7 2.2 69.7
Euro 3.7 5.7 0.4 9.8
US dollar 0.7 0.2 – 0.9
TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 58.2 19.6 2.6 80.4
2) Debt issue costs of £12.2 million are excluded from the financial liabilities above.
3) Restricted cash of £1.1 million is included in the sterling balance.
BORROWING FACILITIES AS AT 30 AUGUST 2008
As at 30 August 2008 the Term Loan Facility was fully drawn together with £45.0 million of the RCF. The un-drawn element of the RCF at the year end is
£205.0 million (2007: £250.0 million). These facilities expire on 19 April 2011.
Both of these facilities incur commitment fees at market rates.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
The Group monitors interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk by determining the eﬀect on proﬁt of a range of possible changes in interest rates and
foreign exchange rates. The range of changes chosen, being 1 per cent movement in interest rates and 5 per cent movement in sterling compared to the
US dollar, reﬂects the Group’s view of changes that are possible over the ﬁnancial year.
The table below illustrates the estimated impact on the Group as a result of market movements in foreign exchange and interest rates in relation to all
the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments. The analysis has been produced assuming no changes in the borrowings and existing interest rate swaps portfolio
when considering the interest rate movement. Similarly, when considering the movement in foreign exchange rates, the analysis assumes no changes
in the volumes of imports. This analysis in the table below is for information only and does not take into account any oﬀset from renegotiated supplier
contracts or alternative sourcing locations.
30 August 2008 1 September 2007
Income Income
Statement Equity Statement Equity
loss gain loss gain
£m £m £m £m
1 per cent increase in interest rate (2.6) (0.8) (2.5) (2.8)
30 August 2008 1 September 2007
Income Income
Statement Equity Statement Equity
loss gain loss gain
£m £m £m £m
5 per cent weakening in sterling compared to US dollars (3.6) (6.5) (1.8) (3.7) NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 82
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
24 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION
The Group operates deﬁned beneﬁt type pension schemes, being the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan and the Debenhams Retirement Scheme, the
assets of which are held in separate trustee-administered funds.
Both pension schemes were closed for future service accrual from 31 October 2006. The closure to future accrual will not aﬀect the pensions of those who
have retired or the deferred beneﬁts of those who have left service or opted out before 31 October 2006. Future pension arrangements are provided
through a money purchase stakeholder plan or a deﬁned contribution scheme for the employees in the Republic of Ireland.
The Group has agreed to contribute £5.3 million per annum from 1 April 2006 increasing by RPI from the ﬁrst of April each year to fund past service
beneﬁts. The Group has also funded all administrative expenses incurred by the two pension schemes from 1 November 2006 to 30 August 2008.
Actuarial valuations of the Group’s pension schemes using the projected unit basis were carried out at 31 March 2005 and updated as at each relevant
year end for the purposes of IAS 19“Employee Beneﬁts”by Watson Wyatt Limited, a qualiﬁed independent actuary. The 31 March 2008 actuarial valuation
is in progress and relevant data obtained by the actuary from this valuation has been used when calculating the IAS 19 “Employee Beneﬁts” valuation at
30 August 2008. The major assumptions used by the actuaries were:
30 August 1 September 2 September
2008 2007 2006
per annum % per annum % per annum %
Inflation assumption 3.80 3.10 2.90
General salary and wage increase 3.80 3.90 3.90
Rate of increase in pension payments and deferred payments 3.80 3.10 2.90
Pension increase rate 3.80 3.10 2.90
Discount rate 6.35 5.95 5.10
The expected return on scheme assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the year for return over the entire life of the deﬁned beneﬁt
obligation.
30 August 2008 1 September 2007 2 September 2006
Long-term Long-term Long-term
rate of return rate of return rate of return
expected expected expected
per annum Value per annum Value per annum Value
% £m % £m % £m
ASSETS
Equities 10.00 277.7 8.30 315.0 8.30 325.6
Bonds 5.10 204.5 5.95 197.3 4.40 159.9
Property 7.90 19.9 7.10 8.2 ––
Cash and other assets 5.10 23.5 5.00 31.8 4.40 41.6
TOTAL MARKET VALUE OF ASSETS 7.80 525.6 7.25 552.3 6.80 527.1
Present value of scheme liabilities (500.6) (465.0) (513.3)
SURPLUS IN SCHEME 25.0 87.3 13.8
Assumptions regarding future mortality experiences are based on the mortality tables shown below. Allowance is made for future improvements to the
assumed current rates of mortality which have a ﬁnancial eﬀect equivalent to a 0.25 per cent per annum reduction in the discount rate used to value liabilities.
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
Male and Male and
female female
Debenhams Retirement Scheme PNMAOO +1 PMA92C06 +2
Debenhams Executive Pension Plan PNMAOO -1 PMA92C06 +1
The actual return on plan assets was as follows:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
RETURN ON PLAN ASSETS (17.7) 33.2
The amounts recognised in the Income Statement are as follows:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Current service cost – 2.9
Past service cost – 0.4
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 27.2 25.8
Expected return on pension scheme assets (36.6) (34.5)
TOTAL CREDIT INCLUDED WITHIN STAFF COSTS (NOTE 9) (9.4) (5.4) Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 83
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
24 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION CONTINUED
The total credits included are as follows:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Cost of sales (7.8) (4.5)
Distribution costs (0.1) (0.1)
Administrative expenses (1.5) (0.8)
TOTAL CREDIT (9.4) (5.4)
CHANGES IN THE PRESENT VALUE OF THE DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS ARE AS FOLLOWS:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Present value of obligation at start of year 465.0 513.3
Interest on pension scheme liabilities 27.2 25.8
Current service cost – 2.9
Member contributions – 0.5
Benefit payments by the fund (15.7) (14.8)
Past service cost – 0.4
Losses/(gains) on change of assumptions 9.5 (67.2)
Experience losses 14.6 4.1
PRESENT VALUE OF OBLIGATION AT END OF YEAR 500.6 465.0
CHANGES IN THE FAIR VALUE OF PENSION SCHEME ASSETS ARE AS FOLLOWS:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Fair value in pension scheme assets at start of year: 552.3 527.1
Benefits paid (15.7) (14.8)
Company contributions 8.1 7.4
Member contributions – 0.5
Expected return on pension scheme assets 36.6 34.5
Actuarial losses (55.7) (2.4)
FAIR VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS AT END OF YEAR 525.6 552.3
MOVEMENT IN SURPLUS DURING THE YEAR:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Surplus in the schemes at start of year 87.3 13.8
Movement in year:
Pension credit 9.4 5.4
Company contributions 8.1 7.4
Net actuarial (losses)/gains (79.8) 60.7
SURPLUS IN THE SCHEMES AT END OF YEAR 25.0 87.3
CUMULATIVE ACTUARIAL GAINS AND LOSSES RECOGNISED IN EQUITY:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
At start of year 84.3 23.6
Net actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the year (79.8) 60.7
NET ACTUARIAL GAINS RECOGNISED AT END OF YEAR 4.5 84.3 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 84
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
24 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION CONTINUED
HISTORY OF EXPERIENCE GAINS AND LOSSES:
30 August 1 September 2 September 3 September 28 August
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Actuarial (loss)/gain arising on scheme assets:
– Amounts £55.7m £2.4m £(23.6)m £(46.0)m £(3.1)m
– Percentage of scheme assets 10.6% 0.4% (4.5)% (10.1)% (0.8)%
Experience (gain)/loss arising on defined benefit obligations
– Amounts £14.6m £4.1m £3.7m £2.8m £1.9m
– Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 2.9% 0.9% 0.7% 0.6% 0.5%
Present value of scheme liabilities £(500.6)m £(465.0)m £(513.3)m £(463.0)m £(401.2)m
Fair value of scheme assets £525.6m £552.3m £527.1m £453.6m £353.8m
Surplus/deficit £25.0m £87.3m £13.8m £(9.4)m £(47.4)m
The contributions expected to be paid during the year ended 29 August 2009 amount to £7.0 million.
DEBENHAMS STAKEHOLDER PENSION SCHEMES
The Group contributions to the schemes during the year were £7.2 million (2007: £6.6 million).
25 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary diﬀerences under the liability method using a tax rate of 28.0 per cent (2007: 28.0 per cent).
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
NON-CURRENT
Deferred tax assets 57.4 52.3
Deferred tax liabilities (95.3) (111.6)
(37.9) (59.3)
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of temporary diﬀerences giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is probable that these assets
will be recovered.
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below:
Developers Fair Retirement
contribution value Other benefit
received losses provisions surplus Total
ASSETS £m £m £m £m £m
At 2 September 2006 35.1 0.2 13.5 2.3 51.1
Credited/(charged) to the income statement 1.8 (0.2) 5.7 (2.3) 5.0
Restatement to the standard rate of corporation tax charged to the Income Statement (2.5) – (1.3) – (3.8)
At 1 September 2007 34.4 – 17.9 – 52.3
Credited to the Income Statement 2.2 – 2.8 – 5.0
Exchange rate movements –– 0.1 – 0.1
AT 30 AUGUST 2008 36.6 – 20.8 – 57.4
Accelerated Fair Retirement
tax value benefit
depreciation gains surplus Total
LIABILITIES £m £m £m £m
At 2 September 2006 (84.8) –– (84.8)
Charged to the Income Statement (4.0) (0.4) (5.8) (10.2)
Restatement to the standard rate of corporation tax credited/(charged) to the Income Statement 5.9 (0.1) (0.1) 5.7
Charged to the SORIE –– (18.2) (18.2)
Restatement to the standard rate of corporation tax through the SORIE –– 1.7 1.7
Charged to equity – (6.2) – (6.2)
Restatement to the standard rate of corporation tax through equity – 0.4 – 0.4
At 1 September 2007 (82.9) (6.3) (22.4) (111.6)
(Charged)/credited to the Income Statement (1.5) 0.4 (6.9) (8.0)
Credited to the SORIE –– 22.3 22.3
Credited to equity – 2.0 – 2.0
AT 30 AUGUST 2008 (84.4) (3.9) (7.0) (95.3) Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 85
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
26 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Other liabilities 225.8 207.1
Included within other liabilities are lease incentives received from landlords either through initial contributions or rent-free periods. These incentives are
being credited to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Additionally the creditor relates to the smoothing of
the charges relating to leases with ﬁxed annual increments in rent.
27 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES
Vacant Closure Other
properties provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m
At 2 September 2006 0.9 3.6 1.7 6.2
Credited to the Income Statement – (0.8) – (0.8)
Utilised during the financial year (0.4) (1.1) (1.1) (2.6)
At 1 September 2007 0.5 1.7 0.6 2.8
Credited to the Income Statement (0.1) –– (0.1)
Utilised during the financial year (0.2) (1.5) – (1.7)
AT 30 AUGUST 2008 0.2 0.2 0.6 1.0
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Current 0.7 2.2
Non-current 0.3 0.6
1.0 2.8
VACANT PROPERTIES
Provision for vacant properties represents the residual lease commitments, after taking into account existing sub-lease arrangements, in respect of one
property and will be utilised over the remaining term of the lease which expires in August 2009.
CLOSURE PROVISION
The termination of a number of operations resulted in closure cost, which included the closure of a store in the Republic of Ireland and vacated buildings.
The provision in respect of the store was utilised during the year. The remaining provision will be utilised over the term of the lease, being the next
ﬁve years.
OTHER PROVISIONS
The majority of the Group’s other provisions relate to dilapidations on properties based upon the directors’ best estimate of the Group’s future liability.
The remainder of the other provisions, none of which are individually signiﬁcant, represent the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle present
obligations in respect of other liabilities. These provisions are mainly short-term in nature and are expected to be utilised within the next 12 months. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 86
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
28 SHARE CAPITAL
£ Number
AUTHORISED – AT 1 SEPTEMBER 2007 AND 30 AUGUST 2008
Ordinary shares of £0.0001 each 128,846 1,288,461,539
£ Number
ISSUED AND FULLY PAID – ORDINARY SHARES OF £0.0001 EACH
At 2 September 2006 and 1 September 2007 85,897 858,974,359
Shares issued in lieu of dividends 1,580 15,795,966
AT 30 AUGUST 2008 87,477 874,770,325
EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUST – INTEREST IN SHARE CAPITAL
The number of ordinary shares in the Company held by the DRET were as follows:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
Ordinary Ordinary
shares shares
Number Number
Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 1,413,536 103,602
The market value of the shares on 30 August 2008 was £0.7 million (2007: £0.1 million). DRET purchased 1,309,934 shares on 7 December 2007 at a cost of
£0.85 per share. The cost of the shares held at the year end is £1.2 million (2007: £0.1 million).
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
The total charge to the operating proﬁt relates to the following schemes:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
DEOP – Equity settled element – 0.6
Performance Share Plan 2006 – Equity settled element 0.8 1.2
Executive Share Option Plan – Equity settled element – 0.1
CHARGE FOR THE YEAR 0.8 1.9
OUTSTANDING SHARE OPTIONS
The table shows the number of share options outstanding at the year end:
PSP ESOP DEOP
Number Number Number
Outstanding at 2 September 2006 3,327,880 2,893,799 3,337,307
Granted 5,683,046 2,127,494 –
Exercised –– (3,203,808)
Forfeited (371,890) (395,476) (133,499)
Outstanding at 1 September 2007 8,639,036 4,625,817 –
Granted 5,405,023 2,332,733 –
Forfeited (612,746) (516,474) –
OUTSTANDING AT 30 AUGUST 2008 13,431,313 6,442,076 – Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 87
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
28 SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED
I) THE DEBENHAMS PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN (THE “PSP”)
The PSP is intended to facilitate the retention of senior executives of the Company by enabling executives to receive shares provided that they remain
in the Group. An award under the PSP will normally vest on the third anniversary of date of grant and must be exercised within six months of vesting.
No payment will be required for the grant of an award. An award under the PSP will comprise an option to receive free shares or nil cost option
with performance conditions attached. Awards under the scheme have been made since May 2006.
The vesting on half of the shares granted is dependent on Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) growth. In accordance with IFRS 2 this is classiﬁed as a non-market
condition and therefore the shares have been fair valued at face value. The vesting of the remaining half of the shares is dependent upon Total Shareholder
Return (“TSR”) over a three-year period when compared to total shareholder return of the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index. The fair value of the PSP
options granted for this proportion of the award is calculated based on a Monte Carlo simulation model assuming the inputs shown below:
Grant date 7 May 08 4 Feb 08 29 May 07 24 Nov 06 6 June 06 9 May 06
Number of share under option (number) 3,580,699 1,824,324 3,008,991 2,066,178 3,113 2,948,008
Expected term (years) 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 2.3 2.2
Share price at grant (pence) 65.0 70.0 137.5 198.3 185.0 205.0
Exercise price (pence) ––––––
Risk free rate 5.7% 5.8% 6.0% 5.5% 4.7% 4.8%
Expected volatility 34.0% 34.0% 21.0% 21.0% 21.0% 21.0%
Expected dividend yield 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5%
Fair value of option (pence):
TSR 29.0 28.0 64.3 95.2 76.4 82.8
EPS 59.0 63.0 121.0 178.0 171.1 189.0
Volatility has been estimated by taking the historical volatility in the Company’s share price.
During the year 5,405,023 (2007: 5,683,046) options were granted under the plan and no options were exercised.
II) EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION PLAN (THE “ESOP”)
The ESOP allows the Company to grant options to acquire shares to eligible employees. These options will normally become exercisable following a
three-year performance period, only if and to the extent that the performance conditions to which they are subject have been satisﬁed. With the exception
of the ﬁrst grant of options on 9 May 2006, being the date the Company was admitted to the London Stock Exchange, options were granted with an
exercise price equal to the middle market value of the shares on the day immediately preceding the date of grant.
The vesting of options granted under this plan is dependent on EPS growth, the fair value of the share options has been calculated using a binomial model.
The key assumptions are as follows:
Grant date 5 Feb 08 12 Nov 07 29 May 07 24 Nov 06 6 June 06 9 May 06
Number of shares under option (number) 729,729 1,574,737 378,097 1,483,529 47,455 2,228,529
Expected term (years) 366666
Share price at grant (pence) 70.0 103.0 137.5 198.3 185.0 205.0
Exercise price (pence) 70.0 103.0 137.5 198.3 185.0 205.0
Risk free rate 5.8% 5.8% 6.0% 5.5% 4.7% 4.8%
Expected volatility 34.0% 32.0% 24.0% 24.0% 24.0% 24.0%
Expected dividend yield 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5%
Fair value of option (pence) 16.0 30.0 31.7 44.8 40.5 45.2
During the year 2,332,733 (2007: 2,127,494) options were granted under the plan and no options were exercised. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 88
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
29 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Reverse
Share Share Merger acquisition Retained Hedging Translation Other
capital premium reserve reserve earnings reserve reserve reserve Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 2 September 2006 0.1 682.9 1,200.9 (1,199.9) (633.2) 1.5 – 1.0 53.3
Profit for the financial year –––– 79.0 ––– 79.0
Currency translation differences –––– 0.4 ––– 0.4
Actuarial gain in pension schemes (note 24) –––– 60.7 ––– 60.7
Movement in deferred tax relating to
pension schemes (note 25) –––– (16.5) ––– (16.5)
Change in valuation of available-for-sale
investment (note 17) ––––––– 12.1 12.1
Cash flow hedges:
– Net fair value gains (net of tax) ––––– 17.5 –– 17.5
– Recycled and adjusted against the initial
measurement of the acquisition
cost of inventory ––––– (3.6) –– (3.6)
TOTAL RECOGNISED INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR –––– 123.6 13.9 – 12.1 149.6
Share options:
– Value of employee services –––– 1.9 ––– 1.9
– Proceeds of share options in the DRET –––– 0.3 ––– 0.3
Purchase of treasury shares for DRET –––– (0.1) ––– (0.1)
Dividends paid (note 13) –––– (42.0) ––– (42.0)
Balance at 1 September 2007 0.1 682.9 1,200.9 (1,199.9) (549.5) 15.4 – 13.1 163.0
Profit for the financial year –––– 77.1 ––– 77.1
Currency translation differences –––––– 1.3 – 1.3
Actuarial loss in pension schemes (note 24) –––– (79.8) ––– (79.8)
Movement in deferred tax relating to
pension schemes (note 25) –––– 22.3 ––– 22.3
Change in valuation of available-for-sale
investment (note 17) ––––––– (9.3) (9.3)
Cash flow hedges:
– Net fair value gains (net of tax) ––––– (5.0) –– (5.0)
– Recycled and adjusted against the
initial measurement of the acquisition
cost of inventory ––––– 0.9 –– 0.9
– Reclassified and reported in net profit ––––– (0.5) –– (0.5)
TOTAL RECOGNISED INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR –––– 19.6 (4.6) 1.3 (9.3) 7.0
Share options:
Value of employee services (note 28) –––– 0.8 ––– 0.8
Purchase of treasury shares for DRET (note 28) –––– (1.1) ––– (1.1)
Dividends paid (note 13) –––– (54.1) ––– (54.1)
Shares issued in lieu of dividends (note 13) –––– 9.7 ––– 9.7
BALANCE AT 30 AUGUST 2008 0.1 682.9 1,200.9 (1,199.9) (574.6) 10.8 1.3 3.8 125.3
SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT
On admission to the London Stock Exchange the Company issued 358,974,359 shares at £1.95, generating proceeds of £700.0 million. Costs directly
associated with the issue of the new shares totalled £17.1 million and in accordance with the Companies Act these costs were set oﬀ against the premium
generated on issue of the new shares.
MERGER RESERVE
The merger reserve of £1,200.9 million exists as a result of the 2005 Group reconstruction. The merger reserve represents the diﬀerence between both
the nominal value of the share capital and loan notes issued by the Company and the fair value of Baroness Group Holdings Limited Group at 24 May
2005, the date of the 2005 Group reconstruction.
REVERSE ACQUISITION RESERVE
The reverse acquisition reserve exists as a result of the method of accounting for the 2005 Group reconstruction. In accordance with International
Accounting Standards the 2005 Group reconstruction has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition. Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 89
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
29 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY CONTINUED
HEDGING RESERVE
The hedging reserve represents the change in fair value of all interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts which have been designated
as cash ﬂow hedges.
Gains and losses transferred from equity into proﬁt during the year are included in the following line items of the Income Statement:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
(Credited)/charged to cost of sales (1.3) 5.2
Charged to interest payable and similar charges 0.7 –
(0.6) 5.2
OTHER RESERVES
Other reserves represent the change in fair value in respect of the Group’s available for sale investments (see note 17).
TRANSLATION RESERVE
The translation reserve arises from exchange diﬀerences arising as part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign operation.
RETAINED EARNINGS
The dividends not taken up in cash of £9.7 million (2007: n/a) have been written back to retained earnings.
30 OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS
30 August 2008 1 September 2007
Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
£m £m £m £m
THE FUTURE AGGREGATE MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS UNDER
NON-CANCELLABLE OPERATING LEASES ARE AS FOLLOWS:
Within one year 146.4 1.3 138.0 1.4
Later than one year and less than five years 612.0 1.0 590.0 1.1
After five years 3,837.1 – 3,899.4 0.1
4,595.5 2.3 4,627.4 2.6
The Group leases department stores and warehouses under non-cancellable operating leases. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and
renewal rights. The Group also leases vehicles and ﬁxtures and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
31 CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 77.1 79.0
Taxation (note 12) 28.8 34.2
Depreciation (note 16) 87.5 85.7
Accelerated depreciation (note16) 0.8 8.2
Amortisation (note 15) 7.5 7.0
(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (3.1) 0.6
Employee options granted during the year (note 28) 0.8 1.9
Fair value gains on derivative instruments (3.7) (1.1)
Net movements in provisions for liabilities and charges (note 27) (1.8) (3.4)
Interest income (note 10) (4.8) (4.2)
Interest expense (note 11) 75.0 70.8
Difference between pension charge and contributions paid (note 24) (17.5) (12.8)
Net movement in other non-current liabilities 18.8 46.0
CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 7.1 (36.8)
Decrease in trade and other receivables 8.0 1.1
Increase in trade and other payables 5.3 35.0
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 285.8 311.2 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 90
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
31 CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS CONTINUED
In the Cash Flow Statement, proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment comprise:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Net book amount (note 16) 5.4 0.8
Profit/(loss) on sale of property, plant and equipment 3.1 (0.6)
Total proceeds on sale 8.5 0.2
Less off set to long-term loan (5.0) –
Cash proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 3.5 0.2
In the Cash Flow Statement exceptional cash items relate to the following two items:
1) 2006 ACQUISITION AND REORGANISATION OF STORES IN THE REPUBLIC OF IRELAND
Following the acquisition of the nine stores in the Republic of Ireland and the assignment of the Jervis Street lease, redundancy costs of £2.1 million
were paid, together with £1.6 million of marketing, travel, legal and integration costs.
2) 2006 REFINANCING
Debt issue costs capitalised in respect of the reﬁnancing on 30 May 2006 amounted to £17.1 million, of which £2.7 million was paid during the year
ended 1 September 2007.
NON-CASH TRANSACTIONS
Other non-cash changes comprise:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Amortisation of issue costs relating to debt issues 4.2 3.9
Release of prior year debt issue cost accrual – (0.1)
Non-cash movements associated with finance lease obligations (6.4) (4.0)
NON-CASH TRANSACTIONS (2.2) (0.2)
32 ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET DEBT
At At
1 September Cash Non-cash 30 August
2007 flow movements 2008
£m £m £m £m
ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT
Cash 80.4 (38.3) – 42.1
Bank overdrafts (1.1) (43.9) – (45.0)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 79.3 (82.2) – (2.9)
Debt due within one year (96.4) 100.4 (100.2) (96.2)
Debt due after one year (941.6) 1.4 95.9 (844.3)
Finance lease obligations due within one year (7.4) 0.7 3.4 (3.3)
Finance lease obligations due after one year (50.4) – 3.1 (47.3)
(1,016.5) 20.3 2.2 (994.0)
33 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
The principal subsidiary undertakings of Debenhams plc at 30 August 2008 were as follows:
Country of Country of
Company incorporation registration Activity
Debenhams Retail plc UK England Department store retailing
Debenhams Group Holdings Limited * UK England Holding company
Debenhams Retail (Ireland) Limited Ireland Ireland Department store retailing
Debenhams Properties Limited UK England Property investment
* Denotes investments held by the Company. All other investments are held by subsidiary undertakings.
All companies are wholly owned.
All subsidiary companies are consolidated. FIVE-YEAR RECORD INCOME STATEMENT
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 91
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
IFRS UK GAAP
Proforma
(1)
Proforma
(2)
2008 2007 2006 2005 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Gross transaction value 2,336.0 2,305.6 2,192.9 2,086.8 2,086.8 1,902.9
Revenue 1,839.2 1,774.4 1,707.7 1,608.7 1,608.7 1,491.8
Cost of sales (1,571.6) (1,494.9) (1,376.3) (1,293.4) (1,270.9) (1,207.9)
GROSS PROFIT 267.6 279.5 331.4 315.3 337.8 283.9
Distribution costs (50.0) (46.2) (53.0) (43.5) (43.5) (37.5)
Administrative expenses (41.5) (39.2) (40.2) (43.8) (106.6) (75.3)
OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 176.1 194.1 238.2 228.0 187.7 171.1
Exceptional items – (14.3) (14.6) (4.4) (4.7) (44.4)
Profit on deemed disposal of subsidiary – –– 117.7 117.7 –
OPERATING PROFIT 176.1 179.8 223.6 341.3 300.7 126.7
Net interest (70.2) (66.6) (125.4) (160.8) (157.1) (123.5)
Exceptional interest payable and similar charges – – (36.1) (92.9) (92.9) (33.6)
PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAXATION 105.9 113.2 62.1 87.6 50.7 (30.4)
Taxation (28.8) (34.2) (18.4) 36.1 11.7 7.4
PROFIT/(LOSS) FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR
ATTRIBUTABLE TO EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS 77.1 79.0 43.7 123.7 62.4 (23.0)
GROSS TRANSACTION VALUE
Revenue from concessions is required to be shown on a net basis, being the commission received rather than the gross value achieved by the
concessionaire on the sale. Management believes that gross transaction value, which presents revenue on a gross basis before adjusting for concessions,
staﬀ discounts and the cost of loyalty scheme points, represents a good guide to the value of the overall activity of the Group.
PROFORMA (1)
The results for 2005 have been restated to give eﬀect for the combination of:
• The consolidated ﬁnancial information of Baroness Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries from 29 August 2004 to 23 May 2005; and
• The consolidated ﬁnancial information of Debenhams Retail Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries from 24 May 2005 to 3 September 2005.
PROFORMA (2)
The results for 2004 have been restated to give eﬀect for the combination of:
• The consolidated ﬁnancial information of Debenhams Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries from 31 August 2003 to 3 December 2003; and
• The consolidated ﬁnancial information of Baroness Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries from 4 December 2003 to 28 August 2004. FIVE-YEAR RECORD
BALANCE SHEETS
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 92
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
IFRS UK GAAP
Proforma
(1)
Proforma
(2)
2008 2007 2006 2005 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
ASSETS
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Intangible assets 840.8 842.9 836.1 829.9 2,504.2 799.7
Tangible assets 693.3 667.7 639.5 650.0 668.2 1,039.1
Financial assets 19.2 40.0 16.0 7.2 7.2 –
Retirement benefit asset 25.0 87.3 13.8 – 9.5 –
Deferred tax assets 57.4 52.3 51.1 58.9 ––
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 1,635.7 1,690.2 1,556.5 1,546.0 3,189.1 1,838.8
NET CURRENT (LIABILITIES)/ASSETS (296.7) (215.8) (156.6) (143.2) (83.6) 17.8
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES (1,213.7) (1,311.4) (1,346.6) (2,083.5) (1,965.1) (1,911.3)
NET ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) 125.3 163.0 53.3 (680.7) 1,140.4 (54.7)
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Share capital 0.1 0.1 0.1 –– 1.0
Share premium account 682.9 682.9 682.9 –––
Other reserves 16.9 29.5 3.5 1.0 1,200.9 –
Retained earnings (574.6) (549.5) (633.2) (681.7) (60.5) (55.7)
TOTAL EQUITY 125.3 163.0 53.3 (680.7) 1,140.4 (54.7) INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC (COMPANY)
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 93
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended 30 August 2008, which comprise the Balance Sheet and
related notes. These Parent Company Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended 30 August 2008.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Parent Company Financial Statements in
accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been
prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We
do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Parent Company Financial
Statements and the part of the Directors’Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’Report is consistent with the Parent Company Financial Statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if information speciﬁed by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors’ Report and the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report. We consider the implications for our
report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent Company Financial Statements. Our responsibilities
do not extend to any other information.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation
of the Parent Company Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with
suﬃcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to
be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to
be audited.
OPINION
In our opinion:
• the Parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of
the state of the Company’s aﬀairs as at 30 August 2008;
• the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors’Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Parent Company Financial Statements.
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Leeds
21 October 2008 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
As at 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 94
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
Note £m £m
FIXED ASSETS
Investments 4 3,716.6 3,851.9
Financial assets – derivative financial instruments 5 5.3 19.7
3,721.9 3,871.6
CURRENT ASSETS
Debtors 6 138.5 200.6
Financial assets – derivative financial instruments 5 0.7 2.9
Cash at bank and in hand 0.2 –
139.4 203.5
CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR 7 (1,206.6) (1,191.8)
NET CURRENT LIABILITIES (1,067.2) (988.3)
TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES 2,654.7 2,883.3
CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR 8 (844.3) (941.6)
Derivative financial liability 5 (0.6) –
Provisions for liabilities and charges 10 (1.5) (6.5)
NET ASSETS 1,808.3 1,935.2
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Called-up share capital 11 0.1 0.1
Share premium account 12 682.9 682.9
Merger reserve 12 970.8 1,106.1
Hedging reserve 12 3.9 16.3
Profit and loss account 12 150.6 129.8
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS 13 1,808.3 1,935.2
The Financial Statements on pages 94 to 99 were approved by the board of directors on 21 October 2008 and were signed on its behalf by:
C K WOODHOUSE
Director NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 95
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
BASIS OF PREPARATION
These Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with UK GAAP using the historical cost convention modiﬁed
for the revaluation of certain ﬁnancial instruments and share-based payments. These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with
applicable accounting standards and the Companies Act 1985.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash ﬂow statement in accordance with FRS1“Cash Flow Statement” . The cash ﬂows
of the Company are included in the Debenhams Group Financial Statements.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 “Related Parties” from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are part of the
Debenhams Group.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently during the year, are set out below.
INVESTMENTS
Investments are held at cost less any provision for diminution in value.
IMPAIRMENT TESTING
Assets that have an indeﬁnite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation
are reviewed for impairment and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. An impairment
loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an
assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
BORROWINGS
All borrowings are stated at the fair value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs. Issue costs together with ﬁnance costs are
charged to the proﬁt and loss account over the term of the borrowings. Finance costs represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital
repayments outstanding.
TAXATION
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates that are in force during the period.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing diﬀerences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or
events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date. Timing
diﬀerences are diﬀerences between the taxable proﬁts and the results as stated in the Financial Statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses
in tax assessments in periods diﬀerent from those in which they are recognised in the Financial Statements.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis. A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of
all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be taxable proﬁts from which the future reversal of the underlying timing
diﬀerences can be deducted.
DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION
A ﬁnal dividend distribution to the Company shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Company’s Financial Statements in the period in which the
dividends are approved by the Company shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Where the Company has granted options over the Company’s shares to employees of its subsidiaries, a capital contribution has been deemed to be
made by the Company. This is then recharged to the subsidiary and is based on the fair value of the options issued spread over the options vesting
period. At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the
revision to original estimates, if any, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
DERIVATIVES
The derivative instruments used by the Company to manage its interest rate risk are interest rate swaps.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as an eﬀective hedging instrument and the nature
of the item being hedged. The Company designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions (cash ﬂow hedges).
Derivatives are recognised using trade date accounting.
The Company documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items as well as its
risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Company also documents its assessment, both at the inception
and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly eﬀective in oﬀsetting changes in cash ﬂows of
hedged items. NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 96
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
DERIVATIVES CONTINUED
I) CASH FLOW HEDGES
The eﬀective portion of the changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ﬂow hedges are recognised in equity. The gain or
loss relating to the ineﬀective portion is recognised immediately in the relevant line of the proﬁt and loss account which will be aﬀected by the underlying
hedged item.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the underlying hedged item when the underlying hedged
item is recognised on the Balance Sheet or in the proﬁt and loss account.
When a hedged instrument expires, is sold or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in
equity at that time is immediately recognised in the relevant line of the proﬁt and loss account which will be aﬀected by the original underlying hedged
item. When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to
the relevant line of the proﬁt and loss account which would have been aﬀected by the forecasted transaction.
II) DERIVATIVES THAT DO NOT QUALIFY FOR HEDGE ACCOUNTING
Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are
recognised immediately in the proﬁt and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 25“Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation”not to present information on ﬁnancial
risk management and hedging where that information is presented in the same Group Financial Statements. Accordingly, information on risk management
and hedging may be found in notes 3 and 23 of the Group accounts.
NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
The adoption of FRS 29“Financial Instruments: Disclosures”during the year, which introduces new disclosures relating to ﬁnancial instruments, does not
have any impact on the classiﬁcation and valuation of the Group or Company’s ﬁnancial instruments, or the disclosures relating to taxation and trade and
other payables.
2 PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and have not presented a proﬁt and
loss account for the Company alone. A loss of £70.9 million is attributable to shareholders for the ﬁnancial year ended 30 August 2008 (2007: proﬁt of
£114.2 million). There is no diﬀerence between the results disclosed in respect of the Company and these results on an unmodiﬁed historical cost basis.
The contracts of employment for all the executive directors are held by Debenhams plc. The total cost of employing the directors is disclosed in the
Remuneration Report. The Company has no other employees.
Auditors’ remuneration of £0.1 million (2007: £0.1 million) is borne by another Group undertaking.
3 DIVIDENDS
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Final paid 3.8 pence (2007: 2.4 pence) per £0.0001 share 32.6 20.5
Interim paid 2.5 pence (2007: 2.5 pence) per £0.0001 share:
Settled in cash 11.8 21.5
Settled in scrip issue 9.7 –
54.1 42.0
The directors are proposing a ﬁnal dividend in respect of the ﬁnancial year ended 30 August 2008 of 0.5 pence per share (2007: 3.8 pence per share), which
will absorb an estimated £4.3 million (2007: £32.6 million) of shareholders’ funds. It will be paid on 16 January 2009 to shareholders who are on the
register of members at close of business on 12 December 2008. No liability is recorded in the Financial Statements in respect of the ﬁnal dividend.
Shareholders may take this dividend in cash or as a scrip issue. The reference price to be used in calculating an entitlement to new ordinary shares under
the scrip dividend scheme is the average of the closing middle market price quotations of an ordinary share, derived from the London Stock Exchange
Daily Oﬃcial List, for the ﬁve business days starting on the day the ordinary shares are ﬁrst quoted ex-dividend. Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 97
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
4 INVESTMENTS
Investments in
subsidiary undertakings
COST £m
AT 1 SEPTEMBER 2007 AND 30 AUGUST 2008 4,068.7
PROVISION FOR IMPAIRMENT
At 1 September 2007 216.8
Impairment 135.3
AT 30 AUGUST 2008 352.1
NET BOOK VALUE
AT 30 AUGUST 2008 3,716.6
At 1 September 2007 3,851.9
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
In accordance with FRS 11 “Impairment of ﬁxed assets and goodwill” the carrying value of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings has been compared
to their recoverable amounts represented by the value in use to the Company. The review resulted in an impairment of £112.4 million in respect of
Debenhams Group Holdings Limited and £22.9 million in respect of Debenhams Finance Holdings Limited. Both of these amounts have been charged
to the proﬁt and loss account, which is set oﬀ in full by a reserves transfer from the merger reserve. The discount rate used in the calculation to arrive at
the valuation was 7.3 per cent on a pre-tax basis.
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 30 August 2008 are shown in note 33 of the Debenhams Group Financial Statements.
5 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
CURRENT ASSETS
Interest rate swaps – held for trading 0.7 2.9
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hedges 5.3 19.7
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hedges (0.7) –
Information relating to the derivatives held by the Company is shown in note 23 of the Debenhams Group Financial Statements.
6 DEBTORS
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Amount owed by Group undertakings 138.5 200.6
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, repayable on demand and carry an average rate of interest of 7.8 per cent (2007: 7.4 per cent).
7 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Bank loans and overdraft (note 9) 141.7 96.4
Trade creditors – 0.1
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,064.0 1,094.7
Corporation tax 0.5 0.2
Accruals and deferred income 0.4 0.4
1,206.6 1,191.8
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, have no ﬁxed date of redemption and either carry an average interest rate of 7.8 per cent
(2007: 7.4 per cent) or are interest free. NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 30 August 2008
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 98
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
8 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Term loan facility (note 9) 844.3 941.6
9 BORROWINGS
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
Term loan facility 950.2 1,050.2
Revolving credit facility 45.0 –
Bank loans and overdraft 0.5 –
TOTAL BORROWINGS 995.7 1,050.2
Less: issue costs (9.7) (12.2)
986.0 1,038.0
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
MATURITY OF DEBT £m £m
Amounts falling due:
In one year or less or on demand 141.7 96.4
In more than one year but not more than two years 146.5 96.6
In more than two years but not more than five years 697.8 845.0
986.0 1,038.0
Information relating to the borrowings of the Company are shown in note 22 of the Debenhams Group Financial Statements.
10 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES
Fair value
gains/(losses)
DEFERRED TAXATION PROVISION £m
At 1 September 2007 (6.5)
Charged to the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 5.0
AT 30 AUGUST 2008 (1.5)
Deferred tax is calculated in full on all temporary diﬀerences under the liability method using a tax rate of 28.0 per cent (2007: 28.0 per cent).
Deferred tax provided on the fair value gains represents the deferred tax on the derivatives that qualify for cash ﬂow hedges.
11 CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL
£ Number
AUTHORISED – As at 1 September 2007 and 30 August 2008
Ordinary shares of £0.0001 each 128,846 1,288,461,539
ISSUED AND FULLY PAID – Ordinary shares of £0.0001 each
As at 2 September 2006 and 1 September 2007 85,897 858,974,359
Shares issued in lieu of dividend 1,580 15,795,966
AS AT 30 AUGUST 2008 87,477 874,770,325
CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL
The number of ordinary shares in the Company held by the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 (“DRET”) in connection with the Group’s employee
ownership plan described is as follows:
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares
Number Number
£m £m
Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 1,413,536 103,602
The market value of the shares at 30 August 2008 was £0.7 million for DRET (2007: £0.1 million). DRET purchased 1,309,934 shares on 7 December 2007
at a cost of £0.85 per share. The cost of the shares held at the year end was £1.2 million (2007: £0.1 million). Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 99
Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes
12 RESERVES
Share premium Hedging Merger Profit and
account reserve reserve loss account
£m £m £m £m
At 1 September 2007 682.9 16.3 1,106.1 129.8
Loss for the financial year ––– (70.9)
Cash flow hedges – net fair value gains (net of tax) – (12.4) ––
Impairment of investment – reserve movement (note 4) –– (135.3) 135.3
Employee share ownership plans (net of tax) ––– 0.8
Dividends to shareholders (note 3) ––– (54.1)
Shares issued in lieu of dividends (note 3) ––– 9.7
AT 30 AUGUST 2008 682.9 3.9 970.8 150.6
HEDGING RESERVE
The hedging reserve represents the change in fair value of the interest rate swaps which have been designated as cash ﬂow hedges.
MERGER RESERVE
The merger reserve was created as a result of the Company acquiring the Baroness Group Holdings Limited Group on 24 May 2005. The merger reserve
represents the diﬀerence between both the nominal value of the share capital and loan notes issued by the Company and the fair value of Baroness
Group Holdings Limited Group at the date of acquisition less any subsequent adjustments as a result of an impairment.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
The dividends paid by the Company during the year ended 30 August 2008 are shown in note 3.
The dividends not taken up in cash, of £9.7 million (2007: n/a), have been written back to the proﬁt and loss account reserve.
13 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
30 August 1 September
2008 2007
£m £m
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (70.9) 114.2
Dividends paid (note 3) (54.1) (42.0)
RETAINED (LOSS)/PROFIT (125.0) 72.2
Issue of ordinary share capital in lieu of dividend 9.7 –
Cash flow hedges:
– Net fair value (losses)/gains (net of tax) (12.4) 11.9
Employee share ownership plans (net of tax) 0.8 0.2
NET (DECREASE)/INCREASE TO SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS (126.9) 84.3
Opening shareholders’ funds 1,935.2 1,850.9
CLOSING SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS 1,808.3 1,935.2 STORE LIST
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 100
Section 5 Additional Information
Aberdeen
Ashford
Ayr
Banbury
Bangor
Barrow
Basildon
Basingstoke
Bedford
Belfast
Birmingham
Blackburn
Blackpool
Bolton
Bournemouth
Brighton
Bristol
Bromley
Cambridge
Canterbury
Cardiff
Carlisle
Chatham
Chelmsford
Cheltenham
Chester
Clapham
Colchester
Cork – Mahon Point
Cork – Patrick Street
Coventry
Crawley
Croydon
Derby
Doncaster
Dublin – Blackrock
Dublin – Blanchardstown
Dublin – Henry Street
Dublin – Tallaght
Dundee
Dunfermline
East Kilbride
Eastbourne
Edinburgh
Eltham
Exeter
Farnborough
Folkestone
Foyleside
Galway
Gateshead – Metro Centre
Glasgow
Glasgow Silverburn
Gloucester
Gravesend
Guildford
Hanley
Harrogate
Harrow
Hastings
Hemel Hempstead
Hounslow
Hull
Ilford
Inverness
Ipswich
King’s Lynn
Lakeside
Leeds – City Centre
Leeds – White Rose
Leicester
Leith
Limerick
Lincoln
Liverpool
Livingston*
Llandudno
Llanelli
London – Oxford Street
Luton
Manchester
Manchester – Trafford Park
Mansfield
Merryhill
Middlesbrough
Milton Keynes
Newbridge
Newbury
Newry
Northampton
Norwich
Nottingham
Nuneaton
Oldham
Oxford
Perth
Plymouth
Portsmouth
Preston
Reading
Redditch
Romford
Rushmere
Salisbury
Scarborough
Sheffield
Sheffield – Meadowhall
Slough
Southampton
Southend
Southport
Southsea
Staines
Stirling
Stockport
Stockton
Stratford
Sunderland
Sutton
Swansea
Swindon
Taunton
Telford
Torquay
Tralee
Uxbridge
Walsall
Warrington
Waterford
Welwyn Garden City
Westwood Cross
Weymouth
Wigan
Wimbledon
Winchester
Woking
Worcester
Workington
Worthing
York
DESIRE
Altrincham
Ballymena
Birmingham Fort
Falkirk
Kirkcaldy
Merthyr Tydfil
Orpington
South Shields
Truro
Walton
INTERNATIONAL
Bahrain – Manama†
Cyprus – Avenue
Cyprus – Apollon
Cyprus – Central
Cyprus – Engomi
Cyprus – Korivos
Cyprus – Kinyras
Cyprus – Ledra
Cyprus – Nicosia
Cyprus – Olympia
Cyprus – Zenon
Czech Republic – Prague
Iceland – Reykjavik
Indonesia – Jakarta Senayan City
Indonesia – Karawaci*
India – Delhi
India – Mumbai
Jordan
Kuwait – Airport
Kuwait – Avenues
Kuwait – Home
Kuwait – Souq Sharq
Philippines – Manila Glorieta
Philippines – Manila Shangri La
Philippines – Manila Trinoma
Qatar – Doha
Romania – Bucharest
Romania – Cluj Polis
Romania – Constanta
Romania – Oradea*
Saudi Arabia – Jeddah
Saudi Arabia – Jeddah Airport*
Saudi Arabia – Khobar
Saudi Arabia – Madinah Al Noor
Saudi Arabia – Mecca
Saudi Arabia – Riyadh Kingdom Mall
Saudi Arabia – Riyadh Granada Mall
Saudi Arabia – Riyadh Sahara Mall
Turkey – Istanbul
UAE – Abu Dhabi
UAE – Dubai – Deira
UAE – Dubai – Ibn Battuta
UAE – Dubai – Mall of Emirates
UAE – Sharjah
* Opened after 30 August 2008
† Re-sited after 30 August 2008 GLOSSARY
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 101
Section 5 Additional Information
CELEBRATING SUCCESS
Our annual employee recognition programme for store and head oﬃce employees.
CONCESSIONS
Brands which are sold through our stores where the stock belongs to a third-party concessionaire. They are found chieﬂy in Womenswear
(e.g. Jane Norman, Oasis, Warehouse) and Home (e.g. Royal Doulton).
CORE BRANDS
Own label brands which are not Designers at Debenhams brands. They include Red Herring, Debut, Mantaray and Thomas Nash.
CORE STORES
Stores which have yet to be modernised.
DESIGNERS AT DEBENHAMS
Exclusive diﬀusion ranges designed for Debenhams by leading international designers including Julien Macdonald, Jasper Conran and John Rocha.
DESIRE
Our smaller format store, typically 15-20,000 sq ft, which sells a mix of own bought womenswear, women’s accessories, lingerie, childrenswear and
health and beauty.
DIRECT
Our online store available at www.debenhams.com.
EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
The proﬁt for the year attributable to shareholders, divided by the average number of shares in issue.
FLAGSHIP STORE
A large store, typically over 100,000 sq ft, in a major city. They include London – Oxford Street, Dublin – Henry Street and Liverpool. A new ﬂagship store
at Westﬁeld London opens on 30 October 2008.
FOB SUPPLIER
“Freight on board” . Refers to a supplier who delivers goods to a port from where Debenhams arranges transport to the UK.
FOOTFALL
The number of people who visit our stores.
GROSS MARGIN
Sales less the cost of goods sold, as a percentage of sales.
GROSS TRANSACTION VALUE
Revenue on a gross basis before adjusting for concessions, staﬀ discounts and the cost of loyalty scheme points.
INTERNATIONAL BRANDS
Brands such as Levis, Ben Sherman, Clarins and Estée Lauder for which Debenhams owns the stock.
LANDED SUPPLIER
A supplier who delivers goods direct to the UK.
MARKET SHARE
The percentage of the market or market segment that is being serviced by Debenhams. For instance, if 100 t-shirts were sold a year in the UK and
Debenhams sold ten of them, it would have 10 per cent market share.
OWN BOUGHT
Brands for which Debenhams owns the stock. They include core brands, Designers at Debenhams and international brands.
OWN LABEL
Brands designed and produced exclusively for Debenhams. They include core brands such as Collection and Maine New England and Designers at
Debenhams such as J by Jasper Conran and Betty Jackson.Black.
RADIO FREQUENCY (RF) NETWORK
A wireless network available in all stores used for price management and stock availability purposes.
ROCHES
Nine stores acquired in the Republic of Ireland in September 2006.
STORE PIPELINE
The future programme of new store openings. SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 102
Section 5 Additional Information
REGISTERED OFFICE AND HEAD OFFICE
1 Welbeck Street
London W1G 0AA
Registered in England and Wales
Company number: 5448421
FINANCIAL ADVISERS AND STOCKBROKERS
Citigroup Global Markets Limited
Citigroup Centre
Canada Square
London E14 5LB
Merrill Lynch International
Merrill Lynch Financial Centre
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
SOLICITORS
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
65 Fleet Street
London EC4Y 1HS
AUDITORS
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Benson House
33 Wellington Street
Leeds LS1 4JP
REGISTRARS
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Telephone: 0871 3842 766
www.shareview.co.uk Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 103
Section 5 Additional Information
Designed and produced by 85four
Printed in-house by Debenhams
FRONT COVER:
Pearce Fionda II Limited Edition tulle layered dress
BACK COVER:
Rocha.John Rocha cashmere herringbone jacket, St. George by Duﬀer
spot dress scarf, Rocha.John Rocha dark denim jeans, St. George by
Duﬀer reverse print shirt WWW .DEBENHAMS.COM
DEBENHAMS
1 Welbeck Street
London
W1G 0AA
DEBENHAMS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
